[{"Title":"A classic war-is-hell movie","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"57 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  No, not the very wonderful TV series. The Robert Altman film with Donald Sutherland as Hawkeye, Elliott Gould as Trapper John, and Radar as Radar. This is a dark comedy, but it's a delight from beginning to end. And even more effectively than the TV show, the movie illustrates the complete insanity of war. (But even the movie doesn't depict Jesus on the cross hanging from a helicopter. For that you'll need to read the book.) Like most Altman films, this one is episodic. It's also gritty, grim, bloody, offensive, and charming. And Frank Burns (Robert Duvall) is not a character watered down and humanized for television. This is an example of a film so rich in detail (like Altman's Popeye, come to think of it) that it demands multiple viewings.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Films Ever Made","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"56 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Some people may think I'm insane for saying this. But this is one of the greatest movies ever made. It was so shockingly different back in 1970 and it influenced war films in the 70s (the war is insane-type atmosphere of the film was used by Apocalypse Now.) The black comedy elements are as original as Dr Strangelove. I have watched this film over ten times and I get astounded each time by it's amazing originality. It's too bad Robert Altman doesn't get as much as recognition as Kubrick or Fellini though I feel he is in the same league. Today the admirable but inferior TV series is more well-known than the movie but I feel the movie is one of the great achievements in film history. "},{"Title":"Outrageous, in-your-face black humor","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M*A*S*H is a groundbreaking film. Along with Catch 22, M*A*S*H had the audacity to ridicule two of the pillars of American society war and religion. Whether you find this appalling, subversive, treasonous, outrageous or funny depends on your political and religious orientation. Surely the religious right will find the film blasphemous and the political right will find it treasonous. No matter what your point of view, M*A*S*H is certainly an in-your-face film.The irony of the film is that for the time it was considered gruesomely bloody. Yet there are no battlefield scenes; all the blood is in the surgical unit. The CSI TV series shows more carnage than M*A*S*H, but M*A*S*H was filmed over 30 years ago.M*A*S*H is loaded with bizarro characters. Donald Sutherland, Elliot Gould, Robert Duvall, Tom Skerrit, Loretta Swit, Radar are all insane in their own way. In M*A*S*H, everyone is cruel, playing mean practical jokes and the anti-heroes Donald Sutherland and Elliott Gould are just plain heartless. They absolutely torment Major Hot Lips Hoolihan and Robert Duvall. None of the characters in the film tries to be funny. There are no jokes. The humor just grows from the situation which is the grim reality of a mobile surgical unit whose doctors and nurses try their best to repair the horribly mutilated bodies from an insane war. Having worked in a hospital setting, outrageous and black humor is commonplace, especially in the ER, but in M*A*S*H it's taken to a new level. "},{"Title":"Pure Comedy Genius","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" As comedies go, it doesn't get much better than M*A*S*H! Script, direction, casting, music and acting are all at their very best in this satirical take on the Korean War - ironically, there is no army action played out during the movie, just the escapades of Elliot Gould, Donald Sutherland, et al where they are stationed to take in casualties of war.From the opening shots we feel the slow mood of the film, yet if we look a little closer, we see comedy and havoc all around. This is in my opinion, Altman's finest piece - the film is superbly shot, showing fantastic long shots, typical of the era. Elliot Gould has never been so cool, and Donald Sutherland's dryness is sublime. The cast as a whole are the driving force behind this movie - the actor's clearly have taken time to learn their character's, and it really shows, right down to Radar's communication with the field Marshall (or whatever he is). It is very much a character driven movie.The football game just shows what these people are really like - fun, scheming, lovable cheats - but it pays off because the opposition is so loathsome. Beautifully written, shot, acted and the rest. Without a shadow of a doubt this is a 10 out of 10 and one of the best comedies around. "},{"Title":"Theatre of war, theatre of cruelty","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"30 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I'm at a loss to know what the makers of this movie were trying to achieve. The two main characters, Hawkeye and Trapper John, are possibly the two most obnoxious characters ever committed to celluloid, smug, bullying, misogynistic, devious and self centred. That would be fine if Altman had intended to show these ugly traits as being part of human nature brought to the surface by war, but he seems, perversely, to show such qualities as admirable.The atmosphere resembles that of a school playground with bullying towards non-conformists being much in evidence. Conformity here is of course alcoholism, gambling and womanising. Again, this would be fine if the film makers intended this moral inversion and reversion to adolescence as being a bad side effect of war, in a sort of Lord of the Flies way, but the impression is that the lawless pack are the good guys while anyone who represents order is to be humiliated simply because this is fun. Doing things by the book is such a drag, maaan.Robert Duvall is the first to be mocked, simply because he happens to be praying. He is later punched by Trapper on a thin excuse and for which Trapper receives no punishment. Next he and hot lips have their passion broadcast for the amusement of all. The slender justification for this is that he is married, although almost everyone else is ignoring their wedding vows. Duvall is soon goaded into a fight and unjustly carted off in a strait jacket. Hot Lips receives a great deal of ritual humiliation simply because she is not popular. And the repulsive part is we are meant to be laughing AT her not feeling any sympathy for her. She soon has her dignity removed by having the curtain pulled away while she is showering, again to the amusement of a cheering mob. Her desperate plea for justice is treated like a joke by the commander (and the director).All of this is shocking, but is presented as light entertainment. At no point to we get the impression that the descent into the baying mob mindset is a bad thing. Next the dentist who has concerns over his sexuality tells this to the 'hero' Hawkeye (the priest having heard this in the confession virtually breaks his vows in his eagerness to let Hawkeye know about it). Hawkeye then blabs this sensitive info to everyone who jeer at the dentist and laugh at his intention to commit suicide. He is cured of his gayness by a mock last supper (with heavy influence of Da Vinci), mock funeral and then a sexy girl. Hey presto all is alright. Hawkeye and Trapper continue their obnoxious antics in Japan where they treat some nurses with contempt, then gas and make compromising photos of a commander who dared to question them.At this point the audience is expecting the pair to receive their well deserved comeuppance. Alas, this never comes. Instead the movie lurches into a long football match, which includes a black player called spear chucker, and which they win by cheating. Perhaps this is meant to be some allegory of war? Since we are shown several images of the opposing team sitting on the bench sharing a joint, I guess the intended message is that the best option in war is to sit on the sidelines and take drugs.This football sequence also points up the inconsistency in the writing. Hot Lips, having previously opposed the playing of football, suddenly becomes the chief cheerleader. No explanation is given. She is still treated to derogatory comments, and ends up meekly sitting at a poker table obediently watching the men play cards. The Stepford Wives has nothing on Mash.The writing has this inconsistency throughout. Rambling sequences. General sloppiness. Characters who disappear. Duvall goes early on. Then the young boy he was teaching is taken off for a few days by a doctor who notices the boy's high heart rate. We never know what happens to him. The dentist disappears after his moment.This is not a well made film and a waste of the talent of all involved. "},{"Title":"Strange film","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"32 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Strange film; basically entertaining, but not exactly a masterpiece. One of the most likable things about Robert Altman is that every film of his has been in some way an experiment, and almost none of these experiments, even the very good ones, work perfectly. This is a great example. As is obvious from the many user comments here, it's difficult to talk about MASH without comparing it to M*A*S*H, and in fact the most important cultural thing the film may have done is establish an aesthetic universe for the TV series to exist in (and that really is the only thing the film and the TV show have in common &#150; as many have pointed out, the tone, style, timing, and even character personalities are quite different between the two). But taken on its own, MASH is not really the anti-war polemic it's been made out to be, nor is it the joke-driven movie comedy we might expect from the series' style. Instead, it's a kind of exercise in black-comic tone; it subverts the idea of war not by explicitly criticizing it, even through jokes, but rather by being exactly the opposite of what we expect a traditional war film to be. Here we don't see courage or valor or heroism or honor; we see cowardice and nastiness and vice and stupidity, even from the good characters. The movie subtly suggests that war makes ordinary people into silly, stupid, and vicious ones, and Hawkeye and Trapper are no more exempt from this law than Frank Burns; in fact, if anything they are more angry and mean than he is. This unusual approach to the subject matter is well-maintained throughout the film, and never becomes too harsh or ugly &#150; and yet Altman missteps with some oddly chosen episodes (Painless's suicide attempt, for instance, and the overlong, if symbolic, football game), and the ending of the film is abrupt, making what's come before seem even more pointless and inconsequential. Which may be exactly Altman's point, of course . . . so here we have another Altman film that manages to be simultaneously witty, jokeless, boring, entertaining, confusing, beautifully thought out, artfully constructed and artless, symbolic and realistic. It's recommended, but viewers should ideally go into it with no expectations whatsoever. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Great War Comedy","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This is truly the best military comedy ever made.  It is funny, yet it realistically depicts the savagery of war and the non-chalance it gradually inspires in its victims.  For example, some of the funniest, yet also most disturbing, moments in the film come when the doctors are operating on wounded soldiers, complete with gruesome sound effects, yet are discussing extremely trivial matters. The film also benefits from some great performances.  Donald Sutherland and Elliot Gould were excellent as Hawkeye and Trapper John.  They both had a streak of good movies during the 70s.  Robert Duvall is amusing as a pious major whose fanaticism drives our heroes to extreme measures.  Sally Kellerman and Tom Skerrit also put in good performances in their roles; it is a pity that these two actors are not better utilized nowadays. "},{"Title":"Hardly clever - Hardly Dr Strangelove!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I can't believe people here are comparing M*A*S*H with Dr Strangelove. Brilliant satire? Hardly! Apart from the fact that some of its darkest humour is patently offensive today - Hot Lips' complete humiliation as she's taking a shower, the dentist who thinks he's gay and so has to kill himself (and his decision not to kill himself is only because he finds out he's not gay), etc - the rest of it is really rather obvious and, well, stupid. Ha ha ha, Trapper John has a go at the head nurse in Japan and uses the word tits! How terribly risque. (yawn).And of course, as even those who like the movie have pointed out, it doesn't have a plot. It's a series of rather tedious little vignettes that don't amount to very much before it just suddenly ends. The football game has nothing to do with anything. And what the hell is with Hot Lips' sudden huge character change? She's humiliated by the whole camp when they pull her shower down, obviously distraught she breaks down in front of the CO, who then proceeds to agree with the General to just ignore her complaint - and then suddenly she's a brainless bimbo cheerleader supporting the boys and thinking that the referee's gun has just shot someone. Hello? What the hell?If you want a brilliant movie that satirises the futility and stupidity of war and the military establishment, watch Dr Strangelove. Kubrick knew what he was doing. Gentlemen! You can't fight in here, this is the war room! Now that's irony. "},{"Title":"Mish M*A*S*H","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  M*A*S*H made the reputation of its director Robert Altman, but although Altman's talents are considerable, I think he pulled off a fast one here.  The plot careens from place to place, the story doesn't really go anywhere, the script is disjointed, and we don't get nearly the sense of the brutality of war that we see in other films of this period, even the ones that weren't nearly as entertaining.  Heck, the TV series did a better job of looking into the utter futility of war.  The surgical scenes are somewhat gruesome, but hardly shocking.I think the sucess of the film and its obvious entertainment value (you will like watching this film) is due to a five star cast from top to bottom.  The actors who deservedly made their reputation in this film and give fine performances throughout are Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Robert Duvall, Sally Kellerman, Gary Burghoff and Bud Cort, and that's just the A-team.  Heck, I could make a good movie today with just those people.  From the stoic Trapper John to the bible thumping adulterer Frank Burns, the characters ring true and are fully fleshed out. "},{"Title":"Less Good As Time Goes By","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Although this movie attempts to be exciting and humorous, the humor is disconnected with reality. Altman wanted to make a statement about war without really understanding what it was really like to be in a combat situation in Korea. The surgery scenes are gruesome, yet they don't seem real enough. There is no sense of connection in the operating room with the pain of war. There are no artillery shells. They even have lots of time for horsing around and playing football. Basically, it is good guys versus bad guys. The bad guys are Major Houlihan and Major Burns. Both Kellerman and Duvall are very good in their roles. Sutherland is pretty decent, but poorly developed. You get the sense that he likes dogs and is pretty decent, but he comes of as a complete pain-in-the-neck. Gould is disappointing. He comes across as a hippie, not as someone who really existed in the 1950s. Basically, there were amusing moments, such as the football game, but I never felt that this movie was anything more than an ego trip for Altman. I never felt that it was an honest look at the Korean War. "}{"Title":"Transcendence Laughter In The Midst Of Horror","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Spoilers AheadYes, fellow religious people, I love this movie. Being a Theistic Existentialist, I have wider parameters of leeway with jokes aimed at religion. When you review a movie, return it to its indigenous zeitgeist. This is the height of the Counter-Culture and religion is another symbol of 'the man' and 'the establishment.' Yes, Altman can seem nihilistic, to go with his deep misanthropy, but not really. Notice why they go after Frank, they ignore his fanaticism, as a trifle quaint, but when he is cruel to the man, blaming the soldier's death on him, this is where the gloves come off. Beneath the rebellion of the this cultural period piece, Trapper and Hawkeye are protective of those working on the horrors around them. Hot Lips quixotic, child-like nationalism is deeply funny within the context of the ambivalencies of a war that was the most divisive in the history of the United States. The movie is one of the funniest ever made with scathing, scalding, hot dialog aimed at Hot Lips and the sanctimonious Frank. Notice how Hawkeye and Trapper are not abusive to the Father, it is only Frank's cruelty amidst his pretentious, pedantic, meretricious display of his faith that sets them off. I am sorry, but the scene where they put Frank and Hot Lips on the speakers during coitus is drop dead funny. Even funnier is when Sutherland interviews him, at the breakfast table, on Hot Lips sexual abilities.I love when Frank goes nuts, listen to Gould in the background,Watch your cookies Hawkeye, he's a sex maniac. What is lost upon many detractors is the context of the Vietnam War; and the daily horrors of seeing the horror of soldiers ripped apart brought in gushing blood. The Korean War setting is an obvious cover for the present war outside the theaters, in both the streets and in Vietnam. This is where I admired the gushing blood and gore, it is contextually relevant to explaining the drinking, the nurse chasing and, above all, the contempt for the bizarre lake of blood these medical professionals find themselves waist deep in. Altman can seem nihilistic, especially with the opening suicidal anthem,Suicide is painless, it brings on many changes and I can take it or leave it as I please. Remember, the entire movie is firmly tongue in cheek. The only serious moment is where Frank gets the crap kicked out of him for torturing that male nurse. Altman has little scenes that contain such incongruence with military decorum that you will laugh just at the very sight of them. I love when Hot Lips storms into Col. Blake's tent, as she throws back the flap, there is Blake in bed with one of the nurses.She launches on a diatribe, after the shower incident, about the lack of adherence to military protocol, that with the sight of Blake in bed with the nurse, is hilarious. Go ahead and resign Major, Altman has many such juxtapositions which are the core of great humor like Hawkeye and Trapper being slightly more interested in their golf game and its schedule than what the local big shot officer wishes for them. Watch when he tries to put the arm on them, things don't go well for him. Yes, religious people, the mocking of Da Vinci's Last Supper Painting may offend you. If you understand the horrors these men are up to their noses in, surrounded by death and blood this is how they maintain their sanity. Life often becomes so horrifying that laughing at it is the only way to maintain your control. Altman makes his point about Vietnam by cleverly using the Korean War as a surrogate for the depth beneath the great comedy. The sarcasm comes from listening to Tricky Dick a.k.a. I am not a crook, tell lie after lie about the war to this generation. I understand Christians taking offense but, really, Frank is a big hypocrite putting on a stage show right up in their faces about his holiness while abusing everyone underneath him. Altman's classic was always deeply misunderstood. Return it to the turbulent times that spawned it, you will see it for the gem it has always been. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"Classic Basics, With a wrong turn taken halfway hrough","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Okay, here are the basics . . . .1) A U.S. Army hospital unit in war-torn Korea in the early 1950s; 2) Wounded soldiers and civilians being rushed into the compound via helicopters, trucks and jeeps -- to be operated on by incredibly talented surgeons who, in their off hours, are womanizing party animals and who have little or no respect for authority; 3) Fine, dedicated, caring nurses; 4) Medical personnel, faced with the bloody, gory realities of war, act crazy to keep from GOING crazy; 5) A ranking surgeon, who is somewhat less than competent, is romantically involved with the by-the-book, strong-willed regular army chief nurse, 6) A commanding officer who is not exactly a born leader; 7) The place seemingly being run by a shrewd, but innocent young clerk who seems to know things are going to happen before they do.8) War is Hell; The Army is stupid.It's all brilliant, inventive, and very original.Unfortunately, in this movie, something goes wrong following the establishment of the above-mentioned wonderful basics, and the film loses that wonderful feel at just about the mid point.For one thing, the less-than-competent ranking surgeon is disposed of relatively early and much too swiftly -- taken away in a straitjacket following an altercation with one of his colleagues.There is a completely absurd sequence during which the camp dentist -- an educated man, presumably -- wishes to commit suicide for no good reason and is actually fooled into believing that his medical comrades, following a Last Supper-like ceremony, have given him a pill that will do the job. He even gets into a coffin, believe it or not, in preparation for his expected demise. This is followed by his friends filing past him and, in turn, paying their last respects. The only thing that makes this ludicrous scene at all watchable, for me, is the terrific acoustic guitar and vocal performance of the MASH theme song, Suicide Is Painless. The dentist, incidentally, seems to be neither confused nor surprised by the fact that he is still alive the next day. (Instead of dying after taking the pill, he had been helped through his crisis by a very kind and desirable young nurse.) Not long afterward, the unruly-yet-skilled surgeons travel to Japan to play some golf and, oh, operate on a congressman's son and help a sick infant . . . along the way disrupting a hospital, drugging and framing a colonel, and telling off a snooty head nurse.Eventually comes a much-too-long, totally-out-of-place scene in which the MASH unit hustles another army outfit in a game of football by bringing in a ringer and drugging the other team's star -- who inexplicably is oblivious to a needle being stuck into his arm after being tackled. Where the football uniforms, equipment, field, scoreboard, goal posts and referees come from is a mystery. Incidentally, during this segment, the aforementioned by-the-book, strong-willed regular army chief nurse is magically transformed into a brainless pom-pom girl, enthusiastically cheering the very maniacs who have been harassing and humiliating her throughout the movie . . . and pretty much getting everything wrong.Add to all of this the fact that the M in MASH stands for Mobile, yet this particular MASH unit never moves even *once* during the entire film.All in all, a beautiful original concept which got lost somewhere along the way.Luckily for us all, a group of very talented individuals later took all of those great basics of this movie which I mentioned at the start of this comment and transformed them into just about the greatest television series of all time. When you play the TV series DVDs, and eliminate the chuckle track, you are treated to what this movie quite possibly could have and maybe should have been.Asked to give this movie a 1-10 number rating, I gave it a 7 (5 for the movie itself, plus an extra 2 for giving the TV series its initial main characters, a setting, and a visual style). "},{"Title":"Clearly an important part of film history, but the years haven't been kind to it (in my eyes)","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I should probably watch this again, since so many consider it a masterpiece. Maybe I was over-prepared (Hey, it took me a second viewing of 'Citizen Kane' to get my past pre-set expectations!). But while I could see why M*A*S*H was groundbreaking and important for a Hollywood film of it's day (lack of the usual clear narrative line, anti-war stance, overlapping, improvised dialogue, sexuality, bloody operating room scenes serving as ironic counterpart, etc), it felt pretty dated and unfocused. There are some very funny moments, but a lot of the ironies seem easy, and there's a lack of a true darker underpinnings and ideas, unlike, say, 'Dr. Strangelove'. A lot of the humor is juvenile, cruel and silly. And while I get that's the point &#x96; nothing can be more deeply juvenile, cruel and silly than war, it got repetitive and heavy handed after a while. The performances are good, but beyond Robert Duvall, none of the characters have much in the way of dimensions. People stay exactly what we think they are from the moment we meet them. Walter Chow makes a good argument on the web site 'Film Freak Central', that the sexism, homophobia, etc are the whole point. Altman is saying we're ALL beasts at heart, even if we act like we're bucking the system. It's an interesting idea, but I'm not sure I buy it's what Altman was intending. "},{"Title":"Arrogant irreverence is not the same as actually funny","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" For a legendary comedy, MASH isn't that funny. It's mostly mean, petty, arrogant and self-righteous.As anyone familiar with the TV show spawned by this film knows, MASH is the story of 4077th Mobile Army Surgical Hospital during the Korean War. It primarily follows the exploits of surgeons Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland) and Trapper John (Elliot Gould) as they joke their way through bloody surgery and dealing with Army bureaucracy. There's really not much of a plot to the film. It's just the characters moving from one situation to the next, mostly becoming more absurd as they go along.There aren't that much more than a handful of real jokes in the movie and most of them are the simplest sort of slapstick. Almost all of the alleged humor of MASH comes out of the characters' irreverent attitude toward each and every thing around them. But being irreverent isn't always the same as being funny. Sometimes being irreverent is just being a jackass and in the case of MASH, sometimes it's just being a cruel child lashing out at anyone different than you.My problem with this movie started with the scene where Hawkeye and his fellow newly arrived doctor, Duke (Tom Skerrit), encounter Major Frank Burns (Robert Duvall). As they enter their tent, they find Frank trying to teach a young Korean boy how to read, and he's using the Bible to do it. Hawkeye and Duke find this to be odd and somewhat offensive behavior and give the boy a girlie magazine to look at instead. Later on, Frank prays for the safety of U.S. soldiers in the field, their commanders on the ground and their Commander-In-Chief and again, Hawkeye and Duke find this behavior objectionable and openly mock and deride Frank for praying. And it's very clear that the movie wants us to agree that Frank's actions are strange, bad and laughable. But the movie never bothers to explain why.Trying to teach a Korean kid to read English is a noble thing, especially because the movie never implies that the kid has any real education to speak of and in contrast to the way the movie's heroes treat him as nothing more than a servant. Praying for the well being of others should be about the most unobjectionable thing anyone can do, yet MASH implies it shouldn't be tolerated in polite company. Frank Burns is constantly treated like a terrible person, but Duvall's Frank isn't the complete weasel that Larry Linvile portrayed on TV. The only sin Duvall's Frank ever commits is being a little uptight. He never does anything any normal person would consider that bad, yet because he doesn't think and act the way Hawkeye and Trapper John do he's subjected to cruel torments and physical violence.It's even worse for Major Margaret O'Houlihan (Sally Kellerman). Again, her only real offense is being a little uptight. But she's repeatedly subjected to the most vicious sorts of humiliations and unlike Frank, who at least gets to strike back at his tormentors, Hot Lips laps up the abuse like a whipped dog and later in the film grinningly pals around with the very people who treated her like the lowest form of garbage.I can only imagine that MASH was supposed to reflect the cultural attitudes of the day. Audiences were supposed to identify with Hawkeye and the gang as us and laugh uproariously as they heaped abuse on them. But if the narcissistic, crude, intolerant, vindictive, sadistic and awful thinking and attitudes embodied by this film really did represent the true face of the late1960s/early 1970s&#x85;no one should be surprised that there are so many people who deeply despise that era and everything it stood for. "},{"Title":"A disgusting film","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Though MASH has many gory scenes, its values are what make this film really horrifying. Primarily for the crime of being religious, Frank Burns is humiliated and then provoked into hitting Hawkeye for which he is unjustly hauled off by the MPs. Never mind that Hawkeye is guilty of the same hypocrisy as Frank, or that when Trapper punches Frank, his punishment is no more than having his promotion delayed a week.Even more appalling is the deliberate humiliation of Margaret by exposing her to the entire camp while in shower -- all to settle a bet about the colour of her pubic hair. When Margaret begs the Colonel to intervene, he suggests she resigns.When a colleague believes he is gay, he is made a source of ridicule until he is cured of what the film sees as a psychological illness. The cure? Hawkeye railroads a nurse into sleeping with him.Hawkeye and Trapper use every trick of intimidation, especially threats of violence (as when they frighten an African American nurse away from her post) to pursue their empty hedonistic whims -- and we are somehow meant to think it is all charming. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately, Not One of My Favorites.  (Not a Spoiler)","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I have a great deal of respect for Robert Altman, who directed thispiece; I'm a big fan of most of his work. Therefore it's difficult forme to submit an unfavorable comment in reference to this particularfilm, which is thought of by most as one of his finest. Unfortunately, Ifind myself in the minority.I saw it for the first time about midway through the exceptionally longrun of the television series, of which I am a huge fan. I've been toldmore than once that my intense dislike of the film stems from havingseen and grown accustomed to the TV show first. This is simply not true,I've forced myself to watch the movie a number of times and I am stillnot impressed.The most distinct feature that bothers me about the movie is thecasting, which is a bizarre phenomenon considering the fact that I'm afan of nearly every single primary cast member. It just seemed as thoughmost of the principal characters were taken out of their element interms of the strengths of their talents. Take for instance Robert Duvall in the role of Frank Burns. How often,before or sense has he tried to play a no holds barred nincompoop? Idon't know, but in my opinion this wasn't a successful attempt, in myopinion he's simply too intelligent. I had the same problem with SallyKellerman. I just don't see her as a comedic nymphomaniac nitwit nurse.Her portrayal of Hot lips actually seemed to come across more likewhat I perceive to be her true self, sexy and serious.On the other side of the coin, the remainder of the surgeons from theSwamp, Donald Sutherland (Hawkeye) in particular, came across ascomplete idiots. This I attribute as much to bad writing as impropercasting. Looking back on it, history proves that Sutherland has a giftfor playing eccentric characters. With this in mind he might have beenwonderful in the role of Frank Burns. Thank goodness they didn't try to make the TV series with Gary Burghoff,(Radar), talking in anticipation over everything that was being said tohim. I'll say this; if I'd seen the movie first that might have been alittle less irritating, it certainly couldn't have been worse.If you haven't already seen this movie then certainly don't avoid itbased on a my lack of enthusiasm. There are still enough diehard fansout there to keep *MASH* on the list as very significant cult classicmovie. For me, that's says enough when deciding "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I think MASH is not as good as many people say, for me it's not a classic. This Robert Altman movie, made during the Vietnam war years, talks about a group of doctors during the Korea conflict. The film was a big hit when it came out, maybe because it was the first movie to talk about army in a funny way -it teased the US Army...Today the film looks old and overrated and the political sarcasm seems very weak, actually. There's no doubt that Altman wanted to do an antihero film, but after all MASH is a portrait of doctors who make jokes and tries to survive with humor. Themes like stupidity and horror of war are not treated, there isn't an analysis of this. Where's the antimilitarist message?Even if it's an Altman movie, the film looks like a long TV movie. The director made much better movies. The only interest here, to me, is seeing young actors like Donald Sutherland, Elliot Gould, Tom Skerritt, Robert Duvall, René Auberjonois and Sally Kellerman. "},{"Title":"Vastly Over-Rated","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"25 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I realize that this movie has achieved almost cult status and is widely regarded as a classic, but it just didn't work for me. The best thing I can say about it is that it gave birth to the long running television series of the same name, which may still be the best television series ever made. But how anyone could watch this movie and get the idea to make it into a television series is beyond me.I readily confess, of course, that (as with almost everyone born in the 1960's or later) my introduction to and conception of MASH is the TV series. It's truly difficult for me to relate to Donald Sutherland as Hawkeye Pierce, for example. Not that he, or any of the actors, did a bad job. It's just that the TV series is so ingrained in my mind that it's hard to see different actors putting their unique spins on familiar characters. Hawkeye, Trapper John (Elliott Gould), Frank Burns (Robert Duvall), Hot Lips Houlihan (Sally Kellerman) and Col. Blake (Roger Bowen) are portrayed very differently than their TV counter-parts. That's fine (and the actors did well) but it's still disconcerting.The problems I felt with this movie went far beyond the difficulties involved with relating to an unfamiliar cast playing familiar characters, though. The story focuses on the experiences of Captains Pierce and Duke Forrest (Tom Skerritt) at the 4077 MASH in the Korean War. It opens with their arrival and closes with their discharge. But to me the movie lacks any clear focus or consistency. It doesn't seem to be building to anything and in the end it just fizzles out quietly without any real climax. The zany antics of the doctors come across here as mean-spirited more than fun, and there's way too much emphasis on the football game between the 4077 and the 325th Evac. I mean - who really cares? To me, this movie didn't even seem to have a strong anti-war message. Anti-military perhaps, but not anti-war (and the two are not the same thing, in my opinion.)I realize that I'm not in tune here with most people's thinking, but as far as I'm concerned the best thing about this movie is actually hearing the words to the familiar MASH theme Suicide Is Painless. I also appreciated the fact that, this being a motion picture rather than a TV series, the horrors of war (ie, the wounds of the soldiers) could be more graphically (and therefore more soberingly) portrayed. Aside from that, nothing much here appealed to me.2/10 "},{"Title":"Important, influential, just not that good","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"61 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH broke barriers and defied conventions when it was first released in 1970. It still does today.The pendulum has swung back a lot since 1970, and for that you still get a sense of the pioneering spirit with which the film was made. The overlapping dialogue. The non-linear, character-driven plot. The caustic humor. The attacks on religion (real religion, as the New York Times noted when the film came out, not false sanctimony but actual belief in God.)Yes, in those ways the film is as powerful now as it was when it was first released. But you see something else, something audiences didn't see in 1970, so blown away were they by the newness of it. That is the picture runs out of gas halfway through.You have a powerful beginning, that eerie montage with the strange song Suicide Is Painless playing mournfully while doctors, nurses, and orderlies silently rush to relieve choppers of their human cargo. It's quietly effective, immediately giving you a sense of the 4077th MASH unit (looking much bigger and grimmer than it ever did in the TV series) and coming as close as the movie ever does to delivering an effective anti-war statement. The movie builds from there as we meet the various characters, beneficiaries of their actors' strong improvisational work. It feels like real-time eavesdropping on a community of actual human beings. Scenes like Major Burns and Hot Lips' transmitted tryst and Painless Pole's suicide attempt are not as funny as we are meant to think, but they are well shot, especially the Painless Pole bit, the best thing in the movie for pure entertainment. The way all the guys in the Swamp crack up when Painless tells them he's decided to kill himself may be the film's funniest moment.What happens next feels like a wrong turn. Hot Lips becomes the subject of a camp bet that exposes her to massive humiliation. Call it indecent or politically incorrect, it is just plain wrong, exposing the film's (and its director's) nasty streak toward women and alienating any concern you might have built up for the characters. When she and Burns were targeted before, you had a sense they had it coming because of her overbearing military approach and his blaming orderly Boone for killing a patient. This time, she's a spent force, no threat to anyone, and a damn good nurse, as Trapper says, just doing her job as best she can despite her earlier bad experience. I'm struck dumb at the idea I'm supposed to be laughing when she rushes into Col. Blake's tent in shock and tears.The film never recovers. Instead, it veers wildly off course, away from the camp and into two radically pointless subplots, one involving a trip by Hawkeye and Trapper to Japan where they operate on a congressman's son and a sick infant (some sort of parallel there, though lost on me), the other a football game that apparently was director Robert Altman's comment on the folly of war, but to me just shows what happens when you allow your characters to veer off-script for so long you can't make it back to the ending as written. The game takes up too much time, throws in goofy circus music complete with slide whistles, and features the once iron-willed Hot Lips in the role of outlandishly enthusiastic cheerleader for all the people who tormented her so viciously for the duration of the film. Sally Kellerman's performance in the second half of the film is nothing like it was in the first half; it's embarrassingly, cartoonishly bad. Altman should have reined her in, but you get the feeling he was just rushing by then to get it all in the can before the studio figured out what he was up to and took his film away.Altman was just so much better making Nashville. Obviously he learned a lot. It's amazing how pasty everyone in this film looks, particularly Donald Sutherland, who seems leprous. No wonder he tried to get Altman fired. So much of the supporting players faded away, and though they do good work, it's not a surprise. They all seem so squalid and ugly as Altman shoots them.It's interesting comparing the characters here to their counterparts in the TV series. For me, the TV characters are usually preferable. Robert Duvall mines zero comedy from Frank Burns, playing him very seriously in comparison to Larry Linville's more likeably miserable TV Burns. Roger Bowen had a great voice, but is nearly robotic as Blake, having none of McLean Stevenson's panache. What's worse than a pompous moralizing Hawkeye with Groucho affectations? How about that annoying whistle! Even Gary Burghoff, the one real holdover from film to series, plays a nastier Radar in the movie, meaner, tougher, less innocent.The whole film is mean, tough, less innocent. It gets points from me for that. Altman and his cast develop a magnificent mood right away. But they fail to do very much with it. MASH is a great 45-minute-long movie that just goes on too long. "},{"Title":"Just not my idea of a great comedy.","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" No idea why this movie is considered to be a genre classic really. I don't know, perhaps I needed to be around at 1970 to fully understand its appeal and appreciate it, since it certainly was a popular movie at the time, that even had an even more successful TV-series following it up, only 2 years later.Thing that the movie is known and praised for, is its heavy anti-war message in it. Well, not a message really but it makes a statement by turning a war situation into something comical. Perhaps this was something that really spoke to people at the time because of America's involved with the Vietnam war. In that regard, this movie is perhaps being a bit too much a product of its time and has lost it relevance and impact.But that does not make a bad movie of course. What does make this movie quite bad is that it simply isn't very fun or funny to watch at all. I'm not exaggerating when I say that I chuckled just once. The rest of the movie mostly consists out of people talking over each other and behaving incredibly immature.This was another real problem I had with this movie; All of the characters behaved like a bunch of brats and really not one of them was being likable enough for me. This was perhaps the biggest reason why I just couldn't ever enjoy watching this movie. But really, another big problem of the movie for me was that it didn't even featured a main story in it. It made this movie come across as a real pointless one, that was never being good, interesting or funny enough. It just isn't going anywhere with any of it. Perhaps it was to show the whole pointlessness of war but this doesn't make the movie any more pleasant or good to follow. Maybe it would had also helped if the movie did actually showed some of its war but now I really never had the feeling as if the movie was taking place during a war situation.The cast-list sound interesting, with people such as Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Tom Skerritt, Robert Duvall and Rene Auberjonois in it but most of them were still pretty big unknowns at the time and their roles also aren't all that big. The movie doesn't have one main character in it but it instead focuses on a whole bunch of them, for an equal amount of time. This could work, if all of the characters would had been great or fun ones but that really wasn't the case for this movie.Not a completely horrible movie but not a very great or enjoyable one either. No way I will be ever seeing this one again! 5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"worthwhile...that is all","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" seeing this film again after many years,i am now aware of the weaknesses it has.the movie tends to fly all over the place-from the operating scenes(which are well done)to the comedy,which in some cases is mean-spirited.although winning an Oscar for best screenplay,some of the script was apparently deleted during editing.it's pretty obvious early on that the setting is really Vietnam,not Korea,otherwise why all the irreverence and cynicism?one problem i had with the direction is with the characters talking over each other.although realistic it was at times difficult to tell what was being said.as a comedy it's a mixed bag-some scenes hilarious,some fall flat.also the football game seems to be tacked on(and takes up a lot of screen time to boot),as if the movie wasn't deemed to be long enough.overall,an enjoyable if somewhat dated film that has lost a little luster. "},{"Title":"Too silly and condescending.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I recall seeing this when it first came out and recall not particularly liking it at that time.  I decided to pick up the dvd, figuring a look back at the movie might feel better to me.  It didn't.  While there were a few funny scenes, I found it to be mostly silly and somewhat condescending on the field hospitals during the Korean War.  If you feel the need to see this movie, I recommend a rental, not a buy. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This picture is quite interesting in its portrayl of how one can cope during the stupidity of war. There is no message in this picture, there is no strong narrative, no story. It's a barrage of jokes edited together perfectly. Altman's direction is quite unique, the strong zooms, the editing, over-lapping dialogue. The fact that there is no plot throws up challenges, and I certainly admire the effort put into this by all concernedThe production values are terrific and the photography is miserable, which is perfect!Sutherland is so damn perfect, such a terrific performance, I love the goofy style.There are times when the picture isn't interesting and sometimes things fall flat. But there are jokes and laughs which this film relies on during the absurd war, it's the joking that keeps these characters alive.I wouldn't say this picture features a good screenplay but the direction is so unique that it deserves to be seen by everyone. They don't make challenging works like this anymore.Remember to watch this film in widescreen otherwise you'll miss out on 43% of the picture.  "},{"Title":"MASH 7/10","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Please note I saw this movie in pieces, so my review might have been different if I saw it all in one piece.M*A*S*H is one of the most popular/successful T.V. shows of all time. And most people know that there was a T.V. show, but, surprisingly enough, not as many have heard about the movie.Directed by Robert Gosford Park Altman, it begins with all the characters coming to the 4077th (I think) MASH unit (Mobile Army Surgical Hospital) during the Korean War. Some characters include Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland), Trapper John (Elliot Gould), Duke (Tom Skerritt), and the foxy Hot Lips (Sally Kellerman). There really isn't a plot here, except for those zany escapades that the soldieres endure.First things first, I'm not a big fan of ensamble comedies (or ensamble movies in general). Gosford Park was a disaster (in my opinion). The characters are usually too hard to keep track of. However, MASH gives us time to get used to the characters and get to know them a little. It goes by rather speedily, which is thankful. I don't think I (or anyone) could have endured a 150 minute comma (comedy-drama) about the Korean war. Which brings me to my next point.Despite it being very entertaining, it didn't make me laugh that much. A few chuckles, some snorts, but nothing very sustaining. The lead players seemed to believe that they were the characters, and so did I. If I was drafted, I would have liked to work with these fine people; they would make the time fly by.On the other hand, Hot Lips was somewhat of a problem. She was opposed to football, but then she was a cheerleader in the climatic game? Doesn't seem right. The football game seemed to be filler; what was so important about winning (besides satisfaction and $5,000). Well, it does seem important, but they got too excited, it seemed.All in all, it's a very fun two hours. Unfourtunately, it's more fun than funny.My rating 7/10Rated R for some sexual content. "},{"Title":"stilted and mean","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I too, like another reviewer, had seen this pic only after being accustomed to the TV series. The TV show's characters had a warmth and comradeship, especially in the later seasons. Hawkeye, Trapper or BJ might have teased Frank, Hot Lips or Winchester, but always with a twinkle in their eye. In the movie however, despite Trapper avenging Frank's blaming an intern for a soldiers death and Hawkeye's helping Painless's problem, I found the movie's characters extremely self-centered, hard-nosed, mean-spirited and hubristic. Hawkeye and Trapper just walk over anyone and everybody to have their way. I guess they feel they are such good surgeons that they don't have to obey any Army regulations. In the REAL army of that period, their shenanigans would have them in court-martial in less time than you could say I like Ike. Everyone excepting Radar, Father Mulchay and Spearchucker comes across as stuck-up morons. The movie and TV show seem to be completely about something different. I sympathize with the Tokyo jeep driver's sentiment Goddam Army!  "},{"Title":"Anti-war?  Gimme a break!","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I thought Altman's Nashville was brilliant. McCabe and Mrs. Miller was a solidly different western. MASH, on the other hand, manages to bore and rankle at the same time. What's right with MASH ingenious innovations in technique, like a loudspeaker within the movie helping to announce the final credits and a comic eating scene shot to resemble the layout of Da Vinci's Last Supper. Clever! Yawn. (These bits neither advance the plot, contribute to characterization or ambiance, or do anything except exist. Some viewers will laugh at the moment of recognition, but playful directing doesn't make a good film all by itself.) Another possible innovation is the use of a Simon&Garfunkly theme (Suicide is Painless) that has no bearing on the movie or much else in the world. If Altman thought this bit up all by himself, it's clever. Yawn.The cast does the best they can with so little of interest to work with.I didn't find MASH funny, for reasons that many others have mentioned. Its worst sin against humor, to my mind, is that the fun here is based entirely on a the antics of a few angry and arrogant narcissists. I'd have called them psychos, but that would make them sound too interesting. The fact that they're also brilliant surgeons doesn't outweigh their mental-health issues, unless you get a lump in the throat just watching SOB's save lives.All Quiet on the Western Front is anti-war. Paths of Glory is anti-war. You don't need to be told that because they show war itself as cruel and dehumanizing, right up on the big screen.MASH is not antiwar, and would be pretty poor even it were, because most of the dehumanizing is done by the protagonists themselves. It was *marketed* as antiwar (something quite different) because being antiwar *sold* in 1970. The posters that showed a peace sign morphing into a leggy babe had nothing to do with the movie except to convince people that it was anti-war and therefore great, sexy, hilarious, and more than worth the price of admission. In fact, MASH is none of these things.Hawkeye, Trapper John, and their buddies are not against war or even *the* war. They do and say nothing about any war. All they do and say is whatever they feel like, tormenting female nurses, outsmarting superior officers, taking their petty vengeance and unmotivated peevishness out on everyone around them. Sound funny? Wrong. The Marx Bros. might have been able to pull it off, but not this crew. MASH is anti-authority, but that's a whole lot different from being anti-war. MASH is also anti-military, but in a motiveless way (unless raking in the bucks was a motive). All the army ever did to these distinguished surgeons was to replace, temporarily of course, their zillion-dollar a year civilian careers with the opportunity to play golf, football, and crude practical jokes while occasionally saving of patients whom they obviously do not give a **** about personally.The primary anti-war message here is that surgical operations involve lots of blood squirting around. That's it. Why not say MASH was is anti-surgery or anti-medical profession movie? Because that would nail the picture for the fraud it really is.(Note I know that medical students can be krazy kut-ups, especially when it comes to spare cadavers. MASH is a lot less funny.) "},{"Title":"Has not aged well.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This is a very macho movie. Not because it takes place during the Korean war among soldiers but because of the attitude of the characters. It is badly dated. I didn't know films could be so sexist in 1970 when new young talent was taking over Hollywood films! The women are treated like bimbos. They're only good for cheerleading. The one woman (Hotlips) that tries to put things in order gets badly humiliated, not once but three times at least. She's only welcome among the boys if she wears a tight sweater. The homosexual man has to either turn straight or kill himself.I can see why Gould and Sutherland became stars in the 70's. I can also why Tom Skerrit and Joann Phlug did not.The film just went on and on with that American football game. Certainly no classic. "},{"Title":"What a Waste","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Want to see a movie with no taste? With no plot? With unappealing, worthless characters? With a life-negating theme song (Suicide is Painless)? With no redeeming values whatsoever? Watch MASH. You won't be disappointed. What can I possibly add to these preceding remarks? More of the same. The movie reflects a horrible, contemptible sense of life. In general, characters sneer at morality; in particular--and this is particularly ugly--the enlisted men and women show no respect for military (and medical) discipline or the chain of command. This sort of behavior is presented as funny--but it is a mean, sordid, value-rejecting sort of humor. In fact, it is human rot. MASH is a movie without purpose and without self-esteem. In the midst of this rubbish heap, it is a shame to see a beauty like actress Sally Kellerman glowing like a diamond in some scenes and wallowing in slatternly filth in others. What a waste. This film deserves not a shred of acclaim. And to those of you who do acclaim it, I ask when and why did YOU decide to reject or belittle life and self-respect in art? "},{"Title":"unconventionally funny","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  While never a fan of the dry humor of the TV series & certainly too young to be an expert on the Korean War, MASH - the movie - comes off as an unconventionally funny & intriguing look at war thru the eyes of irreverent doctors in the kooky MASH unit.Director Robert Altman never allows us to get seriously involved in the war aspect of this film - there are few, if any, poignant moments in regards to the actual battle in Korea.  Instead, we follow the kooky exploits of the brilliant loose-cannon surgeons, led by Donald Sutherland, Elliot Gould & Tom Skerritt.  The entire cast is fantastic, especially Gould & Sutherland as motor-mouthed playboys undermining authority at every turn.  Roger Bowen, Robert Duvall & Sally Kellerman are equally effective in supporting roles.There are moments of outright hilarity throughout & the humor, though sometimes slapstick, is incredibly unconventional (dream sequences, breaking down the fourth wall & an effective scene involving the infamously haunting theme song performed by Johnny Mandel).  MASH's only - and major - flaw is treating its subject matter with kid gloves.  We behold dead or dying bodies in most scenes, blood spurts & pours on every gurney, yet every scene is a platform for comedy.  And while I couldn't help but laugh, I couldn't help thinking that this was certainly not the norm of war, even in Korea.  Then again, it's only a movie.  And a pretty funny one at that.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who says wartime is gloomy?","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH stands for (Mobile Army Surgical Hospital) they are helpful when one of their own soldiers is wounded from battle. Do these surgeons worry? If you have one name Captain Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland) and Trapper John McIntyre(Elliott Gould). These Army surgeons know how to make negative situation like the Korean War, look like another day in paradise. Wars can depress any person involved. But Hawkeye and Trapper uses their shenanigans to bolster up their egos. It works. However, those antics annoy a certain deadpan named Frank Burns(Robert Duvall). This Major is a pain, but Hawkeye always has his number. Another soldier named Major Margaret Hot Lips Houlihan(Sally Kellerman) is appalled by Pierce's quips. The worst things that have happened to Burns and Houlihan is when their intimacy is heard throughout the camp. Then when Hot Lips was taking a shower, the shower tent collapsed, and the whole crew get a great look at her! This movie is such a hoot! Dark comedy is unusual to say the least. There's plenty of laughs. Certain themes are questionable, but I don't think that it will bother me. If it haven't been for the movie, there wouldn't be a successful TV show. Only Gary Burgoff remain the true character of the movie, Radar. A war classic that doesn't mean it's a tearjerker. The only tears you have is for laughing too hard. It's worth my while. 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Satire from a Master-List of Taboo Subjects","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" OK, I think more historical context is needed before watching this film than any other classic I know of. It is as if Altman was acting as a version of Beale from 1976's superior satire Network - mad as hell about society of the time (1970) and even the conventions of movies themselves, and not going to take it anymore. Like almost all reviewers here, I agree that the film is only accidentally funny. But then again, so was Network. Humor implies a bit of levity, and this is instead a purely angry film - it is like an attack, more so than almost any other American film I have seen except for maybe Happiness or Born on the Fourth of July. First, there's the famous overlapping dialogue, then the other American sacred-cow subjects he massacres - war, authority figures, love, monogamy, religion, homosexuality, sanctity of medicine and its practitioners, communitarianism, shared goals, women's lib, sports, and politics. Finally, Altman throws out the very idea of sustained linear plotting with an established group of characters - allowing the camera to follow characters who appear, play little role in the plot line, and then mysteriously disappear. That is the defining feature of life and war, and it is something which was surprisingly absent from all films of that era.One also gets the sense that Altman was like a newly-emancipated repressed teen after having had to abide by the strict conventions of television and the studio system on all of his previous work. If one is looking for a similar, but funnier, satire of American culture of the time, watch Norman Lear's Cold Turkey. That film has aged much better than MASH, but MASH was by far the more influential. "},{"Title":"How People Can Deal With War!","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M.A.S.H is the 1970 smash hit that went on to inspire a long-running hit TV show for the decade thereafter. But for the most part, this film happens to be funny, even though many of the situations are not meant to be funny. But then again, that is why this is listed as a black comedy. You won't be howling in laughter, but you'll be chuckling often at the sheer ludicrosity this film manages to offer.Robert Altman's black comedy takes place during the Korean War and is about how the staff of the army hospital embraces comedy in their everyday lives to offset the horrors of war. Led by jokesters Hawkeye and Duke, they manage to upset the balance of the camp, while effectively doing their job.The acting is very good. Donald Sutherland shines in one of his earlier roles and is quite funny. I never noticed it before, but comedy comes so naturally to him. I guess I'm just used to his more recent movies. Elliot Gould and Tom Skerritt also do very well as Donald's cronies. Finally, I liked Robert Duvall's character. I especially liked how Hawkeye and his gang make his poor life miserable.Overall, M.A.S.H is a pretty good comedy without trying to be much of a comedy. For people expecting a total war movie, do not even watch this film. However, this film does have a distinct anti-war message and ironically enough, this film was penned by on the Big Ten from Hollywood whom were imprisoned in the early 1950's. It's a good movie for the most part and I liked how comedy is resorted to repel the reality of war. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Irreverent and Nasty&#x85;Groundbreaking Gonzo Filmaking","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Groundbreaking, Irreverent, and Absolutely Audacious Black Comedy that was so Original and Over the Top that it could not be Anything but Controversial and Attract a Huge Audience that was Longing for this Type of Anti-Establishment Hollywood Movie. It was Certainly a Product of its time and was Unconventional in an Era when Unconventionality was Celebrated, at Least by People Under Thirty. it is a Movie that was Breaking Bad with No Apologies. It seems Today, rather Tame, but at the Time it Showed Itself to be Cutting Edge in so Many Ways.Lots of on Screen Blood, Jokes about Homosexuality, Impotence and Pubic Hair. Hard Pokes at Authority, Especially the Military, Marital Infidelity, and Racism. It was the First Movie to use the F-Word. The Playful Cast Improvised Director Robert Altman's Vision of Hard Working Life Saving Surgeons in an Impossible Situation with Breezy, Overlapping, Improvisational Dialog, Punctuated with Sarcasm and Wit.Seminal Film, to say the Least, it may seem Somewhat Dated Today and has the Eleven Season TV-Show Haunting its Reputation, but Except for the Ill-Advised, Unfunny, Boring, Slapstick of a Football Game that is the Third Act, the First Two-Thirds can be Considered Influential, Gonzo-Filmmaking at its Best. "},{"Title":"Altman style changes the landscape","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This is the Korean War from the perspective of the wacky characters of the 4077 MASH unit. They are a mobile hospital in a draft army in a muddy war.This is Robert Altman's first big screen success. It has all his style that will become his hallmarks in the years to come. It has the documentary style with multiple characters speaking at once. It has the rambling improvised feel. It definitely benefited from its time in history. Released at the height of the Vietnam war, this portrayal of the Korean War must have been down right eerie.The actors are top rate. Donald Sutherland and Elliott Gould are terrific leads. Sally Kellerman's Hot Lips has the iconic naked shower scene. It's odd to see Robert Duvall as Maj. Frank Burns, but he leaves early in the movie anyways. It's a solid movie that changes the landscape of movie making. "},{"Title":"Excellent War Satire!","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" To me, Altman's second-best film, behind Nashville, which is so uniquely brilliant, it defies classification!Regardless of it being set during the Korean War, this is obviously a commentary on the insanity of the current-at-that-time Vietnam War, and of war in general. The surgeons are endlessly patching up the badly wounded, and they keep coming. The endless cycle leads to the surgeons and other personnel just trying to keep sane.There is quite of mix of gore and laughs as the characters make their way through the conflict. And, surreal moments that transcend it all. Altman was a master at breaking the rules, and has a dream cast that makes the film perfect.I saw this at the 75th Anniversary for 20th Century Fox at Lincoln Center in 2010. I got to meet and have a real conversation with Elliott Gould, easily the best interaction with a celebrity I have ever had. There was a showing of a new 35mm print of the film, and a post discussion with Elliott, Tom Skerritt, and the wife of Mr. Altman. I even have a signed poster!Excellent film, easily watchable again and again. And, the P.A. announcements are so very funny!********** (10 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Mash","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The film MASH opens with the arrival of Captain Pierce and Duke Forrest in an army field hospital as sergeants during the Korean War and ends with their departure. And in between we have the life of men and women in the camp. There are little pieces of stories and incidents we get to know about, some of them are funny, some disgusting and some empty. It's very difficult to talk about the film, not because it's obscure but because it is vastly pointless. It becomes quite clear that Robert Altman tried his best to make a film out of these little pieces, and that is probably the biggest drawback of the film - his effort shows.I won't blame Jean Luc Godard for not being able to tell a story the way it should be told, because his intentions were never to do so. He can be criticized for what he tried not for what he didn't. But unfortunately, Altman's success or failure in MASH should be judged in terms of these stories through which he tries to get inside this Army field hospital and of course the way he puts it. Looking back at a film like MASH made around 40 years ago, it is quite difficult to figure out the reasons behind its popularity, and hey, it's far from experimental too.The question is what is the film then? What is it about? Well, it's kind of a comedy which doesn't make you laugh that much. It's kind of an anti-war film that doesn't have much to say against war. It's kind of a psychological endeavor that doesn't penetrate. The film, MASH, is careless and indiscipline one, very much like the characters it depicts. MASH is probably a satirical, bit circus tic, black and bleak comedy &#x96; mostly ineffective.I think MASH is a war film that, fortunately, has nothing to do with heroism, bravery, patriotism or honor &#x96; instead it's about sadism, cruelty, cowardice and utter stupidity. I feel sad at the end of the film precisely because of its inability to take this influential project further. It fails to build up the characters it portrays. We are never at home with them; we don't know how to react. These characters never grow; they provide us no reason to follow them. Think about the football match sequence, all of a sudden we have a football match coming up from nowhere, and that too an elaborated coverage, the whole thing was absolutely rubbish and the film could have been better without it. Think about the suicide drama, think about the Korean boy they all seem stories out of place - we don't know them; we aren't linked.There are certain things that I find very disgusting too, for example, the way the film portrays the female character, hot lips. She arrives in the camp with a mission; she finds the whole atmosphere in the camp very messy and unorganized. She talks about discipline and order, and throughout the rest of the film she is mocked by everyone. She almost becomes a ridiculous and stupid creature, readily available for everything. She only finds Frank, but even Frank is forced to leave the field hospital by Captain Pierce and others. Hot lips' privacy is badly hampered twice, once when she is having sex with Frank, someone puts the microphone inside the room, and the whole hospital gets to hear the sounds. Secondly, all the temporary curtains were taken off while she is taking a bath, and she is exposed fully in front of everybody seated outside, with even musical instruments, a gallant show of laughter and disdain, and a worst possible part of the film for me. She is further ridiculed when she goes to the room of the officer in charge or whatever to complain about all these, we see her absolutely unable to make her point being angry and ends up shouting and crying, saying nothing. She is ridiculous, vague, overtly emotional and probably stretched as far as someone crazy. I don't know what Robert Altman wanted to achieve by all these, cruelty, disrespect, irresponsibility, perversion, voyeurism of these people in the military field hospital? May be, but since his whole project is a failure, at the end, it seems a perversion on the part of the director and nothing else.Hey, MASH won one of the most prestigious film awards of all, the P'lm Dore at the Cannes film festival in 1970, something it doesn't deserve, really. "},{"Title":"It didn't age well","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" When I first saw Mash back in 1970 or thereabouts I was certain that it was a masterpiece of filmmaking.Over the years, I've had occasion to see it several more times, and each time it's diminished a bit.It's obvious that the movie only masquerades as being about Korea, this is about Viet Nam. In that light it's interesting that the humor seemed much easier to accept while the war in Viet Nam was still playing in our living rooms every night. It was irreverent and in-your-face, but a viable counterpoint to the horror of what was actually going on in S.E. Asia.Since the war is - thankfully - long since over, the humor now seems simply mean-spirited and thoughtless.And Hawkeye and Trapper are simple smart-ass jerks.There's little noteworthy outside of the antics of Hawkeye and Trapper. Radar is pleasant enough, Hotlips and Frank Burns are just uncomfortable to watch. The rest is simply wallpaper.I guess my conclusion is that this was a movie for the moment. It doesn't hold up well now with 40 years of history under the bridge. "},{"Title":"Suicide is Painless ... MASH is pointless ...","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" (singing) I tried but failed to care for MASH ... a film I'm fool enough to bash ... but I need to say on the net ... the only big point I could get ... Suicide is painless, it brings on many changes and I can make or leave it if I please I tried, I really tried to find out the secret appeal of Robert Altman's MASH, to approach its comedic aspect in the most impartial way &#x85; and frankly, the best compliment I can make is that it's an okay film but nothing special. I'm not familiar with the TV series but I'm sure it can't be worse than the original film. I feel guilty to write this way, maybe I should give it another chance, but the scenes are still very fresh in my memory and as memorable as they are, they didn't impact me in a very positive way. Just because it's an anti-war film doesn't&#x85; wait, what was that? Unless I'm missing something, the film portrays the camp as a playground with a bunch of grown men acting like pricks. As far as the movie is concerned, war has never been so fun and so sexy to watch. Well, if it's the theme the movie choose, I'm fine and I respect the director who made the perfect McCabe & Mrs. Miller for that, but there's a problem to find something fun from one character's perspective, I have to root for him and Hawkeye and his gang were far too mean-spirited to inspire me any ounce of sympathy.I tried, I tried to laugh at their jokes, but all I could see is a film made of little redundant episodes where a bunch of moronic bullies have all the chicks and the revenge on the guys they hate, and I have a problem with that since I always root unconsciously for the unlucky outsiders. Hawkeye and Co are meant to be the outsiders where they are the true winners of the films, they humiliate and beat Frank Burns (Robert Duvall) just because he's a religious bigot, and Duvall is such an immense actor that he succeeds in deviating the effect of a manipulative script that was probably supposed to make him look even worse. Sure, they're soldiers and doctors, so it gives them an incredible sex-appeal but if the film is renowned for its political incorrectness with sex as a convenient ingredient, the way it depicted women as regular sexual trophies upset me so much, I didn't want to sympathize with the main characters, and the only female character I could root for was Major 'Hot Lips'.And this is my biggest problem with the film, this woman was humiliated more than once, with a microphone while kissing Frank Burns, she's exposed, totally naked in front of all the soldiers (and I guess even the women were supposed to cheer for that humiliation), she tried to establish her strong and strict personality and despite everything, she remained a strong 'straight-man' among a bunch of clowns. And then all of a sudden, during the football game, she acts like a dumb chief cheerleader told to 'shut up. What the hell was that? How could her character evolve like this? Are we supposed to guess that the guys domesticated Major 'Hot Lips' reducing her to their vision of the perfect woman? And is that supposed to be funny?MASH has the appeal of a mean-spirited Benny Hill show, and it portrays a group of unlikable guys with so much indulgence that I could have accepted it as the 'artistic license of a gutsy director' but I didn't expect the evolution of Major Hot Lips, which I thought looked like a sort of fantasy from a male screenwriter who spent so much time in War he ended up knowing nothing about women. Now, I see some voices shouting  absurdity, Anti-Vietnam, 'missing the point', I love these words and I wish I could have used them in my review, but I don't think the movie invites the viewer to take it seriously, it's absurd, and there's intelligence in absurdity only if it serves to demonstrates something that is not absurd. In MASH, in the best case it was absurd for the sake of absurdity and in the worst case, it was a disgraceful comedy with some scenes that weren't even funny.I tried not to get annoyed by Hawkeye's tiresome whistling, to forgive the part where two soldiers randomly fights in the beginning, or to appreciate the sight of wounded soldiers as a solid dramatic counterpart but I don't think you can shortcut emotions this way, I didn't feel it was handled as to make you understand the whole 'war is hell' equation, so whatever greatness relied on MASH and that earned it so many Oscar nominations including one for best Picture and a Golden Palm, I failed to appreciate it. My mistake &#x85; I guess I prefer another thought-provoking Anti-war story with more comedic value and made the same year, an underrated gem named Little Big ManHowever, the only positive thing that I concede from the film is the song Suicide is Painless which was one of the most promising starts from any film and one song I rank among my all-time favorite. I have nothing against MASH and I can see how it's a pioneer film in terms of political incorrectness, maybe I would have liked it more if it wasn't regarded as such a masterpiece but as far as the story and the characters are concerned, I don't find anything special &#x85; or that hasn't aged badly. So I'll respect the achievement of the film and give it a 7 before giving it another chance &#x85; sometime &#x85; when I'll feel more at ease.And you could do the same thing, if you please &#x85; "},{"Title":"Cynical with empathy, funny but not close to hilarious","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Recap Two surgeons are being sent to the MASH 4077th. But they are not entirely army material, making their own rules as they go. Of special interest is of course the nurses. And making extra money. Around them the whole camp turns to a circus.Comments A classic movie, a very cynical satire of the essence of war. Somewhat graphic and gory for its time but nowadays it is nothing to speak of. Instead it is a pure enjoyment to watch all the characters shape their own world. The story revolves mostly around Hawkeye, Trapper and Duke Forrest, each with their own special character, even if they have their total disrespect and disregard of regulations and proper conduct in common. That is really the foundation of the movie. It is funny, but not in any way that any recent Hollywood blockbuster would be. It is really another type of humor. It is cynical and, I wouldn't call it subtle, but is more low key than what we're used of today.The movie was followed up by a popular series and if you want a fun comedy I would actually recommend that over the movie. Not that the movie was bad or dull in any way, but the movie has a more serious undertone, whereas the series I feel is more pure comedy. The undertone is of course the anti-war statement. It lies in the cynical comedy and can actually go undetected if you don't think about it, and only watch it for the jokes and puns. But reading about how Fox and the army reacted to the movie is almost as much fun as watching the movie itself.There is another dimension to the movie, due to time. Director Altman managed to gather quite a few young actors that come to have respectable careers, and still are stars today. Therefore you can see Donald Sutherland, Elliot Gould, Tom Skerritt, Robert Duvall, Rene Auberjonois and Michael Murphy in much earlier roles. Some in just the beginning of their careers. And quite frankly, some of them is hard to recognize.A little of the movies charm and sense of being current has been lost through the years. Still it is a very good and entertaining movie, and absolutely watchable due to its classic status. But as a pure comedy, there are better out there.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Different perspective on war","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" There are certain movies that can get the very extreme responses from viewers. They may be liked tremendously or maybe disliked thoroughly. MASH is one such movie. It is surely not meant for all. The movie first of all has got no definite plot, it is just a series of events interleaved together to create a satirical impact. Based on a Korean Army Hospital and it's staff of doctors, surgeons, nurses etc, it takes into account their journey filled with humor, insanity etc on the backdrop of a deadly war. There are innumerable characters in the movie, but predominant are two surgeons (Hawkeye and Duke), a chest-cutter (Trapper) and a slutty head nurse (Hot Lips). Humor is mostly in the form of witty satire on sex, girls(blondes), war, America and surgery. For example, the head nurse Hot Lips talks about degrading morals and manners in the army and at night sleeps with almost half of the unit. A Lot of focus on vulgarity is one of the reasons that can be a turn-off for viewers. The viewer may even feel that some events in the movie are added forcefully just to add to the movie humor quotient. One very most important character of the movie is the loudspeaker cum radio which can be heard between two scenes. Most of the announcements made are very funny and enhance the feel of the movie. There is not a lot of scope to show acting talent in this movie which has many characters. But Donald Sutherland as Hawkeye, Sally Kellerman as Hot Lips and Elliott Gould as Trapper leave a mark. We can see Robert Duvall in a very short role, before his Godfather days. Frankly, I liked this movie in parts and hence cannot wholeheartedly recommend it to fellow cinema lovers. But, will surely say that watch it for it's different treatment of war. I bet you wouldn't have seen such a war movie before .Rating  7/10 "}{"Title":"An Insane Laugh Riot At The Military!","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Robert Altman's wacky comedy, 'M*A*S*H' sketches the lunacy (caused by war) that takes place in a military medical camp. Starring Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Tom Skerritt, Robert Duvall and Sally Kellerman, 'M*A*S*H' is an out and out laugh riot. Within the craze in the movie, Altman touches many relevant themes like sexual harassment towards women in the military, fanaticism and depression. The humour is very situational ranging from absurd to slapstick and there are two many laugh out loud moments of which I have lost count. While the viewer is laughing there are many disturbing moments like the operation scenes and the soldiers harassing O'Hoolihan. But, it must be stated that this is a dark comedy satire. The characters are well written and the actors deliver very natural performances. Perhaps the cast and crew really had a blast during the making of 'M*A*S*H'. I wouldn't be surprised. This movie is non-stop laughter and at the same time full of substance. "},{"Title":"M*A*S*H-the theatrical version","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The long-running television series is so deeply imbedded in the public imagination that the true nature of Robert Altman's anarchic film has been largely forgotten. Younger viewers who have not seen it and expect a longer version of the sitcom are going to be shocked,because in these more politically sensitive times,M*A*S*H could not be made. Think about it. What studio executive would give the green light to a film with a black character named Spearchucker,a priest named Dago Red,and a dentist who attempts suicide because he thinks that he's becoming a fairy? Seen with some historical context,Altman's scathing anti-establishment comedy is far from perfect,but the best moments are riotously funny(for all the wrong reasons)and the film expresses the rebellious mood of America in 1970 with absolute accuracy. It manages to do that without ever commenting directly on the war. Though the setting is 1950's Korea,it really 1970's Vietnam. The only time Altman and writer Ring Lardner come close to making an overt political statement is in their funniest one liner. When by-the-book Major Margaret Houlihan(Sally Kellerman)says of Dr.Hawkeye Pierce(Donald Sutherland),I wonder how a degenerated person like that could have reached a position of responsibility in the Army Medical Corps? He was drafted, is the deadpan answer. In 1970,the line had audiences howling with laughter.War itself is really not a subject. The only gunshot in the film is used to end the climactic football game. The nameless broken bodies that are flown into the hospital are the only evidence of the conflict. Altman shows war's destructiveness in those graphic wounds and bloody operating rooms. Those moments had never been presented so realistically on screen. Audiences who went to see this film in 1970 were horrified,and so any further comment would have been irrelevant. Altman's real targets are closer to home-organized religion and the military,both seen by the filmmakers as close minded institutions,inimical to genuine human values. They're personified in the characters of Maj. Houlihan and Maj. Frank Burns(Robert Duvall),both far removed from their TV incarnations(the television characters were portrayed by Loretta Swit and Larry Linville).As interpreted by Duvall,Burns is a more serious and sinister figure. He is such a forceful character that he would upset the shaky comic balance of the film if he didn't make such an early exit. Hotlips Houlihan is more troubling. She is transformed presumably by the embarrassment of the shower scene,from a competent if narrow minded nurse into a brainless cheerleader. The change may be due to over-enthusiasm improvisation on Sally Kellerman's part during the football sequence. The protagonists are stronger characters,too. In the operating room,they're accomplished professionals. Outside,they're lecherous sophomoric pranksters with a wide mean streak. Altman's direction is completely true with the doctors' knockabout attitude. He uses filters to give a rougher texture to the already rough surfaces of the M*A*S*H unit;long lenses allow him to keep the camera at a distance to encourage ensemble improvisation;dialogue from one scene extended to the next;semi linear narrative.And within that often chaotic structure,the big scenes are masterful-the unforgettable microphone under the bed,the extended suicide sequence,complete with the Last Supper tableau,the use of the public address system as a cracked Greek chorus,even the nonsensical football game. If,in hindsight,M*A*S*H seems harsher than it once did,but in all aspects it is still funny and original,and it anger is not misplaced. "},{"Title":"Doctors look for sanity during war.","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" My second impression of M*A*S*H has more clarity and understanding. Director Robert Altman gets to the point and hits the core that some may not find amusing in the least. This dark comedy written by Ring Lardner, Jr. follows the antics of military doctors and nurses at a Mobile Army Surgical Hospital during the Korean War. This film seems directed at an anti-war counter-culture. Much needed is the welcomed release of steam for the brave people doing something they don't really want to do and doing it where they really don't want to be. I admit being jaded by the ever popular TV series that make most of these same characters more charming and genuine.The whole feel of the movie is honest and can still stand on its merits. Some real fine performances from Donald Sutherland as Capt. 'Hawkeye' Pierce, Sally Kellerman as 'Hot Lips O'Houlihan' and Elliott Gould as Capt. John 'Trapper' McIntyre. Rounding out this talented ensemble Robert Duvall, Tom Skerritt, Gary Burghoff and the ever hot Jo Ann Pflug. Definitely intended for mature audiences due to strong language, drug use and sexual content. "},{"Title":"Theory class","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M*A*S*H, one of the few books that made it to a movie, that made itself into a successful television show. The movie is a slapstick-screwball comedy all rolled into one. Dialogue plays a major roll in this movie. In accordance to the rules of screwball comedies, much of the dialogue is stepped over by other characters dialogue. This happens a lot in first half hour of the movie or so, but after that slowly begins to dissipate. Another thing the dialogue does by overlapping one another makes the hospital scenes seem more realistic of how it could have been in a Korean MASH hospital room. The two main characters in the movie provoke most of the comedy that takes place in their world. Where as most films that fall under this particular drama, their characters don't intentionally create the comedy on purpose. Such an intentional act of comedy is when Hawkeye Pierce and Trapper John line up the entire camp in front of the shower tent. Their main foe of a head nurse is in there showering. With a slight drum roll and a garbage can symbol crash a heavy sandbag is dropped and the curtain comes up. One of the greater things about this film is that the camera work and the lighting don't take away from the essence of the film. The punch line of the numerous jokes are never enhanced nor taken away due to a camera move. A reoccurring theme &#150; which is even used for the ending accreditations as well, is the rest of the film is the camp announcer. Mostly what the man says is absolutely pointless to the rest of the movie, but it acts as an interlude between scenes or different comedy that the cast will be getting into in only mere moments. "},{"Title":"Sorry","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" But exquisite direction and great performances do not make up for the film's prehistoric gender and sexual politics. They sic a woman on a guy who's decided he's going to kill himself because he's gay, and it works?And the only female character in the movie is a shrill harpy until she's harassed and then screwed into submission? Are you kidding me?Call it commentary - I disagree - but I'd say Altman presents the actions of his characters almost completely uncritically.And if we're not meant to root for their Hawkeye and Trapper, then it's plain bad filmmaking that we inhabit their perspective for the entire film.Aesthetically fabulous, morally rancid. "},{"Title":"An Antiwar Satire That Is Crass, Contemptuous, Derisive, Humorous, and Misogynistic","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Richard Hooker, who was a doctor in the Korean War (MASH Unit 8055), wrote about his experiences after he returned home to the USA. MASH refers to those mobile army surgical hospitals, situated just three miles away from battlefronts, which provided emergency medical attention to wounded servicemen. Instead of having a plot, the feature is a series of episodes as we observe the various personalities that comprise MASH Unit 4077. The movie is about what extremes some MASH folks went to &#x96; or so they believed they had to &#x96; in order to maintain their saneness in the face of insanity stress generated by broken bodies and blood. The protagonists are three doctors who are excellent surgeons, but appalling military men. By the way, their haircuts and facial hair are more reflective of the later 1960s instead of the early 1950s. Then again, MASH is introspective of the era in which it was filmed.To say the least, Colonel Henry Blake (Roger Bowen) runs MASH Unit 4077 so loosely that proper military bearing is practically nonexistent. With the arrivals of officers Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland), Trapper John McIntyre (Elliott Gould), and Duke Forrest (Tom Skerritt), the antics are tuned up several notches. In short, the young surgeon-officers do whatever they please and get away with it because their medical work is at a high level. They torment folks like Major Frank Burns and WAC officer Margaret Hot Lips O'Houlihan. In fact two of the movie's most memorable scenes involve each of these characters (1) the love scene with planted microphone and (2) the solo shower uncovering of Hot Lips. Other unforgettable movie vignettes include grisly surgeries in tents, The Last Supper parody of Dentist Waldowski, and the finale, the unbridled football game. There are many memorable quotes, but a sample one from Captain Trapper John is quite unforgettable for its utter crudeness &#x85; and give me at least one nurse who knows how to work in close without getting her tits in my way! Throughout the film, The Public Address announcer broadcasts important news and information to the unit. An example Attention, Captain McIntyre will give a lecture on blood and fluid replacement in the mess hall at 0800 . . . uh, correction . . . at 021 . . . at 900 this evening. Another Attention, Captain Bandini is now performing a femoral po - a popli . . . a femoral P-O-P-L-I-T-E-R-A-L artery exp &#x96; exp &#x96; exploration and possible graft. Music is from Japanese radio, straight from Tokyo. Robert Duvall plays the anguished major, Frank Burns, who reads from the Bible but who also has lust for Hot Lips. Sally Kellerman is edgy nurse Hot Lips O'Houlihan, whose actions are never malicious. She outlasts Frank Burns as her character personality does change by the end of the movie. Lt. Dish is played by Jo Ann Pflug. Of course, old timers know that dish was a term used by men for an attractive woman. Misogynistic? Of course! The chaplain is Father John Mulcahy (Rene Abourjonois), called Dago Red for the color of his hair. Hmmm . . . Fred Williamson is football player Spearchucker Jones. Gary Burghoff, who was the only actor to make the transition to the popular TV series, is Radar O'Reilly. By the way, the TV series, featuring Alan Alda as Hawkeye, was such a huge hit that it ran from 1972 to 1983.MASH was supposedly the first movie to use the F-word. The picture regularly shown is several minutes shorter than the original 1970 version. I have noticed that we no longer see the squirting blood from arteries or the complete frontal nudity shot of Sally Kellerman in the shower. Some folks believe that MASH is director Robert Altman's greatest work. It was, after all, nominated for five Oscars, and did win one for Best Writing, Screenplay (Ring Lardner, Jr.). It also won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture of 1970. But, love it or hate it, the movie is never boring. "},{"Title":"Clearly important in film history, but felt like the years hadn't been kind to it","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I should probably watch this again, since so many consider it a masterpiece. Maybe I was over-prepared (Hey, it took me a second viewing of 'Citizen Kane' to get past pre-set expectations!). But while I could see why M*A*S*H was groundbreaking and important for a Hollywood film of it's day (lack of the usual clear narrative, anti-war stance, overlapping dialogue, sexuality, bloody operating room scenes serving as ironic counterpart, etc), it felt pretty dated and unfocused. There are some very funny moments, but a lot of the ironies seem easy, and there's a lack of a true darker underpinnings and ideas, unlike, say, 'Dr. Strangelove'. A lot of the humor is juvenile, cruel and silly. And while I get that's the point &#x96; nothing can be more deeply juvenile, cruel and silly than war, it got repetitive and heavy handed after a while. The performances are good, but beyond Robert Duvall, none of the characters have much in the way of dimensions. People are what we think they are from the moment we meet them. Walter Chow makes a good argument on the web site 'Film Freak Central', that the sexism, homophobia, etc are the whole point. Altman is saying we're ALL beasts at heart, even if we act like we're bucking the system. It's an interesting idea, but I'm not sure I buy it's what Altman was intending. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting Film But Not Perfect","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Donald Sutherland & Elliott Gould both built their careers out of this film. Robert Altman got major recognition for this film. This is the only film that Sally Kellerman is remembered for.The fact is the cast is stellar, & it almost won best picture except for an even better film called Patton & George C Scott won that year. Why did this one miss when it echoed the anti-war themes that were prevalent in the United States when the film was made?One reason is Patton is a flat out great film. Patton has Francis Ford Coppola. MASH while it has very good sequences, it has sequences that if they were left out of the movie no one would miss them. Both films are based on novels, but MASH is based upon a different type of novel than Patton. Patton is biographical, MASH novel base is not.Expert advice is the final reason. Omar Bradley helped add an extreme touch of realism to Patton. With MASH, you always get the feeling the script has some sections that are whole cloth. While the cloth sections are entertaining (like the erotic Last Supper Sequence), the viewer just does not get the same feeling that realism establishes.This film was a great kick off for the TV series which borrowed everything it could borrow from it from the sets to Radar. The series couldn't borrow the rest of the actors & that is the actors loss. I want to put in a plug for Roger Bowen who played Col Henry Blake in this movie. Bowen is often over looked because of the others in the cast, but he is a darned fine actor & good in comedy. He was an integral part of a hit sit-com on CBS. Can you name it?I case you give up, it is ARNIE. Originality does run out late in this film. The football sequence is the least original part of the script. It had been done before, & again better than this film does it. "},{"Title":"Funny, intelligent, not for everyone","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH, a war satire by Robert Altman is hugely creative, funny, and true. It portraits the madness of war, and all the ways to stay sane by going crazy. The leading character, played by Donald Sutherland, is very cool and always calm and laid back, though not in your usual way. He delivers his lines perfectly, and you can never figure if he's actually mad. But, as any Altman, this has a huge lot of characters, in this case, mad. Some are total freaks, others people under a lot of pressure, and others just plain stupid. There's Hot Lips (hilarious Sally Kellerman, on the verge of a breakdown), who stars in some of the funniest scenes, Frank Burns ( Robert Duvall playing a catholic pervert), Painless Pole (John Schuck, a dentist who tries to commit suicide when he finds out he's gay) and a huge list of original (to say the least) characters. The improvisations wok and make the characters much more realistic.The direction is effective; it begins in a documentary style and becomes studied with each shot in the right place. I loved the rugby game, with all the fast, full of energy shots, it mad me laugh so much, and, at the same time, feel uncomfortable. It showed just the attitude of wars. I'd like to mention, too, the song Suicide is Painless, and the cinematography, that felt wet and dirty, just like it should.The last thing I want to mention is that I didn't find this sexist at all; it was seen by men's point of view, and Hot Lips character is quite accurate. Besides, all the man were idiots, too.It's a movie that movie buffs have to see; it's a funny comedy, thought provoking, intelligent and that didn't lose any of its actuality. Pretty great 9/10 "},{"Title":"Blacker than black","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I can only imagine how ground-breaking this must have seemed back in 1970. The mixture of the horrors of war with hilarious lunatic humour shouldn't work but it does.There's blood and guts everywhere and through it all Hawkeye and Trapper manage to wreak havoc and cause general mischief at every possible turn. Witness the nausea inducing scene where Hawkeye is busy sawing off some poor unfortunates legs and nonchalantly asks one of the nurses to scratch his nose. I recently got the DVD having not seen the film since I was 16. I laughed just as much as I did then.This is just one of those rare occasions when Hollywood actually gets something right and for many of the actors this is the pinnacle of their career. Donald Sutherland has rarely been better and as for Elliott Gould...well its a far cry from playing Monica and Ross' dad on friends. Quality. "}{"Title":"More about Vietnam than Korea","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  M*A*S*H was released in 1970, and is actually more about the Vietnam War than the Korean War.  Placing the movie in its historical context, one can make perfect sense of it.  It came out as the American people became increasingly disenchanted with the war in Southeast Asia.  President Nixon had ordered the invasion of Cambodia, sparking huge anti-war protests -- including the one at Kent State where several people were killed by National Guard troops.  The civil rights movement, hippie movement, sit-ins, urban riots, the Manson trial, the sexual revolution, and the beginning of modern environmentalism provided the backdrop for this movie's initial release.Robert Altman's first (and greatest) success, this film uses a format best described as a slice of life.  It is episodic rather than plot-driven.  Don't expect a dramatic climax; this movie is about the journey rather than the destination.The doctors arrive in Korea to serve out their one-year tour of duty, and decide to make the best of it.  Amid the terrible suffering of the sick and wounded, they try to preserve their sanity.  For its time, just after the introduction of the new MPAA rating system, this film had some very risque moments.  Today, we might consider it fairly tame.  But it still has a lot to say.M*A*S*H is a true landmark anti-war movie, along with Catch-22, Dr. Strangelove, and Paths of Glory.  Significantly, its release was almost simultaneous with that of a very different kind of war movie Patton.  The latter is about the days when our forces had a well-defined enemy, a clear moral imperative, specific objectives, and full public support.  The contrast between the two films reflects that between Vietnam and World War II.  See both of them, and the lessons become clear.By the way, if you have not seen the lame, boring sitcom based on this movie, then don't waste your time.  You haven't missed a thing.   "},{"Title":"Certainly in my top 30 ....and Barry Normans","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"    MASH is simply one of the true greats of the 70s , the decade that spawned more profoundly brilliant films than any other time in cinema.   It is a true anti-war classic with an important message and subtext seldom seen this century, more erratic and anarchic than the similary themed Dr Stranglelove and certainly funnier.   Its very immpressive to see a film lose no command of the audience or itself while being enthralling considering its backdrop and subject matter, as well as being squeezed out of little plot it exudes.   I have no intention in seeing the TV series as i believe it will detract the impact from the film. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"MASH Forever","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This was an extremely incredible movie. What Altman did with the limited budget he had was just great. The acting was amazing for the new actors they used. It not only made you cry but it made you laugh at the same time. M*A*S*H is a good movie because people like to undermind command and like to watch it happen. As long as people are alive so will M*A*S*H. "},{"Title":"THE comedy-drama of the 1970's!!! A WINNER!!! SCORE 10+ (out of 10).","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  After the brilliance of Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, Robert Altman created another black comedy by which most comedies would be measured thereafter. My other favorite comedy-drama from the 1970's is One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.  Superb screenplay, acting, direction, etc.  My favorite scene is Hot Lips caught live in the shower.  Is it any wonder that television had huge success with it as well???  Score 10+ (out of 10).  "},{"Title":"Move over Grandpa, this is OUR war movie!!!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I started with watching the classic T.V. show so by the time I wanted to see the movie, I was already well acquainted with the characters of Hawkeye, Trapper, Frank, Henry, Radar, Father Mulcahy and Hot-Lips. I was shocked when I saw the film. I found it very confusing at first and it was probably the strangest film I've ever seen. But having viewed it about 15 times, I LOVE it!!Anyway, the point of this is that it's hard for the older generation to accept M*A*S*H as a war movie. It looks like a war movie, it sounds like one, but it definetely isn't when you really look at it. Some people think it isn't a war movie unless it has big, bold opening credits and a loud, useless, ear-popping fanfare theme song. M*A*S*H shows the stupidity and horror of war. It doesn't glorify it like the war films of the 40's and 50's did. It shows that people in that kind of situation are not heroes, but humans.  "},{"Title":"The first film to openly mock the belief in god.","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  MASH was a commentary on Vietnam set during the war in Korea. The film had a incredibly cynical view on the military and the belief in god. One of the most notable 'spoof scenes was the scene where the character Painless Pole is contemplating suicide and Hawkeye and the gang throw him a farewell supper. If you watch this scene and hold up a copy of Da Vinci's the LAST SUPPER, you'll notice something....they're the same; The scene is a spoof on Christ's last meal. Another aspect of this film is where the seemingly christian character played by ROBERT DUVALL is mocked by Hawkeye and company until he goes nuts. There is a scene where the M.P.'s cart him off in a jeep and it stops in front of a trash can that is buring waste....we see DuVall's character (Frank Burns) and his face encompassed by the flame. We see the anger in his face as well. The flames are symbolic of his hate for Hawkeye and company. That's a great scene.....I like the symbolism. The character of Father Mulchahy was portrayed as a nice guy (who meant well) who no one took seriously. This is a great film. I recommend it to anyone who wants to laugh, yet get thrilled by clever satire as well. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrified by its callousness","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Finally got around to watching (skimming through is more likely) the movie M*A*S*H. It was a popular TV show in the 70's and even my parents talked about watching the movie version when it was first released. But I was absolutely horrified and disgusted by its cynicism and callousness. There was no plot to the movie at all, and it wasn't funny. Donald Southerland is the farthest from being a funny actor, although he's not a big mouth like Alan Alda. Anybody wishing to be a medical doctor would be disillusioned by the seeming purposelessness of the surgeons working in a mobile army surgical hospital during the Korean War. Furthermore, the lyrics of the opening song shocked me suicide is painless. And I can take or leave it if I please. I would understand if these words came out of the mouths of desperate wounded soldiers, but they are not suitable for a drama about army surgeons. In addition, the movie pretends the characters were living in America; there is no mention about Korea even though it takes place in Korea during the terrible tragedies of the Korean War. "},{"Title":"Glad I got to know the series first.","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I was a big fan of the MASH series.In fact,it is my favorite TV show,period.Oddly enough,I had never seen the movie until now.Now,that I have,I can honestly say that I am glad that I got to know the series first.The characters that we came to know and love because of the series were portrayed much differently here and as a result,they are much less likable.Another issue that I have is the perception that all people who read the Bible and kneel by their bedside to pray are automatically written off as nut jobs.Some may be,but certainly not all of them are.To be fair,perhaps the Frank Burns character as played by Robert Duvall did deserve his fate.All in all,I am glad I waited so long to view this film,because if I had seen the film first,I may never have given the series the time of day. "},{"Title":"not as good as the TV series","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" though i thought this movie was OK,in my opinion it pales in comparison to the Television series.i have nothing against any of the actors,most of whom were just staring out or barely known at the time,and are now well known.but,in the TV series,the actor are a better fit for the characters.the movie isn't as clever as the TV show either,although there are some moments of dialogue brilliance.Elliot Gould and Donald Sutherland do have good chemistry together though,and that counts for something.however,something else that really bugged me was the opening theme song.in the series,it's all instrumental.in the movie,we get to hear the lyrics which to me,overpower the piece,and take away its impact.plus,the words don't really make sense and they don't fit with the melody.that may seem like a minor point,but to me it's a major faux pas.as for the movie itself,it's not horrible by any means.it's just no masterpiece.for me MASH (the movie)is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Chaotic.","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  spoilersthe movie is very chaotic.  Long before E.R. there was M.A.S.H.  And frankly it's hilarious.  Pretty much everyone is insane.  Hot lips is enjoying herself with poor ol Burns.  This is nothing like the show.  The show is funny, the movie is insane but hilarious.  I didn't really think the football game fit.  It felt out of place.  I docked the movie some for it, but over and above, the movie is very good.  Go have some fun.7/10Quality 6/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 10/10 "}{"Title":"People call it a classic, I call it just okay","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I've never seen the television show, so I did not know what to expect from the movie. First off, I have to say this could have easily been mistaken as a film about Vietnam. The men are busy chasing nurses, doing drugs, spreading humors and innuendos, armed with the free love hippie attitude, and wearing flashy clothes. The only thing that gives a hint that this is the Korean War was the line on the screen by Eisenhower, and then there was Korea. Perhaps this is because the release was in 1970, during the Vietnam War. Umm? People call this movie a classical American comedy. It is not the kind of comedy that I anticipated and relish like the slapstick humor of the Three Stooges or the satire of Monty Python. The humor is aimed for an adult audience; I understand the humor and got a few chuckles out of it, but I did not laugh to the point I was choking or crying. I also understand the big deal people made out of M.A.S.H, since it promoted the humor that is in Wedding Crashers and in most television sitcoms. Compared to those though, the ensemble cast is brilliant.MASH is a good diversion and will be remembered for a long time. But, it is not quite my favorite cup of tea. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Although crude, this movie is a hit.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  M*A*S*H is a comedic film portraying war and the insanity of war. It stars amateur actors and evolves into a professional work. The film takes place in a `Mobile Army Surgical Hospital' stationed in Korea watched over by Lt. Col. Henry Blake (Roger Bowen). This army hospital camp becomes informal with the hilarious antic of maverick medics Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland), Trapper John (Elliot Gould), and Duke (Tom Skerrit). These antics include trips to Japan to golf, rigging football games against rival teams, and driving Major Frank Burns (Robert Duvall) insane and attacking Hawkeye. He is sent home in a straitjacket. These characters subject others to hatched schemes and crazy adventures to take minds off war. Although serious surgeons, Hawkeye, Trapper John, and Duke poke fun at the seriousness of war.M*A*S*H is an attempt to show distaste fro Vietnam through the Korean War experience. Director Robert Altman's rebellious spirit is felt throughout the entire film. Culture of the time was under attack from morality and sexuality challenges. During filming, Vietnam took brothers, fathers, and family to war. This tempted the realist director to show the black comedy of war. This movie shows the horrific events resulting from war. Altman daringly introduces the blood and grimness of war through gruesome surgeries. For instance, a nurse calls for Hawkeye when a patient's neck sprays blood. She tries repeatedly to stop the wound from bleeding by covering the wound with her hand. Many thought the surgery scenes were too graphic. This dark comedy expresses the anarchic, anti-war message of the 1970s. The director's intent was not to show Korea, but to confuse the viewer by thinking it was Vietnam. The movie makes a full assault on Korea, Vietnam, and war in general.  Contempt for war and authority is seen through the actions and motives of Hawkeye and Trapper. Even though the film was on a low budget, the message of M*A*S*H comes out loud and clear. It shows the madness of war and how to survive the insanity.This film is one of my personal favorites. I like the underlying message about war in general. It also represents the view of the people from the 1970s and how they react to war. I appreciate the dialogue overlapping over the other dialogue. It adds the chaos of what people say and the actual chaos around them in the movie. As viewers, we can see that the movie had a low budget, but really ties the movie together is the lack of money and material possessions. War is not rich and neither are those who are drafted into war. "},{"Title":"overrated?","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Since the baby-boomer media regards this mediocre movie from their anti-Vietnam War salad days so highly I was going to say it was overrated, but judging by the many negative reviews here it seems that much of the public realizes that the emperor has no clothes.  It simply isn't all that funny, pretty boring in many stretches, and as an anti-war statement is actually kinda lame.  Remember that MASH isn't really about Korea.  It's about Vietnam, similar to other movies of the time like Catch-22 and Kelly's Heroes that were set in WWII but were really comments on the Vietnam experience.  Maybe in being a nearly incoherent mess of random events strung together MASH does indeed resemble the Vietnam experience, but as a movie it is lacking.  If you are looking for a comedy, a black comedy, an anti-war movie, an anti-war comedy, or whatever MASH is supposed to be, you can do a lot better than this one.  See it for historical curiosity only. "},{"Title":"clever in some ways, with a formidable cast, but it doesn't hold up as well for me as others","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I have to credit Robert Altman's breakthrough film MASH for at least one thing- it's one of the few films from the 70's to look at those in war not as overly anxious and gung-ho military types, but average shlubs working a particular kind of job. In this world of the military medical sidelines, where soldiers get the help they need after battle, the camaraderie is never too false, and the cast assembled is the first prime example of Altman's policy of casting being 80% of the job. The film is put together in a piece-meal kind of way, with about as loose a plot as dialog construction, where the sense of humor from the main male characters (i.e. Elliot Gould and Donald Sutherland) is the kind of juvenile, sarcastic humor associated with its time. This is likely the kind of film that John Landis must have seen at least a few times before making Animal House.But the problem for me, aside from the film's strength in breaking conventions and having such a varied cast (Sally Kellerman and Robert Duvall in the same movie, not to mention Tom Skerritt and Bud Cort), is in it working as a comedy. As a comedy in and of itself its just, well, alright. The humor and jokes in the film are a big step above the television show's lot that followed in the 70's (then again, I'm not a fan of the show anyway), but the attitudes of the characters, and the little understated bits that happen, miss marks of satire I would've liked to have seen. There's some of the human comedy that Altman's obviously been influenced by Renoir to showcase, yet I wasn't laughing at it as much as paying attention to what the conversations were going on. It's a kind of high-brow/low-brow concoction that has its moments, and then does not at the same time. Perhaps I was expecting a little more than I ended up getting from the Golden Palm winneing, smash-hit film that jump-started the prolific director's career. And it is a good movie, no argument about that, it's got fun and shenanigans and a winning cast, and it has been created and performed enough skill and enjoyment that marks as important for all the actors involved. I just don't think it's a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Was this a comedy? Snoozefest is more like it","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  For years, I had heard about M*A*S*H, the movie. M*A*S*H, the series. How great they were. I knew Mad Magazine's parody by heart. I never watched the movie because, quite frankly, I could never find the place. Or the time.I usually get a good idea about what movies are about while reading Mad. In this case, though, I couldn't make heads or tails out of the story. It was as if a different artist had written every panel, so the story was nothing more than an incoherent series of sketches. Pretty much like Saturday Night Live write a lot of sketches, get a one hour show, and hope that at least one is mildly funny.This is what this M*I*S*H*M*A*S*H is all about. It has absolutely no plot whatsoever, it has no comedy value whatsoever, and only a couple (1? 2?) scenes will make you laugh. The rest of it feels like a neverending series of medical operations, weird announcements over the PA, and... well, that's pretty much it.(Spoiler ahead) The storyline, if there is one, has something to do with a pair of surgeons arriving at the 4077 unit. Then they do some stuff completely unrelated to one another (one scene has them playing poker, the next scene has them playing golf, and nothing really important happens inbetween, before or afterwards), they hastily assemble a football team, they drink a lot, they treat some patients, have a good time, then they leave. That's it. Forget about the alleged horrors of war, the stress, the trauma - this is more as if there was a war without bullets being fought in a Club Med in South Florida. If you haven't seen the movie, I'm sorry I spoiled it for you. Actually, there's nothing to spoil - the movie is so completely lacking in plot, the characters so devoid of soul, I'm pretty sure you could spend 2 hours looking at grass grow and you'd be equally fulfilled.(End of spoiler)There's something about 70's comedies that's completely beyond me. Pre-70's comedies are usually fun. Pre-40's comedies are devoid of a plot, but are a complete laugh riot. 80's and beyond comedies are raunchier and funnier. 70's comedies (Animal House, M*A*S*H, Caddyshack) seem to be an uncohesive collection of unrelated activities, where it seems smoking a joint is the world's funniest joke.No, I didn't like it. And I can't understand how it made the IMDB's top 250. It's a completely mediocre film with no redeeming qualities whatsoever. "},{"Title":"I Thought it was Offensive Trash","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I always liked MASH the television series but this movie was a huge disappointment and should never have been made. I suspect that some of the support it gets is due to followers who were disappointed about MASH being stopped as a series and were happy to see the *idea* come back to life. Unfortunately the characters in the movie had no class whatsoever. In the original series, there was at least a semblance of respect for those that chose to be religious or military, and while they might be teased a bit, they were part of the gang nonetheless. This accident of a movie was all about offending anything or anyone suggesting class or good order...but in as unintelligent of a way as possible. Hawkeye was portrayed to be one of the shallowest knaves I ever saw in film. As a disappointment, all the cleverness of Regular MASH is gone. There was not a single funny moment in the film if you don't like to laugh at people being degraded. Gone were all the clever one liners and henways we loved in the series. MASH is obviously dead. "},{"Title":"Moderately Funny","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I am a person who grew up, and grew sick of, the CBS tv-hit series.  It was always on in my house, even in reruns.  This movies seems to be like a series of racier tv episodes.  It kind of does not flow like normal Altman movies (if you can call them normal).  This seems like a string of jokes strung together by the same characters with nothing in between to glue the characters together.  Every other Altman movie has a minor connection between decently sized stories, or at least one good story.  So, much of the humor was lost in that.  Plus, I also read, and saw the lesser movie of, Catch-22.  This movie, although based on a different book, seems like it was trying to capture the essence of Catch-22 by making it chaotic and dark.  At times it works, and at times it doesn't.  Don't get me wrong, these are just reasons I did not think that this is a great movie.  However, I did like it.  The jokes in it were pretty funny, and the theme song had me laughing for a while.  I wish that they used lyrics to the theme song for the TV shows' credits.  The suicide scene was funny, as well as the trip to Japan.  But, it just did not seem to have any flow or reason for disjunction.  At least in Catch-22, the reason for jerkiness was to make it seem like a look back that all blurs together.  This seems like you are there but pass out for lengths of a time.  But, it made me laugh for awhile, but it had its slow parts.  I really liked how it ended.  7/10P.S.  Contrary to a below comment, it does swear in the movie.  How it passed for a PG rating, I'll never know.  But this was the earliest instance I have seen of a non-R rated movie with the f-word in it.  Check the football game, right between music.  A player says to watch your head, or i'll rip it off, or something like that with an f word in there.  So Ha! "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I knew that the movie had a much harder edge to it than the TV series, but I was not prepared for the disappointment I endured when I finally saw the movie. Over and over I kept saying to myself THIS is the classic I've heard such rave reviews about? As so many others have noted, the movie displays a wide streak of misogyny, the main characters are supremely smug and unlikable, no plot to speak of, the endless football game is silly and belongs in another movie, the film itself is grainy and difficult to watch, and in general the movie carries a very ugly and mean-spirited tone. However I would be willing to overlook all those flaws if the movie made me laugh. But it didn't. Not even once.I look at MASH as a product of its times. In the context of 1970 and the Vietnam War it was an audacious statement and by most accounts was a groundbreaking film. But audacity alone does not make for a good film, and when viewed today MASH seems dated and a bit ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Some occasional laughs, but nothing more...","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This film was really a disappointment. Having seen the TV-series and loving it, I had great expectations for this film. However, I got really disappointed. This film lacks very much that the TV-series has and it's not even very funny. I laughed on some occasions but most things that were supposed to be funny, I didn't like at all.In the TV-series, the characters were more sympathetical and even though they could be cynical and evil on many occasions, they had more warmth and respect for others, than they had in the film.The TV-series has given me many fine and funny moments and also a great anti-war message. The film however, gave me none of that, but only two wasted hours.If you love the TV-series don't have too high expectations on the film, because it is no way near the high class and standards of the TV-series. Sure, you can see the film, to see what the original preceding the TV-series looked like, but be thankful that they gave us eleven great seasons but only two hours of crap and not the other way around. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  MASH must have been a pretty radical statement when it first came out, what with the Vietnam War and mainstream movies being ultra squeaky clean. However, when I watch it today, I really do not know why people consider it to be so great. Today, the idea of soldiers goofing off and chasing women instead of doing their job is old hat. Movies like Three Kings or most Czech Schweik style army comedies did this better. However, more importantly, MASH is not funny. Even when it is, though,all the humor is built on low, crude cliches like people getting drunk, people being embarassingly exposed when showering or having sex, or  stereotypically innocent Asian teenagers being exposed to Playboy magazine for the first time. There is not even a plot. It´s just a series of random incidents. On the plus side, though, the cast is fine and the theme song sounds great. However, that´s not enough for this film to be a classic. "}{"Title":"Important? Perhaps. A masterpiece? Not quite.","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M*A*S*H is continually lauded as an important American film and I suppose that it has a valid claim to that title. However, I think that apart from historical significance the film is not particularly exceptional.Robert Altman's direction is interesting but to be honest I just didn't appreciate some of his techniques very much. The frequent use of zoom wasn't very attractive and while the overlapping sound may have enforced realism I would rather have had clearer dialogue. Nevertheless, there is one particularly impressive scene Painless's 'last supper', framed & shot in irreverent manner by Altman. That scene and the opening credits also feature M*A*S*H's well-known theme song Suicide is Painless.The cast of then-unknowns is pretty authentic and do their jobs well. Donald Sutherland, Robert Duvall & Sally Kellerman, among others, populate the story with vivid characterizations. Nevertheless, the film is still a bit lacking in terms of character development, which isn't surprising given the breadth of the cast.As for the story, I'm unclear as to how exactly this is to be construed as an anti-war film. It's certainly not pro-war but it seems to me to be too escapist to tackle any stance whatsoever. Yes, there are gruesome scenes in the operating room which are contrasted with the zany antics of the surgeons. However, these merely suggest the aim of maintaining sanity in an insane situation. The plot (what little of it there is) is as rambling and chaotic as the war itself, which doesn't help to make the filmmakers' points any clearer. There are indeed some memorable episodes but overall the story just seems to lack substance.While I wouldn't say that the film lives up to its reputation I do consider it worth watching. Altman & company are successful more often than not and do indeed create some memorable moments. Unfortunately, those memorable moments are surrounded by other, not so memorable moments. "},{"Title":"is this a generational thing?","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Three very intelligent and literate twenty-somethings, including myself (how's that for modesty?), once watched this movie after a big turkey dinner.  Within ten minutes, we were chatting amongst ourselves.  Within twenty minutes we were silent, not because the movie had hooked us, but because our heads were falling slowly, drawing ever closer to the couch...and the blissful release of sleep.Our elders (and perhaps betters) nevertheless seem to think that this is a really hilarious, really insightful movie.  Hmm...interesting.  I, for one, was bothered by the episodic plot, which never stuck with a conflict long enough to get me interested.  I also thought that the humor varied wildly in tone; many of the early segments are downright disturbing (I actually think our heroes are callous jerks for much of the time), but we wrap up with a silly slapstick football match.  It doesn't help that this film, like the subsequent TV show, is downright ugly to look at - like a love letter to tan and olive drab.  I suppose that's the ugliness of war, but I've never been so I wouldn't know...again, maybe it's a generational thing.This is the second time that Altman has bored me into a stupor!  If he serves up another turkey, I'll be ready to declare him the most overrated director of all time.   "},{"Title":"awfull","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Well.  I had seen this film years ago and I already found it unwatchable.  Now it came on tv once again and since it seems to be a classic I decided to watch it once again.  I still think this film is awfull.  Why? 1) There is no script (Well a bit like in Monty Python's Holly Grail or Life of Brian or La Grande Vadrouille) 2) Some actors don't play much better than in a soap (Well a bit like in Monty Python's Holly Grail or Life of Brian or La Grande Vadrouille) 3) It is not funny (Well a bit like in Monty Python's Life of Brian but NOT like Monty Python's Holly Grail or La Grande Vadrouille which are so fun) 4) It is intended to shed a critical light on war (Well I don't think it succeeds to or then like Life is beautifull which I disliked as well)I won't watch it again! "},{"Title":"M*A*S*H ** out of ****","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Robert Altman's 1970 overrated classic, M*A*S*H, is sometimes recognized as one of the funniest films of all time. In fact, the AFI ranked it as one of the top ten funniest films of all time. It is very chaotic and insane, but, in this reviewer's opinion, unfunny. I'll admit I laughed at several parts in this film, but not enough to make it a comedy classic. The movie is most famous for being spun off into the TV-Series of the same name, and the recognition from the show has brought the film both over and underpraises by either giving praise from the show to the film or comparing the two. I have not ever seen an episode of the show so my opinion of the show is yet to be discovered, but my opinion of the movie is that it's not funny enough to be a comedy, not dramatic enough to be a drama, and isn't about the war enough to make it a war film. The meaning to the football ending still has not been solved by me. Not a bad movie but not a good one either. Mediocre at best. In my opinion the worst film on the AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies List. "},{"Title":"M.A.S.H. the TV Series ... Great! M.A.S.H. the Movie ... humph!","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The story (or at least the little vignettes of it) were simple, the characters could have been multi-dimensional (yet simple), and the environment could have added to that overwhelming need for comedy, but instead Altman did nothing to connect these simple ideas. Perhaps it was pioneering to see surgeons during the Korean War at work, but it added nothing to the overall film &#150; no comedy, no insight, no charm &#150; just a way to prove to the viewers that these men were actually men of medicine. M.A.S.H. had all the inner-workings of a great comedy, the scene was set, and the overhead announce had his funny lines, but, sadly, this film never quite found its stride. From the actors to the continuity to the muddled themes, M.A.S.H. was genuine for its time, but watching it now, in 2008, it feels dated and overwhelmingly tiresome.What a treat it was to see the groundlings of such great actors like Donald Sutherland, Eliot Gould, Robert Duvall, and even Tom Skerritt. To see these infamous character actors in their youthful prime is worth one star already, but that may be it. We cannot fault Altman for not giving these characters souls, because they did. Hawkeye had his whistle and martini, Gould had his brutal honesty, and well, Frank had his religion and his Hot Lips, but alas, our guys never took them further. These characters were strong in their individual moments, such as when Hawkeye is borrowing the Jeep at the beginning of the film, but, like the others, he suddenly falls flat and uncharismatic throughout the rest of the film. Duvall's Frank was another character that could have been a staple through the rest of the film, but again, just jumped without reason and walked off the screen. While we were not hoping for other war films just to be reinvented, we were hoping for some form of structure with our characters that would allow us to see their growth, see their souls, and give us a reason to follow them into the operating room or, oddly, onto the football field. They had jokes that would make us laugh, words that would inspire, and goofiness that would only befit Altman, but there was something desperately lacking with our guy near the front line. Sutherland was fun, but as I watched, he was Donald Sutherland in a G.I. outfit. It was Duvall pre-The Apostle. It was Tom Skerritt being, well, Tom Skerritt. This was the ultimate shortfall for this cast. They could not shake their own personalities &#150; their own selves for these roles. Concluding with this feeble football game that came from nowhere (supposedly fitting in with the tangents of war), that gave us no emotional throwback for these characters &#150; we were left with shells of what could have been. Not knowing the original theme song to this film, the suicide song set the wrong tone for the beginning of this film. Sure, the morbid nature seemed to fit with what was happening in the operating room, but during the off chance that we knew what was happening in there, it just didn't seem to fit. Then, when the dentist has his moment of sanity, we are returned to that same song. It felt like one big cliché that Altman didn't want to acknowledge. While the television music could not be shaken from my mind, this little ditty needed to be erased completely. Aside from the song, mentioned before, there was just no story to this Korean caper. M.A.S.H. would have been a stronger outing as smaller stories within one connecting story instead of trying to just keep it all continuous. At one moment we are listening to Hot Lips and Frank, in another we are fighting for a Korean boy to not join his national army, and then to wrap it up, we are playing in a cliché football match-up with an outcome everyone expected. It felt like Altman had the ideas; he just didn't know how to connect them all cohesively. The thought probably being that he could connect them through the surgery room banter was not worth the printed reel, while the guy doing the announcements at camp was not a close enough second place. I wanted to like the quirkiness of the characters; I wanted to see the juxtaposition of the tragedy of the war, with the comedy of the doctors. I wanted to see Sutherland use humor to alleviate the blood of war &#150; alas &#150; this never happened. I chuckled once during the big Hot Lips shower scene, and that was it. There was a level of brevity with Altman's war-torn camp, but at times it felt more along the lines of apathy. Nobody cared, nobody had heart, nobody showed emotion except for Frank, and he was less than a secondary character. Overall, I cannot say that I was impressed with the praise that Altman has received for this film. M.A.S.H. may have been a pioneering film for the time, but over the years it has become more and more chaotic, and less meaningful. Altman's control over his characters and story is non-existent, as he just added short story over non-connective short story in hopes to make at least a two-hour long feature film. Add in Sutherland's semi-annoying whistle, and we have monumental film that seemed avante-guard for the time, but now just feel misleading. Remember, this was pre-M.A.S.H. the television show, which was a defined comedy/drama show. Looking back at the film, it did work in simple 30 minute segments, so perhaps Altman was thinking television while he made this &#150; that would make stronger sense for the continuity issue. Either way, M.A.S.H., with the cast and director had bigger hopes in my eyes, but was let down in the long run. Time has nearly corrupted this film, and even with our current war standings &#150; it just doesn't relate.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Out of date","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I watched Mash twice and it never made me laugh. All the supposedly hilarious scenes merely depict moral harassment and if such cruel deeds were carried out in real life, legal action would be (rightly) taken by the victim. Maybe I fail to see the humour in the film, but mean practical jokes, name calling and misogynous comments have never made me laugh. The movie also lacks what usually makes movies interesting, namely a STORY! What the viewer sees is an accumulation of scenes barely related to one another and the anti-war message does not seem very clear to me. On the whole, I found it to be very boring and I don't understand how it could receive so many awards. "},{"Title":"Way, way, way over-rated","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Altman's movie owes it's popularity to it's political stance and not to any great film making. In truth, it is as close to being about the Korean War as the The Flintstones is about the Cretaceous era. The movie is what an historically anti-war Hollywood of the 60s, 70s, 80s, and 90s thinks war is about. They were, are, and always will be wrong. Donald Sutherland was especially annoying.I tired of watching actors meander through their roles, with little direction or limits. The message of the movie is heavy handed. It is not that funny and it is extremely mean spirited. I would recommend that people see it only to prove that the movie does not live to it's reputation. "},{"Title":"My extended review of the film","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" They say that if you are a fan of the TV series you will not like 'MASH' the film. I would not call myself a real M*A*S*H fan. Sure, I have watched a few episodes, but I don't really follow it. Nevertheless I have seen enough to know that it is miles superior to Robert Altman's 1970 film, in terms of acting, characters and especially in terms of jokes.'MASH' was a highly popular film when it was released. Many saw it as the perfect epitome of rebellion against authority and anti-war sentiments. It even received Oscar nominations for Best Picture and Best Director. Nowadays it feels out-of-date and old-fashioned, and not even all that much fun. I have heard it compared to 'Animal House' for its humour and anti-authority attitudes, but what made 'Animal House' better than the average such film was the well developed and appealing characters, of which 'MASH' the film (certainly not the TV series) has next to none.But with the TV series being a later spin-off from the movie, it is not quite right to compare and criticise. But the contrast is stark. However the film gets compliments for providing the excellent song score that would be used in the TV series. Here it has lyrics, and the song is memorable and rather well composed &#150; its purpose however is not. The song is entitled Suicide is Painless and is sung to a MASH worker who wants to commit suicide. Some have taken offence to the song as its proposal as the suicidal in the film wants to die for being homosexual. There is a further reason for this, so the offensiveness is not 100% justified, but the song still feels in bad taste.So what else is wrong with the film? It is episodic but disjointedly so. The small number of adventures of the characters do not fit in well together or flow well. There are also a number of irrelevant sequences that show rebellion against the system or the exploits of the MASH workers but nothing else. And the final main scene goes on for too long without much happening. One of the biggest problems however is that the characters talk over each other constantly. Not to mention, the jokes are dead awful.What can I say? I strongly disliked this film and I feel that it is one of the weakest Best Picture Academy Award nominees that I have seen. Had it been adapted from the TV series and not the other way around it would be inexcusable. "},{"Title":"I hate both this movie and the TV Series that came out of it.","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when it first came out.I was living in a conservative part of wealthy Marin County, California (I was seventeen), and the movie was being shown in a more liberal hippie-ish town that considered itself ultra-cool.When I went into the theater, I was spotted by a classmate who lived in yet another liberal area of Marin, and he looked at me goggle-eyed. What are YOU doing here! It was sort of the reverse of the kid from the wrong side of the tracks showing up at a party on the right side and being sneered at by the rich kids because he is not wearing the latest designer jeans.America cannot help turning politics into fashion, and this was especially true in the sixties.So I was eager to see this movie that I - uncool person that I was supposed to be -- was not supposed to be interested in.What great message would it give? Was I about to have the scales removed from my eyes and achieve a Zen-like Enlightenment? Other people have already described the movie, which is little more than a bunch of fraternity pranks by over-aged students who happen to be surgeons.It couldn't have been more obvious at the time that, even though the setting was supposed to be Korea, this movie was an anti-Vietnam War movie.In fact, it was a celebration of crudity, anti-intellectualism, misogyny and cheap moralizing so self-righteous, smug and unsubtle as to make a religious revival meeting look like Plato's Symposium by comparison.Of course, the anti-war crowd in the theater gobbled it up.One could see that, for them, it really didn't matter what happened in the movie.They had all come together to bask in their mutually reinforcing political, moral and cultural superiority.There was a hateful edge to their cheers and laughter. One almost dared not disagree with them -- any more than, say, a Jew might have cursed at the Nazis during the Nuremberg rallies.Little did I know then that I was witnessing the dawn of the Mindless and Intolerant American Left, Post-1965-Version.I will admit that this movie did not incline me to look favorably upon the subsequent TV series.But how could anyone have avoided seeing at least a few episodes of the omnipresent M.A.S.H. on TV in the years that followed? It just wasn't possible.So I tried to keep an open mind.Yes, the TV show was milder -- a sort of soap opera of the tents, with a nice fuzzy little moral neatly wrapped up and delivered to its adoring audience at the end of each show.Thanks, but no thanks. "},{"Title":"Webster's dictionary defines overrated as see MASH","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Although I am a life-long fan of the TV show, I cannot understand how this movie could be thought of as funny.  Of the nearly 2 hour long yawn-fest, we see more drawn out sessions of surgery than anything else and (unlike the show) not a single quip, one-liner or smart alec remark is made.  For nearly 25 minutes, we get to watch John Schuck's character contemplating his latent homosexuality and his solution for this problem SUICIDE!  Let's not forget Fred Williamson's African American character who was so thoughtfully nicknamed Spear Chucker.  What...no Asian character named Chop Saki or Slant Eye?  This movie may have been funny in its day (and what a depressing day that was), but its reputation as a great film is ill-deserved.  Patton was a funnier film than MASH since it had a few sarcastic remarks thrown into it.  That's a few more than MASH had. "}{"Title":"Horrible Movie","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I got my first glimpse of M*A*S*H* the television series when I was young because my mom would always watch the show. As, I grew older I became (an still am) a fan of the series.  Not the best series ever made and it had its down points but overall, it was an enjoyable series.Many years later, I saw M*A*S*H* the movie.  I couldn't believe that such a wonderful series could be based off such a horrible movie. I have watched it several times since and my opinion gets lower everytime, I see it.Hawkeye and Trapper John were total scumbags that should be sitting in a stockade.  They sexually harass women non-stop, misuse their medical authority, and are a bunch of drunks.  They are not generally nice doctors caught up in a horrible war, like in the TV series.  These guys are just nasty punks.The great comedy of this movie, just isn't there, be it black comedy, straight, slapstick or whatever.  A plot of any kind doesn't exist.  And the whole thing is plain boring.  And the editing of every copy that I have ever watched sucks, making for a very disjointed experience.And to top it off, this movie is hardly anti-war, at all. I cannot understand, how it ever could have been considered, as such.If you want good comedy, great characters, and very sad and moving anti-war material, watch the series.  If you wanna see confusing, meaningless crap, then watch the movie. "},{"Title":"I couldn't hate this movie more.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  ANYONE WHO LIKES THE TV SERIES SHOULD AVOID THIS MOVIE LIKE THE PLAGUE!   After falling in love with the TV show, I thought I'd see what spawned it.  I wish I hadn't.  This horrible movie (1/10 only because I could not give a 0) has forever put a shadow on my view of the TV show.  This movie is bad beyond words.  In the show, the lead characters, Hawkeye and Trapper, are nice, friendly guys who have developed a morbid sense of humor to keep from going insane.  In the movie, these two characters are just plain mean.  They take an instant disliking to Frank Burns just because he's religious.  Then they do everything they can to get him kicked out of the army (this happens early on, so this isn't a spoiler).  And the worst part of it is, Frank Burns is probably the nicest, most likeable character in the movie.How such a piece of trash could inspire one of the greatest TV series of all time is beyond me.  And now that question will be stuck in my mind for the rest of my life whenever I watch the show. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, episodic comedy but not the classic many claim it to be","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"60 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  And then there was Korea.  In an understaffed and overstretched medical camp Lt Col Blake puts an order in for more surgeons.  Dispatched to him in a stolen army jeep are Captain's Hawkeye Pierce and Duke Forrest who immediately start chasing the nursing staff and annoying their tent mate Major Burns.  When chest cutter Trapper John McIntyre joins them in the camp it starts a working practice that ignores authority and tries to find as much fun as possible in the middle of their bloody war.I had watched the TV show for a long time before I finally got to watch the movie - I prefer the cynical comedy of the film although I have always loved the more sitcom style approach of the series.  Many critics have hailed this as an anti-war film that exposes the brutal effects of war; to some extent I suppose that is true but it is far from being a part of the main narrative - even to call it a theme would be generous! It does have some scenes of blood and gore but it is far from having anything substantial to say about the cruelty of war.Instead I always find this film to be a very episodic, freewheeling comedy, some bits of which work and some others don't.  On the whole it is pretty funny and uses the sort of sporadic dialogue and action to move it forward. At times it is based on imaginative banter between Trapper and Hawkeye and at others it is out and out slapstick such as the chaotic game of American football at the end of the film.  The downside of this is that sections of it just don't work - Painless Paul's dilemma is pretty uninspiring at least - however, on the whole it is energetic and very funny.  Altman's use of overlapping dialogue and his usual use of overlapping scenes as opposed to a traditional narrative flow is good here but it would have been better if it had been toned down somewhat.The cast is what really carries the film - the plot is weak and they have no characters other than what they create themselves and, although the dialogue is good, I couldn't help the feeling that the cast did as much as the writers.  As such the lead two of Sutherland and Gould stand out as great comedians with great witty touches, their characters are the largest and their lines are the funniest.  Skerritt starts out as equal to them but quickly becomes a third wheel despite still giving a good performance. The support cast are all a good mix of characters whether they be played by actors such as Duvall and Kellerman or less well known faces such as Burghoff or Bowen.Overall, I am still unable to see what those who call this a `brutal anti-war film' see but that doesn't mean I can't enjoy it as a comedy.  As such though, it is very episodic and really lacks a solid narrative flow meaning that any 10 minute period could be good or bad.  Aside from this lack of substance it is a funny, enjoyable comedy but it doesn't deserve the classic reputation that it has obtained. "},{"Title":"Through the early morning fog , I see visions of things to be.","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH was in the 70's a great accomplishment. One of the greatest comedies of its time. Based on Richard Hooker's novel MASH which details the going on's of a mobile army surgery hospital during the Korean War. Hooker's novel was brilliant and funny. a black comedy gem that also spoke to the Vietnam war. Question Authority create chaos out of horror and repeat and leave. The Movie to its credit is actually faithful to the book which I proudly own and read quite a few times. The Story follows Three Doctors as they do a tour of duty at the 4077th MASH. Hawkeye Pierce ,Duke Forrest and Trapper John . Each are at war with the army and each does their best to cope with the horrors of the war. From tormenting Major Frank Burns to rigging a football game to helping a don Juan who is convinced he is now gay because he couldn't get it up one night. Hawkeye and the gang bring quite a few laughs. But this movie was made in a Era before political correctness took over and ruined the world. Black Comedy isn't supposed to be PC. Anyways you can see where the seeds were sown for the long running M.A.S.H. series Donald Sutherland makes the best Hawkeye as far as I'm concerned. Alan Alda's Hawkeye Pierce was just too tame and almost a reversal of everything the original Hawkeye stood for but I guess 11 years can do that to a guy. Anyways if you are not too PC and not too easily offended. And want to see a true piece of history. MASH just might be your type of movie. To me it was funnier then Dr. Strangelove and any of the other anti war movies that came out. "},{"Title":"There must have been a mix up...","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" What I can't believe is just how a 'television series' (8.5) could be rated higher than the original movie (7.7)? Granted the TV show was quite entertaining but when the two are compared side-by-side, the original film leaves the TV series in the dust, after all wasn't the film the impetus for the series? This film was obviously ahead of its time and I think something is lost when some people watch it today.It is an antiwar black comedy that deals with the absurdity of war and its horrific consequences, much the same as Catch-22. In fact Hawkeye and Trapper John, being officers themselves, sardonically reflect the sentiment against the regular army clown hierarchy which most enlisted men embrace. In fact, when this movie was being made the Vietnam war was in full swing, a compelling argument for ending a war which was, arguably, the wrong war for the wrong reason, i.e., political, not humanitarian.I've read some of the commentary from the message boards and can't believe how offended some folks are at this movie, hey, it's just a movie, lighten up, nothing personal. Women aren't being treated like objects, especially when you consider the time-frame for this movie was the Korean war (early 1950's), so there wasn't even a women's liberation movement as yet, anyway it takes two to Tango, and in the interim if a regular army clown gets his/her comeuppance, it's just sauce for the goose and eventually they do come around most willingly.I personally think this film is cinematic masterpiece and a genuine timeless classic full of satire, and will endure through the ages. Altman should have won Best Director and Film but there was some pretty stiff competition there, than to speculate on something that was controversial and parodied as well. After all Korea was that generation's Viet Nam blunders, errors and a total waste of time, money and life. "},{"Title":"An undisciplined masterpiece","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH is an occasionally mean spirited, but almost entirely hilarious comedy about army medical personnel whose days usually involve various degrees of bad behavior to keep sane during the Korean War. Cocktails, beer and pranks accompany most scenes and Sutherland and Gould lead a great ensemble full of wit and improv. For all of the on set drama between Sutherland and Gould butting heads with director Altman, none of that seeped into their performances, which are sharp and in perfect tune to the tone of the film. MASH is a mostly shapeless film, with some truly bizarre narrative detours that perfectly encapsulate just how unstructured, random and absurd days in this field hospital can be. Almost 45 years later and it still feels fresh, spontaneous and an undisciplined masterpiece. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Films And Comedies Of Ever Made. An Excellent And Hilarious Classic Black Comedy War Film. Robert Altman At His Best.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH is one of the greatest Comedies Of all time and a classic film that combines amazing direction,a fantastic ensemble cast,hilarious Black Comedy,wonderful script and a memorable film score making MASH one of Altman's best and a classic Comedy and War Film and not only one of the best films of the 1970s but one of the greatest films ever made.Based on the novel MASHA Novel About Three Army Doctors and set during the Korean War in the early 1950s,MASH tells the story of a group of Army surgeons that includes Capt. Hawkeye Pierce(Donald Sutherland),Trapper John McIntyre(Elliot Gould)and Duke Forrest(Tom Skerritt)that work inside a hospital and deal with Horrors of the War while getting into hilarious situations and misadventures.Before MASH was turned into the iconic and popular television series of the same name,MASH was an amazing,hilarious and edgy Black Comedy classic that was an Anti-War Satire and was also a cinema breakthrough for filmmaker Robert Altman and is a film that ranks with other great films and Black Comedies Dr Strangelove and Network and is one of the film that gave birth to the New Hollywood movement of the 1970s. One of the reasons MASH is a classic film is because Robert Altman takes the concept and subject of War and makes an Anti-War film that mocks the military and Wars in a funny and Satirical way that is bold and brave and at the same time creative and subversive in a original style. The Comedy and laughs in MASH is funny and hilarious and is done with in darkly Humorous way with scenes and dialog in the film that is smart and intelligent and can only exist in the bizarre and insane world of MASH that is truly wacky and offbeat and done with a weirdness and insane energy that never slows down or lets up until the very end and you as the viewer are along for the ride. I also love that The Comedy is politically incorrect and is the kind of Humor that you don't really see in films anymore and would offend viewers in today's world. What I also love about MASH is the episodic nature and structure of the film where there are scenes in the movie that jump from one to the next and some of the characters pop in and out of the narrative but the film is never disjointed or disconnected and I think the episodic style keeps the film moving at a great pace. While the film is set during the Korean War in the 1950s,MASH is more about the Vietnam War that was going on in the during the 1960s and 70s and Altman doesn't hold back in showing the danger and Horrors of going to War especially during the Hospital and surgery scenes which are done in a gritty and realistic way almost like a documentary of Surgery in Hospitals during a War. MASH is a Comedy and it is very funny but it's still an Anti-War film that is told from a cynical point of view that is harsh and unflinching. The three main characters in the film Hawkeye Pierce,Trapper John McIntyre and Duke Forrest are great and truly memorable characters because when you look at the characters you feel like that even though they are surgeons of War they don't really want to be in the War or military but rather in a bar drinking a small glass of martini,flirting with women or being at home and not participating in the War. The many scenes with Hawkeye and Trapper or the scenes the three main characters have together is funny and wonderful with the characters Hawkeye,Trapper and Duke saying memorable dialog that is very fresh,sarcastic and witty as well. Hawkeye,Trapper and Duke are three amazing characters you will never forget. The screenplay by Ring Lardner Jr. is wonderful and well-written even much of the dialog was improvised by the cast and there's a lot of scenes of overlapping dialog between the main characters that is great and would become one of the many trademarks of Altman's films. The final 20-30 minutes and the film's ending is amazing and matches the rest of the film's manic comic energy. A great ending.The whole cast is wonderful. Donald Sutherland is excellent and hilarious as Captain Hawkeye Pierce,with Sutherland bringing laughs and coolness to the role. Elliot Gould is brilliant and funny as Captain Trapper John McIntyre and has great scenes with Sutherland. Tom Skerritt is amazing as Duke Forrest,Hawkeye and Trapper's friend. Sally Kellerman is fantastic as Major Hot Lips O'Houlihan,a straight laced nurse. Robert Duvall is wonderful as Major Frank Burns,an fellow Army Surgeon. Roger Bowen is terrific as Colonial Henry Blake,a man who's in charge of the MASH unit. Gary Burghoff is great as Corporal Radar,Blake right hand man. Burghoff also played the role on the television series. David Arkin is funny as Sgt. Major Vollmer,a by the book soldier. Jo Ann Plug is sensational and beautiful as Lt. Dish,Hawkeye's love interest. Fred Williamson is outstanding as Dr. Spearchucker Jones,a Football player who's now a surgeon. Michael Murphy is great as Me Lai Larston,a Surgeon in Japan. John Schuck is fantastic as Capt. Painless Waldowski,a dentist. G. Wood(General Hammond),Bud Cort(Private Boone)and Rene Auberjonois(Father John 'Dago Red' Mulcahy)give good performances as well.The direction by Robert Altman is brilliant,with Altman always moving the camera with zooms and close ups and giving the film a gritty and realistic look. Great direction by Altman.The score by Johnny Mandel is fantastic and memorable and brings a light and fun feeling to the film. I also love the classic theme song Suicide Is Painless that is used for the film(and later for the television series)and it truly matches the film's tone.In final word,if you love Robert Altman,Comedies,Black Comedies,War Films or films in general,I highly suggest you see MASH,an hilarious and unforgettable classic that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Helped our country heal","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" There was so much pain after that war. Most of you commenting weren't even born yet and you don't know the turmoil the media constantly thrust at the American public trying to get ratings and using the networks for political agendas mostly condemning the war. America was more naive and gullible and not as jaded as they are now. In a very tangible way every week and right in front of them on their TV screens was a way to draw the whole country back together in MASH. Whether you were for or against the war it made the soldiers who fought in the war more real and more human. They had faults.. some of them were terrible faults and some of them had wonderful strengths but America had suffered enough and it was time to laugh and get on with life. It wasn't a show that could work before that time or after that time but during that time MASH because a way for people to feel more normal about surviving that part of American history. Laughter is good medicine. There are many many comedic tactics considered genius in their time that audiences no longer respond to now in any way. When you watch these older movies and television series you have to understand the context in which they were created and what their audience needed from that project at that time. "},{"Title":"A Landmark film that created a genre all it's own!","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I saw M*A*S*H with my mom when I was eight years old when it was first released in 1970. It was held over, when movie theaters would hold over films that made a lot of money. It was made for an estimated budget of 3.5 million dollars. It made 81 million in revenue, it was a big hit in those days. It was a milestone for Robert Altman, and put him on the map as a director. I was only eight but enjoyed the humor and the sexuality was more implied than graphic. Two years later when the series premiered on CBS, I readily tuned in to see how it compared to the film. It was a TV standards and practices marvel, in that CBS tried to get across the subversive point across as much as they could on a TV sitcom. Being a series of vignettes rather than a chronological film, it showed a new way to film movies. It was movie making genius then, and still holds up to scrutiny today. "},{"Title":"M*A*S*H Is A Misogynist's Guide To Wits, Punch-Lines & April Fools' Day Pranks!","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I only enjoyed the wits, dialogs & some dirty jokes by Sutherland. That's all. Other than the funny part, the screenplay is quite good, writing is fresh & the music (Suicide Is Painless) amazed me.MASH is an out-dated comedy weaker than Animal House. The plot or story isn't that great to follow. The characters take you for some jokes & comic thrills here and there. Those are the only points where you will enjoy this movie NOW in the YOLO generation. I don't know how it won the Golden Palm, but this is not my cup of war tea. For crying out loud, an average 5/10.BOTTOM LINE This is not a classic as they (Wikipedia) say(s), but a sure one-time watch unless war comedies related to misogyny & lots of female nudity bore the hell out of you.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NOLanguage No | Sex Strong | Nudity Very Strong | Mouth-Kiss, Foreplay Strong | Violence Mild | Gore Infinity | Smoking No | Alcohol, Drugs Strong "}{"Title":"Funny With A Great Cast And A Massive Legacy,","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M*A*S*H* is a terrific movie with a great storyline,a fantastic and talented cast,plenty of hilarious scenes and some serious drama.The movie has made a terrific legacy for itself,a series of the same name was made two years later,and it ran for eleven years.I think the show is a lot better,its much funnier,more light hearted and much less violence.The cast of this movie is terrific,I think the best actor was Elliot Gould,because I found his character Trapper John McIntyre to be the funniest and stood out the most out of all of them,I also enjoyed Donald Sutherland and Tom Skerritt.A staff working in a field hospital during a Korean War use there humor and laughter to make them forget about the violence and horror of the war they are facing. "},{"Title":"And then there was..... Korea.","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Reading the other reviews for this film, it appears that MASH elicits either a strong love it or hate it response. One doesn't consider war films to be a ripe venue for comedy, but this picture takes a sublime look at the absurdity of war and turns it completely on it's head. Rather a mean feat, as there are no battle scenes, and casualties of war are nameless and faceless, as military surgeons do their best to save lives while maintaining their own sanity under difficult conditions. That they do so with a touch of insanity is the hallmark of the film, and after forty years the picture hasn't diminished in it's ability to entertain.As for the picture's funniest moments, take your pick - O'Houlihan (Loretta Swit) and Major Burns (Robert Duvall) getting it on for all the camp to hear; Waldowski's (John Schuck) black capsule experience; betting on O'Houlihan's 'real' hair color; or gassing the Major in Kojura - all are artfully set up and delivered with an effective punch line. Peronally, I would have preferred the football segment to be shorter in length, but it was a small price to pay for the vignettes offered earlier.It's interesting that the picture was nominated for an Oscar, but lost out to Patton, set during World War II, the more 'serious' war. When you come right down to it though, MASH isn't so much a war movie as it is a look at the human condition under stress, and Man's natural inclination to diffuse stress through humor. One can take exception to the tasteless jokes, the ribald situations, the demeaning of women in the military, and so on, but I don't think that was ever director Altman's point. Released during the height of the Viet Nam War, MASH is often described as a decidedly anti-war film, and so it may be, but it's effectiveness lies in the laying bare of mindless regulations and effete snobbery that can stifle discipline. For my money I'll share a foxhole with a Trapper or a Hawkeye any day, if it means that a Major Burns has to be in command. "},{"Title":"A Truly Funny Film, Better Than the Show","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The staff of a Korean War field hospital use humor and hi-jinks to keep their sanity in the face of the horror of war.The film opens with the theme Suicide is Painless, which sets something of a somber tone. This, of course, is not the nature of the film. There is talk of suicide later on, but it never gets dark at all.The film features a young Donald Sutherland as Hawkeye Pierce, young Rene Auberjonois as a minister, and a young Robert Duvall who already looks old. Burt Reynolds turned down the role of Trapper John.I dare say I prefer the cast of this film to the cast of the television show. I know people love that show, but I never really cared for it. This film, on the other hand, comes across much better to me.I say hooray for the Pabst Blue Ribbon and J&B product placement, and as the Last Supper reenactment with Hawkeye as Jesus. And then the reprise of Suicide is Painless (with a jovial singer)...I liked the conversation about latent homosexuality, and how awkwardly it is presented. There is mention of what if you found out you were gay after years of being married. I find that interesting -- not that one knows it and eventually admits it, but has to find out. Yet, I think that may be the case. Being so convinced in the 1950s that homosexuality was a sin and a choice, it may take a good deal of realization before the gayness is clear. "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" In those long ago, pre-video days, the only way I could get enough of this movie was multiple visits to the cinema.The long running TV series was good but, inevitably, diluted considerably in order to be piped into living rooms. But you had to make a choice to go and see the movie, and it is savage. Frank Burns and Margaret Houlihan, in particular, are drawn very differently here than the rather amiable buffoons portrayed in the TV series.The characters are somewhere they don't want to be, having to do things they don't want to do, and this gives rise to a laxity in behaviour none of them would consider in civilian life. The movie is necessarily episodic as the characters seek activities to keep their morale sufficiently high to make life bearable until they can finally return home.Everything about this film is brilliant, from the script and direction to all the performances. Sutherland and Gould were the headliners, of course, but everyone in this was excellent, and it's a shame that some of the careers which this film promised (Bud Cort, Jo Ann Pflug) never really materialised.Oh, and I'm not sure if I mentioned it, but it's very funny. "},{"Title":"Does your girlfriend look like the chick from MASH?","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH is a satirical comedy that talks about staff of the Korean War field hospitals life that have been shaken up by to top surgeons. Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland) and Trapper McIntyre (Elliott Gould) are lousy soldiers but appreciated surgeons. They can do whatever they want. In operating theater and outside of it.MASH is very critical against war and mocking it 100 percent. It's a true satire from era where Vietnamese War were still very gentle theme. Also you can take MASH as a simple comedy where to pranksters adding some color to field hospitals life by making hell of Maj. Burns's (Robert Duvall) life and turning bitching Maj. Margaret O'Houlihan (Sally Kellerman) to Hot Lips. "},{"Title":"Mash what more needs to be said","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This was a great film about of course the Korean war. Donald Sutherland Elliot Gouild make a great duo as Hawkeye and trapper. Robert Duvall plays an excellent frank burns. For it's time this really showed you the dark side with still having the comedy there. This film can be seen over and over again it will go down as a classic for sure. This film also of course not only introduces the world to radar but also to Gary Burghoff. He was always marvelous in his roll as radar he brought so much energy to both the movie and the television series that was a monster hit. If you have not yet had a chance to see this film i definitely would recommend it. As a matter of fact I think everybody should see this film at least once just to get the true experience. "},{"Title":"The funniest war movie ever","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I had just married my bf when this movie came out; he had spent 18 months on a tour in Vietnam. He said this was the best portrayal of the damn army as Bobby Troup called it that he had ever seen. I've probably seen it a dozen times and still laugh out loud at all my favorite parts, especially the football game. When Hotlips yells out, They've shot him, I just crack up for some reason. The drug use, casual sex, disdain for authority are totally authentic. I was also a veteran of that era and I worked in a stateside hospital, where it wasn't as graphic and bloody and the food was better, but the humor and zaniness was about the same.Sally Kellerman did a splendid job in this film, but except for A Little Romance, I've never seen her in anything I liked as well. The rest of the cast is superb. Robert Altman perfected his fast-paced directing style in this film.My biggest gripes, I guess, are historical inaccuracies in hairstyles, the use of black soldiers in Korea (didn't happen), the amount of facial hair (very 70's but not appropriate to the time frame) and other minor details. But you can't have everything and you can't let these distractions disrupt your enjoyment of what is a totally hilarious film. "},{"Title":"Attention. Tonight's movie has been 'MASH.'","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Even as the opening credits begin to roll to the tune of a song entitled 'Suicide is Painless,' you recognise that, with 'MASH,' Robert Altman was deliberately aiming for a war film that was both unconventional and somewhat controversial. A black episodic comedy, 'MASH' portrays its experienced division of Korean War surgeons as laid-back troublemakers, dismissive of all authority and largely inconsiderate of others.'Hawkeye' Pierce (Donald Sutherland), 'Trapper John' MacIntrye (Elliott Gould) and 'Duke' Forrest (Tom Skeritt) are three Army surgeons who are drafted during the Korean war and assigned to a MASH (Mobile Army Surgical Hospital) unit just three miles from the front line. Whilst they are undoubtedly fond of mischief, they are also very good at their job, as detailed quite graphically during the regular surgery scenes, into which Altman somehow manages to insert humour.They have also developed, perhaps due to the laid-back atmosphere of their own unit, a general disregard towards military authority. For example, during their brief visit to Japan, Hawkeye and Trapper John break military hospital procedure by treating an ill native child. When confronted by a superior officer, they promptly gas him, place him in bed with a prostitute and take some photographs as he begins to wake, ensuring a not-so-subtle but highly effective platform for blackmail.However, as carefree as their existence may be, the final football game demonstrates that the unit can successfully devise a plan, work together and emerge victorious. Of course, they only eventually win the game through the only means they know, involving highly deceitful (if not completely illegal) strategies and shifty game plans.Many have commented that 'MASH' looks unfavourably towards all women, treating them as mere objects of sex. I can certainly see where these arguments are coming from; spoken lines by women are few and far between, and rarely extend beyond enthusiastic acceptance of a man's proposition of sex. The only nurse who openly disapproves of these attitudes - Maj. Margaret O'Houlihan (Sally Kellerman) &#150; fares particularly poorly, unceremoniously dubbed 'Hot Lips' throughout the film and made the butt of numerous demeaning (but quite amusing, I must admit) practical jokes. When O'Houlihan lodges an official complaint to higher powers, the officer's eventual reply is You mean Hot Lips? Screw her!'MASH' has a great cast of likably rebellious characters, and its no surprise that the film later spawned one of the most beloved television shows of all time, even if only one actor (Gary Burghoff as Cpl. Walter 'Radar' O'Reilly) elected to reprise his role as a regular. I also enjoyed Robert Duvall's early appearance as Maj. 'Frank' Burns, the disliked religious zealot who is later led away in a straitjacket. This, of course, comes as no surprise to Hawkeye Pierce, since it was he who had planned the entire scheme! "},{"Title":"quality genre film","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" the movie was set in a time when there was a lot of anti military sentiment about the Vietnam war..even thought it is based on the Korean war, the similarities of war are evident..being prior military u can also see the extremes that u find in any organization, but the connections and competence to complete their tasks and with the expertise they show lets u know that they are serious and that they are going to do whatever is needed to mentally survive and help others survive also..there are so many stories presented just in a 2 hr movie there is no wonder why they were able to bring a TV show bases on the movie to families for 14 years LL "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Even though this movie came out some 15 years before I was born I must admit that it's quite good even though its length and some boring bits is its killer. The story is sadistic and cruel and really rips your guts out when they depict the reality of war but not just any war but the Koran War a war which has been labeled the forgotten war and it good to see a movie that's about what happens to the shoulders that fort not shooting but saving the people who were doing the killing for there country. A very good movie that makes you think even if it's a little boring in some areas and a touch on the long side especially the directors cut a must see for any one who liked the TV show or likes some thing different to your average war movie. "}{"Title":"Read the book then see the movie","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I grew up watching MASH- the TV series and grew more and more to appreciate the humor over the years. I saw the movie after having watched the series for so long and thought Well, this is nothing like the TV series. Then I read the book that MASH- THE MOVIE was based on. According to the introduction by the author the characters were not based on actual people, but rather an amalgamation of the people and experiences during the Korean War. For those who hadn't experienced anything like that (myself included) it would be next to impossible to fathom what people, especially very young people, experienced in such a crazy and terrifying place.Now that I went back and watched the movie with the book still fresh in my mind, I was able to enjoy it more without constantly referring back to the TV series that, other than being set in Korea and called MASH, was a different show in most respects. The derogatory terms for the Korean and Chinese fighters, as well as the nickname Spearchucker were indicative of a much-less PC time but were an accurate reflection (right or wrong) of attitudes during the era. Too bad Spearchucker's character didn't last beyond about half way through the first season- or Ugly John for that matter.Is it a classic? Without a doubt. Is it a great movie? Some would say yes, others, no. The bottom line is that MASH- The Movie is about people trying to stay sane in an insane world, and you have no laugh track to let you know when it's OK to laugh. "},{"Title":"the black comedy of realism","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" even if many don't see a plot in this story the plot is just two guys (Trapper John and Hawkeye) try not to get mad in this war, seeing all this soldiers, women, children being wounded or even die, by twitting somebody. the series based on the film are surely much more fun and many people like it better but unfortunately they aren't often shown anymore.The character Trapper John got later an own serial called M.D. Trapper John (1979-86) playing 28 years after his discharging, he is now the very thing that he was against during the war Chief of Surgery at the San Franscico Memorial Hospital. His character has changed over the years but you can see, that it is the same person. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy, template for many others","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This brilliant comedy very much set the template for the later teen comedy epidemic of the 1980's. While Animal House may have been what set off the boom, MASH created the formula for the cadet/frat comedies like Animal House, Revenge of the Nerds, Stripes, and Police Academy. The essential elements of the formula are all here - a bunch of buddies hell-bent on having a good time and getting laid get into conflict with strict, arrogant but inept authority figures and their henchmen; the buddies play various pranks against the scheming henchmen and eventually triumph over them, getting the girls, showing up the henchmen's incompetence and demonstrating the buddies' hitherto unappreciated but substantial talents. Maybe Sgt Bilko and Hogan's Heroes once attempted to cover similar comedic ground, but MASH introduced the frat boy elements of erectile tissue, hazing, drinking, partying, sport and pranks.For some reason this film is often described as an anti-war film. That might have been the intention of the director and the once-blacklisted writer, I'm not sure, but the film itself is nothing of the sort. The war never intrudes on MASH life except for the gory surgical scenes with unconscious soldiers. You never see any suffering from the war itself, and you are never introduced to the patients as individual people. Far from making war look like hell, it looks like a never-ending frat party, with only a few surgical operations and a couple of easily-pranked tight-asses interrupting the fun. Just because it is set in a war situation without having the usual war film heroics doesn't make it an anti-war film. Perhaps because of the film's year of release, it seems that the sort of humourless tight-asses that this film mocks insist on reading into this comedy a serious content that isn't there.No, this film is very much a comedy, and a truly hilarious one whose belly laugh hilarity hasn't dated. As such, structural issues which are important for dramas like plot, characterisation, and continuity simply don't matter here, so it's churlish to complain about them. "},{"Title":"M*A*S*H don't give D*A*M*N of who doesn't U*N*D*E*R*S*T*A*N*D","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I always thought that the real point of this movie,I mean what made it the real classic that we all know and that we all should be proud of know,is that the subtle critic to the war is made by two characters which are not too normal young fellows just thinking about sex and superficial dispute,but two surgeons,two professional men,which are in the position to do what they do and to act the way they act,even the most outrageous or ridiculous moment(think about the kimono scene in the japan hospital) don't took away from them any credibility .80% of the movie is improvised,the perfect chemistry between the yet unknown Gould and Sutherland(oh men,how undervalued is this actor??)it's something you may found once every 200 movie,Altman has a classy but strong touch even when he deal with death (the last supper) guess I don't know if they had more fun doing it or seeing it.Funny in the real sense of the word,not hysterical ,irreverent,not polemic.A masterpiece "},{"Title":"So crazy it must be true","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  OK, maybe the mad antics of these front line doctors and nurses are a little exaggerated. But I believe they can't be far from the true insanity that must be to do surgery in a war. This is brutal comedy in great style. "},{"Title":"Altman's light hand","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I had waited a long time to see the movie. I was lead to believe it was more gorey, aloof, pretentious, and serious than the TV show. My curiousity, however, finally lead me to rent out the special edition DVD and see why the greatest comedy tag was so often said of this one.I hate to watch any movie with expectations, usually I don't get what I want, but with MASH I got more than I bargained for. At almost 2 hours, it's more lengthy than a regular comedy but only drags occassionaly. Altman's tendency to let a scene go on to a final conclusion could tend to make one lose interest if he didn't twist every situation into unexpected conclusions. Taking a golfing trip to Japan ending up in screwing over a commanding officer was one of the best.The cast seem more natural in their roles than actors, none of them seem to realize their in front of cameras and refuse to pander, even if they never come across as actual doctors. Altman, however, seems to have left the movie in their care and they appear to have disregarded any effort to make it one. Which is why it works. Just as the characters disregard they're in a war that could end their lives, the actors disregard that they should be unhappy, look out of place, angry in favor of just having many good laughs.In the end, I don't think I've ever laughed out so loud at a movie so old (barring Charlie Chaplin) from the simplest jokes. Just the words, goddamn army had me cracking up without control. WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Akin to the TV series 6 and beyond.","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  *MINOR CHARACTER SPOILERS HEREIN*Though being a huge fan of the series (they're still showing re-runs in the UK), I've only just seen this movie for the first time, and I thought that most of the movie's characters were more akin to their replacement characters in the series than their namesakes, both in appearance and in personality.First off there's Frank Burns, who seems more reminiscent of Charles Winchester in the series. Aside from the physical likeness, Frank's character is much more three-dimensional and a little less neurotic than in the series, where he can be a little OTT at times. However, in the movie, Frank is not one of the main characters as he is on the tv.Next there's Trapper John McIntyre (Played by Elliott Gould), who sports the image of a moustached BJ, but with darker hair/skin and less baldness. Whereas the TJM of the series spends most of his time lusting over nurses, this incarnation of him seems much quieter and contented as BJ does in the later series on tv.And Henry Blake, whilst sporting a 'proper' Henry Blake-ish image, seems much more together than his tv doppelganger. Whilst the TV Henry gives the impression of being permanently confused/overwhelmed needing Radar to help him with everything, this Henry seems more in control with Radar just as an assistant, more like Col. Potter on the tv.One more thing. Whilst Hawkeye is the main focus of the series, it seems there is no main character within this film. Every character gets his or her moment to shine, and most of them are regarded as equal.Overall, this is a very good film with the same dry wit and gallows humour displayed in the series, but definately not what you'd expect by looking at the character list. "},{"Title":"Slightly dated, but still a fine film.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This is a review of the MASH 5 Star Collection DVD.Comparing MASH the movie and MASH the T.V. show is like comparing apples with oranges; they're two completely different entities. Although I was a bit young, I watched MASH on CBS, but I didn't know about the movie until after it's run ended. It wasn't until they announced on T.V. about the restored version of the film that I decided it would be a good time to check it out. When I got my PS2, MASH became the second movie that I saw with it (the third, what else, Showgirls!).MASH the movie is a thinly veiled account of the Vietnam War, although the film is set in Korea. We follow the lives and antics of doctors who tended to the wounded during the conflict. A superb black comedy, it finds its humour in the gory operating scenes and abuse of several individuals. It also delivers one of the most entertaining football games in cinema history as well. There's even a take on the Passion Play that's done with class.The acting is superb (I liked Donald Sutherland's Benjamin Franklin Hawkeye Pierce the best; Sutherland has a rich, distinctive voice), Robert Altman's direction (with his trademark overlapping dialogue and zoom-in) is first rate. The film is alive with spontaniety and delivers its anti-war message without being overbearing.The 5 Star DVD package has two discs containing the film, 3 (count 'em) 3 documentaries, a film restoration short, a 30th anniversary tribute for Robert Altman made in June, 2000, and more. They're good, too; although Altman's commentary of his film is too sparse. I was surprised to see that Robert Duvall, a future Oscar winner, did not participate in any of this; I guess he's too famous or something. Still, lots of good entertainment worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Quirky, sometimes hilarious spoof of war...","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  1st watched 8/4/2001 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Robert Altman) Quirky, sometimes hilarious spoof of war, life, and death.  The movie takes serious subjects and laughs in the face at them and we laugh as well. Altman picks at religion, women's lib, suicide, homosexuality, marraige, death, and the war in general.  Gould and Sutherland have a tremendous repertoire for humor with every other character having his or her own quirkiness that gets exploited before the end of the movie.  Strange abrupt ending almost seems to beg for what comes next - A TV series!! "},{"Title":"Witty, funny.  A must see.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This film is an absolutely hilarious comedy that is filled with witty jokes about the war and even contains some comment on the absurdity of the war (a la Catch-22).  The very first instance of dialogue in the film shows three men relaying orders from one to the other.  Unfortunately, the man who is getting the orders has no idea what is being said because both officers are speaking simultaneously and their words are indistinguishable.  The joke seems to be that nothing is getting done in the war although the leaders of the different units seem to think that they are doing a good job.  The jokes in this movie don't stop at the beginning, though.  In fact, they never stop.  The entire movie moves seamlessly onward while the audience can't stop laughing.  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  The off-color humor from M*A*S*H seems to be a sort of inspiration for movies during the &#145;80s like Caddyshack and such.  I think it's probably one of the funniest movies of all time.  Definitely a must see. "}{"Title":"A Holiday at the Front.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This movie is quite funny, quite emotional, quite dirty, quite bloody, quite original, etc. All these little bits, combined with great acting, smooth and clean directing and the special atmosphere make this an exceptionally good movie. They're in Korea reanimating dead people, but still they enjoy their time, they try to relax a little, and I like that. Although I don't really see surgeons 3 miles from the front line acting like they're on holiday, but that's a little exaggerated of course. I can imagine that people at the front need a lot of humor to forget their fears.Also exceptionally for a war movie is that the characters are no stereotypes, they have feelings, their mind evolves through the movie (like Hotlips, she really changed a lot from the strict bitchy army officer to a woman who wants to seize the day). Try to find that in Rambo.There's just one thing that bothers me about this movie there isn't a real story going through the whole movie. Yes, there are some little stories, like the fights between Burns and the other surgeons. but they disappear after a while. The movie feels like you're watching the pilot episode of a TV series without a cliffhanger.But that's a detail of course. I watched the movie and enjoyed myself very good, and that's what counts.9/10 "},{"Title":"An observation of idealized and failed masculinity","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  It's true that M*A*S*H is one of the great classics of our time and a very, very funny movie, but one thing's for sure, you won't see a movie like this made again in our politically correct times.  The movie smacks of homophobia, sexism, racism and just plain mean-spiritedness.  What's interesting is to see the examples of the idealized masculinity; Hawkeye and Trapper, and the failed masculinity; Frank Burns, Henry, and Radar. It's so clear-cut and could be one of the subliminal reasons why the movie has held up so well in people's minds, not only for Altman's brilliant direction and the pleasure of seeing Elliott Gould and Donald Sutherland together.  And it's certainly not the best work these two fine actors have ever done, it's their biggest grossing movie, let's not confuse the two. It spawned a great sit-com, and it's still fun to go back and see all those great favorite scenes, especially with Sally Kellerman who steals the movie from just about everyone. "},{"Title":"The Insanity of War.....","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  From maverick filmmaker and Hollywood renegade Robert Altman,  (Nashville, The Long Goodbye) comes his first major success Mash. Set during the Korean war with obvious parallels to Vietnam Altman focuses on an Army Medical Unit and the surgeons that comprise it. It is a story about the harsh reality of war and how we as individuals deal with it. Donald Sutherland plays Captain Hawkeye Pierce, Elliot Gould as Captain Trapper John and Tom Skerrit as Captain Duke Forrest who result to various off the wall hijinks as they repress the chaos that surrounds them. The film has no plot in the conventional sense of the word but follows a series of vignettes that are loosely connected. Mash was a revolution in contemporary cinema when it was released in 1970, bearing many Altman trademarks which would become standards in all of his later masterworks like his technique of overlapping dialogue and his non linear free form style of story telling, (seamlessly done in Nashville). Mash won the top prize at the Cannes film festival and an original screenplay oscar by Ring Lardner. After thirty years it still remains funny, original and innovative. Like Stanley Kubrick or Jean Luc Godard, Altman's films are not for all tastes, but if you want something that is unconventional, stylish and different then Mash is the perfect introduction to the incredible oeuvre of a great pioneer in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Coolest War Movie Ever","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Let me just say that I hate the show.  I just never saw what all the fuss was about.  People would tell me this is because I am only 19 and have never known war.  These people are idiots.  The movie is one of the funniest and unique takes on war that I have ever seen.  If the series had an ounce of the spark and originality of this movie and cast, it may have been a million times more popular that it already is.  It is a movie about war, but really, it is about nothing at all.  The whole movie feels like it's just sort of hanging out, like we're just eavesdropping on these people for awhile. Everytime I watch it I catch another joke or gesture I may have missed. The film just grows on you.  The thing that sets it apart from other war movies, that makes it really cool, is that it never once stops to preach at you. No dramatic death scenes, no corny rationale for the lead characters awful behavior, the movie just is.  It is touching and thoughtful on it's own. If you loved the series, see this film, and if you hated the series, you need to see it even more.  "},{"Title":"The first Robert Altman classic.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"       When I say the title MASH most people think of the t.v. show with Alan Alda.  Yet, there was a time when there was only the movie, and the movie was just as successful as the hit t.v. show.  I personally find the movie to be far more different and far more better than the CBS prime-time hit.  Since this is a Robert Altman film, and Altman (before his NASHVILLE and PLAYER days) this was a little film that went on to be big.      MASH takes place during the Korean War, Cpt. Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland) and Duke Forrest (Tom Skerritt) arrive at a hospital unit not too far away from the front lines of the Korean War.  They are doctors who are to take care of the sick and wounded from the war.  Sad to say, the wounded get stitched up and sent out on the lines again.  So the only way for the doctors to keep their sanity, it to have fun at the base.  They later get another partner in crime named Trapper John McIntyre (Elliott Gould) who turns out to be a aly of Hawkeye and Duke, and a enemy to bible quoteing Frank Burns (Robert Duvall) and Hot Lips Houlihan (Sally Kellerman).      MASH isn't really much of a major plot movie, it's more of a movie that has a very funny series of jokes.  And this is quite controversial at the time, since the film was released during the Vietnam War.  And the cleaver irony is that like Vietnam, this war was a police war against the Communist, and Altman uses many ironic similarites between the two wars.  But for today's standards the film is quite funny!      I was lucky to see this film on the big screen this past weekend.  This is another film, as always, to see on the big screen first.  With it's Panavision lense, the viewer does get the full aspect ratio of Altman's classic.  But it's also fun to see on the big screen since one does get to see everything that they would have missed on t.v.       But this was a funny movie!  From the radio under the bunk at Hot Lips bed, to the trip to Tokyo, to the classic football game, this is a movie that is far more funnier than 70% of comedies that are released today.  I just wish that screenwriters would watch this film and take some notes on how to make a funny and witty comedy.  This film is a fun treat to see, to get a glimpse of Altman before he became Robert Altman. The greatest American directors have a successful film that put their foot in the studio doors, before their names were put on the maps.  Speilberg had JAWS, Socrsese had MEAN STREETS, Lucas has AMERICAN GRAFFITTI, and Altman has MASH.  It's no surprise that this film is on the American Film Institute's top 100 films of all time, it well deserves it.  If you never seen MASH, do yourself a favor and rent this classic film, before you watch the t.v. show.  It's obvious that the magic touch is gone without Altman at the helm.  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Altman Classic","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Robert Altman is my favorite auteur of American cinema and Mash was my first introduction to his incredible body of work. A very sharp, witty black comedy set during the Korean War with obvious parallels to Vietnam Altman focusing on an Army Medical unit and the various different surgeons and nurses that comprise the story. The film has no plot in the conventional sense of the word, but follows a series of vignettes. Donald Sutherland, Elliot Gould and Tom Skerrit are perfectly cast as Hawkeye, Trapper and Duke as they resort to hijinks and irreverent acts to repress the harsh reality of war which surrounds them. Sally Kellerman is also memorable as Nurse Hotlips, the object of their torture and ridicule. Overall a brilliant, inventive anti-war satire from one of the greatest directors in the history film.  "},{"Title":"A definite must-see with an unusual sense of group dynamics","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Several vignettes concerning wartime shenanigans at a Mobile Army Hospital in Korea are related in this magnificently crafted film by Robert Altman. Donald Sutherland is wonderful as Capt. Pierce, Tom Skerritt equally fine as Duke Forrest. Though all of the major roles are played extremely well, a great many minor roles and even bit parts prove to be gems for a host of fine actors. If you see this film on video, you may want to watch it two or three times to catch some of the background dialogue you may have missed on the first viewing.Be warned, however MASH is a film with almost no sympathetic characters. No one is especially likeable, and indeed, the behavior of the heroes often seems repellent. But, in real life as in film, running into such a collection of people is always a possibility.Strangely enough, the film, though certainly bloodier than the movie, does not seek to indicate that the often irrational and childish behavior of the medical staff is brought on by the horrors of war, as the later television series often tried to demonstrate. The doctors and nurses all seem to have been brought to Korea just as they are.A tour de force of editing and direction. "},{"Title":"A Mashterpiece","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  What a movie.  Probably the most uniquely irreverent movie I've ever seen.  Very typical of the independent movie  making spirit of Hollywood during this time, when movies had something to say. Forget the tv series (esp. the later years), this is the real thing (thanks Robert Altman) "},{"Title":"One of the funniest black comedies ever!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  MASH is one of the funniest comedies ever. I just got the movie a while back, and I was impressed. It reminds me of what the TV series was, but with a little more.  Robert Altman did a good job on this movie, and without him, MASH probably would not have made it into the sensation it is today. "},{"Title":"A movie that can not be enjoyed by everyone easily (even me)","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Directed by famous Robert Altman, a guy who inspired his actors to improve, this movie is about surgeons who use to treat wounded U.S. soldiers fighting in Korean War. Though the premise sounds like it is a serious movie, it is actually satirical black comedy set in background of Army Hospital. The movie follows three surgeons named Hawkeye, Trapper Joe and Duke, who spend their free time in womanizing and drinking. These three protagonists or anti-hero may be one of most unlikable characters to put on screen with not much of redeeming quality except the fact they are good surgeon who saves lives of soldiers. They like to break rules for their benefit and bully anyone they don't like or does not cooperate with them. Though the audience should be rooting for them as they are rebelling against authority which is strict, it is pretty difficult to root for them as the authority they are rebelling against is not so bad. I mean they get to play, womanize and drink in their free time. What makes rooting for them even harder is the fact that antagonists (Hot Lips and Colonel Blake) are actually likable character who are humiliated and bullied just for the sake of fun. The audience is supposed to laugh at these people but it is difficult to laugh when the pranks played to nice people are cruel and unnecessary. Here, not only lead characters are misogynist, but the whole movie's storyline in misogynist. Worst of all is the leading characters never feel ashamed for their cruel joke. Though the movie is often referred to anti war satire, the movie does not feel anti war at all, because the protagonist does not suffer from war much but instead they are having time of their life. There is no excuse or good reason for their bad behavior.Saying all this, I am not saying movie is bad. The director was quite revolutionary for the technique used in movie, which sets the atmosphere of a dirty hospital and even brings to your world. If you want to see the movie for its direction, do watch this. But if you are expecting good humor, entertainment and a smile on your face, you will have hard time. You will enjoy this movie, only if you are ready to drop your moral and sanity. "}{"Title":"The debate over the inherent cruelty in MASH","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" You know what MASH is. It's a culture icon. One of the most important films of the 1970's, but if you haven't seen it recently you might forget just how cruel the film is. There are a lot of different points of view about the cruelty baked into the film, here's mine...Yes, the film has sexist, racist, cruel and homophobic characters. But I strongly believe that the film is NOT laughing along with them. Again and again we see the repercussions of callous behavior in the faces of the taunted. Altman holds on Frank Burns' face (through fire, no less) as he's being driven away by the military police after being driven to violence. The infamous shower scene with Hot Lips isn't played for laughs to me at all, it's a horrible scene, just because people are laughing in it doesn't make it less horrible. It's a long held shot of her humiliation, and ultimately, when she goes to her CO only to find him drinking wine in bed another nurse, her futility. When Hawkeye and Trapper John are making fun of Japanese people, the driver of their jeep is openly irritated by their baffoonary. He verbally blames the culture of the Army for their behavior, repeating the phrase Goddamned Army again and again. I do believe that Altman is saying something here about what war does to people. How spending hours every day trying to save mangled human beings creates a surrealist hell and hardens those who live in it. Also, let's not forget that this film is set in the fifties. The attitudes towards women, minorities, people of other cultures and homosexuality are not out of step with the era that the characters are supposed to be existing in. In that regard it's not just a comment on the state of war, but on 1950's moral values as well.Having said all of that, it is undeniable that Women get a pretty bad rap in this film. Hot Lips is a completely inconsistent character. She seems to change to become whatever the script needs her to be to get a laugh. One could argue that changes in an effort to join them since she can't beat them, but even this reasoning shows little regard for her character. The only other female of note in the film, Dish, has sex with Painless the dentist because her lover asks her to (in an effort to save his life, which is ridiculous). It's one thing for the main characters to be sexist. I'm not opposed to that. I don't need my protagonists to be good people. But it's another thing when the universe of the film itself is sexist. And sadly, I do feel that is the case in this film. Fortunately we have a whole body of work from Altman where he counters this attitude about women, but it does keep this film from being one of his absolute greatest achievements for me.Apart from that, the film is a technical masterpiece. The level of narrative communicated through what seems to be total chaos on camera is amazing. Scenes don't transition from sequence to sequence, they spill all over one another. Altman took the messiness of life and captured it in a bottle. It's also an incredibly edited. "},{"Title":"No. No booze. Sex. I want sex.","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The movie was so good that a TV show was created that went on for years. A sterling cast of characters that included Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Tom Skerritt, Sally Kellerman, Robert Duvall, Jo Ann Pflug, Rene Auberjonois, Roger Bowen, Gary Burghoff, David Arkin, John Schuck, Fred Williamson, Indus Arthur, Tim Brown, Corey Fischer, Bud Cort, Carl Gottlieb, Dawne Damon, Tamara Horrocks, Ken Prymus, Danny Goldman, Kim Atwood, Michael Murphy, G. Wood, Rick Teal and Bobby Troup.Robert Altman's movie got an Academy Award for Ring Lardner Jr. for his script, and he also was nominated himself, along with the picture and Sally Kellerman, who played Hot Lips O'Houlihan and who flashed her little wonders for Robert Duval and revealed all her goodies in one of the most famous shower scenes on film.Elliott Gould also turned in a fantastic performance in this film. "},{"Title":"Hooray!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH is, purely and simply put, a great whoopee cushion on a condemned man's electric chair of a movie. It appears to be heartless and mean-spirited, but it is quite derivative of laughter. Really, that's a testament to the film itself. The film is about medics and nurses during the Korean War who, when they're not sewing a mutilated kid's limbs back on or something to that effect, are constantly making targets for pranks and practical jokes out of nurses and authority figures and even potential patients. There is a sadness lurking behind this hilarious comedy that comes through in Robert Altman's lyrical dryness and cinematic stoicism despite what manic things happen on screen, and that sadness is derived from the fact that these ironically cruel and coldly funny doctors can only survive the tragedy of the war, the details of which they stare in the face every day even closer than the soldiers themselves on the battlefield, seeing every nook and cranny caused by every bullet, bomb, knife, grenade, and whatnot, if they betray their feelings and project completely carefree personas.Donald Sutherland and Elliott Gould are a great male comic buddy team, the likes of which I haven't really seen in awhile. I haven't watched any Abott and Costello films or Eddie Murphy cop films lately, but I used to all the time, and Gould and Sutherland reminded me of how simultaneously corny and fun a comic duo can be to watch. I simply love watching them together, as they are funny in the most basically goofy and masculinely physical way. Tom Skerrit is their third banana, just as able a comedian but with not as much screen time together as Sutherland and Gould do, as they form a terrific, very real guy-to-guy chemistry with each other that captures that very truthful ambiguity between close bonding and arm's-length buddy-ol'-pals that we all experience.A great counterpart for them on screen is Sally Kellerman, the unamiable nurse with an affinity for the truly bad person that Robert Duvall cleverly and realistically plays. Kellerman is the constant butt of their purposely sexist and humiliating high jinks and gags, and in one scene near the middle of the film, she explodes with tearful anger to a commanding officer, hilariously and pathetically unleashing her completely unladylike, ungraceful, manneristically unattractive pure form, which is a brilliant touch.MASH is yet another wonderful gem from the 1970s, a decade ripe with enough of the greatest and most important American films of all time to last through decades that need that compensation. And for those seeking comparison between MASH the movie and MASH the television show, I love the television show and grew up on it on account of my mother, who was once a fanatical viewer of it. I think the show is hilarious and very very sharply written, especially in the middle to later episodes. But I think the show was more like an after-school special when it came to delivering the message that MASH initially conveys, whereas MASH the film sends it in a more refined and artistic way where we pick up on it by experiencing the nature of the characters. For those looking for a comparison between MASH the film and Catch-22 the film, two war satires based on controversial novels both adapted in 1970 that went through a friendly competition for success, I will tell you sincerely that I love both of these films equally, but if you're looking for a more intense and fast-paced film, see Mike Nichols' Catch-22. MASH is wry, cold and cynical, and it works beautifully that way. "},{"Title":"Altman's Contribution to Cinema","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Robert Altman was given the budget to do MASH by the studios under the understanding that the studio wanted a drive-inn film. Because the studio originally considered it such an insignificant film and so cheap to make, this left Altman and his cast a kind of freedom you don't see in movies today. MASH is very much like a drive-inn movie with an Animal House-type feel, but a social conscience and artist integrity that sorely lacks these days. It's satirical, silly, subversive, and probably one of the best American films made. Altman inspired a generation of young directors like P.T. Anderson and Wes Anderson in both his style and his dedication, and will be remembered as one of the American film-making veterans. Nominated five times and having never received an Oscar, he goes down like so many other directors who were unrecognized by the Academy for their genius. Rest in peace, Mr. Altman. "},{"Title":"Almost classic comedy","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Basis for the very long-running TV series MASH.It's an absurdest, surrealistic view of a MASH (Mobile Army Surgical Hospital) stationed in Korea. It primarily involves the antics of three surgeons in the unit played by Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould and Tom Skeritt. It's a very episodic film that shows that people in order are complete idiots and everyone working for them knows it. This was made in 1970 and making fun of authority figures was very popular then.This film is easily one of Robert Altman's best. It moves quickly (the 2 hours speed by), has a GREAT cast and has his trademark overlapping dialogue--yet you hear exactly what you're supposed to (somehow). It seems strange but this movie has you laughing while showing you graphic operating room sequences (which are cut down in the PG version). The antics of these guys are very immature and childish--but that's how these guys keep their sanity. Despite myself I was laughing. A highlight was when one man intends to commit suicide--take a look at the Last Supper he has.I don't totally like this movie because Altman's sexism comes roaring through twice. The character of Major Hot Lips Houlihan (Sally Kellerman) is treated horribly. While she is having sex at one point the guys slip a mike under her bed and broadcast it to the whole camp. That's not funny. Even worse is when they rig the shower curtain to fly up while she's in it--it publicly, humiliatingly exposes her. Seeing her crying and screaming while trying to crawl away nude is not funny just sick. I've seen this multiple times in movie houses and no one has ever laughed at either scene. They're just too cruel and Altman seems to enjoy it. Kellerman deserves credit for maintaining her dignity despite these sequences.Because of those scenes I can only give this a 9. Still, this is mostly a great comedy. Much better than the later TV show. "},{"Title":"Vulgar, Blasphemous, Mean Spirited--And Brilliant","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Although M*A*S*H is probably his most audience-friendly film, Robert Altman's style of over-lapping dialogue and multiple themes provokes a divided reaction even in this early work you either like it or you don't. Perhaps more significant, however, are expectations raised by the popular and long-running television series the film inspired the series concerned likable characters playing situation comedy with a dramatic spin. Viewers who expect to see this repeated in the film will be disappointed--and very probably outraged as well.Like most Altman films, M*A*S*H is character-driven, and there is no plot in any traditional sense. In general, the film concerns three surgeons (Hawkeye, Trapper, and Duke, here played by Donald Sutherland, Elliot Gould, and Tom Skerritt) who are drafted to serve in Korea. Sharing a mutual fondness for martinis and a complete disrespect for all things military, they run riot through the M*A*S*H 4077, mocking the efforts of by-the-book military officers to make them toe the line and using the army's need of their skills to prevent higher authority from penalizing them for their antics. Most of the characters (including the three leads) are somewhat unsympathetic, and the film's comic elements are deliberately grotesque, mean-spirited, blasphemous, sexist, and vulgar.Altman clearly intends us to read the Korean setting as a metaphor for Vietnam and the disrespect for an inept military authority as a metaphor for America's increasing disenchantment with military intervention in Vietnam. At the same time, the film's graphic surgery scenes provide us with a clear vision of the human toll war requires. Because the film mixes these points of view with comic elements, it is frequently described as an anti-war black comedy--but the film is so profoundly bitter that the word comedy, even when codified as black, is rather misleading. There are certainly comic elements and even a few laugh-out-loud moments (most centering upon Margaret Hotlips O'Houlihan, brilliantly played by Sally Kellerman), but the tone of the film is so bitter that the laughter induced is very rueful indeed.Seen today, M*A*S*H feels slightly uneven in execution and very much of its place and time--but even so the cast performs with an extremely compelling immediacy and Altman's dark and multi-layered vision makes a powerful statement. The DVD release features a superb restoration of the film, a rather dismissible director's commentary track, and four short documentaries re the film which are extremely interesting but often redundant. While I do recommend the film to newcomers, I offer the warning that response to the film varies considerably from individual to individual.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Painless is Suicide","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Director Robert Altman's mad cap adaptation of the late Richard Hornberger (AKA Richard Hooker) novel about odd-ball army doctors who work hard, play hard, drink hard, love/lust hard, and make you all laugh while trying to get through the Korean War as best they can. Starring Donald Sutherland as Hawkeye Pierce, Elliot Gould as Trapper John, Tom Skerritt as Duke Forrest, Sally Kellerman as Hot Lips Houlihan, Roger Bowen as Henry Blake, Gary Burghoff as Radar O'Reilly (the only lead to reprise his role for the TV series that followed), and Robert Duvall as Frank Burns.Marred only by over-length, a slow pace and an anti-climatic football game finale. Highlights include Trapper John getting a party for the much coveted chief surgeon post, Hot Lips orgasm with Frank Burns being broadcast all over the camp, Hot Lips being exposed by Hawkeye & the gang, and the whole bit with Hawkeye & Trapper John being interrupted for some surgery in Japan when they'd rather be playing golf. The TV series that followed, while fun in its own way, wasn't nearly as blackly comical as the original film, though it won countless awards for its humanitarianism. Where Donald Sutherland combined a laid back virility with light-hearted madness in the Hawkeye Pierce role, Alan Alda came off as smug, too self-righteous and off putting. For some inexplicable reason, Duke Forrest was never included on the TV version of MASH (which was written up as M*A*S*H) even though he had been in the original book.  "},{"Title":"Altman-ville early in Black Comedy army helmets!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This film, the 4th best of 1970 (but nominated for Best Picture) came out when I was in High School.  It was actually the first film released in the year 1970.  Altman was a nobody (movie-wise) and this was his only hit, if you can believe it.  It was set in The Korean War, but really was about the Vietnam War (I think everybody caught on to that, back then). Altman's style of improv, zoom lenses, non-famous actors in lead roles, off-beat music, etc. made him an enemy of the establishment back then, and he was already in his mid-40's (like who cares, right; a lot of people cared back then).  Anyway, this film in January of 1970 rocked people on their heels (a comedy), whether you were a Love or leave it conservative or a left-wing liberal or young, but it hit people right in the face with a laugh (bloody as it turned out).  There were no stars - the leads (D. Sutherland and E. Gould) were respected actors, but not mainstage).  This film came out at the perfect time (and actually hurt the film Catch-22, unintentionally, because of timing.  Forget that horrifying hit TV show in the 70's and 80's, I guess, that pampered everything away; even to the right-wing.  Sutherland, who had previously played retards, villains, and ghosts didn't even get along with Altman, but became a major actor because of this.  E. Gould, who had just been nominated for B&c&T&A had made six films THAT year.  Sally Kellerman (who'd known Altman for years) got nominated out of nowhere.  Robert Duvall was already a respected actor since the early 60's, but basically considered a character actor.  Tom Skerritt (one of the leading characters), a decent actor (especially as Duke in this one), made a career off this one part.  Bud Cort, etc., etc....  This mock on too many horrifying war situations showed humanity, which didn't mesh with Spiro Agnew-type people at that time (and The President; the one who resigned).  It was pro-life and pro-choice, and hilarious!  Great characters; drama when necessary, but mostly hip jokes about people and timing.  Great opening song (used by that TV show), wonderful cinematography, Oscar-winning script, perfect acting (IN A WAR COMEDY)!.  I don't know... if you're not into this one, you're probably a Born-Again Nazi or just silly.  9 out of 10 (it would have been a 10, but the football game late in the film was a little broad).  Best performance = Donald Sutherland; Worst performance = ?  Oh, I forgot to mention the three films better than this (#1 Five Easy Pieces, #2 Joe, #3 Husbands).  It was a very good year, trust me...why should you?  "},{"Title":"The humourous side of the Korean war","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie when I saw it in the theatre. I have enjoyed this movie several times by VCR. I now enjoy this movie on DVD and will continue to do so for a long time. Great direction and acting!I love it.  "},{"Title":"better, not great","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  The best way to get the MASH experience, I have found, is to READ THE BOOK. The book deftly handles the paradox of the 4077th -- that these very young doctors, nurses, etc., too young to be doing what they were doing, were put into a medical situation that was, in essence, beyond any medical professional's real capacity. As a result, when they got out of what was essentially a butcher's shop of an operating room, they went a bit wild. But in the end, they were what they were Americans, professionals, essentially of the tail end of the greatest generation. Nothing more, nothing less. The film turned them ever-so-slightly into 1960s types, and after the first few years of comedy, the TV show turned them into 1970s anti-war, anti-military, anti-government, anti-capitalist whiners. All sense of comedy, irony, satire went by the board in order to preach at us, culminating with the vastly inferior Goodbye, Farewell, Amen. I like the first few years of the TV show, and I like the book. The movie, which was a sensation when it came out, is very clever for much of its cinematography, its effects, quite a bit of its dialogue, and some really impressive fresh acting by a cast whose members, for the most part, eventually didn't live up to the promise they showed here. Oh, and the football uniforms were 1970s vintage, not early 1950s. The face masks and molded plastic helmets are a no-no.  "}{"Title":"Far superior to the series","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Having been bought up watching the television series for many years, it was not until I was in my twenties that I finally saw the original M*A*S*H. How my eyes were opened.The film introduced the characters as they were intended to be. Witty, sharp, cunning, clever and able to fully realise that as conscripts into the war their role was to do their job, take their pleasures where they can; drinking, cards, the nurses, a trip to Japan, and continue to do what they do best, operate with the upmost regard for human life. They do not want to be out there in Korea but must make do as best they can.There is no comparison to the television series. The TV show was a pale, insipid, flawed imitation of a brilliant, witty, deft and original critique of life for a conscripted surgeon in the Korean war.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I checked out the MASH DVD the other day.  I had seen the TV series, but this was the first time I had watched the movie.  Have to say, I thought it was hilarious.  I loved the characters.  This movie was really ahead of its time.  It had an attitude that I'm not used to seeing from older movies.  I think I'll go watch it again. "},{"Title":"Central dishonesty now lessens movie","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  As is only too clear this movie is really meant to be set in the late sixties and to be about Vietnam and not Korea. It is only possible to rate this film as highly as some people do by ignoring this. Unfortunately like many post Easy Rider films this appears very dated in it's attitudes. Altman would go on to much finer things later on. To sum up an interesting historical piece but not a film for all time. "},{"Title":"Love the movie, hate the series","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I just love this movie and boy do i hate the TV-Series. I do admit that Alan Alda & Co in the first series captured at least some of the humor from the movie but it was quickly restored to the kind of quick jokes/smart remarks which really makes me sick of American comedy series (Friends!! arrrgggghhh). The series just doesn't get it. I mean, Hawkeye hates war! He hates the army! And most of all he hates the fate that put him in a weird country with weird people where he is supposed to do wonders with (often) bare hands. He compensates for this by adopting a twisted humor and playing practical jokes galore, but really he wants to be anywhere else. This movie has, together with Kelly's Heroes and Catch 22, a refreshing look at war which is a pleasant antidote to the heroic type of war movies (The Green Berets for instance). Regarding earlier remarks regarding Frank Burns. Well what is there to say, i personally, not being a pacifist by hart, would have beaten the crap out of him, and if anybody REALLY think, that he is one of the nicest people in the movie, then i can understand the trouble that is plaguing USA, i mean, a more full blown hypocrite has never been portrayed on movie!! "},{"Title":"Proves the Seventies was the best generation of film...","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  The seventies were truly the pinnacle decade of american cinema, especially from the iconoclastic filmmakers (Scorsese, Coppola, Kubrick, Lumet, etc.) of which Altman was among. This film showed his true genius, and quite a journey he's made from MASH (1970) to his other modern classic Short Cuts (1993). This film not only shows Altman as a genius with great editing, cinematography, and directing, but also shows the incredible acting talents of Elliot Gould, Donald Sutherland, Robert Duvall, and a cast of other greats. M*A*S*H is another of those films that moviemakers of the video generation (educated in film by trips to Blockbuster or the local video store, etc.) treasure and praise. In my humble opinion it is also the greatest satire of an American institution (if you can call the military that) since Network (more proof of how great the seventies were). Truly excellent, but I can see how some people bored by the football game sequence. But I thought it was humorous and wonderfully edited. Well, see it for yourself and see the first spark of genius from the director of NASHVILLE, THE PLAYER, SHORT CUTS, McCABE AND MS.MILLER, among others. "},{"Title":"Best Picture of 1970 (In My Humble Opinion)","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  'Patton' won the Oscar that year!  Over MASH!  I'm boggled.  This movie amazes me every time I see it.  It's hilarious and smart and complex and fun and real and preposterous...you must see it.  The TV show pales in comparison. "},{"Title":"Altman's Magnum Opus","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Robert Altman's films can be hit or miss.  This is a total grandslam, both as a piece of entertainment and a revolutionary film.  For 1970, both the dialog and the camera work were WAY ahead of its time.  The scrappy but natural dialog and innocent bystander camera views remind one of the TV series NYPD Blue.  In 1970, few if any movies, even R rated ones, used the F word, though Altman refused to compromise this masterpiece.  Don't expect the smooth witicisms and sitcom-like plots from the TV show, this film is a true work of art.  Its a shame such vital characters as Duke and Painless never had big moments in the TV Show.  Its also a shame that much of Altman's later work failed to live up to this great film. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I first saw this movie several years ago and liked it then. Since, I've obtained a copy and have watched it many times since. It's definitely one of my favorates. Here are a few reasons why.First of all, The story line is much better than the TV series could ever hope to be.  It really does show the insanity of war, especially a war like the Korean war of the early 1950's. A war that isn't particularly popular compared to the other more recent wars (WW I,WW II, Vietnam et-al).The characters, Hawkeye Pierce, Major Hotlips Hullihan and Radar etc are what make this movie such a delight.One of the all time classic scenes from this movie that always gets me is when Major Hullihan goes to take a shower... We all know what happens next. I always anticipate it w/ glee since it's so hilarious. The second part is when Hotlips and Sergent Burns make out in her hut and it gets broadcast all over the camp as well as her reaction the next morning (very jumpy).But to suffice it to say, the script is very well written and the characters seem to have some depth to them and all are well acted. the movie is well worth adding to your video collection for you'll want to see it again and again... "},{"Title":"Vietnam Attitude in a Korea Setting","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Brutal humor, if you can take the smugness.  The Oscar people couldn't; they gave the Best Picture Award to Patton, although MASH won for Best Adapted Screenplay.  Evidently, even the Academy was a battleground for the Generation Gap (remember that one?)MASH sets the tone for irreverence early by first shooting at the biggest sacred cow of all  religion.  Hawkeye and Duke mock Frank Burns for his arrogant, outwardly-sincere-but-inwardly-fascist religious beliefs.  Does Frank forgive them?  Just look in his eyes  he hates them.  A cinematic first  never before was dress-yourself-up-and-get-down-on-your-knees White-Anglo-Saxon-Protestant American Christianity so undressed.MASH doesn't pull punches, not with the humor and not when they're operating on the war's wounded - gore galore.  They may be clowns outside but inside they're the Pros from Dover.  And here institutional religion takes another, if lighter, touch  Duke calls Army chaplain Father Mulcahy from giving the Last Rites to a dead patient to help save a still-living one.  Frank Burns is a fraud, Father Mulcahy is genuine but this is the real world.Whether they're dealing with too much blood, not enough blood, Frank Burns' poisoned soul, Hot Lips' Army-superbrat attitude, ripped-open live humans, Painless' idiotic self-misdiagnosis, snotty Army brass, sick babies, power outages,  or megalithic football machines, our heroes stay sane in an insane place by PLAYACTING insane.  We don't care who you are or what you think you're entitled to.  We don't let our friends or our enemies go insane. We'll do it by out-insaning you.  They've found the medicine for Sartre's dictum hell is other people, or Fall's book Hell in a Very Small Place. These doctors are anti-doctrine and pro-good-sense.MASH is chock-full of tweaks, takes and jokes at any and every self-satisfied cultural assumption that was mid-late-1900s America - many of which, sad to say, are still here.  Insanities reincarnate left and right but a dose of MASH will always be the remedy for what ails you.And it does it all without foul language. "},{"Title":"If you loved the TV show, you'll hate the movie.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I grew up watching the television show, so to me, Alan Alda, Wayne Rogers, McLean Stevenson, and that group will always be MASH...I did decide to watch the movie, though--I figured that if the TV show was so good, the movie had to be REALLY good.However, I was rather disappointed. I think some of it was the fact that I was used to certain actors playing the characters, but mostly I think it was because, while the movie had its moments, the characters just didn't come across with the likability that Alan Alda, Wayne Rogers, and McLean Stevenson, et al., brought to the series, and I think that counts for a lot. If you don't care for the characters, you don't really care what they do or what happens to them, and that's how I felt about the movie.In the series, Hawkeye, Trapper, Col. Blake, (and the rest) are lovable characters, with their own quirks and personalities. You get involved with them, and you get interested in their lives, wondering what they're going to do next; the movie doesn't really develop that, and you don't get involved. You never forget you're watching a movie. I kept waiting for someone to yell, CUT! There wasn't the natural flow there like there was in the TV show.I ended up thinking, Ok, I've finally seen the movie. Glad I didn't buy it. The series was better. I couldn't wait to watch the TV show just to feel like I was watching MASH again. "}{"Title":"War is Tough. War is Brutal. War is Violent. War is Depressing. War is Devastating. War is...Funny as Hell!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Korea, 1950. In the midst of the Korean War. Many U.S. soldiers were killed, but most of them were mortally wounded. That's where the Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals, or MASH, units came in. Army doctors and nurses worked round the clock to help our wounded men. On one fine day, a sharp, brash, young Army doctor, Captain Hawkeye Pierce, arrives in Korea. He was assigned to the 4077th M*A*S*H unit. He encounters a very rude C.O., as well as another brash young doctor, Duke Forrest. Together, they borrow a Jeep and head south to the 4077th. The camp is run by Lt. Col. Henry Blake, who right away grew suspicious of his new surgeons. Hawkeye and Duke meet an assortment of wacky characters Blake's clairvoyant clerk Radar O'Reilly, Lt. Leslie, Pvt. Lorenzo Boone, and the chaplain, Father John Dago Red Mulcahy. Duke and Hawk also meet their new roommate, Major Frank Burns, who was a few beers short of a six-pack; The O.R. was always a bustle with wounded coming in at all hours. Hawkeye and Duke really knew their way around a human body. The next day they request that Henry get them a new roommate, and Henry managed to come through, so Frank left and in came Trapper John McIntyre, a loner out of Alaska; In Post-Op, one of Frank's patients died and he blamed it on Boone. Trapper John greeted Frank with a punch to the head. Henry placed Trapper under tent arrest.An attractive head nurse arrived at camp, Major Margaret O'Houlihan. She and Major Burns hit it right off. That night while they do the naughty business, Radar places a microphone under the bed while Hawkeye tampered with the P.A. system so the entire camp heard Margaret and Frank making whoopee; Hawkeye couldn't help but tease a humiliated Frank, who attacked him. After that, Frank was carted off to the funny farm; Captain Walter Painless Pole Waldowski was in a mess. He was a well equipt dentist and on this day, he was depressed, as well as impotent. He wanted to commit suicide, but Hawkeye had a plan to help change his mind. It involved a black capsule placebo and a very attractive nurse; Life around M*A*S*H can be pretty boring, so Hawkeye, Duke, Trapper, and the guys had to make their own fun. They did so by pulling away the wall to the women's shower and seeing Margaret in her birthday suit. She went screaming to Blake, but he could care less; Hawkeye and Trapper are chosen to go to Tokyo and help a congressman's son. They cause an uproar at the ward, take in a golf game, and return.General Charlie Hammond visits the 4077 camp. He is an avid football fan, which gave Hawkeye an idea they form their own football team, plus they send for the ultimate ringer Captain Oliver Harmon Spearchucker Jones. He got his nickname not because of his race, but because he used to throw the javelin. The game was on. Gen. Hammond's team was in the lead, but after half-time, when they brought in Spearchucker, the M*A*S*H team mopped the floor with them. Finally, the game was over. M*A*S*H won by three points; Before long, orders came to Henry Blake, stating that Hawkeye and Duke could go home. Needless to say they were overjoyed. Hawkeye bid a heartfelt fare well to Trapper, then he and Duke board the same Jeep they came in, and headed North.Well, what can I say about M*A*S*H? It's a good movie. A very good movie, but it's also very weird. It was made in the very late '60s and early '70s, and it reflects the culture of that era. It seems more like the Vietnam War than the Korean War. I wonder why they chose the latter? Vietnam would've made more sense. Donald Sutherland is Hawkeye Pierce, Elliott Gould is Trapper John, Tom Skerritt is Duke Forrest, Sally Kellerman is Margaret O'Houlihan, Robert Duvall is Frank Burns, Roger Bowen is Henry Blake, Gary Burghoff is Radar, and Rene Auberjonois is Father Dago Red Mulcahy. All very good in their roles ; As you know, in 1972, M*A*S*H became a hit TV series which ran 11 years. Gary Burghoff is the only actor from the movie to also star on the TV show. Alan Alda plays Hawkeye, Wayne Rogers plays Trapper, MacLean Stevenson plays Blake, now here's something ironic MacLean Stevenson died February 15, 1996 from a heart attack, and the very next day Roger Bowen died of the same thing. Everyone else is alive and well, except G. Wood who passed on in 2000; Many actors got their starts in this movie. It's directed by Robert Altman who had a tendency to make bizarre movies. He also directed Popeye in 1980, a very good movie. Anyway, if you're in the mood for a comical war movie, I recommend M*A*S*H, but it isn't an action movie. You want a war action movie, rent Patton. M*A*S*H is a realistic depiction of Army hospitals in wartime. If you like Robert Altman or the M*A*S*H TV series or if you've never seen it, then by all means see M*A*S*H The Movie. It's funny, it's serious, it's weird. I think people of this generation may not get this movie, but those who were alive during the Vietnam War will enjoy it the most. Rated PG for bad language, violence, and nudity. There was also a Rated R version, which wasn't much different. See M*A*S*H today. That is all.- "},{"Title":"More comedy than horror of war","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Having been familiar with the TV series for years I never made the effort to see the 1970 movie.  Now having seen it I can say that it is a total scream.The movie doesn't have much of a plot, but is a good example of how a group of people try to survive amid the horror of war by essentially goofing off. The football scene was a riot I thought.Also the casting was perfect for the choice of actors involved.Not bad perhaps a little dated but still goodRating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Showing things as they were","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Many of the comments comment on how the film was great and the TV series was funny but not great. The main reason for this is that the TV series had 25 running minutes and yet ran for 11 years, things get watered down after a while.What many people fail to realize is, that the description in the movie of how the conditions in the Korean war were are not all that wrong. i am in the situation that both my parents participated in the war, my mother as a nurse on a hospital ship and my father as the ships engineer (this is where they met).Their descriptions of what they saw out there, even in the watered down version that they are willing to tell are..... well.A brief summary of the war, all the movement took place during the first apx. 10 months, first the South Koreans and the resident US forces where pushed almost into the sea and where locked in a small enclave around Pusan on the south coast. Then they pushed the North Koreans and their Russian allies to the Yalu river that markes the border to China. They where then pushed back to the 38th. paralell, where it all started. Then the forces remained locked in a trench war for more than 2 years never moving very far in relation to the 38th parallel.The humor depicted in the movie while tough and very brutal at times, witness Spearchuckers comment as Haweye tells Duke that their ordes have come through and they are going home Do you mind if we get out of this guys brain first!, Or Trapper Johns comment when he is first offered a martini in the Swamp upon arrival What, no olives, you can't have a martini without olives, whereupon he proceeds to pull a glass of olives from his GI parka.These are the little details that make the film great.it is a film that you can see again and again and always find something new to enjoy. "},{"Title":"It Brought On Many Changes","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" You know you're in for something very odd when the theme song is named Suicide is Painless.This is, inexplicably, considered an anti-war movie, as only a viewer who has never actually seen one could describe it (and what Altman said about his own work doesn't sway me - he outfoxed himself). On the contrary, the whole story is about the love of the war, of the situation that allows the hijinks to exist in the first place. If you doubt it, ask yourself Is there is single serious moment here? Nope, it's insouciant from front to back, and therein lies its magic -- the ability to sustain the surreal tone.Note how there are four narratives at work. There is what we see, tailored to the idea of new cinema, including the nudity for comic effect. Note also the arrangement of the doctors, a la Da Vinci's The Last Supper in the 'black capsule' scene.Not quite in line with this is what we hear. This is trickier, because there's an effect intended by the juxtaposition of unrelated film footage with audio, mostly dialogue. This is encapsulated on a smaller scale in the 'Hot Lips' scene - the idea that we're listening in with the aid of a microphone and PA.The third is the juxtaposition of football and band music, reviving the idea of silent film-era slapstick humor.And fourth, the simultaneously omniscient and clueless PA announcements, revealing that this is all about the making of itself, later adopted in The Player, for example.This the necessary precursor to Animal House, Caddyshack and Stripes, among others. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Movies Of The Sixties And Seventies","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I have this excellent film in my library at home and am puzzled by some of the comments and observations, not to mention some of the dialog in the actual movie itself! The late David Arkin played the hapless STAFF Sgt Bulmer, and the character in the original script was assigned as STAFF Sgt, but I detected 2 arcs below the 3 chevrons, making him Sgt 1st Class by my calculation. Also the Lt.Col. referred to his squeeze, the lovely and equally late Indus Arthur,on more than one occasion as Captain when according to the script and the observations of this site, she was Lt. I first saw this movie in Britain in 1970 and can remember the section where Hawkeye spoke to a TV camera about life in war torn Korea, and remember his speech being a bit longer. It may have been cut during the US version as there were sensitivities due to the war in Vietnam. Having stated this it was an excellent film and was far superior to the consequential TV series. "},{"Title":"Overrated, overhyped, nonsense","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I don't actually hate this movie--there are a few parts that are watchable.  The problem I have with it is that it's just not very funny--as a black comedy or otherwise.  While the place is littered with good actors, they aren't really given a chance to create much in the way of characters.  The parts are very sparsely drawn and in fact there are too many of them.  I had to watch the movie several times just to keep them all straight--but even then, most seem to never really transcend the level of basic childishness. I tend to think of this as Animal House in Korea, except not very funny.  At least the former was hilarious and without pretense of being about something socially significant.  The movie lacks a plot, not that everyone needs one, but it needs to replace it with something worth watching.  In fact a number of reviewers have mentioned the football game near the end, I can only believe they threw it in not because of any real plot necessity but because they ran out of things to have happen.  I also have a hard time with this as a war movie, or even an anti war movie.  Mostly because there's no war in it.  These guys seem to be having one big party--they have access to women, booze, cars (jeeps), and even get a pick up football game together complete with cheerleaders.  This is war?  Yeah, they have to go into surgery once in a while and it's bloody--isn't that what surgery is all about though?  And compare that to the guys several miles in front of them, where they're sleeping in trenches and mud, having bombs go off around them and people shooting at them.  Hard for me to have a lot of sympathy for some overgrown children with martinis and nurses.War may indeed be hell, but in this movie its more like a frat party.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant original theme -- but has its limits","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Surgeons in the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (MASH) keep their moral up by one-upmanship and practical jokes.They say that history is always distorted because it is always viewed the wrong way. Why should film history be any different? Certainly people viewing the film after the television series may be left a little short changed. Back in 1970 people had never seen Animal House high jinx being interspersed with bloody operations and the realities of war.On a score of originality it scores a near ten and I give half the credit to the film simply because it was made. If the book had been a flop it would have been pulped and made in another failed novel, while a failed film carries a lot more risk. An indication that Hollywood still has its worthy moments.As the stars are not in any great physical danger, the war seems to be viewed in abstract. A background detail that gets in the way of drinking, women chasing and deflating of egos. While this is a message picture the message is not pushed down your throats, indeed it plays out like a prison picture where the male prisoners have access to the luxuries of life, but cannot escape the barracks and the barbed wire.The film took Gould and Sutherland up a notch, and they work together well because they are a team. You can imagine one of them starting a sentence and other finishing it. By deed of being surgeons they can buck authority (what can they do to them - send them home?), but that point is weakened by authority never being portrayed as overbearing or over competent.Certainly it is sexist and more so as the  years pass by. The humiliation of women they don't like being by far the most objectionable. Get me a nurse who won't get her tits in the way, barks Gould at one point. While not a expert on surgical procedure I seem to detect (on TV documentaries)  that it is team work with everyone having a role and the respect of the others. Here women are instrument passers and brow-moppers rather than respected team players.The TV series that followed became an institution and, as I have said before, will never allow the film to be viewed in the same way again. The series allowed a certain amount of soap opera and repeating themes. Comforting tools that blunts the central message. The main thing that follows from the movie is that the male stars must always have the last laugh or come out on top. The main flaw in the movie is that it has nowhere to go and nothing to climax on. Naturally the war could end and they could all go home, but maybe that would have been a cop out? In the end they came up with a comic football game, which is as abstract to the central theme of the movie as anybody could get. For an important ground breaking film to have such a device seems almost disrespectful, but the more I think about it the more I can't help thinking that they couldn't do any better. Nothing would fit.  A quiet anti-climax, but it is a quiet anti-war film. "},{"Title":"M*A*S*H (1970) Directed by Robert Altman","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  There are very few film-makers that could arguably be referred to as masters of their trade, and even less films that can justifiably be known as great. But M*A*S*H is one of those rarities that happens to have both of these aspects... and then some. Although (sadly) it is better known as a long-running television series, the film is an absolute treat that has gained a reputation among fans and critics as one of the best American movies of all time. Blending equal measures of black comedy and political satire, it was an extremely daring film upon the time of its release that remains just as brutally honest today as it was thirty years ago. Even more impressive is the fact that it's an anti-war movie in which not a single bullet is fired -- unless you count the gun that goes off during the ending football game, leading to one of the film's biggest laughs as Hot Lips screams, Oh my God! They've shot him!, to which Colonel Blake replies, Hot Lips, you incredible nincompoop! It's the end of the quarter! But despite the fact that it's labeled a comedy, the film leaves you with a bittersweet feeling that isn't easily shaken off; and despite the fact that it's known as a Vietnam movie (which is only half-true), it has a universal tone that makes it truly timeless. As a matter of fact, before it was released, director Robert Altman attempted to get by without any mention to the fact that it took place during the Korean war, which would have caused his audiences to treat it as a commentary on the war in Vietnam. But Fox deemed this concept too politically risque and forced Altman to include a KOREA title card following the opening credits. This wasn't the only problem Fox had with the film, though when Altman was attempting to assemble his footage, the powers-that-be saw only a number of disconnected vignettes featuring indiscernible overlapping dialogue and rather explicit operating sequences. Even the cast of the film was reported as saying, Altman is going to ruin our careers! But Altman knew what he was doing, and after including tie-in shots of hysterical announcements over a speakerphone, he had completed a masterpiece that would go on to make movie, television, and social history. Just how great is this film, you might ask? So great that it's impossible to do justice to it in just a few paragraphs. Although Altman made some (arguably) better films -- most notably Nashville and Mcabe and Mrs. Miller -- M*A*S*H is his most important AND his most influential. It's at once comical and tragic, absurdly funny and nostalgic, and -- contrary to their initial reactions -- it launched the careers of some of Hollywoods most renowned actors. Simply put, it was one of the most quintessential pictures of the seventies, and it remains a cult-classic gem that is -- and always will be -- an absolute pleasure to watch.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"War Chest Not Complete W/O MASH","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Completely different from the TV series. The acting is much better and the characters are much more like real people in a real invironment rather than cartoon characters in a real environment (as was the TV series). And no, there won't be a Alan Alda anti-war-like letter home to Dad. You'll have to figure out what's going on yourself. I was a child of the '70's so I appreciate subtle dark humour. Those were dark days, after all. Vietnam is the war they are really talking about in MASH, not Korea. Korea is just the excuse. The military is depicted exactly as they are...without any regard to common sense, only Army sense. The acting, again, is top drawer from top to bottom. Duvall, Kellerman, Skerritt, Sutherland, Gould in perhaps his best role. It's great work. Of course the DVD is much better, everything's left in. But don't expect the TV show, Thank God.    "},{"Title":"Great, but takes a stupid turn near the end that harms the overall product","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I loved nearly every moment of MASH. It balanced its drama and comedy quite perfectly. The acting was great and the characters were well developed. This is also one of the few episodic movies which works well. Episodic films usually become tedious. Every episode in MASH is entertaining and works towards developing its characters and its mood. My only complaint, which was originally going to be a small one, but as it went on and on and on, it became a big enough problem to knock the film down a notch in my opinion the football sequence. This sequence goes on for nearly twenty minutes, and occupies most of the last moments of the film. Before this, the film kept getting better and better as it went on. Then, with the football game, it hit an insurmountable wall. The one thing this film did not need was  a sports finale. Everything seems to depend on the game, even though absolutely nothing does depend on it. I was interested in the characters, and during the game, I couldn't even tell which one was which. Therefore, I could have cared less about what was happening here. I became terribly bored, almost to the point of fast forwarding through this sequence. To boot, Hot Lips becomes insufferably annoying and uncharacteristically bimbonic as she dresses up as a cheerleader. We were told in a previous scene that Hot Lips rebuked the others for playing football, so it seemed unlikely to me that she would turn into a cheerleader.I was praying that the film would not end at the end of the game, and luckily, it didn't. It does have a rather classy ending, as I would expect from Altman. The credit sequence is very unique, kind of like the end of Welles' Magnificent Ambersons or Altman's own opening credits for his greatest masterpiece, Nashville. I still give MASH a 9/10, but it should have been a 10/10, because it was going that way the entire picture. "}{"Title":"Suicide Ain't Painless","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The multi-character anti-narrative mosaic was invented with MASH. I've coined that ridiculous phrase myself, but how else do you describe what Altman's created here? Let's examine the ingredients. Firstly, Altman constructs a self-contained environment. In Gosford Park it was a country estate, in The Company it was a ballet school, in Prairie Home Companion it was a theatre and in Short Cuts it was nothing less than the city of Los Angeles. In MASH Altman constructs a mobile army field hospital, with functioning roads, helicopter landing pads, tents, barracks, mess halls and a make shift golf course.His environment created, Altman then inserts his cast. But rather than give us a comfortable 3-act story, Altman has his characters interact, seemingly spontaneously, within his giant set. And so within this huge environment little mini narratives play out, the audience having to work hard to pick out the subtle character arcs and personality traits, Altman's camera floating back and forth, catching bits of dialogue and fragments of story. In a sense, it's up to the audience to synthesize the story and turn it into a cohesive whole.This seemingly haphazard way of storytelling is further highlighted by Altman's love for overlapping dialogue, shapeless scripts and his willingness to let his casts improvise. And beyond this you then have the typical self-referential Altman layer, in which the act of preparing, improvising and putting on a performance is mirrored to the act of preparing, improvising and creating Altman's film. (Almost all of Altman's films revolve around large groups of people getting together and putting on a show. In MASH this performance within a performance takes the form of an operating theatre, football game, peep show and radio sex act).But what separates MASH from Altman's other films is how joyously rebellious it all is. Altman has always been a filmmaker with a strong anti-establishment streak (one of his first films, a parody called Pot au Feu, was a cooking show which presented the recipe for a cannabis joint), but never has he been this wacky and irreverent. Wounded soldiers are airlifted to the tune of Suicide is painless, and the cast seems to go to great lengths to be as sexist, misogynistic, anti-religious (in one neat scene at a table, they strike the pose of Da Vinci's Last Supper), anti-establishment and gory as possible.But it's the juxtaposition between the film's playful sense of anarchy and its gory hospital scenes that is Altman's very point. These are characters so engulfed by the madness of war that their only means of coping is to lose their minds in as controlled a way of possible. You might say that their antics are precisely how they cope with their environment.But just how anti-establishment is MASH and is it right to call it an anti war film? In an essay comparing Full Metal Jacket to MASH, philosopher Slavoj Zizek deemed MASH Altman's most conformist film. For all their practical jokes, jabs at authority and sexual escapades, the MASH crew perform their duty with maverick-like efficiency. They are no threat to the smooth running of the military machine.In other words, this very detachment, the ability of MASH's cast to adopt a persona of cynicism, practical jokes and mockery - to view themselves as existing outside the system - is itself modern ideology. As to give oneself completely over to ideology, to revoke one's Self in favour of a one dimensional military persona (Hot Lips, Pvt Pyle) is itself a suicidal act, working ideology requires the subject to retain a kernel of individuality, whereby he views himself as being external or opposed to the system he inhabits.While Altman prides himself on being the great deconstructor of genre, Zizek cites Full Metal Jacket as a deconstruction of Altman. Altman's sex acts and attacks on women and religion become the institutionalised acts of Kubrick's Sgt Hartman, religion upheld, femininity denigrated and sex transposed to violence. While Altman has one troop seek and then reject suicide as a cure for his sexual impotency, Kubrick flips this by having a young cadet embrace suicide as the logical outcome of his own sexual over-identification with the military. Altman's cast may get a slap on the wrist for toying with a Christian trooper, but when Pvt Joker denies the Virgin Mary, Kubrick is careful to counter violent punishment with a swift promotion. Significantly, the second part of Kubrick's film ends with a scene in which Joker, a character seemingly plucked straight out of MASH, shoots a wounded Vietcong sniper girl. Far from an outsider, Kubrick reveals Joker as the fully constituted military subject. In other words, an ideological identification exerts a true hold on us precisely when we maintain an awareness that we are not fully identical to it. By joking, by seeing themselves as opposed to military ideology, the MASH boys are creating a human space that thwarts their own suicidal self destruction. And what is suicide but total identification; the giving of the Self totally to ideology.Kubrick was a big Altman fan, and cast Mathew Modine in Full Metal Jacket based on his performance in Altman's military drama Streamers. But what's interesting is that Kubrick's last war film (its an anti anti war film film) is, on one level, a response to the ineffectual rebellion of something like MASH or Catch 22. For all their antics, Altman's cast are simply school boys making noise in between lessons.Interestingly, while Altman's film ends with an overlong football match, Kubrick filmed but then removed a sequence from Full Metal Jacket in which his marines play football with a sniper's decapitated head.8/10 &#x96; Though it's more a carnival show than a comment on war, MASH is still lots of fun. The film's irreverence has lost some of its bite (1st major film to use the F word), but should nevertheless appeal to those with a macabre sense of humour. "},{"Title":"Raunchy then, politically incorrect now...","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" ...M*A*S*H, the movie, was Robert Altman's precise and masterful adaptation of a book by H. Richard Hornberger, who wrote under the pseudonym Richard Hooker. Hornberger earned a medical degree from Cornell University's Graduate School of Medical Sciences, specialized in surgery, and served as a doctor with the 8055th Mobile Army Surgical Hospital during the Korean conflict. After the war, he worked briefly in a veterans' hospital before opening a surgical practice in Waterville, Maine, which he maintained until his retirement in 1988. His war experiences were the basis for his novel, M*A*S*H.The movie should not be compared to the television series. It was faithful to the book which came first. The television series came about only as a result of the success of the movie, but by necessity became a completely different entity.  "},{"Title":"M*A*S*H A Title Sewn Into Our National Fabric","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  M*A*S*H is the original film of 1970 which was a smash hit both critically and commercially and of course spawned the popular television series which lasted a decade and received a whopping 99 Emmy nominations over its run. The film is the subject of this review and no doubt M*A*S*H is one of the best films of the 1970s. It is a black comedy in every sense of that term. Surgeons in the Korean War try to survive the horrors associated with combat by not taking anything too seriously. Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould and Tom Skeritt are the primary surgeons whose parts are followed in M*A*S*H. The ensemble cast includes the likes of Sally Kellerman (Oscar-nominated), Robert Duvall, David Arkin, Rene Auberjonois, Michael Murphy, Bud Cort and former NFL star Fred The Hammer Williamson (remembered most for being knocked out of Super Bowl I). Then-current NFL stars Ben Davidson, Fran Tarkenton and Joe Kapp participated in the football game scenes. Screenwriter Ring Lardner, Jr. won the Best Adapted Screenplay Oscar in 1970 even though most of the film was ad libbed on the spot. Robert Altman was nominated in the directing category and he is remembered more for this film than any other. On a special note, Gary Burghoff, who played Radar, was the only performer to appear in both the movie and the television series. 4.5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"I prefer the TV series","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I hate to be a wet noodle, in contrast to most of the other comments, but I didn't see the film until after I'd seen a couple of seasons of the TV series. By that time, only Alan Alda could be Hawkeye, etc. The characters in the film make more fun of the patients than they did on TV. The only character that came through pretty much the same was Sally Kellerman's Hot Lips Houlihan. She and Loretta Swit must have gone to the same acting school. I was unable to identify with the film characters as much as I had already connected with the TV characters of mostly the same names. Now don't get me wrong...this film is very good and has many memorable scenes in it. I just saw the film a lot later than many others did and that has affected my review. "},{"Title":"Misogynist, not pacifist","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I'd always heard that MASH was a great anti-war film. So I was shocked to find out, when I saw it, that it was really much more interested in making fun of the female characters than in saying anything about war. Frat boys around the country will recognize their own immaturity when Hawkeye plants a microphone in Houlihan's tent to broadcast her cries when she has sex with Burns. In probably the most blatantly sexist bit of dialogue I've ever heard, Trapper John, when he's flown to another unit to help out, demands a steak and a nurse who won't get her tits in my way!, to which an inexplicably unoffended nurse replies, How do you want your steak cooked? Seemingly half the film is taken up by a dull football game in which the medics drug and otherwise cheat their opponents, while Houlihan is yet again held up as an object of ridicule for her foolish ignorance of the rules of the game. I can't figure out why everyone thinks this dopey comedy was such a noble commentary on the Vietnam war. "},{"Title":"Hard-hitting political thriller by a B-movie master","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The movie starts out full-throttle with blaring R&B music and still photos of the 1960 radical student protest movement behind the opening titles. As the film begins, Trapper John McIntyre, a journalist for a trade paper, is investigating clandestine arms sales to Southeast Asia. He discovers that the point man in the illegal arms trading ('Me Lai' Marston, played with nihilistic menace by Bobby Troup) was also involved in the cover-up of a murder on an American base during the Allied Occupation. The film rolls along as a suspenseful thriller while offering a critique of political corruption, hypocrisy, and journalistic cowardice in wartime Corea.MASH is propelled by skillful editing and the bold cinematography shared by many American films of the early 1960's- each frame is composed for maximum impact. While the pacing is generally good, I thought it lagged a bit toward the end. As a number of viewers have commented on Japanese web sites, Robert Duvall's strong performance as the villain tends to overshadow the protagonist played by Donald Sutherland. Still, the film offers a rare combination of genre style, local color, and political critique. Robert Altman fans and viewers interested in the politics of wartime Corea should seek this out. "},{"Title":"Classic war comedy","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Having watched the television series in the seventies I was keen to see the original film, when I first watched it on television many years ago it seemed strange not to see the familiar cast however I enjoyed it enough to buy the DVD when I saw it on sale recently. I'm glad I bought it as it was even better than I remembered, causing me to laugh out loud several times.The film is fairly episodic but didn't seem any weaker for that. As it follows Capt. Hawkeye Pierce and his colleagues Trapper John McIntyre and Duke Forrest through their time at MASH 4077 during the Korean war. These doctors may have been drafted into the US Army but they have no time for military procedure. This aversion to the military way sets them at loggerheads with sticklers for the military way Majors Frank Burns and Margaret Hot Lips O'Houlihan. This is a conflict that can only end badly for the two majors. Other episodes involve a dentist who is convinced that his womanising ways were just a cover for latent homosexuality when he fails to perform with a nurse, a trip to Japan to perform surgery on a senator's son and a football match that is played in a less than sportsmanlike manner.The acting was great through out, making it hard to pick out any particular actor for praise although leads Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Tom Skerritt and Sally Kellerman as Hawkeye, Trapper John, Duke and Hot Lips really need mention as their characters carry the film. Robert Altman's directing style initially made it hard to get into as he had several characters talking at once which while realistic took some getting used to, once I'd got used to it however this style gave a realistic feel to the film even during some of the more slap-stick moments. "},{"Title":"The Definition of Organized Insanity","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Once that now famous and haunting opening theme song, Suicide Is Painless, has finished playing, MASH bursts on to the screen in a blaze of sound and movement. It's a typical Altman film, and that's a huge compliment. It may not seem like anything special now, because his style has been so influential on all manner of present-day filmmakers, but at the time, audiences had never seen a major studio film whose ordering principle was mass chaos.Altman films have forever spoiled for me just a tiny bit all other carefully framed, carefully constructed conventional films, because his movies feel so alive in a way that other films don't. MASH is gloriously crazy, with all of the actors talking over one another and no apparent thought given to the framing of scenes. Altman has said that he wants his audiences to have to work at his movies. You have to decide what you want to listen to and who you want to watch, because virtually every character in the frame at any given moment is doing or saying something that's no less important than what some other character is doing or saying. But don't be fooled. Altman may have claimed innocence in imposing any kind of directorial hand on his material, but his films are as craftily constructed as any other. MASH begins with a montage of wounded soldiers being delivered to the medical unit for treatment, and one of the last shots of the film shows a dead body wrapped in a bright white sheet being driven through the MASH unit while in the foreground a group of doctors play cards, pausing only momentarily to glance at the sight. The message is clear. This casual framing approach that in a sense brings the story back to where we started tells us that there is an organizing principle to the lunacy and madness, and that principle is death.MASH feels more like an adaptation of Joseph Heller's novel Catch-22 than the Mike Nichols film that was actually based on the book, which ironically came out the same year as MASH. And I have to say that, unlike many other films that lose their lustre after many years and many viewings, MASH gets funnier every time I see it. I think there are better Altman films, and more important ones, but few are are such damn fun.Grade A "},{"Title":"Brilliant, scathing humor underscores the futility of war.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  After reading some of the other user comments on M*A*S*H, it appears that there are two distinct camps--those who love the movie and hate the TV show, and those who loved the TV show and hate the movie.  I admit to being in the first group--I saw the movie when it was first released, and the TV M*A*S*H was a big disappointment.  The film version had more bite to it...the humor was darker, the satire sharper, the characters more real and less cartoonish than in the TV series.  The movie M*A*S*H got its point across without sloppy sentimentality or becoming preachy the way the TV series sometimes did.  Everything about this movie was cutting edge, and that is why it still seems fresh 30 years after it was made.  If you haven't seen the film version, I highly recommend it.  I rate this right up there with Dr. Strangelove as being one of the best anti-war films ever made. "},{"Title":"Mistake In My Review Below...!!!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Readers of even minimal intelligence will notice that I have written about the director Robert Aldrich below when I of course meant Robert ALTMAN.  No - it wasn't a test - it was because I am stupid...  Sometimes.  I apologise for any untoward stress I may have been the harbinger of.  Now please enjoy the review below remembering to substitute in the right director's name.  Ta! "}{"Title":"What a cracking movie! Profundity WITHOUT coercion...!!!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  What with all the hoo-haw about Gosford Park and Aldrich being 'back to his best', I decided to sit through a re-run of MASH to see what all the fuss was about.  I'd seen it years ago and - to tell you the truth - I just didn't get it.  But now I'm older, wiser and - to certain myopic women - sexier and I do get it...  I think!MASH is a 'simple' story of an American medical unit doing their utmost to survive their displacement to the Far East during the Korean War  And it is excellent.Aldrich creates an anarchic environment based around two maverick, irreverent surgeons (Gould and Sutherland - both outstanding) in which war is viewed as an aberration not just because of the fatal cost to human life; but also (and equally) the prescient cost to everyday life!  That people have to forego natural pleasures and passions in order to extricate innocent people from political malaise.  As a satire it works wonderfully and almost appears apolitical.  It regards war as a pain in the posterior and in doing so profoundly highlights it's pathetic nature.  To say MASH is an anti-war film though is to totally miss the point.  MASH is an anti-authority movie and the blame for war is clearly placed (with constant doses of undiluted ridicule) at the feet of those in the various seats of power.To aid this 'apolitical' appeal, Aldrich utilizes a hilarious, ingenious and surreptitiously powerful script in harmony with a host of novel, enlightening and liberating cinematic devices (cross-over dialogue; distancing camera work; off-beat points-of view perspectives and an inspired end-credits device) which enable the actors to 'be' and not so much 'perform'.  This elicits an ensemble display of faultless believability in which there is ne'er a false note.Of the films many highlights along it's episodic narrative, mention must go to the collection of operating scenes (a quarter of a century before ER!) shot in perfectly believable detail and in which is anchored the 'horror of war' note; and the hilarious gridiron game which, despite it's potential (and surely many lesser director's temptation) to 'slapstick' out, remains firmly rooted in the land of truth and (perhaps because of this honesty) still manages to provoke uproarious laughter.MASH is a film that doesn't take it's subject too seriously.  What it does take seriously is the art of film-making (in all its composite forms) and because of this integrity, it never fails to be anything less than a courageous servant to the subject it espouses.  Oh that more films (especially about subjects like war and politics) could see the Hollywood for the trees!    "},{"Title":"MASH has taken a lot of undeserved heat","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  MASH goes down as one of the greatest war movies of all time.  Most people have complained that it is too disjointed in its presentation, but how many people have read the preceding novel?  The novel is ten to twelve story lines that are almost like vignettes.  The whole point was not to follow a set story, simply because, what war follows a set story?The movie set out to humor you and gross you out at the same time, and it most definitely succeeded in my case.  I found the antics to be hysterical, and the surgery scenes to harrowingly realistic.  These doctors needed a form of entertainment to keep themselves out of the rubber trucks and straitjackets, and to most rationale people, this is understandable.Robert Altman has taken a lot of crap for being a Pacifist.  However, those who label him as that by virtue of this movie are entirely missing the point.  It has nothing to do with hating war, it has everything to do with the question of Why are we here fighting this war that has nothing to do with us or our country?  That was the question that was being presented to us during the Vietnam War in the context of Korea, which was less than 20 years before this film was released.  People must see it in context to judge it for what it is.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A great satire!!!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Overall this is a great movie even  if not all of the jokes are  funny  anymore.It´s a satire with excellent castDonald Sutherland Elliott Gould and Tom Skerritt.It´s hilarious(even if not all of the jokes are funny)and I think that if you like to laugh you should  see this!!!  Rating4,5 out of 5  "},{"Title":"IF YOU ARE UNDECIDED ABOUT WATCHING M*A*S*H READ MY COMMENT","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about M*A*S*H.I admit, I think this movie is overrated, but it's not as bad as some of the other commenters make it out to be. Some criticize it for not having much of a plot. That's true, this movie is more like a series of sketches with a few common tie-ins. But when a movie is funny enough, it doesn't need an omniscient plot, and I think M*A*S*H pulls it off nicely.Some commenters said that the football scene was unnecessary and long. I agree - what is a football scene doing in a movie that is supposedly about war? Speaking of which, I have also heard that this movie isn't as anti-war as one might hope. This is also true - war is moreso portrayed as a place where fun-loving surgeons can goof off. I have heard the rebuttal that the surgeons goof off to distract their minds from the horrors of war, but I find that hard to believe, as the surgeons don't seem too shocked or disturbed by what goes on in the operating room.However, I would have to disagree with the critics who claim that the surgeons are unfairly cruel to Frank Burns and Hot Lips. I think the problem is that these commenters have the image of Frank Burns in the TV show in their heads - a no-nonsense guy who works hard on his job. In the movie, however, Frank is described as a bad surgeon; it is said that whenever his patients die, Frank blames it on God's will; there is also a scene where Frank blames the death of a soldier on a new orderly. Also, the prank on Frank (hey, that rhymes) is not particularly cruel - Frank is embarrassed, but soon he is discharged from the army and gets to go home.Also, in many movies involving the actual battles in war, there is always a hard@$$ general who is strict to the soldiers and always goes BY THE BOOK. In M*A*S*H there is no difference - Hot Lips is that strict general, just with a different occupation. That's why the surgeons don't like her (along with her association with Frank Burns). I don't think anyone questioned the quality of the acting in this movie - there are great performances by the entire cast. Finally, some people commented that they didn't think M*A*S*H was funny, but funniness is very objective. I thought it was pretty funny, but I don't know if you will.M*A*S*H does have its faults, but if you ignore all the hype, this is a pretty good rent. IMHO, it is overrated, however. I mean, #6 on the AFI's list on the funniest films ever? #56 on the AFI's list of the best films ever? Nominated for 5 Oscars, including best picture, best director, and best supporting actress? I think that's pushing the quality of this movie a bit. I'll let you decide whether to rent this movie based on my comments and everyone else's. "},{"Title":"Great adaption of a great book","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This is such a wonderful, strict and honest adaption of Hooker's book I'm surprised that Altman stayed away from literary adaptions for such a long time after he made this. I wish Duke had been a major part of the series, as well as Spearchucker. This is a much more liberal, real world than the series. It horrifies me when a series fan is so disdainful of the film.Why they don't like it, I'll never understand. Robert Duvall as Major Burns is the all-time perfect casting! "},{"Title":"No words I could say could do this film justice.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  But I'll try anyways. First off, if you saw the show before you saw the movie (like me), you'll probably be used to Alan Alda etc. and may have a bit of a hard time adjusting to the original portrayals. But, give it a chance and you'll have a great time all the way through. I loved this film from start to finish, it didn't fault at all in my opinion. Very few comedies compare to the hilarity of Mystery Science Theater 3000 The Movie, but this film along with a few others such as The Producers do. This is also, in my opinion, the greatest war film ever made, blending the horror of war with comedy to make an unbeatable film. A complete joy ride, one of the best. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I am a little biased. MASH is my second favorite tv show of all time, but this predecessor is really an eye opener. Showing in detail the inner workings of a front lines medical unit, it is a little more gory then the tv series. But looked at from a movie standpoint, it was quite a ground breaking movie. The overlapping dialog, the way the film cuts away to a different scene in the middle of a conversation to give the scene more impact, and the indepth characters. War is terrible, but this shows how some people managed to keep their sanity, in one of the most diabolical ways to separate a person from reality, by playing pranks, and using their wit and quips. Based on the novel of a real life MASH surgeon, this movie is a testament to the human spirit, and a must see. "},{"Title":"WARNING Original unit is MIA","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I was delighted when this title was first released on DVD several years ago. With the original rating (R) and the original length (116 min.), the DVD was finally going to let me re-experience the version I saw when MASH was originally released to theaters (as opposed to the 1973 PG reissue, at 112 min.) Imagine my disappointment after I bought the DVD and discovered that it was still altered from the original theatrical version. The giveaway was the suicide scene wherein Lieutenant Dish resuscitates Painless. On disk, instead of seeing Dish and Painless having sex in his coffin, we see a long shot of the outside of the tent, as they emit love-making noises on the soundtrack.Fool me once, fool me twice. I found the Blu-ray disk on sale this week for $10, and even though I was aware that it would likely be no better regarding completeness than the DVD, I bet a sawbuck on it anyway. My premonition was correct, it's the same expurgated version on BD as on DVD.Since I haven't seen the director's cut in four decades, and given the unavailability of a complete version, I've given MASH a low rating here. I'll give it a true rating if and when I obtain a true copy. "},{"Title":"A True comedy classic","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M*A*S*H is considered one of the greatest comedy's of all time so naturally, I've been interested in seeing it. I've never watched the TV show so I wasn't familiar with the franchise. I wasn't sure if I was going to like this or not but after watching, boy was I shocked! Forty years on, this movie is still hilarious and fresh. I must say, I was surprised at how graphic it was. It really holds nothing back which is why it still resonates and holds up today. The characters aren't exactly relatable or loving. Hawkeye and Trapper are mischievous, anarchist characters. Hot Lips and Burns (played amazingly by Sally Kellerman and Robert Duval), represent hypocritical authority. Everyone else are a bunch of lunatics. At the same time though, the staff are serious when it comes to the work their doing of treating wounded soldiers during wartime. That's why this film is such a great balance; over the top humor mixed with a serious setting. Some of the funniest parts include -The sex scene -Hot Lips shower scene (a little shocking but funny) -The football scene.I highly recommend this movie to those who like black comedies that hold nothing back. Definitely one of the best films of all time. "},{"Title":"War isn't hell...it's a party!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Robert Altman cemented his name in the cinematic world with MASH, set during the Korean War but obviously alluding to the Vietnam War. The plot of course has Capt. Benjamin Franklin Hawkeye Pierce (Donald Sutherland) and Capt. John Francis Xavier Trapper John McIntyre (Elliott Gould) playing all sorts of pranks while on a military base in Korea. Whether it's the secretly planted microphone to broadcast a very embarrassing situation, the stolen/not stolen jeep, or other things, these guys know how to make their own rules.Now it's time to talk about the movie's one problem it was kind of sexist. I don't just mean what they did to Maj. Margaret Hot Lips O'Houlihan in what is probably the movie's most famous scene. It was overall, the fact that she was the one person who challenged them, and they wouldn't tolerate a woman challenging them, so they...well, in case you haven't seen the movie, I won't spoil it. But overall, MASH is a really good movie. "}{"Title":"If you don't get irony, don't watch this film....","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  M*A*S*H is intelligent, poignant, witty, occasionally superbly funny, and deeply ironic.  If you don't get irony, don't watch this film - but if you do, you're in for a treat.The casting is perfect, resulting in a blacker and more edgy texture than the TV series (which was excellent in its way, but less true to the books).  M*A*S*H (the book) is half way between the Marx Brothers and Catch-22, and this film does a remarkable job of capturing the essential absurdity of an army medical unit a group of people who exist principally to undo the effects of the rest of the army.  This film, although it has moments of knockabout farce, rarely lets you forget the cause of all this madness just over the hill, young men are killing each other for a cause they scarcely understand.I guess that those who saw the TV series with a laughter track may have different expectations from this film, but as a UK viewer who saw the TV series first mercifully free of canned laughter, and who had also read the book, I found this film was everything I expected and more.Required viewing for all those who have lost sight of the connection between foreign adventures and body bags. "},{"Title":"Better than the TV series","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I first saw MASH (the movie), unedited, late one night on a rather daring local TV station while the TV series was still in production.  I immediately saw how much better the movie was than the TV series. Not that the TV series didn't have some merit, but the movie is funnier, edgier, and gets its anti-war message across without spelling it out, which gives it greater impact. The TV show got very preachy during its run, and often seemed to forget it was supposed to be a comedy. The movie's comedy had an anti-authoritarian bent to it, which kept it from degenerating into complete farce or cheap laughs (which the TV series did--e.g. Klinger).But MASH isn't just better than its TV follow-up--it's a great movie in its own right. Thirty years later, it's still funny as hell. And the surgical sequences are still shocking--especially that sound as Hawkeye saws a through a bone, or the sight of that spraying artery. The overlapping dialogue, muted lighting, and the episodic plot (or lack thereof) still strike me as daring; few movies these days are willing to take those sorts of chances. This is one of the best comedies, and one of the best war movies, ever made. It was a pleasure watching again recently on DVD, which enriched the experience considerably--I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The show is better by quite a bit","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I wish that I had been born in about 1950 so that I could have seen this film before the TV show ever existed.  However, being a huge fan of the TV show and born in 1975 means that I am probably disadvantaged in rendering a truly unbiased opinion about the flic. I do think the movie was funny and cutting, as the TV show is.  And I was fascinated to learn the words to that peaceful theme tune for MASH is Suicide is Painless.  That cracked me up. I didn't like Sutherland as much as Alan Alda but I did like Robert Duvall as Father Mulcahy.  It was cool to see Radar.  It would have been nice to see Klinger.  And Hot Lips was great too.  This film doesn't even take war seriously-that is, Altman is so anti-war that he doesn't even deem it worthy of really tough satire.  It is more of a series of michievous events by people who are bored during a war. The soldiers get up to the usual hanky panky and this is the sort of side of the army that a less daring filmmaker might not have made.It is probably not the side of the army that the army wants you to see.  All kinds of hijinx in attempt to stave off boredom.  I must say that I prefer the TV show but one can see where the inspiration for the TV show came from.  "},{"Title":"Attention! Attention! The greatest movie of all time! That is all.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  The academy award winning masterpiece MASH, which inspired the Emmy award winning television series, takes on a cynical, but yet sarcastic attitude toward the dark and depressing Korean war. Starring Donald Sutherland, Tom Skeritt and Elliott Gould, these three men should have all won best actor awards for their memorable and hilarious performances that used witty, and sometimes outrageous comedy (Painless suicide attempt due to homosexual feelings).Unlike the other classic black comedies of its time such as Dr. Strangelove, MASH uses every day life to cope with the horrors of a military hospital three miles from the front line. In Strangelove, the war is the main focus and is dealt with through most of the film.MASH depicts the life of young military surgeons and their witty, smart-ass antics they use to keep their normal way of life going. In one of his most famous roles, Donald Sutherland plays Captain Hawkeye Pierce, a former college football player from the East coast, who was drafted into the Army for the purpose of his medical skills, and not his skills as a regular Army officer. Remembering his college football days, he recalls the (in)famous game he played against his fellow surgeon, Captain Trapper John McIntyre, another East coast Yankee. These two, along with the somewhat devious Captain Duke Forrest, this makes for the ultimate buddy movie.Director Robert Altman's use of a dark, dirty camp used for an Army hospital just shows that no matter how much you like the people around you, your surroundings control the mood of the situation. An excellent script along with even better acting makes this Oscar-winning film a timeless classic! "},{"Title":"The Greatest","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This is the greatest movie. It should have won best picture. I laughed my head off the whole time. Donald Sutherland was brilliant in this movie. The rest of the cast was spectacular. Robert altman did a great job directing this movie. I give it 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Did Hawkeye steal that jeep?","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" As a teacher of critical viewing of film, I ended this school year with a unit of films of social commentary and chose this film as the final installment for the course. To the kids, it was a revelation. None of them had ever imagined you could do such an anti war film with so much humor. At first they were having trouble following it because of the overlapping dialogue and because this generation is just not oriented to listening. Viewing it with captions helped and as soon as they got into the plot, they were hooked completely. They especially loved the fake suicide scene and found the singing of the song with such jaunty style while a man was supposedly killing himself, hilarious. But even though I've found modern day kids love to laugh and adore silly, they did get the deeper issues and many of them picked it for their favorite movie. The best comment I had was from a particularly astute sophomore who said that the comedy was just 'there'. It didn't have to be forced down your throat like comedies of today. After a year of teaching this course and finding out to my sadness that the modern teen has no taste, no background and very little sophistication when it comes to film, I feel that exposing them in an educational way to these movie classics not only enhances their appreciation of film, but of the world in general. "},{"Title":"Timeless classic","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M*A*S*H is one of my all-time favorite movies. I so was hooked on this film from when I first saw it in the theater on it's initial theatrical release that I went back to see it several more times and I very seldom will do that with a movie. I've probably seen this in it's entirety at least a dozen times on TV alone and whenever I'm channel surfing and stumble across a showing of it I'll at least stop and watch whatever part of it I've come across for a while. This is a good example of a movie that you have to see more than once. On it's surface it seems like a simple straight forward dark comedy which is obviously using the Korean war setting as an metaphor to the current Vietnam war of it's release. But there is so much going on in this movie you simply can't appreciate it all in a single viewing. It's certainly difficult to pull off a good film that has a large ensemble cast like this one does but M*A*S*H succeeds wonderfully. Sutherland, Gould, Kellerman, Skerritt and Duvall never step on each other but yet each delivers a memorable performance that is an important piece to the greater whole. In smaller roles John Shuck, Bud Cort, Bobby Troup, Joann Pflug and Gary Burgoff are an excellent compliment. The football scene alone with real NFL stars like Ben Davidson, Fred Williamson, Fran Tarkenton and Joe Kapp among others is better than some entire sports themed movies. This is Robert Altman at his best. He alternated between a movie and television directorial career who along the way made some great films including this, Nashville, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, The Player, Come Back to the Five & Dime Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean, Images and 3 Women. He also made some less-than-memorable movies so it's hard to figure out the hit and miss genius of Robert Altman but this is a hit and perhaps his masterpiece. Don't go into this movie thinking this is a great war action movie or a great side-splitting silly comedy because it neither. It is a very funny smart comedy and although implausible and surreal it is also very real. I would give this a 10 and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A Mashterpiece","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" M.A.S.H. is one of the cinemas best comedies and without question a masterpiece. It is one of the funniest movies ever with it's famous Suicide is painless scene being the highlight. M.A.S.H. spawned one of the best and most known TV shows ever. The TV show has more comedy and less dramatic scenes and has the wonderful Alan Alda but it doesn't have the power of the film and the wonderfully hilarious performance of Donald Sutherland, as well as one of the best directors ever in Robert Altman directing one of his best films. The screenplay is also wonderful with some of the best and funniest dialogue ever put on screen. The characters are also very well penned, particularly for a war comedy which is a genre that has previously had mostly horrible messes of films. One of cinemas best comedies and for sure a must see. "},{"Title":"A rarity in Hollywood","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Rather than rehash the usual comments about anti-war and anti-hero and black comedy, I'm taking a different tack.In my opinion, MASH (the movie) is one of the greatest, funniest, most interesting, most thought provoking movies ever made. Everything is brilliant from the writing to the directing to the cast to the scenery.That being said, in my opinion, M*A*S*H (the TV show) is one of the greatest, funniest, most interesting, most thought provoking television shows ever made. Everything is brilliant from the writing to the directing to the cast to the scenery.How often do you find a movie and it's small screen counterpart that are sheer genius? I'm sure others will have an opinion as to other movie to television offerings, but I believe MASH/M*A*S*H is the tops! "},{"Title":"Mash (1970)  ***1/2","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Though I never gave the TV show enough of a chance (too young to appreciate it at that time I suppose), I quite enjoyed the movie. A funny black comedy with well-defined characters and well-chosen actors to play them. I thought I'd never relate to anyone other than Alan Alda to embody the witty persona of Hawkeye Pierce, but a young Donald Sutherland fit the bill to a tee. Likewise for Robert DuVall as the morally preachy Frank Burns who turns hypocrite when lusting after the equally stuffy 'Hot Lips' Houlihan (a role played to perfection by Sally Kellerman). This was also the first time I recall enjoying Elliott Gould in anything.MASH succeeds as an unconventional twist on the Korean War by concentrating on the insubordinate antics of the men and women caught up in its horrors as workers at a U.S. Medical Unit. While it's effective enough as the dark comedy it is, I think it might have benefited even more by contrasting the quirky humor with occasional sharp doses of biting reality and real-life tragedy. If director Robert Altman tried to do that via the bloody surgical sequences, it doesn't come off quite as strong today. The somber title theme, Suicide is Painless is a tune that will stick in your mind even after the movie ends. "}{"Title":"An Classic","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  MASH (Mobile Army Sergegal Hospital) was and still Is a cult classic. This dark comedy directed by Robert Aldman takes place during the Korean war, for all of you who don't know about it, the Korean war was a war fought in Korea (both north and south) during the early 50's. communist forces from the north invaded the southern koreans and eventually started the war. Since we were hell-bent on making the world a communist-free place at the time, we (and the rest of the new UN) became involved. The war began in 1950 and ended in 1953 in a draw.Anyway, MASH is about this doctor from Maine named Ben Frankland Hawkeye (like from last of the moheakens) Peirce who steals a jeep from a airbase (he is aided by a friend who is also a doctor). They go on to the base there assigned to which happends to be the 4077th MASH. The film talks about war, death, love, sex, government, military, homosexuality, racism, peace, and much more. I would suggest MASH to anyone, its a great film and has stood the test of time.  "},{"Title":"funny but overrated, and maybe outdated","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I had heard for a lot of time that M*A*S*H* was a great timeless masterpiece. I saw it, and I enjoyed, but it is certainly not on that high of a level. It is certainly a comedy masterpiece, with hilarious and very memorable characters.(No booze! I want sex!) Perhaps the most notable quality of MASH, in terms of its construction, is its lack of construction. When Altman made this movie, he took the basic plot elements of the script, and let the actors improvise all they wanted, and then cut and pasted it into a movie. It begins with Hawkeye and Duke being drafted, and ends when they are suddenly relieved. It also doesn't have as much to do with war as many people say it does. The war is all implied, and a lot of the great scenes(ie Painless' suicide and the Hot Lips-PA scene) don't directly have anything to do with war. If I had been alive during the Nixon era, always being told to shut up and stand in my place and not criticize the war, a movie about horny war surgeons who have no respect for authority would have had more significance. I might have bought it and worshipped it.  But in the days of South Park, and a dirty offensive comedy coming out every other week, MASH doesn't seem as profound. It didn't seem to be a masterpiece to me, just a hilarious, well-acted, haphazard piece of film. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  M*A*S*H was a great movie. It portrayed army doctors on the front lines getting through the Korean war with a lot of humor. It was really a breakthrough film. It was the first time a film had ever dared to show that much carnage. The jokes were funny and the issues that were stewing in the world at the time of its filming were tied into it. It had a perfect mix of wit and humor. The casting in this film was great. I believe that Elliot Gould made one of the best performances of his career in M*A*S*H. Robert Altman took a wonderful book and cut and stitched it into a classic movie!  "},{"Title":"Best movie I have ever seen","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This was an excellent example of mockery of the war. Sure it was serious but it also should soldiers, doctors, and nurses as real people. The movie reminded me of Charles Dickens' A Tale Of Two Cities because he was laughing at France throughout the whole book. This movie was just the same. The war was very serious because a lot of lives were lost, but people realized how pathetic some of our reasons for fighting were. "},{"Title":"The father of black comedies.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"     I enjoyed MASH, the classic t.v. series and I'll say the same for the movie version, which is also a classic.   It's a great and wildly funny tale of two rebelling surgeons, Hawkeye (Donald Sutherland) and Trapper John (Elliot Gould), who both turn the camp into a zoo when they're not working on wounded American soldiers during the Korean War.  How they get rid of another surgeon, Major Frank Burns (Robert Duvall) is good and make the life of the camp's head nurse, Major Hot Lips O'Houlihan (Sally Kellerman) a living nightmare is even more hilarious.   The movie was directed by Robert Altman, who deserved an Oscar as does as Sutherland and Gould.   Overall, MASH is the father of black comedies.  "},{"Title":"Why MASH is great","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I liked MASH because it let us see that even in the worst moments, you can have FUN! Also my best fiend Nick looks like Hawkeye. If you like the Movie, read the books and watch the show in syndication. Ok? Thank you all for reading this. It means a lot.  "},{"Title":"The greatest war movie!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  You have to give this movie a ton of credit for letting entire generations laugh and cry while learning about a war that most history books don't even really acknowledge. A fan of M*A*S*H for life. A perfect 10!  "},{"Title":"A really great film","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" During the time of the late sixties and early seventies, America was involved in the Vietnam War. The majority of it's populace were shifting to much more liberal themes than in previous decades, and the films of this era reflected this change. Around this time is when Robert Altman took on the job of directing a film based off of a book titled MASH.The movie was focused around three drafted Army surgeons and how they lived their lives in a MASH unit stationed on the front lines during the Korean War. It was a combination of serious moments and dark humor, elements of which carried over to the television series. The movie carried a downbeat attitude and tackled some very serious issues for 1970. Some of these subjects included organized religion, racism, homosexuality, suicide, and war's impact on what happens to an ordinary person when forced into a terrible situation.All in all, this film is excellent. It deals with tough situations and gets you to laugh as well. Any movie that can do that is truly exceptional. Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"90 % great, 10 % percent miserable, attempt at anti-war film","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I've almost never had more opposite opinions about the same film, but to me, this one is largely a great one, but with AWFUL (as opposed to dark) parts mixed in, and (though this isn't just to be different) the awful parts are the most FAMOUS ones. I mean of course the Burns and Houlihan scenes. Apart from a few of Sally Kellerman's moments, it was an utter waste of both her and Robert Duvall, including the hugely famous shower scene. I know that nearly the whole point of the movie (and the early episodes of the show) was to be anti-establishment (and largely about the army and Vietnam), and I've heard that that's why it was deliberately crude. And I can see the point of that, but I think that the idea really BACKFIRED when it came to the parts I just mentioned, because they were so HEAVY-HANDED. Especially the shower scene, which to me is the most overrated movie scene of all time. In fact, I don't think any other anti-establishment movie, song, or whatever else (even the ones supposedly written by hacks) has ever been LESS imaginative than that scene. When it comes to stick it to the army (or to anything else), it just doesn't work, even if I might be the only one that thinks so. ( I HAVE heard it called anti-feminist, which is a whole other subject, though I think I agree with that also.) Anyway, I don't think it, or the Frank scenes, belong in the same movie with the theme song, the funeral scene, the very grim (though for a REASON) operating room scenes, or even the football game. In spite of the two actors, I mentally edit the Burns and Houlihan parts (and also edit them with a VCR) from this otherwise great movie. "},{"Title":"Anti-war gem.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  The 11 season long television series became such a part of Americana that the message and even the movie itself has become largely forgotten.  I had seen the television show a tremendous amount before I saw the movie and, to me, seeing them in that order made the movie even better.  I now see both Donald Sutherland and Alan Alda as Hawkeye, but at least Donald Sutherland didn't turn the movie into a dramatic, preachy morality fest.  It's utterly important that if you're seeing this after being a fan of the show to put the television show out of your mind.  I expect some of you will have great difficulty with this due to lack of imagination but you are physically able to do it.This film had me from the second I saw the opening credits, despite the fact that there's no discernable plot other than doctors at a MASH unit.  The vignette style doesn't take away from the film at all.  It's poking fun at the military by showing everyday life of these people who don't want to have anything to do with a war.  It can even describe it as clowning.  Not clowning in the sense that the common man knows, but clowning in the Waiting For Godot sense.  Only not that absurd.  This clowning is more subtle, characterized by these people trying to have a good time in war and being large characters with no same.  Is that as clear as mud? Good.This movie can be described the same way as a person would describe art. It wasn't created in a vacuum and the context is crucially important to understanding the story.  The context of anti-Vietnam America is reflected by the anti-military and anti-war dialogue and visuals.  This is an important point where the movie and TV show take opposite directions.  In the show, Hawkeye and Trapper saved almost every patient they had.  They were miracle doctors.  The movie is far more realistic in showing death and amputations.The acting was great on all fronts.  Hawkeye, Trapper and Duke come in as large, comedic, mean characters who clash with the more down to earth Hot Lips and Burns.  With hilarious consequences.  The ensemble is comprised of excellent actors (Sutherland, Gould, Skerritt, Duvall, Kellerman) and they all work very well together.  The movie and the show can't be compared in terms of acting because they're different.  The show has much more slapstick than the film and you can't compare the more realistic movie to the more fanciful television show.Robert Altman's directing can't be described.  It's very vicarious so I won't try to explain it.MASH is inventive, beautifully shot, expressive and it's anger is not misplaced.  The anti-war message may have lost some of it's impact over the years but it still lives on and can be looked upon as a barometer for America at that time.  Who knows?  It may even make a comeback. "}{"Title":"Great movie, in all aspects","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  MASH came out when the war in Vietnam was raging, and gave people a better look at the sheer horror of war. However, at the same time it gave people a hilarious retreat from the chaotic world, and eventually spawned a series that aired 11 seasons.MASH had no plot, but unlike most movies, it had no need for one. The acting is great, especially since it gave most of it actors such as Donald Sutherland and Gary Burghoff (who played Radar in both the movie and the series)their start. The humor is well timed and well planned. With all of its qualities, MASH is a movie that continues to entertain even today. "},{"Title":"Beautiful comedy that competes with Animal House!!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This is truly a classic in the world of comedy.  There have been few movies with such comic genius ever made, and the only one that can even compare to the legend that this movie has left is Animal House.  The only thing bad to come from this movie is the television series, which is nothing like the movie. "},{"Title":"This movie was made like no other","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  The directing and the way all the actors said their lines is quite remarkable. It's not what they say it's how they deliver the lines. If you found this movie to be awful, then maybe it's possible you don't understand true humor or don't understand how hard it is to capture it on film with the right timing. Please give this movie a chance and realize what you are watching will probably never be duplicated again. It's a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"10 out of 10 - spoilers","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Before SAVING PRIVATE RYAN tried, and failed, to be the greatest war movie ever made, there was M*A*S*H*. Sometimes the blackest comedy, sometimes a serious drama, it will never bore you. Tom Skerritt proves why he is one of the most sought after character actors in film today, along with Donald Southerland and Eliot Gould. They play three army doctors on the front lines of the korean war, but the movie winks at us with allusions to Vietnam. They know that their services are indispensible, so they basically take over the camp and do whatever they please. Their first victim is the hypocrite Major Burns, played by Robert Duvall, who is passive/aggressive only the way Robert Duvall can be. By day, he is teaching bible lessons and moralizing, but by night, he is trying to get into Hot Lips pants. It isn't long before he has to go, leaving our heroes free to womanize, drink, and smoke grass. Don't let the hijinks fool you, they are fine and dedicated surgeons. They're just trying to keep their sanity in an insane situation. "},{"Title":"Worth watching twenty times.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I was born 11 years after this films release, and only saw it for the first time two months ago. I used to be a fan of the series, but now I can barely recall Hawkeye as anyone but Donald Sutherland. I struggle to think of a way of condensing my love of this film into a few sentences. I can't. I would only say that even on my twentieth viewing, I still see new things. If you have seen the film and think it only passable, watch it again and see the light. This film has awakened a love of movies in me I never knew I had "},{"Title":"MASH is A CLASSIC.. both of Altman's, and of American cinema!","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" ~I don't THINK I'm giving away any crucial plot twists, i.e. spoilers, but jeeussst in case I may be, in someone ELses estimation, it's marked as such~ ;)If only CBS's most beloved half-hour series of all time had carried over and kept some very important characters, Spearchucker, Painless, Volmer all spring to mind immediately, I would have loved it all the more.This movie, MASH, was truly one of the motion picture industry's finest hours. Right up there with Patton, All the President's Men, Network, The Godfather, It's a Wonderful Life, and so on. Nothing in this movie is in need of improvement.. okay, with the possible exception being that it was NOT LONG ENOUGH! I was so ready for more at the very moment it ENDED! It's a good thing though, too, that Robert Altman, its genius creator, did not even court the idea of a sequel. The film spoke for itself, at just the right time and place in our history, and did not need one iota of follow-up. It was like a complete individual. Having said what it set out to. It was whole. It was what happened. Real. It was hilarious. It was tragic. It was masterfully performed by every last cast member, right down to the brand new face of Bud Cort, the orderly that Dr. Schmucko i.e. Frank Burns,(played to a T by Robert Duvall), chewed out in post-op, in his first role.MASH was not a bloody, gory, dismal, Glory, Glory, Hallelulia war epic. No, it's a.. it's a sort of A Day in the Life of... sort of movie. In this classic case, ...of a MASH Unit ~ The inner workings of a U.S. Mobile Army Surgical Hospital, just behind the front lines, and the twisted, funny, volatile, incredibly tight, intertwining relationships that are formed under inconceivably difficult circumstances, in a place where comedy, and camaraderie are crucial essentials to their often grueling day-to-day survival! A place where the unit's #1 priority is patching pieces of people back together without losing pieces of their MIND! .. Crisis, and comedy are strange bed-fellows, and here.. here is a CLASSIC example of them fighting it out, side-by-side, and making hilarious, and at the same time, thought-provoking, memorable music together~A CRAZY bunch of people, thrown together in a CRAZY situation! .. A film BRILLIANTLY portraying what it set out to!I have YET to spot, within the movie, as many times as I've seen it,over 20 I'm quite sure, the young David Ogden Steirs,much later Charles Emmerson Winchester III in the classic series of M*A*S*H. Although the series was detested by Altman, and it did turn an approximate 2-year war,sorry, Police Action, into 11 years of non-stop, Top-20 entertainment, I have to disagree with those who contend it 'glorified war', and I loved it.The two stars, Elliott Gould, and Donald Sutherland, were brilliant and priceless every moment.. and Gary Burghoff was such a scream. If only they would have carried over a bit more of his naughty, maverick spirit into the series.This movie was the best that it gets....That-is-all... "},{"Title":"sally kellerman","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" sally kellerman was in excellent in this and should have won the Oscar...i can't believe that helen hayes won over miss kellerman for airport...gimme a break!!!...obviously the academy was feeling overly sentimental as they normally do from time to time...kellerman should have won the Oscar hands down...)))...her character changed dramatically throughout the film...in very subtle ways...not overly obvious or over done...she really made a lot of natural shadings in her character and i think that is partly why she was nominated...not to mention the fact that she was a very striking and dramatic presence throughout the film... "},{"Title":"Funny, but not as hilarious as reputed","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This trailblazing 1970 anti-war statement/comedy made a little controversey and set the stage for one of the best sitcoms of all time. Robert Altman directs the irreverent gags of Hawkeye, Trapper, Duke (Donald Sutherland, Elliot Gould, Tom Skerrit, respectively) and the rest of the assorted doctors, nurses, and soldiers at the 4077th Mobile Army Surgical Hospital unit (or MASH) during the Korean War (Altman strived to make it look like Vietnam to fool audiences). The film, though more vivid and realistic than previous war comedies, comes awfully close to being the standard hijinks-at-the-front romp. There are plenty of fresh, funny moments but the movie is nowhere near as uproariously hilarious as it is reputed. Most of the time, the dialogue is irrelevant and confusing, almost to the point of rambling, and the scenes are crowded with too many characters to understand much of it. Aside from the comedy, Altman failed at delivering MASH's alleged anti-war message. Redeemed by a great series that ran nearly three times as long as the actual Korean War, and a great theme song, Suicide is Painless.  "},{"Title":"MASH is painful","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Those of you who rated this 10 out of 10 obviously have not watched the movie for 30 years and have a highly selective memory.  Watch it again and I'm sure your rating will drop 2 to 3 points. <P>Sure it was Robert Altman's breakthrough film and nobody can take that away.  However it sucks in a lot of ways and could never be filmed with the original script. <P>Sexual harrassment is supposed to be side-splittingly funny.  Maybe this movie was the inspiration for the Tailhook Scandal. <P>Drunken people on the job is supposed to be equally funny.  Everything drunk people do or say is supposed to be funny.  Martinis, operating room, more martinis.   <P>Give me Apocalypse Now any day, the ultimate war movie of the 1970s. "},{"Title":"A great film about war and life","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I've seen this film for the first time two days ago,and I liked very much it,for a lot of reasonIt's a film that only apparently deals with war in fact war couldn't be farther from MASH camp.It's analyzed for the first time another aspect of war,in this case Korea Warthe friendship between soldiers in a very distant place from America.A friendship based on funny jokes,a way to distract from the crude reality of war.and I will remember private radar ,or hawkeye ,as the perfect soldier and friend that I could meet in a future war. "}{"Title":"I heard a rumor there was a TV series with the same name but...","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Of all the movies of the 1960s, this by far is my favorite. A perfect example of a movie scrript that is so much better than the book. (Read it at your own peril. It is deadly dull and understandable why it was refused by so many publishers.)I was in Vietnam when this movie was released and the military almost stopped it from being shown in military theaters, but fortunately, we had a decent Supreme Court then and it survived the ordeal. Thank God, because this is a movie classic that was really about Vietnam when no one was allowed to make movies about Vietnam. Unlike the TV counterpart, this MASH was as cynical as it should have been, and the characters were real with incredibly memorable lines like that spoken by Margaret Hotlips Houlihan, I wonder how a degenerate like that ever reached a responsible position in the Army's medical corps? to which Father Dago Red Mulcahy replied He was drafted. Korea like Vietnam was a war in which the U.S. meddled in what was essentially a civil war, and in that they were the same more or less, but this movie's war was no different in the respect of the way the Army looked at their own soldiers. It's okay to send them off to be ripped apart by bullets so long as they had the medical staff to patch them up and send them back to the front lines. Naturally, the men would be cynical and hard-bitten.And while the military would not have allowed the long hair and Fu Manchu mustache of an Ellitt Gould, the film, I believe, makes the point that young people of that time were as much soldiers as any in combat. It also I think was done this way as a wink and a nod to this really being a movie about Vietnam. For me, Donald Sutherland and Elliot Gould will forever be THE Hawkeye and Trapper John. (It's also interesting that Pernell Roberts when playing Trapper John, M.D. looked more like an older Elliot Gould than an older Wayne Rogers. I wonder if that TV exec or producer preferred the movie to the TV show.) I must have seen this film about a dozen times when it hit Tan Son Nhut AB RVN and refused to see Patton when it played at first, because I knew that IT was put there to counteract the anti-war sentiment of MASH. Which is also interesting to note that the author of the book didn't like the anti-war sentiment of either the film or the TV show, though I don't believe he ever sent back a single royalty check.I resented the softening of the Radar O'Reilly character on the TV show even though the same actor played the part both times. I STILL do. I liked the innocent looking yet, wickedly playful Radar of this film. Damn his grape Nehis.This is not to say I hate the TV show. I just wish the producers had sold the actors as different characters in the same MASH unit. Then it would work for me. I will admit to loving Colonel Potter but hating the insipid character of Cpl. Klinger.After all, This isn't a hospital. It's an insane asylum. I couldn't agree with you more, Major O'Houlihan. War is Hell and insane. and this movie proves it while showing the military with all of its lack of compassion for the very soldiers it sends to fight them or patch them up. God forbid they should see a movie that tells it like it is.MASH rules, and anyone who does not see it as a great movie either never lived through the 60s, or just doesn't get it. War is not supposed to be fuzzy and warm with a laugh track. And there are so many elements of the film that gave it far more edge than any TV show would have allowed. The best thing Altman has ever done and I don't think he will ever top it. "},{"Title":"A revolutionary film!","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Robert Altman's M*A*S*H started many trends in film. The over-lapping sound, the spontenaity, the camera work, all was fresh in 1970 and still looks good today.  It is a film one could see over and over again, and pick up new things, new jokes, new lines with each viewing. It started the careers of many fine actors and remains to me a great American movie. "},{"Title":"A devilish bunch of boys","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Boys like pranks. The main characters in this movie pull one after the other. All the pranks were funny. Of course, these are men, not boys. But they are allowed to act like boys because they are surgeons who are absolutely necessary for the operation of the hospital. They do their jobs, and that gives them license to tell everyone else where to get off. They ignore rules. They deal with people who get in their way, even when those people are superior officers.I did not think this was a particularly anti-war movie. Yes, Altman WAS against the Vietnam war when he made it, and he did remove almost all references to Korea (except for the street signs in the town, which were in Korean). But the scenes of wounded soldiers had the effect, for me, of making it clear how important the work was that the surgeons were doing, compared to the trivialities of military life, thus justifying their antics and making them seem like good guys after all. "},{"Title":"You're a prisoner of war, you just don't know it.","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" MASH is a masterpiece, plain and simple for at least two reasons. First of all, it defies nearly every cliché and conventional method of portraying war and suffering on the screen. These surgeons being surveyed here (Hawkeye Pierce and Trapper John McIntyre), are so radical and unrestrained in their behavior that the film practically questions whether or not we should root for them. Yet, we do, mostly due to the charismatic and likable performances by Donald Sutherland and Elliot Gould, respectively and the style of Robert Altman's direction (more on that later).Altman, who had previously worked mainly in television, came to the film with original ideas and outrageous methods of stylizing the material. In fact, the screenwriter became so outraged with the lack of dialog and story in his script being used in the film that he demanded his name be removed (he later won an Oscar). However, Altman stands alone as the creative force driving together all the tiny subplots and episodic happenings into a fabulously entertaining and subversive movie.This leads to the second reason of why MASH is a masterpiece it's hilarious. A film like this we don't expect to be anywhere near as funny or engaging as Altman made this one to be. Yet, it is only the politically-incorrect humor that maintains our interest and emotional pull. We cannot believe the horrors of this war, thus we laugh to remain sane and remind ourselves of our humanity. The characters do the same.This intimate connection with the group of officers, surgeons and nurses along with Altman's inventive way of constant zooms and camera movement put us right in the midst of the 4077th MASH unit. And it all comes down to the big game being played between the surgeons and the generals from a rival unit. Hilarity ensues, we laugh, question why we laugh and realize that war may be hell but suicide is painless. So is laughter. "},{"Title":"Sally Kellerman was key to this movie's success.","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I just finished watching the movie (whose title, like the TV show that started in 1972, was spelled M*A*S*H) and found it just as good as I had remembered from seeing it, originally, in the movie theater. I also have read the book on which the picture was based, and have seen many episodes of the extraordinarily popular TV series.  I liked the movie much better than the series, while recognizing that the series was better than other seriocomic TV series.  As everyone is aware, M*A*S*H was more about the Vietnamese War than the Korean War it was set in.  In many ways the series was more serious, more blatantly anti-war, than the movie.  But there are many serious anti-war undercurrents in the movie, such as blood pulsing from a patients mouth during an operation, the shots of the the football players smoking grass on the sidelines, and even the long hair and facial hair of the doctors.  Audiences in 1970 were not used to graphic depictions of woumds and surgery.  Pot and long hair were hippy make love not war symbols.  So it was definitely an anti-war movie.But the reason that I am posting this comment is that in my recent viewing of the picture I first realized how critical Sally Kellerman's performance was to the picture's success,  She is not only damn good looking but her acting is terrific.  While her cheer-leader scenes help keep the picture from stalling during the football game, it is her initial arrival at the base, and, later, her bathrobe clad complaint to Col. Blake, that attracted my attention regarding the quality of her acting.     "},{"Title":"much different than TV series","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The best way to evaluate Mash is to compare it to the TV series. While the names are mostly the same, otherwise the two are quite different. On many levels the movie works better. On first glance, the TV series is more entertaining and seems to have the edge. The movie is choppy and has a badly edited look. The anti war sentiment is more hinted at than the series, in which war is heavily lambasted. The movie also deals more with the Korean War. Historically, the movie shows much more accuracy. While the TV series specialized in old wartime stories all combined in one setting, the movie was much more real, with no set agenda or divine intelligence wrapping up all the troubles of the world. The movie deals with an ongoing struggle of the characters with no end in sight. The mud and gloom is well depicted, and has more accuracy. For example, during the Korean War, medical information was not as well coordinated between cultures. The modern day Discovery Planet viewer would have more knowledge of poisonous Asian snakes than the best trained American Mash surgeon. This was before the information age. The movie indicates this, while the TV series would have the surgeons miraculously draw inspiration from colorful local characters, probably the least honest ones, to arrive at a cure for the most poisonous of snakes. The movie also dealt better with the characters. Hot Lips, for instance, was a much more believable character in the movie, and much more likable. She had more of a naive innocent acceptance of the American dream common to that era, and Sally Kellerman was a much more attractive character in all respects. The TV Hot Lips was probably the woman most men would vote for as the woman men would care about least if she died award. She was hateful and mean spirited beyond all compassion, particularly to those weaker and lower on the totem pole than her. The movie Hot Lips was not nearly so harsh. All the characters were more drawn to the middle than in the series. The series drew its humor from stereotyping the characters, until they introduced their most complex character, Dr. Winchester, to the show. While this would be considered low brow cheap humor, it did make th show much funnier than the movie. Another note is that the movie should be with parental guidance for one reason alone. In one landmark scene, a man with a beautiful voice sings Suicide is Painless. While this is meant as an ironic statement, it should be made clear to more naive viewers that suicide statistically creates more troubles, since about half of the attempts are botched and cause scars or crippling. The lone exception would be in cases such as war when a botched attempt may keep a person from being forced to walk in a land mine field, but this wasn't the case with the doctors. The anti war sentiments were more Viet Nam in the series, more Korea in the movie. And in both cases, it is a timeless sentiment. The movie never really gives the viewer the feel of death and dismemberment, of amputations and bodily ruin. There is a lack of emotion and expression which doesn't help to make the case for the movie. Most of the characters look alike, and it makes it hard to distinguish what they are feeling. On this level, the movie doesn't make it. A huge flaw is the preachy anti Christian attitude. The character of Burns is depicted as praying for people diligently, then hypocritically hurting people. I've known dozens of people who pray diligently and read the bible diligently, and none of them have ever been hypocrites. One hundred percent of them are caring people who bend over backwards to help others. This characterization is a sick stereotype that doesn't even exist in real life. Makes you wonder about the wackos who invented the character. Don't expect great entertainment or laughs. It isn't a thrilling or exciting movie, and may even put you to sleep. But it has merits. "},{"Title":"What can be said about MASH...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  that hasn't been said already? The movie's timing is great (being anti-war in a period where anti-war was all the rage), the script is tinted with a broad range of humor -from practical jokes to subtle wit- the characters are perfect (from the leading duo of Sutherland/Gould to each and every of the supporting ones), the documentary filming is a perfect vehicle for the message and the ambiance embraces you and makes you a part of what is going on. As for the message itself, it is pure and in your face war is hell and the only way to face hell (being war or any other kind), is no holds barred humor -reminds you of the Tom Robbins motto Joy in spite of everything. No wonder that people watch MASH over and over again. The TV MASH, has not been aired systematically in my country, so I have very few recollections of it. But I remember enough to understand why it kept going in the States. And I can understand why there is a whole MASH culture (books, memorabilia, you name it). MASH is a life changing experience, especially if you happen to watch it in the age of 13-16. I was, it did and the funny thing is, it still does. It is far beyond a perfect 10/10 -it is an experience. How many movies can claim that?   "},{"Title":"MASH is good!","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I am a relatively young person who is film by film, watching the greatest movies this world has to offer. In my travels, I have met many wonderful films, but in recent days, no film has struck me as much as MASH did. I, of course, have heard many rave reviews of MASH, most of them referring to the television show, but some to the movie. Anyways, with that knowledge in mind, I had very high expectations for the movie, and initially the movie didn't live up to what I expected, but about half way through it overwhelmed me. This movie is hilarious! It is simply that. Its just a very funny, very believable movie, that talks and walks like real life. And ultimately, it doesn't carry the overtly cliché message of many a war film 'War Is Bad'. MASH seems to be saying 'War is a reality', and ultimately we all must learn to cope with it. I know that sounds negative, and I am as anti-war as the next person, but in truth, war is going to happen, and we should be thankful for the doctors. See MASH, its a good see. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This movie shows all of the horrors of war and the people who survive in it. the movie included many facts in it and many of the conflicts in the book by Richard Hooker. if you see the movie or watch the show you should read the book. The way it laughs at authority and the perils of death and war is amazing. It seems that the nation at that time needed a movie to lift its spirits. They needed a distraction during the times of racial violence and protests and the war involvement in Vietnam. MASH did just that. The movie brought up many many issues in the areas of morality, sexuality, and war. I believe that there will not be another movie like this for ages. It will still effect us the same way in future years. It also brings to light the subject of Korea, whose situation is similar to Vietnam. It brings notability to the soldiers who fought and died in Korea and Vietnam, dieing in order to save the lives of others. "},{"Title":"Senses","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Robert Altman is not as clever as people would have you believe.  He is no more sophisticated than Paul Verhoeven or Robert Zemeckis.  Between MASH, the Player, Nashville, and Gosford Park he repeatedly shows in ineptness with various topics.  By comparison, Woody Allen is a genius.MASH wants to be great (the TV show was worse) but too many times it falls into the same kind of pit as Animal House.  It is less concerned about its message and more about providing some satirical gag.  While some are effective, many just don't work.  Part of the blame goes on the cast, Elliot Gould is good, but Donald Sutherland can't deliver.  Sally Kellerman seems torn between wanting to play her role straight or overreact to everything.Overall, Catch-22 knows what it is, MASH doesn't.  2 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"If you like a movie that mocks soldiers stuck in the middle of a war zone, then this movie is for you.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This movie is innovative. This movie is well-written. This movie is well-acted. But I don't like this movie. I feel this way because the Korean War is not an appropriate backdrop for a comedy, even for a comedy with an anti-war message. The United States lost over 40,000 soldiers during the Korean War. Making fun of the Army may be okay in certain circumstances, but to portray Army personnel who served in Korea as a bunch of giggling goof-offs just is not funny to me. The soldiers who served in Korea were heroes and should be accorded the respect their service deserves, even in works of fiction. Characters like Frank Burns and Margaret Hoolihan are comical in a farcical sort of way, but their antics were taking place not in the peaceful confines of some stateside army base, but in the middle of war zone where they were on-call 24-hours per day, everyday, rain or shine and everything in between. If you find that funny, then go ahead and laugh. But I don't find it amusing, not at all. "},{"Title":"The Best War Movie Period","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I used to be critical of old TV and movies until I watched M*A*S*H on the History Channel one Sunday Afternoon. The script is perfect, there's enough intelligent laughs in the movie to make intelligent people think highly of this movie and enough crude jokes which create a few really good belly-laughs. The music played over the PA system really sort of provide an interesting juxtaposition to the dark tone of the movie. The use of overlapping dialogue is a Robert Altman trademark that makes Radar, Col. Blake and Sgt. Vollmer a sort of secondary set of stooges to Trapper, Duke and Hawkeye. Donald Sutherland's portrayal of Hawkeye is less preachy than Alan Alda's, Elliot Gould's Trapper is more of Hawkeye's equal and less of a supporting character, Robert Duval plays Frank Burns more like the Republican Caricature he was intended to be, less racist and more evangelical. Sally Kellerman's Hot Lips shows how the character sort of loses her Army credibility and sort of becomes a campy figurehead. The dialogue between the characters is priceless and funny, the practical joke humor is crude, sexual, but it causes five minute laughing fits. It's the perfect set up for the first three seasons of the TV show and is the best possible adaptation of the novel by Richard Hooker, easily a must-see. "},{"Title":"Just great!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This movie is great! The scene I loved most was when the dentist wanted to commit suicide, the picture was just like this old painting of the last supper... Robert Altman is a genius! "},{"Title":"MASH","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Black comedy has never been done so much better than here in this masterpiece. Altman and his players give us something to laugh at and something to think about also. Forget that series, here's where the magic really is.  "},{"Title":"mash","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" From Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Robert Altman (Nashville, Gosford Park, A Prairie Home Companion), I remember seeing this film the once, but I guess I didn't pay the fullest attention, as I didn't remember a single moment, so it was right I see it again, which I did. Basically, set in 1951 during the Korean War (it feels similar to the Vietnam War though), and it looks at the MASH - Mobile Army Surgical Hospital. It starts with the Hospital shaken up by the arrival of Capt. Benjamin Franklin 'Hawkeye' Pierce (Golden Globe nominated Donald Sutherland) and Capt. Augustus Bedford 'Duke' Forrest (Alien's Tom Skerritt), two good young surgeons but a pair of lousy soldiers. There is also the arrival of renowned chest-cutting surgeon Capt. John Francis Xavier 'Trapper John' McIntyre (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Elliott Gould), and together they deal with the constant carnage with incoming patients, but they also seem to make their stamp at the Hospital with their other antics. There seems to be no plot, but there are some witty discussions before, during and after surgery operations, including some mucking about with staff members. This includes catching Maj. Margaret 'Hot Lips' O'Houlihan (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sally Kellerman) while having a shower, and placing a microphone in the room Maj. Franklin Archimedes 'Frank' Burns (Robert Duvall) and her female partner are having sex in and playing it out to the whole camp. The other moments include a game of mini golf during work, a trip to Tokyo to operate on the son of the congressman playing a big football game against another unit before the end of the film when there are some goodbyes. Also starring Jo Ann Pflug as Lt. 'Dish', René Auberjonois as Father John Mulcahy, Roger Bowen as Col. Henry Blake, Gary Burghoff as Corporal 'Radar' O'Reilly (the only cast member to also appear in the TV series), David Arkin as Sgt. Major Vollmer, Fred Williamson as Dr. Oliver 'Spearchucker' Jones, Michael Murphy as 'Me Lai' Marston, Kim Atwood as Ho-Jon, Timothy Brown as Cpl. Judson, Indus Arthur as Lt. Leslie and John Schuck as Capt. 'Painless' Waldowski. Sutherland gives a good confident performance, Gould gets his witty remarks, Skerritt does alright in his part, and Duvall gets his small moments, I found myself laughing at the obvious points, such as the shower reveal, and the over the microphone sex, I guess in most scenes it was a clever script, I don't know if I'd see it more than once, but it I suppose a worthwhile wartime black comedy. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Picture, it won the BAFTAfor the UN Award, and it was nominated for Best Film, Best Film Editing and Best Sound Track, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy, and it was nominated for Best Screenplay. It was number 22 on The 100 Greatest War Films, it was number 22 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films, it was number 7 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs, it was number 56 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 73 on The 100 Greatest Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Anyone who likes this movie is an idiot","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I'm serious. MASH is hopelessly outdated and has absolutely no relevance to audiences today. The heroes go around dominating, bullying and manipulating people they find inferior, and it somehow has a reputation as an anti-war movie. I'm sorry, but if your movie espouses every value typically found in war, it can't really be called anti-war. Anti-establishment is not the same thing. The two largest subplots rank right up there with Birth of a Nation as things that are (unintentionally) laughable in the 21st century a gay soldier has to turn straight or kill himself, and an independent woman learns to shut up and do whatever the male soldiers say. Of course, non-P.C. humor is great when it's done right, but this is not. I'm less annoyed by the content of these jokes than by the fact that the movie tries to get so much MILEAGE out of them. Maybe in the 70's a single 35-minute gay joke was funny; today it's just confusing. I'm sure these elements still make it a cult classic with College Republicans, but otherwise it needs to stop getting reruns on TCM and sent to the graveyard. Other crappy elements include the incredibly boring, 5-hour-long football game at the end and Donald Sutherland's trademark whistle, which might be the most annoying thing I've ever heard in any movie. The only reason to still watch this mess is to puzzle over how a quality sitcom came out of it. "},{"Title":"endorses hate crime","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  A soldier fails to adequately bed a girl, and since every other man in Korea has no difficulties in bedding twenty or more girls a night, he concludes that he is one of those disgusting, horrible gay people (of course, he doesn't use that term). His only option is to commit suicide.  His friends pretend to go along with his plan, preparing an elaborate farewell party and then a mock-heaven, where pretty angels convince him that he is straight after all.  So he doesn't have to kill himself, but gay people in the audience must still conclude that there is a `Heterosexuals Only' sign on the world, and the directors, writers, and cast would be thrilled to help them leave.  After all, suicide is painless.  "},{"Title":"To say that woody allen is a genius","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Is an insult to idiots, granted MASH is not as much of a masterpiece that it has been credited for, it is still better than any Woody Allen movie, some reviewer said that Woody Allen produced better movies than Robert Altman, umm not really unless you like really bad movies, at least Robert Altman can produce an intellectual story which is more than I can say about Woody Allen, possibly the worst writer in the history of film, even the 3 Stooges were more intelligent.  "}]