[{"Title":"You hang on every word of this lively, honest script by cartoonist Jules Feiffer.","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"41 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Its a wry, often funny, often sombre drama about the sex lives of two college roommates, Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel (who's actually fine in this - much better than in Catch-22) - at college, and in middle age.There are really very few movies where the dialogue seems so true and searching, yet funny, that you hang on every word. I can only think of a few - and this is one of them.It is episodic, and may be broken into two halves - intentionally, importantly. The heart of the story is in the comparison of the first half and the second how the two men have or have not changed. If you consider this is the purpose of the film, the two halves are not perfect - but nevertheless a fascinating film.Bitterness, nostalgia and melancholy run through this character comedy from the 70's. Its a frank, confronting (depending on the viewer) laying bare of sex. Though there is very little actual sex in the film, this one is definitely only for adults. A penetrating character study, and a richly worded film filled with wit, irony and character penetration by cartoonist Jules Feiffer.9/10. Not perfect, but absolutely must-see. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't kick her out of bed","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mike Nichols directed Jules Feiffer's script of two men in their times with the opposite sexes, beginning with college years, then years later when they have occupations, and settling on middle age. Jack Nicholson creates one of his more complex characters here, which like About Schmidt or The King of Marvin Gardens, doesn't end up the happiest guy in town. His Jonathan is lusting, condescending, scared (deep inside), angry, and intelligent all at once, though never knowing himself well enough to know the one he's getting his rocks off with. On the flip-side his best friend Sandy (Art Garfunkel) is sensitive, unsure, though without a feeling of overt confidence and control like Jonathan has, and that feeling of confidence over the other sex is what keeps them together in discussion, and serves as a tinge in their friendship in their older age. In college, Sandy meets Susan (Candice Bergen), and is more of a friend at first, while Susan begins an affair she didn't intend on with Jonathan. This unfolds, and when they graduate and are out in the world Jonathan meets Bobbie (Ann Margaret) who is a pure vixen with, at the behest of Jonathan, is a louse and wanting a commitment Jonathan can't take. The last scene with Rita Moreno, and especially the last shot featuring an ice skater Jonathan saw once, say it all about his character- essentially, as it is with nearly all men, he wants what he can't have.Many of the angles and many of the one shots of faces for long stretches, the camera compositions and time length, etc, reminded me of techniques that director Ingmar Bergman used in his movies that dealt with relationships, men with women, and how the desperation in their personalities either become their downfall, or a life lesson later on. In a sense, Carnal Knowledge is Nichols' throwback to Bergman as was Interiors for Woody Allen, though his dealt with the strife in a family and Nichols is a character study dealing in love and sex. Never-the-less, non-art film goers shouldn't be scared off by the notion that Carnal Knowledge is bleak or sterile. It may not be the most cheerful, or an entirely fair to both sexes, but it is important in that it views Jonathan, Sandy, Susan, and Bonnie, as people, and Nichols doesn't force the viewer to judge these people if they don't want to. For its time it was groundbreaking, and today it's almost mature compared to the barrage of relationship movies of late. And, if anything, it should have mass appeal to devourers of film acting. Grade A "},{"Title":"It's Not A Kids' Movie","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's depressing to see what a low rating Carnal Knowledge gets. Jules Feiffer, the brilliant cartoonist, wrote an extraordinary script for this film. I loved the dialog so much I found the script on Alibris and read it immediately.This is a dark movie. Not that it's violent or bloody, but its take on men vs. women relationships is bleak, blunt, and accurate. Jack Nicholson is charismatic and smart in his role, showing the misery at the heart of a cynic.As others have written, it's not a kids' movie. It's not even a young adults' movie-- I was bored when I first saw it, at 21. It's an adult movie in the non-euphemistic sense of that phrase, an adult movie about the mortality of romance "},{"Title":"Hi!!! Would You Like To Have Sex!!!!!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"52 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the most accurate reflections of the sixties' sexual revolution, as well as perennial sexual ambiguity throughout someone's entire adult existence! It's about knowing that there are no strings attached, and that it is, in fact, just sexual intercourse and nothing else!! All is fine and good except one thing....YOU GOT MARRIED!!!!...Now enters the commitment, or shall I say, lack of it...There is a cynical outlook on each other.....The verbal abuse that is the end result of a relationship that has nothing but sex to offer, serves as an acrimonious aftermath to everyone's insincerity!! Some people (Ann Margaret) give up in life....Some people (Art Garfunkel) get resentful and searching...And others (Such as Jack Nicholson) remain misunderstood even to himself!! The college day's fiasco with Candace Bergen (Between Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel) should have served as a harbinger of things to come!! Instead, the hedonistic challenge casual sex provided for everybody, not only made people oblivious to the negative emotional battleground casual sex had the potential for presenting, but it established a pattern of recklessness for everybody's self centered priorities!! The prestige of being a Central Park West intellectual evokes an aura of false confidence, and it is evident that New York City merely spreads out the welcome mat for adversity before most any place else!! All of these theatrics simply translate to callous gratification! This is a film where people talk to one another, but it doesn't work out......So they have sex, they know they will grow tired of it, but when this occurs, they can't accept it either!!! Popular scapegoats seem to be; confusion, idealistic notions which have turned to blatant misconceptions, a distasteful awakening with selfishness, and disgruntled generalizations that Women are all ball-busters!! (Not just independent!!) It becomes a living nightmare for all of the characters concerned to distinguish between casual sex, and apathetic hobby!!! All of them are isolated by the negative consequences of casual sex!!! Jack Nicholson's condescension from a sex surrogate (Rita Moreno) denounces meagerness, and thus, becomes a form of precarious vindication which will give the movie audience a thorough comprehension of the type of person Jack Nicholson's character is, and always will be too!! Mike Nichols is a fabulous director, and this film is compelling in it's ability to tell the truth!!! The camera angles in this movie are spectacular! This film is very controversial for the time it was made because it brought to the attention of the movie viewer that the erroneous perceptions about recreational sex, and the truth about recreational sex are about as compatible a mixture as oil and water!! Nobody in this movie had any compunction about throwing necessary caution to the wind! The depiction of such people in Carnal Knowledge was very astute! Above all else with regards to this film, recognize the amazing array of talent this movie possesses!! "},{"Title":"The Relationships of Two Men With Women Along Thirty Years","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The plot begins with Jonathan (Jack Nicholson) and Sandy (Art Garfunkel) roommates in the university. Each one of them has a different behavior and experience with women Jonathan is cynical, malicious, and selfish. He does not respect anybody (even his best friend is not respected) and just want to have sex. Women are objects for him. Sandy is almost the opposite of Jonathan and has a different approach with women he is shy and respectful, he does not have much experience with women. These characteristics are presented in the film having Susan (the gorgeous Candice Bergen, the most beautiful actress of the 70's) as pivot. Then the story advances a few years and shows both of them successful in their professions and boring with their mates. The character of Susan (who married Sandy) is just occasionally mentioned and does not appear on the screen any more. Now, we see basically the relationship of Jonathan with Bobbie (the sexy Ann-Margret). Then, there is another jump in time and other relationship of Jonathan and Sandy are presented in this movie, since its essence is about relationship of men and woman having the focus mainly in Jonathan. In 1971, I was too young to watch this movie and certainly I would not understand most of the story. Only a couple of days ago I had the chance of seeing it. It is amazing how this movie for adults has not aged. Further, it does not look like an American movie. The camera, the screenplay, it does look like European movie (maybe a little of 'Jules and Jim'). All the actors and actresses have outstanding performance, but certainly Jack Nicholson and Ann-Margret are superb. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Ânsia de Amar (Eagerness for Love)Note On 18 January 2014, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Sandy, do you wanna get laid?","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carnal Knowledge (1971) directed by Mike Nichols with Jack Nicholson, Art Garfunkel, Candice Bergen, Ann-Margret in an Oscar nominated performance as a sex kitten who wants to marry Nicholson's Jonathan, and Carol Kane and Rita Moreno in the small roles is one of the movies that made 70s so memorable. It is also the movie that keeps reminding me why I love Jack Nicholson of his early years and how grand he was without his Jackness which he has developed during all these years. Sandy (Garfunkel) and Jonathan are two college friends and like every straight young (and not too young) man in the world they are obsessed by girls and move from one relationship to another in the course of almost thirty years. Nichols and Jules Feiffer who wrote the play and later adapted it for the screen let us look inside the minds and souls of two educated upper-middle class white males and to learn their very intimate thoughts and secrets concerning their plentiful dysfunctional and joyless affairs and it is not a pretty picture - Boys begin life not liking girls, later they don't change, they just get horny. The film is honest, uncomfortable, very slick, very clever. "},{"Title":"Naughty men who think with their...","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The sexual adventures of Jonathan and Sandy. From college to mid-life crises, we see their attitude to the opposite sex and how their male organ leads them to lower depths. A fascinating script from Jules who isn't afraid to show how some men really are. Nichols' direction has the European flavor, allowing the stunning performances to take over with the help of Giuseppe Rotunno's unobtrusive photography. The amazing thing is that this film is still relevant to some of today's modern male species. The writer and director teamed up recently and made CLOSER, for today's generation. Watch the two movies back to back and you'd see the similarities in style and substance after thirty years. "},{"Title":"Naughty but good...","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Telling the sordid, often depressing story of two men and their sexual hangups over several decades, director Mike Nichols and writer Jules Fieffer concoct a thinking man's dirty movie. At times it's not easy to watch, but it's mostly entertaining and beautifully made. Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel are the men ---Nicholson is the callous, emotionally detached one, Garfunkel is the romantic. He marries college sweetheart Candice Bergen, while Nicholson shacks up with sexy Ann-Margret. The scenes with Nicholson and Ann-Margret are cringe-inducing. Nicholson, Garfunkel and Bergen are terrific and Nichol's clever casting of Ann-Margret, putting her sex kitten image through the blender, pays off in spades...she's the best thing in the movie. The supporting cast includes Carol Kane and Rita Moreno. "},{"Title":"Talky But Effective Relationship Drama","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A talky, oddly stage-bound film (though it's not based on a stage play) that nevertheless exerts a kind of raw emotional tug on the viewer.Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel (yes, you read that correctly) begin as college chums on a never-ending hunt for female tail, and end the film as stifled adults, still filling their lives with emotionally empty physical affairs that do nothing to fill the yawning void of their boring existences. Sound depressing? It is, but it's also rather fascinating, due to a sharp script and excellent acting.This came out at a time when Jack Nicholson was actually playing characters in movies other than Jack Nicholson, and he does fine work here as the more virile and experienced of the two friends. Candice Bergen is also in fine form in a very dramatic role, a far cry from the comedic roles with which we've come to associate her. And Ann-Margret won a lot of acclaim (and the film's sole Oscar nomination) for her brief performance as the sex-pot basket case Bobbie, the target of Nicholson's emotional abuse.Carnal Knowledge is entertaining as an intellectual exercise, but it may leave you cold on a deeper, more emotional level, as no one, not even the women, are especially likable or sympathetic. It came out at a time in our cultural history when free love was in vogue, and seemed to suggest that the price people payed for indulging that urge was high and that people turned to casual sex more as an excuse for avoiding significant human contact than as a way to more fully enjoy living. Certainly these emotionally stunted characters seem no better off for all of their care-free indulgence in pleasure.In many ways, Carnal Knowledge seems to be the movie Mike Nichols' other 4-person relationship drama, Closer, wanted to be, and he would have been wise to approach the material in Closer in a similar way as the material here. The staginess in Carnal Knowledge works. These people seem to exist in a plane of existence just a fraction removed from the one in which the rest of us live. It's like they live in a vacuum where they're the only people who matter, an airless atmosphere that serves as a fitting backdrop for their selfish behavior.Probably not one of the more important films from this fertile period for film making, but worth checking out.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A pure masterpiece.","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just like Nichols' later masterpiece Closer, Carnal Knowledge expertly deals with romances falling apart, coming back together and the study of lust and it's many complications. And just like Closer the dialogue and relationships in the film feel more authentic than virtually anything else I've ever seen. All of the arguments and especially the conversations between Jonathan and Sandy felt so natural, humorous and somewhat depressing. It evoked all of the emotions that lust in life does and perfectly demonstrates how rare true love and happiness is. The performances were all incredible and Ann-Margret more than deserved her nomination (the win in my opinion) but Jack Nicholson really shines above the rest of the cast. His realism, intensity and humor was top-notch to say the least. He also displays this internal pain that I can't even describe, but stunned me to my core. I felt like I could really relate to the character and that made his actions even more devastating to me. "}{"Title":"Sometimes I think I'm a better friend to you than you are to me.","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nearly forty years ago this film felt almost horrifying to me, watching today it just seems depressing. The picture is an indictment of the entire 'the more we have, the more we want' mentality that ultimately leads to 'the more we get, the less we have' outcome. As the picture reveals, it probably takes a two or three decade span of failed relationships to figure all that out, even with the right role models in place. This review comes right in the middle of the tragic Tiger Woods extra-marital affair fiasco, and I ask myself if Woods would have learned anything if he had seen this picture earlier in his career. I don't think so.With the benefit of hindsight, Carnal Knowledge excels in portraying how things used to be back in those awkward days before everyone was forced to grow up before the age of ten or so. Today everyone has a cell phone, but there was a time when an entire floor of a women's college dorm had to share one. It would be virtually impossible today for Sandy (Art Garfunkel) to be unaware of Jonathan's (Jack Nicholson) involvement with Susan (Candice Bergen); somebody would have caught them on camera and posted it on the internet. So in that respect, the film is undeniably dated. Yet for it's time, the picture was a landmark in exploring the consequences of love and lust in a way that furthered a breakdown in the once traditional values of fidelity and morality. Today, I believe that liberal mission is almost complete.Interesting the way Nicholson took so many showers in the story. He always did it right after bedding down a conquest. It felt like he was attempting to subliminally wash away the grime of his own creepy existence. Moving in on your best friend's girl puts you in a special class of heel I think, and I surmise that Sandy 'got it' when Jonathan unceremoniously dismissed Susan in his apartment slide show. Wouldn't it have been great to see a scene between Jonathan and Sandy of the same magnitude as when Jonathan went off on Bobbie (Ann-Margret). It would have been good to see Sandy grow a pair to blow off twenty years worth of steam over the deception of a college buddy. But then again, Sandy was entranced by the ever wise, ever knowing new eighteen year old girlfriend. It's a good thing Carol Kane didn't have a speaking part.I'm curious today how Art Garfunkel wound up in the film opposite Jack Nicholson. That casting decision still eludes me, as his screen credits before and since have been scattered and somewhat eclectic. Nicholson, Bergen and Ann-Margret all received a boost of recognition with the commercial success of the film at the time as far as I can recall. It would be interesting to hear their thoughts about the picture and their roles in it with the perspective of nearly forty years gone by. "},{"Title":"A Depressing Descent Into The Land Of Sexual Frustration","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The men in Carnal Knowledge know that there is a connection between sex and happiness, but they don't know how to grab them and bridge the gap. We first meet them as young collegians, impressionable, horny, and hugely vulnerable. Sandy (Art Garfunkel) and Jonathan (Jack Nicholson) know nothing about how the world of romance works, but Jonathan feels the need to act as though he is wiser than Sandy, a Lothario with a line of invisible women in his wake.One would expect the brash and shrewdly confident Jonathan to get a girl first, but it is actually Sandy, who finds and wins the attention of the intelligent Susan (Candice Bergen). Susan is perhaps too strong-willed to be tied down to Sandy, who is sensitive and much too lenient on the opinions of his peers. Eventually, Jonathan sets aside the burgeoning feelings of his friend and begins an affair with Susan himself, which doesn't end gracefully.Carnal Knowledge spans the next few decades, with Sandy and Jonathan's sexual hang-ups rarely changing. Sandy dreams of the girl who has the brains to match the bust, while Jonathan is so focused on t*ts-and-a*s that a great body is the number one priority, an emotional connection a close second. Sandy ends up marrying Susan; Jonathan has a string of affairs that hits its climax when he meets Bobbie (Ann-Margret), a voluptuous but needy redhead.The film doesn't preach; it studies. There are some people who are able to decipher the needs of the opposite sex with ease, making for blissful unions that last for years. But then there are the rest of the population, who never really get over the kiss-and-tell days of high school and remain to be too obsessed with sex to start and maintain a meaningful relationship. The film is about that unfortunate crowd.Carnal Knowledge doesn't have the same punchiness it once did in 1971 &#x97; today it feels rather tame &#x97; and, in some senses, doesn't go as deep and it could. Movies with miserable characters at its center can often times be so good that we don't get depressed along with them Mike Nichols, who directed the film, earlier turned the anger of a souring marriage into a glowing black comedy with tragic components in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?. That film managed to be enormously affecting, but it also didn't make you feel like a pile of sh*t by the end. And in John Cassavetes' Love Streams, the dreary existences of Sarah Lawson (Gena Rowlands) and her brother (Cassavetes) were fleshed with such extraordinary performances that their lives remained interesting long after the film ended.Carnal Knowledge has the ensemble drama characteristic in which the four main characters &#x97; Jonathan, Sandy, Susan, and Bobbie &#x97; carve out a net of sexual frustration around each other to the point in which life turns into a prison of dissatisfaction. Their world only revolves around each other. The outsiders, found in the other woman archetypes of Rita Moreno, Cynthia O'Neal, and Carol Kane, act as happy little pills, taking the leading men away from their own banal existences, periodically, only to ground them in reality once again. Nicholson and Garfunkel are terrific, and repositioning Margret from sex goddess status to that of a dramatic figure works quite well. Many say the film is a dark comedy, but I found no humor in its realm, and I looked in every nook and cranny. Some might find Sandy and Jonathan's failures to be melancholily funny, but, throughout the film, I was hopelessly depressed. Carnal Knowledge's components are spotless, but it forgets to do anything besides tell a story of constant grieving &#x97; maybe some can take it, but I certainly can't.Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"I Found This Rather Dull To Be Honest","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can only watch a couple of guys (neither of whom, really, are all that likable) go through women for so long without it becoming a bit of a drag. But basically that's what Carnal Knowledge does with the viewer. We follow Jonathon and Sandy from their time as room-mates in university to somewhere in middle age and we watch their relationships with women begin, evolve and end. I frankly didn't see a lot of point to this. No one really grew or changed (except for Sandy, who started off as kind of shy and awkward with women and ended up not much more appealing than Jonathon.) The women in these guys lives were a little more interesting, if only because they each had different ways of handling their always troubled relationships with them.The male leads in this were Jack Nicholson as Jonathon and Art Garfunkel as Sandy. Nicholson was good. He was given a somewhat more complicated character to play than Garfunkel, which reflects the fact that he was a more experienced and more accomplished actor. But there was little growth in Jonathon, and that just made the movie seem repetitive. I did like Ann-Margret as Bobbie, who was Jonathon's primary relationship in the movie. She was believable in the role, frustrated in the relationship - loving Jonathon but also angry with Jonathon. She did well. Candice Bergen as Susan was Sandy's primary love interest, although she disappears partway through the movie, and aside from picking up that they split up we don't hear much about her.The performances are the strength of this movie. It's fairly tame by modern standards, although it likely raised some eyebrows back in 1971, and I found the basic story to be lacking anything that would keep me glued to the screen. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Mike Nichols last depressing hurrah","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For the first half hour the characters are so disgusting and terrible, the feeling of bile rising in my throat doesn't subside. These are the people who I have known. And while I cannot bring myself to turn it off, I also can't help but fondly remember watching all of his movies that he made before this one, the spark that say The Graduate or Catch-22 had, and this just feels a little flat. But at the same time, it seems to completely succeed in doing what it sets out to do, creating something suffocatingly real, like watching the most depressing moments in my life played back for me with dim lighting and blonder actresses. The fact that Candice Bergen goes away after that also helps. Upper middle class ennui is something that's almost always tedious to watch, but this is actually affecting. Nonetheless, this feels like the beginning of the end for Mike Nichols. He would never again make anything on a level with Catch-22, and he followed this one up with Day of the Dolphins. Seriously. wtf. Also for the curious, pop star Arthur Garfunkle (as the back of the DVD box puts it) gives a surprisingly strong performance in this. "},{"Title":"I feel the same way about getting laid like going to collage I'm being  pressured into it!","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Were introduced to the movie with the cool and sexy sounds of Glenn Miller's classic Moonlight Serenade as we see these two wild crazy and mostly horny collage guys Jonathan & Sandy, Jack Nicholson & Art Garfunkel, talking about sex and how to get it on campus by being both cool and with it with all the co-ed's available there. The very with it and confident Johathan is giving pointers to his friend the introverted and shy Sandy in how to pick up girls with him having his eye glued on pretty Susan,Candy Bergen, who's sitting alone at this very boring get together at the main collage dorm. Sandy who tries to make small talk with Susan is too shy and clumsy to open his mouth so it's Susan who starts up the conversation between the two.Before you know it both Sandy and Susan are going study with Jonathan, who wanted nothing at first to do with Susan, feeling left out in the cold. It's later that the very experienced Jonathan beats Sandy to Susan by deflowering her behind Sandy's back which in fact, in Jonathan's animal like behavior, draws her closer to the far more sensitive and feeling her pain Sandy. The film then goes some ten to 15 years into the future to the 1960's during the free love era where everything goes and it's the free and available bachelor, as well as tax and financial lawyer, Jonathan who's getting all the free love, and in some cases paying for it, with Sandy, My Son the Doctor and Gynecologist, now married to Susan and missing out on all the fun.By now the very sexually active Jonathan has gotten bored of all this sex he's been having and has cut down his yearly affairs, with different women, to about a dozen but is still looking for the women in his life that can keep him young and going strong ,in the sex department, until he's ready for the grave. That woman of his dreams turns out to be the sexy and flaming redhead and model Bobbie, Ann-Margaret, who ends up quitting her very high-paying job on TV commercials and shacks up with Jonathan in his bachelor pad in midtown Manhattan. It' not that long that Jonathan loses interest in Bobbie which turns her into a pill popping zombie sleeping as much as 18 to 20 hours a day and becoming addicted to dangerous and life threatening barbiturates. Sandy who had since broke up with Susan is now married to the bull-dike like Cindy, Cynthia O'Neal, who unlike the very sweet and womanly Susan wears the paths in the family.Things come to a head between Jonathan and Bobbie when after a very violet spat or fight between the two, over making the bed and sweeping out the apartment, that Sandy & Cindy show up to party. Jonathan trying to hid what's been happening between him and Bobbie comes up with this bright idea for him and Sandy to swap wives, a very popular thing among swinging couples back then, so that everyone can loosen up and release their pent up emotions. It's a moment later when a very willing Cindy, in going to bed with him, tells Jonathon that if her wimpy spouse Sandy lays as much as a hand on Bobbie he can forget to go back home that he realizes what a big mistake he made. That mistake was intensified when Sandy instead of having anything to do sexually with Bobbie calls the nearest hospital emergency ward after finding her in bed almost dead from an overdose of sleeping pills!It's now 1970 and both Jonathan and Sandy together with his now live in lover as well as love teacher the 18 year old hippie Jennifer, Carol Kane, are watching a slide show of Jonathan's many sexual conquests which included, and which slide he quickly withdrew, Sandy's first wife Susan. Not at all impressed in what Jonathan has to show them both Sandy and Jennifer leave him alone, the guy gives off such bad vibrations Sandy tells him, to his fantasies of years gone by. ***SPOILERS*** It's the final few minutes of the film that really shook me up in Jonathan having this hooker Louise, Rita Mereno,show up at his pad to pump up his both ego and now almost completely gone sexual drive. With Louise looking, with the camera panning up and down exclusively at her hypnotic like face, like a cobra or black mamba rising from the ground and about to strike Jonathan now all heated up and excited finally seems to have gotten his Mojo back and is ready to jump into action just like back in the good old days. But as we and Jonathan sadly know it's only his imagination not his body that's capable of doing that! "},{"Title":"Depressing","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story opens in the fifties, and Jonathan (Jack Nicholson) and Sandy (Arthur Garfunkle) are college freshmen with one thing on their minds. Jonathan is confident and cool; Sandy is timid and naive. Their deed-doing adventures soon begin but as we follow them over the next twenty years, we see they still haven't figured women out at all.This movie was considered very risqué in 1971, and still retains some shock value from the gritty and passionless way the two men talk about and experience the opposite sex. Though Nicholson was in his thirties, he still pulls off being a giggling college freshman. As his character ages, he becomes the bitter and worldly-wise man he's played so often and so well. Garfunkle (then a wildly successful folk singer) was a good choice as the bumbling young man who needs his roommate's prodding to go all the way with his girl (a lovely, young Candice Bergen). Ann-Margret was nominated for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Jonathan's tarty, miserable lover.I didn't like the movie much because of its unresolved episodic scenes and the callous approach to what women would call romance. Although I can see its place in movie history as a barrier-breaking, in-your-face film about things people didn't really talk about back then, it still left me feeling sad and empty. "},{"Title":"One of the Most powerful Commentaries on the Complexity of Sex","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is both an amusing and very disturbing film. I first saw this film when it was new and I was in college. It haunted me for years. I purchased the DVD last year and have watched it a few times and loaned it to friends whenever possible. I believe it to be an important film of social commentary that makes a very powerful statement about the place of sex in a person's life and how deeply disappointing it is when, through exploitation of sex as a recreational sport unto itself, affection and sex become irremediably alienated.Remembering that this film was produced in the heat of the Sexual Revolution, its conclusions seem prophetic in retrospect. The script is tightly written, and its points are worthy of deep consideration and discussion --- especially by the young. This is one of those cases in which art seems to be teaching a relatively conservative life lesson without delving into the murky territory of sexual morality. Rather, the script invites the audience to consider the toll paid for less than holistic intimacy and sexual exploits devoid of emotional commitment. Rather than preach some sort of monogamous sexual ethic on moral principles, it warns that the search for the ultimate sexual experience leads not to satisfaction, but to emptiness and impotence.I would rate this film as one of the top ten most meaningful published in my lifetime. It deserves a place with Albee, Ibsen, and other great dramas which show us something truly important about the human condition.The performances are all outstanding. In her role, Ann Margaret is the personification of female sexual allure. Art Garfunkel put in a convincing performance. I can't help but wonder why he never followed it up in a bigger way. I certainly could see him doing Woody Allen, Arthur Miller and Albee roles with great conviction. Jack is Jack -- in embryo. It is wonderful to see him in his early rise to commanding the attention of whatever scene he happens to be in. "},{"Title":"Control and Sex.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this movie, the main character is a man, played by Jack Nicholson, who hates women, but can't do without them. He's addicted to women like a substance abuser is addicted to drugs. He hates the very thing that he's addicted to. Yet to deny himself means agony. To him, women are the enemy, to be used and disposed of, otherwise they could dominate him and make him serve THEM and pay attention to THEM, in exchange for the sex that he needs and craves. He covers up his weakness with a veneer of cynicism that makes him seem strong and in control, but that veneer is easily cracked whenever he succumbs to a woman's charms. For in this movie, the Jack Nicholson character is weak and child-like in his relationship with women. He needs women like a boy needs his mommy and then pushes them away when he begins feeling smothered, sending them double-messages that confuse them and in the process confuse him too. Ultimately, he winds up being alone, his narcissistic tendencies simply too powerful to be overcome by the obsessive drive to have have sex. This movie dramatizes the conflictual relationship between control and sex and how this conflict, unresolved, warps a man. This is one of Jack Nicholson's greatest movies. "},{"Title":"Remarkably Insightful on Many Levels.","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a movie that young adults would easily appreciate. You need more life experience to understand the complex psychology on display. And based on the title, anyone looking for cheap thrills will be sorely disappointed, despite a number of extended nude shots of Ann-Margret. Mike Nichols, more than once, proved himself to be eerily precocious, creating this incisive look at sexual dynamics at the age of 39. (No surprise; He'd done an equally impressive job at 35 with The Graduate.) This film decidedly pushed some boundaries in 1971, and remains relevant not only for its subject matter, but the intelligence and fine craftsmanship with which it's put together. Jules Feiffer's dialog is spot on, as are the performances. Jack Nicholson, at 34, looks a bit too old as a college student, but his acting is so good that's easily overlooked, and he more than fits the part as his character ages. Ann-Margret is a standout, a perfect choice for the part. The final scene with Rita Moreno is shocking in its offhanded, pedestrian approach to prostitution. Carnal Knowledge offers thinking adults a lot to savor and contemplate. Action fans, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and/or Disturbing","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I saw the expression on my parents' faces the night they returned home from the movie theater after, following my recommendation, they had seen Carnal Knowledge, I realized that people can have much different experiences with this movie. A high school freshman at the time I first watched Carnal Knowledge, I laughed uncontrollably as Jack Nicholson matter-of-factly critiqued each one of the two-dozen or so women he had already bedded before the age of twenty-five.While I didn't identify with Jack Nicholson's character, listening to an adult discuss his love life by dryly making comments about his numerous sexual partners that my friends and I regarded as taboo under most circumstances got to me much more than any dirty joke at a Friday night sleepover.Something about the sound of the title Carnal Knowledge made me think, ironically, that my friends had invited me to see a film that would deal with mysticism or the occult. Then, to my pleasant surprise, I found myself practically convulsing with laughter in reaction to a man devoid of spirituality.While I don't think that Carnal Knowledge would entertain me the same way if I saw the film now, I doubt that I would share my parents' disgust either. I do imagine that I would recognize the performances, each of which contributes believably to this potentially disturbing story of a hedonistic man obsessed with women. "}{"Title":"Carnal Knowledge  A DVD Movie Review","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carnal Knowledge A DVD Movie ReviewThis fascinating film, crafted in 1971 directed by Mike Nichols, is a product of the American sexual repression of it's time. Banned in many venues, this did not deter this movie from becoming an American classic. It explores the dysfunction of American sexual relations of the time.This film is so well written, so well directed, and so magnificently acted, that to watch it, provokes great introspection. The subject matter is that of the title. It is the story of four people's journey through human friendship and sexual relations that is profound and significant.The weaving in and out of these relationships between these four people is mesmerizing. The movie starts with a college roommate relationship between two young men, draws in a mutual love affair, and through these friend's professional careers, compares and contrasts, the normal family man's constant blase sexual life, with the playboy's, at first exciting affairs, then his degradation into impotence. It is a very sad story.The script is presented in the first person, with the two male characters telling their stories, to whit the two female characters provide the emotional foil that reflects upon the male's soliloquies. The characters in this film provide a tour-de-force in the acting of the human heart.The two male stars of this movie, Jack Nicholson, and Art Garfunkel are really good in their rooting of this movie. They are in some ways the center. But their masculine performances really take a second seat to the two female stars.In the first part of the film Candace Bergen as Susan is almost breathtaking in her portrayal of the perfect sorority girl who has to choose between compassion and passion. She chooses compassion over the emotional doom of her passionate boyfriend. This crux of relationships is the focus of this film. The man chosen by the perfect Susan lives a life of boredom and order, with underlining sadness, but yet a sort of satisfaction.The passionate man that Susan left behind, is a sad product of the cynicism of the free love and sexuality of the time. And this lost man takes up with the ultimate tragic female film character's cheese cake Bobbie, who's characterization by the red haired ultra voluptuous Ann-Margaret, is perhaps the most heart wrenching and beautiful portrayal of a tragic female heroine of emotion ever put on the silver screen.In the end this film is the tragedy of the sexual mediocrity of everyday life and the failure of those that attempt the provocative. This is a great film, the DVD widescreen transference, necessary for it's back and forth conversational scenes, is first rate. This classic Adult film is recommended and costs practically nothing these days on the internet market.B. A. Draper "},{"Title":"Ann-Margret is heartbreaking","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the movie most people point out as having saved Ann-Margret's floundering career. She well deserved the Oscar nod for playing the vulnerable Bobbie Templeton opposite Jack Nicholson's chauvinistic woman chaser. Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel play college roommates who have very different ideas about love and relationships. Candice Bergen is Art's girlfriend who has an affair with Jack. The scenes move from their college days up to their middle age years. Jack Nicholson is a convincing selfish creep whose first thought is always for himself. The dialog is sharp and biting. This movie might make you examine your own views on relations. Don't miss the scene where Jack Nicholson sardonically goes through his collection of ballbusters on parade Check this one out. "},{"Title":"Saw it again, after 33 years, much more meaningful this time.","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carnal knowledge (noun) - the act of sexual procreation between a man and a woman. That's what this movie is about, especially from the point of view of Jonathan Fuerst, expertly portrayed by Jack Nicholson. The movie begins with voices and a dark screen, Jonathan and his good friend and roommate Sandy (Art Garfunkel, of Simon and Garfunkel singing fame) are taking at a college mixer. Jonathan is explaining to Sandy the finer points of seducing women. The immediate object of Sandy's attention is Susan (a young, pretty Candice Bergen) who is sitting alone near a window. Sandy eventually asks Susan out, and they begin dating.The movie is a tragic story, of these two men, close friends, but worlds apart in how they view the world. Jonathan seems unable to form any bonds with either males or females. He sees each as objects to either facilitate getting what he wants, or obstacles to getting what he wants. And, all he seems to want is 'carnal knowledge.' Every description he gives of a female relates to how she looks and whether he would like to have sex with her. (My college roommate in 1963 was almost like this.) Opposite, Sandy is truly a gentle soul, wanting relationships, and sometimes too eager to follow Jonathan's advice. Over the 20-odd years of this story, it doesn't quite work out for either of them, and we are left wondering if Sandy's outlook became tainted by knowing Jonathan. Ann-Margret, as beautiful as ever, has a key role as Bobbie who becomes Jonathan's girlfriend.SPOILERS FOLLOW. As we follow the lives of the two men, out of college and into working life, both have successful careers, Sandy as a doctor. Sandy never finds out that in college Jonathan seduced Susan and had an ongoing clandestine carnal relationship with her even while she and Sandy were dating. Sandy and Susan eventually married, had children, but were divorced. Susan never really loves Sandy, and couldn't have Jonathan. No one could. Bobbie tried. After convincing Jonathan they should 'shack up' (live together), she almost went crazy until he married her, but it didn't last. In the end both Jonathan and Sandy are single, dating the wrong kinds of women. Jonathan has become virtually impotent, and the movie ends with his regular prostitute collecting her $100, and going through the ritual they established so that he might become aroused. Tragic story, however perhaps real. "},{"Title":"Banned in Georgia *slight Fight Club spoiler*","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jules Feiffer wrote and Mike Nichols directed this once scathing and controversial take on the American male's attitude towards women; it was fuel for every feminist's fire and was banned in Georgia for its strong sexual content as a result.  Almost 33 years later, it feels a bit stagey and has an overstylized look that somewhat alienates.  It's still a good film and everything bad about men -their fear of commitment, the lying, the sexual obsessions, the inability to love someone else, the anger directed against women- was displayed here first making it the grandaddy of other movies like Neil LaBute's In the Company of Men and Your Friends and Neighbors.There's also a strong homosexual undercurrent between the two main characters -Sandy and Johnathan- that I don't think has ever been commented on  Johnathan showers compulsively after sex with Bobby (could be a Catholic thing though), the men smoke huge, phallic-like cigars while discussing their sexual prowess, a hushed conversation about partner swapping is done in such a tight close-up you feel like they're about to kiss, and the only true intimacy these two have is with each other.  It seems like an unintentional/slightly intentional, non-sexual homosexual relationship -like The Fight Club, if you will, except that film got out of its corner by climaxing with a 'surprise twist'.Mike Nichols's talents are more suited for the stage than film but he is the leader when it comes to handling actors the performances he gets from Jack Nicholson, Art Garfunkel, Candice Bergen, and Ann-Margret are superlative.  Jack and AM are on fire in their scenes while Art and Candice play simply and beautifully.  Rita Moreno and Cynthia O'Neal contribute their 'game gal' personas and make the brief time in which they appear quite memorable.Carnal Knowledge is a slick, cynical, satirical take on male sexuality and (flaws and all) ranks right alongside the best films to come out of the seventies; it should not be missed.   "},{"Title":"some people are real, some people act, some people ARE their act","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film can be for all ages, though under twelve will probably not understand the emotions and the poignant black humour.  There is no x-rated material in the movie and it isn't shocking in any way (except perhaps the 'ballbusters on parade - a Jonathan Fuerst production').  I saw it at age 14 and thought it was a good film.  Years later I heard what the WORD 'carnal knowledge' means.  Nowadays I see people act their act and people fade away and realize that some have always put on some act and that gives this movie an extra dimension obviously.  In ten years it will be different again for me.  Friendship changes apparently  and it will not always make you happy.  Neither will marriage.  The ground-breaking aspect of the film may be the taboo subject matter that will probably be completely vanished with the arrival of Viagra.Cinematographer Giuseppe Rotunno worked with Luchino Visconti (il Gattopardo, Rocco e i suoi fratelli) and Federico Fellini several times (Amarcord, E la nave va, Città delle donne), and was a good choice for this movie.  Nichols and Fellini had a conversation on the set of Catch-22 (1970, Nichols), where they probably discussed the work of Rotunno and Nichols decided to ask him for the cinematography of Carnal Knowledge (don't know whether that is true or not, but it sounds nice).  Rotunno delivered great work on this one.  I prefer it over 'il Gattopardo' (1963) actually, but not over his Fellini-films.  He later collaborated with Nichols on Regarding Henry (1991) and Wolf (1994).So, I had to put more than average attention to fathom the movie, but when I finished the film and especially after several viewings, it evolved into one of my favourite films by Nichols.  I'm probably going to see it for the fifth time soon.  Credit to all four actors Candice Bergen, Ann-Margret, Art Garfunkel and Jack Nicholson.  Garfunkel (Catch-22) and Nicholson (Five easy pieces, One flew over the cuckoo's nest, Shining, the Raven) perform their subtlest role ever in this almost epic film (because it covers so much time and life-stages) that may be a sign of the times (between the sixties and the seventies) in more than one way and is of course a personal drama.  I still don't think it's dated it's just sorely underrated.9/10 "},{"Title":"A Great American Movie","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's depressing to see what a low rating Carnal Knowledge gets. Jules Feiffer, the brilliant cartoonist, wrote an extraordinary script for this film. I loved the dialogue so much I found the script on Alibris and read it immediately.This is a dark movie. Not that it's violent or bloody, but its take on men vs. women relationships is bleak, blunt, and accurate. Jack Nicholson is charismatic and smart in his role, showing the misery at the heart of a cynic.As others have written, it's not a kids' movie. It's not even a young adults' movie-- I was bored when I first saw it, at 21. It's an adult movie in the non-euphemistic sense of that phrase, an adult movie about the mortality of romance. "},{"Title":"Great story and cast","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was about 14 and it scared and intrigued me. I also started to look at Ann-Margret another way and subsequently developed a fondness for older women. Jack is hysterical as always. From what I've read about it, this movie really did become a catalyst for more adult oriented cinema in the mainstream and for that alone, it should be seen.  "},{"Title":"My favorite film","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It probably says more about me than about the film, but this film, for me, is the greatest ever.  It's a sad sad commentary on the degradation that men and women go through as their desire for human contact sinks into a craving for the carnal.  Starts out hilarious, melodic, hypnotic in the scenes with Candice Bergen, Jack Nicholson, and Art Garfunkel (a really good actor!). Turns horrific and ends with a frightening scene as Rita Moreno goes down down down on Jack Nicholson.  Watch  the wallpaper go up up up in that last scene!  Do see it. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films to Deal with Sex and Relationships","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carnal Knowledge (1971) **** (out of 4)Excellent drama from Mike Nichols takes a look at the three decade friendship between two men (Jack Nicholson, Art Garfunkle) and their sex lives. The 1970s brought sex, language and nudity to the big screen and this here was one of the most controversial films of its time but it's also one of the greatest films that has ever dealt with sex and relationships. The movie is brutally raw in its anger, passion and conversations but this is what really makes it stand apart. The dialogue is perfect, the story structure is flawless and we're given some of the best performances that you're ever going to see. I really love the way Nichols structured the picture and especially in the beginning as we see the Garfunkle character fall for a girl (Candice Bergen) but never realizing that Nicholson has gone behind his back and started a relationship with her. The way this love triangle is shown is just flawless in its execution. The middle portion of the film deals with Nicholson's relationship with Bobbie (Ann-Margret) and this too is flawless but incredibly depressing. There's a masterful sequence with the two of them crying and fighting, which is as powerful as anything you're going to see from this era. The entire cast does a fabulous job fitting into their roles. There's no question about Nicholson's brilliance during this era and that includes this film where he plays such a jerk that you can't stand him. The real surprise here is Garfunkel and Ann-Margret, both of them giving the performances of their careers. Nichols' direction is among the best of his career and especially the way he milks the story so well to get every sort of emotion out of it. CARNAL KNOWLEDGE isn't a pretty film to watch due to how ugly the Nicholson character is but it's still one of the best acted films out there and the rawness is something missing from most movies today. "},{"Title":"Well made...and unpleasant.","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie follows two men from college to middle age--with a strong emphasis on love, sex and relationships. Both men are VERY different. One (Art Garfunkle) is pretty conventional--and eventually becomes disenchanted with normal life. The other (Jack Nicholson) is very unconventional for the time--a man who loves sex but is afraid of any depth in his relationships.Carnal Knowledge was a rather unusual film in 1971. While rated-R films and sex were becoming the norms in Hollywood films, few films were as blunt as this one. The film is peppered with the f-word and is about sex---unapologetically so. However, despite some nudity and shocks here and there, it's amazing how uninvolved I felt while watching it. Perhaps it was because the two main characters were so unlikable. All I know is that I just didn't care much for them or the film. So, despite some decent acting (particularly by Ann-Margret) and an interesting idea about men and their relationships, the film comes off as amazingly dull. Well made...but a bit dull. "}{"Title":"Carnal Knowledge","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Mike Nichols, Carnal Knowledge follows college roommates Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel from youth through to embittered middle age. Nicholson plays a manipulative misogynist and Garfunkle plays his dorky, sensitive chum. We watch them grow and mature and finally come to the realisation that they're both insensitive pigs.In the opening segment, set in the 1940s, the two young men compete for the affections of a sultry Candice Bergen. The scene is tender and insightful, and promises a greatness that the film never manages to deliver.Still, there's a lot to like. The cinematography is warm and interesting and Nicholson is very watchable. Like Bogart, he seems to have entered the world of cinema as a wise and grown man. I've never seen a young Jack Nicholson. Heck, even in his Roger Corman flicks he looks strangely middle-aged. Indeed, in Carnal Knowledge he plays a 20 year old despite being in his 30s.The film then jumps ahead ten years. Garfunkel is a bored husband and Nicholson is increasingly misogynistic, using women and seeking to domesticate them all. The film's final segment then shows the ageing friends attempting to cope with the unfamiliar values of the late 1960s.Nicholson's performance here did much to consolidate his stardom. The three films, Carnal Knowledge, Five Easy Pieces and The Last Detail, created a public persona that he still wears to this day. That is, the Jack the crazy but lovable misogynist persona; a man who uses women, claims them, beats them into submission, discards them or, as is the case of this film, purposefully sabotages relationship so that they leave.The Jack persona is ultimately looking for a dream. A fantasy woman. A male generated object of desire that is forever unattainable and so requires constant product replacement. In real life, if we believe the tabloids, Nicholson lives a similar life.7/10 - Carnal Knowledge isn't a great film, but it's brilliantly acted and features some really great rants by Nicholson. Like most films based on stage plays, it's very verbose and theatrical. "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best films from the seventies, and a very realistic film about love, sex, relationships, lust, greed, and backstabbing your friends unknowingly for their girlfriends.Jack Nicholson, Art Garfunkel, Candice Bergen, Ann-Margret Olsen, and Rita Moreno deliver superb performances in this film, about two guys and their pursuit of women over a thirty year period. Probably the first film in which love doesn't mean A Happy Ending. Although a drama, there are some absolutely hilarious moments in this film, coming from Jack himself. Thought-provoking, realistic, and well-acted; a true gem of the last Golden Age Of Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Break through movie. Under rated.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director Mike Nichols had very good talent to work with. Jack Nicholson and singer Art Garfunkel play college roommates that are obsessed with their sexual prowess. Candice Bergen is fresh and alluring. On the other hand, Ann-Margret is down right scandalous. A coming of age movie for the baby boomers. Put the kids to bed and curl up with this one again.  "},{"Title":"screwed-up sexuality","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two of Mike Nichols' greatest movies dealt with relationships that most people wouldn't like to have The Graduate and Carnal Knowledge. The latter has college roommates Jonathan (Jack Nicholson) and Sandy (Art Garfunkel) passing time objectifying women and thinking about making it with classmate Susan (Candice Bergen). Jonathan tells Sandy to feel her up.Well, as you can imagine, this doesn't work out. Even if Sandy is able to settle down with anyone, Jonathan still has a problem he is the embodiment of the chauvinist pig. He thinks that women exist so that men can get sexually aroused, and specifically, he can only get sexually aroused if he is told that he's a big strong man.I guess that there are some sexual issues that we can never get over, but this movie does a really good job in looking at screwed-up relationships. Good support from Rita Moreno and Ann-Margaret as other acquaintances. "},{"Title":"Nicholson & Garfunkel/Bergen & Ann-Margret","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie shows us two male friends from college age to maturity and their relationships with women. Art Garfunkel as Jonathan and Jack Nicholson as Sandy are good friends with very different personalities who share a healthy libido focused on women, particularly Candace Bergen as Susan. The opening scene shows the two men attending a low-key social, with 1940's jazz music playing, where Sandy urges Jonathan to make a move towards Susan, the only other girl there. Susan soon becomes friends with Jonathan but also dates Sandy as both benefit from sexual encounters with her. The story uses a visual technique that makes the viewer feel like a voyeur watching their private conversations and encounters with women. Often filmed in the dark with the characters close-up to the camera, the movie kept my attention. Jonathan is the sensitive guy who women supposedly prefer so Sandy uses some of his honest conversational style to win over Susan. Later in their lives, we find Jonathan married to Cindi, played by Cynthia O'Neil, and passingly happy. Sandy is facing a mid-life crisis as his girlfriend, played by Ann-Margret asks him to marry. Sandy looks at women as if they have to meet certain physical criteria to meet his exacting standards--a few more inches here, a bit less somewhere else, as if choosing a partner is like picking a good cut of meat. The nudity is explicit by the standards of 1971. The film is not prudish in dealing with with sexuality. We see shower scenes with people getting dressed and undressed as common as lighting up for a cigarette. The movie has a certain European feel with scenes standing as little vignettes. One scene shows two women sitting on a bench watching a tennis match with neither speaking a word until both leave and we see the image of a lonely bench. Not an upbeat movie, it is an impressive piece of film-making about modern sexuality. "},{"Title":"A time capsule","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This covers a time period from the 1940s to the 1960s in the lives of two friends, Johnathon (Jack Nicholson) and Sandy (Art Garfunkel). The main focus is on the women in their lives, but it is interesting to note that it is the friendship between the two men that survives some double-dealing by Johnathon (does anybody play the cad better than Nicholson?) and unstable relationships with women.When we first meet the two guys they are sharing a dorm room at Amherst. They talk a lot about sex and are just on the cusp of becoming active. Johnathon is on the trail-head to the path toward being a Lothario--he is mainly interested in sexual appearances. A pivotal scene toward the end has Johnathon presenting a slide show of his female conquests. On the other hand Sandy is shy and thinks he wants something deeper. Neither of the guys seems to be able to relate to women as equals but rather only as to how well their women can fulfill preconceived fantasies. When one of Johnathon's girlfriends tries to get serious he panics.On several occasions in the dorm conversations when certain women are mentioned Johnathon comments, I wouldn't kick her out of bed. I recall that being a common phrase in the era of this movie. Thinking of the implications of that comment is sobering. Most of the time when I heard it I had the thought, There is no way that you could *get* her into your bed. In judging the movie you have to keep in mind that it mostly takes place before the advent of the birth control pill and at a time when Playboy Magazine was still considered risqué. The music dates the episodes.Interesting to compare this with some contemporary (circa 2010) takes on the subject, maybe best illustrated by the movies of Judd Apatow and Richard Linklater. The modern take seems much lighter and less fraught. Many people see much humor in CN, but I see it playing more as a tragedy, both for the individuals and for the women of the time. It is hard to envision a happy future for either Johnathon or Sandy. They were doomed to be trapped by the dominant moral codes at the time while being destined to deal with more more independent women as time went on. It is a tragedy for the women who had to contend with such men as Johnathon and Sandy, and still do to a great extent.I found the acting to be uniformly good with Ann-Margaret being the standout as one of Johnathon's girlfriends. I was surprised that Garfunkel was credible, providing a good foil to Nicholson's dominating performance. "},{"Title":"Goodish, but not great","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Goodish, but not great. Explores the relationship mores of the 60s and 70s and comes up with some interesting observations. However, the observations often feel one-dimensional, judgemental and superficial. Plot starts very slowly, so much so I was going to give up on the movie after 15-20 minutes. However, the middle section is good, especially the interactions between Jack Nicholson and Ann-Margret. Some holes and missing information in the plot though. Ending feels anti-climactic, and, once again, one-dimensional.Good performances from Jack Nicholson, Art Gurfunkel and Ann-Margret, who received a Best Supporting Actress Oscar nomination for her performance. Garfunkel's performance was better than expected. "},{"Title":"edgy for its times","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sandy (Arthur Garfunkel) and Jonathan Fuerst (Jack Nicholson) are college roommates in the late 40s. They meet Susan (Candice Bergen) at a party. Sandy is more sensitive and loses his virginity to her. Susan cheats on Sandy with the cruder Jonathan. Sandy and Susan eventually marry. As the years go by, Jonathan becomes a picky ladies' man. Sandy is unsatisfied with his stale home life with Susan. Jonathan has a sexy new girl Bobbie (Ann-Margret).The talk is frank from the two guys. It is edgy for its times. The plot does meander. It's a lot of sex and relationship talk from the characters. It's not really about the characters getting from point A to point B. It's more about these distinct characters crashing against each other over the years. It's certainly worthwhile to see what was considered risqué at a specific time. Also Ann-Margret was damn sexy. "},{"Title":"A depressing journey through the 60's Darkside","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The sixties were a time when nearly every boundary was tested. In the seventies we began to learn that boundaries don't necessarily restrict freedom but exist to provide elasticity which stretched too thin too fast can break. Carnal Knowledge follows two buddies through their college years and into middle age a period during which the sexual revolution swept many not into a new land of liberation but to a world of sexual dysfunction, misogyny, and oppression. Jack Nicholson is terrific as man who became a callous, self-centered product of the revolution. Art Garfunkel, in a stiff and uninteresting performance, is Nicholson's erudite buddy. Directed by Mike Nichols, the movie lacks the wit of The Graduate and Jules Feiffer's script is leaden without a hint of irony that could elevate the film from tolerable to entertaining. Carnal Knowledge is a curio of late sixties/early seventies film-making that captures, depressingly, the underside of the '60s sexual revolution. Perhaps a wittier, lighter touch would have made this a classic. "},{"Title":"Ann-Margret 's looks are for real","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just recently watched Carnal Knowledge. I didn't really care for it. My main reason for watching it was because I have adored Ann-Margret all these years since the 60's when she first came on the scene.I didn't want to watch carnal Knowledge when it first came out because I heard that Ann-Margret did nude scenes in them. I know that sounds silly but back then that was a big deal for me. More and more stars were starting to do nude scenes I am mostly writing this review to respond to fedor8's review titled Good Comedy/Drama She stated that Ann-Margret had silicone breast Implants done. She is wrong. Ann-Margret states in her biography that she wrote in the early 90's that she deliberately gained thirty lbs to look more like the way Bobbie would look. Ann-Margret did a fanatic job. Jack Nicholson also was great. "}{"Title":"Wicked Game","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mike Nichols' recent masterpiece, Closer (2004), was much compared to his classic début, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966), which is valid and understandable, since both films are cruel 4-character studies based on sharp stage plays. However, Closer was more about our immaturity when it comes to love & sex, while Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is a dense dialogue on the troubles of married life. Nichols' Carnal Knowledge, brilliantly written by cartoonist Jules Feiffer (easily, one of the finest and most underrated screenplays of the 70s), has much more similarities to Closer than Virginia Woolf, and it stands as real and believable now as almost 40 years ago. The story of two college friends (Jack Nicholson and Arthur Garfunkel) who compete for women and are never truly satisfied, hurting people along the way and ultimately losing themselves, is a lot like the story of Dan, Alice/Jane, Anna and Larry from Closer - showing that decades fly, sexual revolutions come and go, and the human being remains the same wild, complicated animal. Both Carnal Knowledge and Closer can be considered moral tales, without being simplistic or clichéd - they stand as some of the rawest studies of the human nature, the search of love and pleasure ever put on film. Jack Nicholson, Candice Bergen, Ann-Margret and even Art Garfunkel are magnificent, and we have two very special appearances by Rita Moreno and Carol Kane near the end. Not as well regarded as other Nichols' classics such as The Graduate, Carnal Knowledge deserves a bigger status than it currently has. If you liked Closer, you won't be disappointed by this. In other words, a blazingly perfect film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but just a little short of being great","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a very depressing movie. That being said, it does have it's moments. Garfunkel is good as the shy man, afraid to be assertive with a woman. In Catch-22, you don't really get to know Garfunkel much. In this movie, he is featured as the co-star to Jack Nicholson. Garfunkel's character goes through the ordinary changes of a professional class man from college through middle age. He is married, but grows weary of his bossy, perfectionist wife. Nicholson's character is really a study in conflict. Although not visibly despicable, Nicholson's character is a sex addict doomed to failure and destruction of other people's lives. He doesn't want to hurt people, but does. Ann Margaret is good as a beautiful model/commercial actress, who is slowly ruined by Nicholson's lust only for sex and uncaring attitude about her personal, human side. In the end, Nicholson grows into a sick middle aged man, who can only talk wistfully about all his conquests in life. However, he is addicted to sex, and it rules his life. This is kind of an unusual movie for the early 70s. It is the opposite of the libertarian values of the day. It is a critical look at relationships that was more in vogue during the 80s and 90s. The movie falls short, because it tries to tell a story about two very differing friends in an entertaining way. However, by tackling such a complex subject as human sexuality and deviancy, it leaves out a lot. We never get to really understand what in the Nicholson character's life made him the way he was. We just get a hint, as an audience. In conclusion, it was a good movie, but not a great movie, because it just couldn't completely and sincerely tackle the subject it was embracing. "},{"Title":"Challenging","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With Jack Nicholson's fame rising and Mike Nichols still hot from the success of The Graduate comes Carnal Knowledge, a challenging film dealing with relationships and the hardships therein.The film begins over black screen credits in which we hear a conversation taking place between Nicholson's character Jonathan and his college roommate Sandy (played by Art Garfunkel) about women. Soon after we see the dynamic between them. Jonathan the all-knowing advice giver and Sandy the wide-eyed naive, both desperate for a chance to cop some action from the opposite sex. Sandy meets Susan (Candice Bergen) and they begin a relationship. Sandy spends his evenings disclosing all information about this to Jonathan who becomes intrigued. Jonathan and Susan start an affair behind Sandy's back. Suddenly, we're in New York. Jonathan and Sandy are grown up, Sandy is married to Susan and Jonathan is still looking for fresh meat.Jonathan is the character we spend the most time with after the college segment. Nicholson's character is weak, angry and confused and he plays him with so much passion and complexity that it's often hard to figure out what he wants, which is true for the character himself. Garfunkel's character arc is played surprisingly well by the singer, visibly hardening and maturing while Jonathan remains childlike. Ann-Margret plays Bobbie, Jonathan's eventual girlfriend and she underplays her role to perfection, never resorting to the teary-eyed mess that most women were stereotyped to be at the time.Nichols' style is even more evident here than in The Graduate, sometimes to the point of overkill. He uses devices like training his camera often on only one subject during scenes involving several subjects, long single shot takes and stylish lighting schemes. The film is shot almost as a play, the camera spectates and lets the performances do the talking, telling you where to look as would a spotlight. As a result, some people may find it difficult to watch, although anyone who enjoyed Nichols' more recent Closer will find something interesting here. This is not a light and happy film. It's subject matter is heavy and at times disturbingly bleak. Groundbreaking for it's time, Carnal Knowledge is definitely worth a look for Nicholson fans and a must for Nichols fans. "},{"Title":"Why  did I wait 38 years to see this masterpiece?","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just caught this on its Turner Classic Movies (TCM) premiere and it totally blows me away by how relevant it remains! The dialog, the direction, the performances are all top-notch and instantly hurtles this film into my top 10. Very little blows me away these days, but this did. If it were released today, I think it would be even more of a hit and get the Oscar respect it deserved (and didn't get) back then. Closer also happens to be one of my fave films, brilliant in every respect as Carnal Knowledge. It's no surprise that Nichols directed it too. These two films should be seen back-to-back.Now THAT's the Jack Nicholson I fell in love with! The bedroom scene between him and Ann-Margaret where's he's going bonkers over the messiness of the house is a tour-de-force. And dig Jack's groovy pad near the end of the film It looks like it came right out of today's Metropolitan Home magazine. And Rita Moreno's brief appearance at the end is the perfect cap to a near-perfect film. "},{"Title":"A good film from the early 70s","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a good early drama from Mike Nichols starring Jack Nicholson. A good early performance from Nicholson as a college student who along with roommate Sandy (Garfunkel) experience a lot of new boundaries in their sex lives. Both are good in the film while Candice Bergen and Ann-Margret were also good in their roles. The film isn't extremely deep, or amazing from a film aspect, but its an interesting early story about relationships, a definite must see for big time Nicholson or Mike Nichols fans. Good cinematography from Giuseppe Rotunno. its good but not great. still interesting to watch--- IMDb Rating 6.8, my rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"3/4 BAKED EARLY NICHOLS!","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not up to the quality of VIRGINIA WOOLF, THE GRADUATE, or CATCH-22, this film nevertheless scores some points (great casting), but it's ultimately somewhat depressing and it shouldn't be. Ann-Margret is splendid and deserved her Oscar nod. A beautiful and talented actress who was always under-valued in Hollywood. Candice Bergen gives her first believable performance. Art Garfunkel seems perfect for his character, Sandy, but still needs more acting experience. Jack Nicholson seems ideal for Jonathan, but it's not one of his better performances.A 6 out of 10. Best performance = Ann-Margret. It's too bad Nichols' choices of projects went South after THE FORTUNE. He was one of the great ones, but WORKING GIRL, DAY OF THE DOLPHIN, and the rest of the junk he's done since '75 has shown he needs some career advice. "},{"Title":"Landmark in American cinema","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is fantastic but for adults only. Send the kiddies to bed and pop open a bottle of something. If you don't smoke, start..Jonathan (Jack) and Sandy (Art) are college buddies interested in girls..only. You don't see them in a classroom or even with a book. Sandy talks to Susan (Candy) at a mixer and they soon begin dating. Getting pressure from Jonathan to make moves on her, Sandy does, and eventually Susan responds. This gets Jonathan interested in Susan, too. Susan puts out for Jonathan before Sandy, and since Jonathan has to tell he just got laid, Jonathan also has to tell Sandy not to tell Susan. When Sandy first asks Jonathan his girlfriends name, it leads to the funniest line in the movie...Myrtle! Jonathan and Susan stop seeing each other because the jealousy begins too much of a burden for both of them, and let's face it, Jonathan was only using her for sex in the first place.Female Ice Skater in White on the Central Park rink represents a lapse in time..insert that now...Jonathan meets Bobbie (A-M) who is unbelievably built but that bastard Jonathan STILL doesn't appreciate her cause she's doesn't have a PERFECT something-or-other. Bobbie and Jonathan soon begin a malignant relationship based on dependence, disrespect and drama (the Three D's) and it gets worse and worse every scene. Meanwhile Jonathan has married Susan, who you never see following the first appearance of the Female Ice Skater in White. But soon Jonathan wants to cheat on Susan, and gets a woman named Cindy who looks like her female part have little teeth on them as to cut off if you dare penetrate her.I've only gone over some of what happens. Jack takes a minimum of eight showers - every time I watch this I say I'm going to count them, and then I forget.Ann-Margret is astonishing as Bobbie. No one I've ever seen in a movie makes depression look like that. She's breathtaking. Its her movie all the way, cemented by the fact that she was the sole Oscar nominee in the cast. She'd have won if it were up to me. As much as I like Cloris Leachman in The Last Picture Show, this performance by Ann is practically tattooed on my brain and has been for quite a long time now. I love even small moments like the way she carries her and Jack's dinner into their bedroom on a tray, remembering to bring napkins and the salt and pepper. Then when Jonathan and Sandy and Cindy are playing tennis on the roof of their apartment building, she's sitting there in a big coat and a kerchief, reading a magazine like she's having an internal breakdown, and when Jonathan puts her down once again, how she turns around and lights a cigarette. You never see anyone play tennis, you just hear it - the camera is on Cindy and Bobbie the whole time. That's what's so great, you don't often see who's talking. The camera is at times where it wouldn't be were a conventional director in charge. Nichols isn't playing tricks, he just makes it all .. fascinating. I was pretty young when I saw this movie for the first time and boy oh boy did it leave an impression. Like you couldn't tell. "},{"Title":"Nasty and boring","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm guessing that this was considered a sophisticated and honest look at relationships back in 1971. Today, it comes off as terribly ugly and mean-spirited. Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkle star as two friends, from their college days to adulthood, who basically sit around and talk about women. Or sex, really. The women themselves are little more than the owners and annoying defenders of the vaginas their penises really would like to get to know. Among the women they bother are Candice Bergen, Ann-Margret, Rita Moreno (whom I don't even remember being in the film, honestly), Cynthia O'Neal and Carol Kane (who isn't allowed even to speak). The film is very dry and clinical, and also very boring. I think Mike Nichols made a far more successful film of the same type with Closer in 2004. There really isn't even a performance worth noting here, except for perhaps Ann-Margret's. She has one killer scene, but has to act it opposite a very hammy and detestable Jack Nicholson. "},{"Title":"The impotency of the American male...","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mike Nichols' dramatic film about the separate sexual journeys of two male friends from college to middle-age got critical raves upon its release, but it doesn't quite live up to the kudos; it's not so much overrated as it is overwrought. Though a well-acted piece, it condescends towards the audience with a self-satisfied conception. There's hardly any actual plotting here, and the screenplay is fake-literate it's made up of heated dialogue exchanges which purport to show how men treat women, yet it may very well be just these men. The film is smug, with too much of the rabble-rousing disintegrating into melodramatic soap. It does feature fine acting, from Arthur Garfunkel and Ann-Margret in particular, but Jack Nicholson is uneven (and he always seems to be in the shower!). The arty shots (close-ups held a long time on each character's face) aren't there to reveal anything special--they're just there to show-off the director's prowess. I eventually tired of the back-and-forth arguing and female crying, though I do see the merit in the acting and in some of what Nichols was trying to accomplish. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Static","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The free love era of the late 1960's is here on film. Jack Nicholson and Art Garfunkel are college room mates trying to score women. It is a fairly hard R rated film .There is a fleshy sequence of Ann Margaret with Nicholson that fires up the imagination. Nicholson while restrained does show some of the stuff that he would really cut loose later in films. While it is an interesting film for the period, supposedly based on Gerfunkels college experience, I got the impression they held back on the wildness, partly because Candice Bergen is her and she does not ever take off her clothes. She disappears halfway through the flick because if she stuck around she might have to take some off.There is a fair amount of talent in this one, but the script is a bit of a let down because it really makes the reality of the past seem better than it actually was. "}{"Title":"Dated sex saga","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie attracts quite a lot of admiration here which puzzles me. It is a kind of summation of the awfulness of the sixties sexual revolution - its sourness, acute misogyny, deep unhappiness and disconnect. The two male protagonists, well played by Nicholson and Garfunkel, though their roles are really nothing but stereotypes, are equally unsympathetic, self obsessed, selfish, duplicitous and vain, while the women are just there as sex objects. It's a deeply depressing movie. The film has dated badly, as one would expect, and with such a bleak message it's hard to see why anybody except an admirer of the lead actors would bother with it today. "},{"Title":"Dirty young men/dirty older men","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carnal Knowledge (1971) shows us two college roommates talking about women and also meeting them.Later these boys grow into men and become middle aged.The terrific director Mike Nichols is the director of this movie.It's both dramatic and comedic look into sexuality of two individuals.The strength of this movie is in the long conversations these two men have with each other.Jack Nicholson does brilliant job playing the other half of the men.He's Jonathan Fuerst.The second half is the musician Art Garfunkel who can also act.Art plays Sandy.Candice Bergen is Susan, the second half's first love.Ann-Margret plays the problematic Bobbie who steps into Jonathan's life.Rita Moreno is Louise, Cynthia O'Neal plays Cindy and Carol Kane is the young Jennifer.As you can see there aren't too many actors in this film.But the ones it does have are just the right people.This is a small movie but yet somehow pretty big. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Communication of Questionably Unmentionable Things About Us","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carnal Knowledge is lathered with Mike Nichols's wonderful film-making style which consists of very fixated, stubborn cinematography that garners that description because of its very extensive single shots that plant themselves on the characters wherever they go. His whole style is a brilliant, fresh, bold, very distinctive manipulation to center the audience. I first saw this in his career-making classic film The Graduate, but despite how golden that film is made out to be, Carnal Knowledge is really a better film because it doesn't thrive on the direction. It actually had an essentially threadbare story, where Carnal Knowledge has a much more coherent and personally tactile script, written by Jules Feiffer, who wrote the brilliant black comedy Little Murders.Feiffer helms a very cerebral and deeply understanding script, which we learn in just the first scene of dialogue, which plays over a black screen presenting the opening credits. It's between the characters played by Art Garfunkel and Jack Nicholson, and they both share their earliest perspectives on sex with women. It's a conversation of very tender truth, the likes of which we haven't really heard in a a film with frank talk of sex or romance since this film. His story proceeds to follow the frustrated but decidedly normal lives of these two best friends, contrasting two very different and oft-misunderstood sexual personalities.Nicholson can't help but hurt his lovers and himself because his idea of an affair is something that is by rule at arm's length that must dissolve. He is attractive and has a charming appearance to women, but he is too unlike his sensitive friend Art Garfunkel to see deeply enough to connect his effect on a woman in the bedroom to an effect on a woman outside of it. His goal in life is the perfect ten between his sheets. When sexual shortcomings begin eating away at his ego, he has no deep connection with someone else and thus has no way to handle them. Garfunkel is less attractive and very ungraceful, but he is easily affected and seeks a level of tenderness with a woman, which he's lucky enough to find in his first girlfriend, played with a great understanding of the tightly wound bookish girl by Candice Bergen. He seeks emotional security in sex, and when unbeknownst to him Nicholson's actions early in the film effect that goal, it forever confuses him.Ann-Margret is great, especially in a theatrically fiery argument with Nicholson, where she never cries or breaks down but cardinally lets bits and pieces of both slip from her control, and we realize the state she's in. Rita Moreno, in a smaller role, plays the true metaphorical castrator that Nicholson paranoidally sees in each woman he gets close to, presenting to him in a brief and memorable moment of hers what the real thing is like.Carnal Knowledge is a timeless communication of things about human beings that one wishes were not so unmentionable. "},{"Title":"A film that at it's time pushed sexual relationships to new heights.","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fabulous after all these years I just finished watching Carnal Knowledge, and I must say it is excellent work and was very well done by Mike Nichols. True this is a film about the very different thoughts of male and female relationships, but much more can be found like finding yourself and it is important to find what makes you happy. Also this film was made at a time that pushed the sexual boundaries to new limits, Mike Nichols shows that he's not worried about pushing the envelope to the next level. The early 70's was a time when this kind of material was just new on the scene and this picture caused an uproar about obscene behavior, but the film had scenes that were done in an artistic way even when it had nude scenes Nichols didn't make them obscene.Jonathan Fuerst(Jack Nicholson) and Sandy(Art Garfunkel) are two college roommates who are eager beavers to explore ladies and sex, Jonathan is a open-minded extrovert and Sandy is an introvert who's more cautious. Anyway the dating begins when both encounter a young and conservative girl named Susan(Candice Bergen in one of her earliest roles) then the love and sex start for all three. As Jonathan breaks off going another direction that being his wild ways, while Sandy later weds Susan.The film then starts to span the generations showing both male characters who are strong and tell their take on relationships from their point of view in first person. Then we are introduced to the mature and very voluptuous and sexy kitten Bobbie(Ann-Margret who's at her all-time sexy best!) Bobbie becomes the lover of Jonathan who's still sex driven and enjoys his time in bed he would never throw her out! Only then the film takes it's first point to show the big differences between the male and female mind thoughts. As Bobbie wants marriage and family but that is a no for Jonathan, who's happy just loving and enjoying his pleasure that makes him feel good within. As the film goes along good friend Sandy continues to enjoy marriage even after he departed with Susan, but for his good friend John the settling down thing will just never work. As the film ends with both men being happy from within.A good overall view of Carnal Knowledge is that from the very beginning it's a film not worried about expressing things as from the opening credits one can tell it's a hormone driven film. But Nichols does this theme of sexual freedom in a professional manner with very mature and strong characters, having them to share their thoughts make the film so interesting. And the nude and love scenes are a great tease to audiences, that makes anyone watching feel good pleasure and think sexual freedom will become a good thing. And Mike Nichols sure opened doors with this film that causal sex can be OK and he shows that many characters can be happy even if they never find any true love. Nichols proves point with this film that males are more sex driven, and females care more about love. Jack Nicholson is top notch as always, giving a tough character performance that includes wit, humor, toughness and good emotional anger while all along being happy with himself as a man who obsesses with women. Art often imitates real life, as Jack has always been known as the great seducer. Carnal Knowledge is an underrated classic that lets a viewer feel pleasure in an artistic manner and it proves sex is not bad and it can fulfill a person within. "},{"Title":"Good comedy/drama.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are all kinds of problems one comes across on this crappy little planet, but none are as hard to take seriously as those that arise in man-woman relationshits.People in this film have those kinds of problems does he/she love me, does she just want my money, I wish she were more passive, I wish she were more active, I wish she'd quit her job to spend more time with me, I wish she'd get out of the house more often to leave me in peace, I wish I were screwing another woman, I hope he isn't cheating on me, I wish we could screw when I feel like it, I wish she'd want to shag even when she doesn't feel like it, I wish she'd want to bonk at the same time that I want to, I wish we'd come at the same time, I wish I could get it hard but her breasts are too small, I wish he'd be kinder to me, I wish he knew just how much I love him and then he'd marry me, and so on and so on...I tell ya, these kinds of people can't even spell problem. Not even if they took a course on spelling just that one word. Nevertheless, as utterly irrelevant and laughable the problems of the people in this film are, they are presented in an alternatingly interesting and comical way. There is a number of witty and funny moments, a lot for a melodrama, especially in the first third or so. Even at the end there is a great, funny scene in which Nicholson presents a slide-show, critiquing the more notable girls and women in his sex-laden past (and who better to do this then Nicholson).The cast is good, particularly Nicholson and Ann-Margret. Ann-Margret, I am disappointed to have to say, has silicone implants. She must be one of the earliest Hollywood bimbos to get that stuff shoved up her chest. The woman playing Cindy... I mean, how can Garfunkel cheat Bergen with THAT?! I'm no admirer of Bergen's looks, but this other woman is a dog! She looks like an older version of Hugh Grant! "},{"Title":"Intense and realistic","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard the fight scene on  Howard Stern.  That is what made me look up what movie this was.  I am glad I did.  This movie delivered on all four cylinders.  I mean, I love Jack N.  This was an OSCAR WORTHY performance.  The friendship that he and Art Garfunkle share, yes, you heard me right, Art Garfunkle is in this, is a very unique one.  They compete for women and go behind eachother's backs.  Jack moreso than Art of course.  Candice Bergan was astonishingly pretty in this movie was the sexy collage fling that both Jack and Art had.   Of course, Ann Margaret is just as great as she was in VIVA LAS VEGAS.  However, the best was the fighting that went on.  Reminds ME of why I don't like marraige.  Haha. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing dead in the water film","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Basically I saw this film because I like Jack Nicholson and Candice Bergen, even though I rarely enjoy Ann-Margret in a serious role and I've never seen Art Garfunkel in anything. I could live the rest of my life gladly without seeing him essay another role; although his gentle demeanor fits his character here well enough, he's able to offer absolutely nothing in the way of emoting to the audience. In fact all the actors in this film were poorly directed by Mike Nichols, and this film has lowered my opinion of him further than it already was.The story follows Nicholson's character, to the point where Bergen's more interesting character drops completely out of the movie after the first third. He is a womanizer who develops ritualistic sexual fetishes and becomes convinced that all women are ballbusters. Presumably the character is supposed to be reprehensible and his evolution is supposed to represent in some way the degeneration of the male sexual libido under the influences of the sexual revolution. The whole thing is didactic and ridiculous, and as if to add insult to injury we have to accept at the end that Garfunkel has somehow discovered the ideal romance with a teenage hippy (Carol Kane, who never gets to speak more than a line of dialog, if that). On the whole, the perspective is just as rudimentary as what Nichols had held forth in his more famous film The Graduate, a naive kind of sexual modernism that seems to hold that our human species is somehow evolving in terms of our sexual maturity, and that characters like the Nicholson one would soon be disappearing from the face of the Earth. On the other hand, the perspective of the misogyny is so heavy in this film that it's certainly possible to mistake it for a chauvinistic film, which is perhaps how some of its fans have taken it since it seems that Nicholson's tirade against Ann-Margret is the most beloved scene in the film. Indeed, it was the only one that made me laugh or that seems to have much conviction, but Nichols and the writer Jules Feiffer betray it subsequently.This film, as well as Mike Nichols, has fans. I don't really have the audacity to say that it's a horrible picture. But it's certainly not for me. The style of the whole thing is too bland, it still feels very stage-bound to me. Basically the camera is there observing, and we're supposed to be so fascinated by the characters themselves that we don't mind the fact that the film leaves all the exposition and nuance to the dialog and spares almost nothing for artistic expression. It does not please me. "},{"Title":"time capsule","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Though this movie is less than 100 minutes long, it feels a lot longer. The story follows the sexual adventures of college roommates Sandy (Art Garfunkel) and Jonathan (Jack Nicholson) over about a 20 yr period. As college students they're obsessed with getting laid---as 40 yr olds they are pretty much obsessed with getting laid. That's about it for the story except of course that Jonathan is at his heart a misogynist who despises women.For a movie coming out in 1971 it was probably pretty bold. By 2005 standards, it is somewhat pretentious. Ann-Margaret is used to great effect but despite being a movie about sexual relationships, you never see any full-frontal nude shots and even Ann is filmed tantalizingly from the mid-breast up. However a terrific shot of her from behind, walking into the shower is included (if you're into such things).By the way, Jack Nicholson must've been wrinkled by the time this movie was over---did any actor ever have more scenes where he's taking a shower? Art Garfunkel was surprisingly good in this movie. Why he didn't pursue a broader acting career is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Dreary, dull and dated","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS THROUGHOUT** Hopelessly outdated film about sex. It follows the sex lives of two guys--Jonathan (Jack Nicholson) and Sandy (Art Garfunkel)--from their college years in the 1940s up to 1971. Sandy falls for Susan (Candice Bergen) in college. Jonathan also falls for her too. In later years Sandy is married to Susan and Jonathan gets involved with Bobbie (Ann-Margret) who is much younger than him. It all ends badly.The message of this movie seems to be that some men (Nicholson) only see women as sex objects and can't relate to them. Other men (Garfunkel) are too timid. Basically both of the men are pathetic! Nicholson keeps saying revolting sexual asides about women left and right. Garfunkel is just blank. The women don't fare much better. I couldn't figure out Bergen at all. She's sleeping with both of them but we never understand why she's doing it--or how she really feels. Ann-Margret comes across as needy and passive. Basically there's not one person in this film you can relate to--or like. The insights here are ridiculously obvious (maybe they were meaningful in 1971) and the film is full of pointlessly long silences that seem like they're profound. It's also very coldly directed by Mike Nichols--but that was the point. Add to that two horrible performances by Garfunkel and Bergen. Nicholson and Ann-Margret are great however--but they're given little to work with. Ann-Margret was justly nominated for an Academy Award as Best Supporting Actress for this. Also it has Rita Moreno as a prostitute (!!!) and is Carol Kane's first movie.This was a controversial picture in 1971. The dialogue is sexually frank and shocked a lot of people. By today's standards it's laughably tame and the movie comes across as a self-important dated dud. Worth seeing only for Ann-Margret and Nicholson. Another one time shocking movie that just doesn't date well. I give it a 4. "},{"Title":"Clunk","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mike Nichols has the dubious distinction of producing the two worst films in U.S. history - this one and The Graduate. How this man ever came to be respected is beyond me. I think Nichols is a perfect example of what we mean when we say there is an elephant in the room that no one wants to talk about because no one wants to be embarrassed by admitting there is an elephant in the room. Jules Feiffer, however,who wrote this piece of garbage should be hung out to dry in the public square. The fact that Nichols made this film simply demonstrates once again that the man has no conscience much less any moral or ethical compass. His cynical atheism more than shows here. Too bad. So much talent and so little character. "}{"Title":"Oh Boo, Hiss, Jeer","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At age 34, Jack Nicholson plays a college student, a guy named Jonathan, who lives, breathes and talks ... girls. His best bud is Sandy (Art Garfunkel) who has the same one-track mind. At least Garfunkel was only thirty when he made this film. But both actors are way too old to be convincing as college studs.Miscasting aside, the Jonathan character is a jerk. He's smug and shallow, and he smirks a lot. His chatter about women is juvenile. I did not like him at all.Maybe this film has some historical value as a relic of the 1960s sexual revolution. Thirty years later, I find the film painfully boring.Scenes are long and drawn out. Action is super slow. Talk is excessive. A major character disappears, never to be seen again, long before the film ends. And the overall plot is minimal. Jonathan and Sandy age a little, become a little more experienced with women. But they've still got that one-track mind.Color cinematography and direction are terrible. At times, a character, in close-up, will be speaking directly to the camera. Eventually, after interminable sophisticated talk, the camera backs away, to reveal that the character is sitting in a chair speaking to another character. Are we supposed to be impressed by this little directorial sleight of hand?I can see this story as a 1971 Broadway play, for sophisticated New Yorkers. But given the cultural changes that have transpired in the last thirty years, the film's style and execution now seem pretentious. And the entertainment value, for me at least, is nearly zero. "},{"Title":"Horrible...","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whenever there is a movie that comes out with Jack Nicholson in it, I have to see it. Since he hasn't been in a boat load of movies lately, I decided to see some of his older ones. Overall, I am impressed by them from his Oscar winning work for One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest to his trademark performance in The Shining. But Carnal Knowledge is the first movie I have seen him in that I absolutely did not like.I had the assumption that this would be a comedy about the sexual desires of a man over women. Sure, I anticipated sex, and some innuendos, but a decent film. Well, I found nothing decent about it. The film is a complete bore fest, made up of Nicholson and Garfunkel talking about which girl to bang and how many foul, maligning, and sexist words they can deliver in a 90 minute period. I was absolutely disgusted by it.Garkfunkel looked bored with the film and just went along with it, not even bothering to put some effort into his character. A young and beautiful Candice Bergen is to busy smiling and giggling to even be a believable character. Anne Margaret, well, like Candice, she has great looks, but is a pain in the butt by her constant whining and drug overdoses. Nicholson seemed to have fun with himself, but is not even in comparison to all his other performances. Maybe this is because this was one of his earlier movies. Either way, he wasn't great.There was no plot and no good acting. Needless to say, this was not a good movie. I was even surprised that this was even made back in 1970. Uhm? I can understand people calling it a controversial movie, but only because of all the sexual dialog. 1/10 -For those of you who like the old movies, skip this one and see something else. "}]