[{"Title":"Welcome to Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin, and TXXXXsky Street","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is the forgotten Brooks movie. Probably because it has the most controlled script story, and had the least wild, satyric inventiveness of any of his films. After he wrote and directed the original THE PRODUCERS, Brooks did not do another film for a few years. The second one was this one set in the post-Russian Revolution period in the Soviet Union. Ron Moody (Fagin in the musical OLIVER) is a minor Tsarist nobleman who discovers, when attending his mother-in-law on her death bed, that she hid her fortune in jewelry in one of the dining room chairs. There were a set of twelve chairs, and they were appropriated by the government to be given to deserving members of the proletariat. Moody discovers that his mother-in-law did confess this to one person besides him the local Russian Orthodox Priest (Dom DeLuise). Moody finds the latter a difficult opponent to beat to the fortune first. By chance he falls in with a young swindler (Frank Langella) and he and Langella pursue the chairs, and also send DeLuise on a wild goose chase following a second set of similar chairs. What we get is a view of the Soviet Union in 1928, as the Civil Wars died out and the regime consolidated power. Trotsky's name is now dismissed (as a street shows). The stage is dominated by the state oriented drama that is anti-capitalist. Witness the performance of Andreas Voutsinas - the original Carmen Ghia in the first PRODUCERS, as the government backed manager of the theater group that Moody and Langella join. There is a life and death threat behind comments he gives to one of the stage crew he controls. We also see how the common people try to cope with the changes - being sent across country on government sponsored jobs - to houses that the government may furnish. Brooks has his first role in his own films in this one - as Tikhon, the drunken, ex-servant of Moody. He receives a slap from the latter, and considers it exactly like a hug. Like IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD, THE TWELVE CHAIRS looks at the antics people will go through for hidden wealth. Langella, who is a street criminal anyway, is the only sane member of the three treasure seekers. He is a realist (the first really serious one in Brooks' films), and has adapted to the new conditions fairly easily by living on his considerably keen wits. He realizes that he is hampered as well as helped by his alliance with Moody, but manages to figure out how to live with Moody as best as possible. Moody has become a bureaucrat to survive in the new regime (he's suspect as an aristocrat), but he still has his pretenses. It takes the events he shares with Langella for him to finally give up his pretenses. Together both men find out what is really worthwhile about living. DeLuise is less lucky. He just discovers the perils of being a loner. "},{"Title":"Expect the worst","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hope for the best, expect the worst, as the title song goes, is exactly how I felt when I picked up my copy. Having read the original Russian novel and being a fan of Mel Brooks, I was curious how the two would come together. I was rather apprehensive, knowing how Russian literature usually suffers in translation, but hopeful that Brooks would somehow make something of it anyway. The film disappoints on both counts - there's precious little of the original in it, and Brooks isn't at his best here either. Moody is actually OK as Vorobyaninov, but the casting of Langella as Bender is just plain wrong, as he cannot possibly convey the depth and subtlety of the original character. Langella alone is enough to kill this film for anyone familiar with the book. None of the uproarious humor of the novel is anywhere to be found, while the few semi-funny visual gags are merely typical Brooks slapstick and have nothing to do with the source material. And even those aren't among Brooks' best. However, having expected the worst, I wasn't exactly disappointed. An OK little comedy, if you don't expect too much. If you want more, read the book. "},{"Title":"Hilarious odyssey across Russia on search of the family jewels","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As Mel Brooks films go, I rate it second only to Young Frankenstein. The action takes place in Russia 10 years after the Revolution. Ron Moody is marvelous as a low IQ and totally inept former nobleman, now hiding out as a clerk in a government office, who learns that the family jewels had been sewn into one of the 12 dining room chairs. He returns to his former residence, now an old folks home, and learns from former servant, now janitor, Mel Brooks that the chairs are gone, confiscated by the government. Con man Frank Langella threatens to turn Moody in if he does not allow him in on the quest. Of course, the chairs have been widely distributed. A major fly in the ointment is Dom Deluise, the village priest, who has also learned the secret. He relinquishes all for greed (O, Thou who knowest all---you know.) and competes in the search. Not a perfect movie, but loaded with laughs. May be Dom's funniest role. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":" I've   Begged  All   My   Life!  ","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In his lifetime Mel Brooks has created many motion pictures which have established him as an artistic genius. The Twelve Chairs is another milestone for him. From the very beginning of this film, to its ending, there is a sense of serious, but humanistic brilliance. The era is the aftermath of the Russian Revolution and a dying woman wants to clear her conscience and reveal her greatest sin. As thousands of the nobility are fleeing for their lives, she decides to hide her family's fortune inside the lining of a set of handcrafted chairs. That secret is her dying revelation and is said unfortunately into more than one set of ears. This initiates a mad dash for the lost treasure. Seeking the cache of jewels are three intrepid, but greedy set of characters. The first is incredibly talented Ron Moody who adroitly and brilliantly plays the legitimate, greedy and opportunistic son, Ippolit Vorobyaninov. Once a Marshall of the nobility, he is now reduced to a minor banking clerk and opportunistic son-in-law. Frank Langella is superior as Ostap Bender, a handsome, street-wise, traveling Gypsy, who also wants in on the treasure hunt. Finally there is Dom DeLuise who plays Father Fyodor, an Orthodox but impoverished monk who believes, God will help him find the elusive chair first. What the trio soon discover is that the chair is one of Twelve which have been scattered across the vast twelve thousand miles of Russia. If Mel Brooks sought to create an amusing memorable movie, he succeeded. By the time one reaches the end of this film, we realize . . . . a Classic has been born. **** "},{"Title":"The Brooks no one remembers....","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A long time ago, Mel Brooks had a subtle side.Hard to believe, isn't it?  The man responsible for such guffaw-fests as Blazing Saddles, Silent Movie, High Anxiety and such....  SUBTLE?In The Twelve Chairs, he does get laughs out of the story of a Russian nobleman searching for jewels sewn into one of twelve of his family's chairs that have been sold with the rest of his family's possessions.  But not the way we're use to seeing Mel earn them.This, time, he gets them through character study, human nature, individuals' reactions to certain embarrassing situations and, of course, good old-fashioned greed.  And the laughs are there, to be sure. I'm actually surprised that I liked this as much as I did.  I'm used to Mel up there with the lampshade on his head, yucking it up with wild abandon.  This film, subtle as it is, makes me laugh.Of course, for purists, there's always good old DeLuise as another conniver searching for the same jewels.  He makes with the wildness and insanity that makes a Mel Brooks film a Mel Brooks film, and he's a joy to see.The others, Moody and Langella in particular, play regular human beings who see a situation, assess it and act as (nearly) anyone else would.  More humorously, of course.Seek out The Twelve Chairs.  Rare as it is, a rose by any other name....And you know the rest.Eight stars.  Hey!  Hey, hey, hey! "},{"Title":"Much Better Than Expected","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this film because it was the only Mel Brooks movie I hadn't seen. I had enjoyed all of his other movies and thought,Why not see 'em all? I thought since I hadn't heard of it it would be stupid. And, Man, was I wrong. This movie could be described as hilarious. I loved it. And it's not exactly like all other Mel Brooks movies. If you like Mel Brooks I recommend this film to you. Dom DeLuise is hilarious in this. Now go watch it with your family. "},{"Title":"Who would guess that it comes from Mel Brooks?","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Knowing that Mel Brooks usually makes the silliest movies possible, it's a surprise that he directed the lightweight comedy The Twelve Chairs. It portrays a former Czarist (Ron Moody, happy birthday!) and a young soldier (Frank Langella) looking for some jewels hidden in chairs in the Soviet Union in the 1920s. I will say that not much really happens throughout much of the movie, but it is a famous part of Russian literature. I haven't read the novel, but the movie is worth seeing, if only as a look at Brooks's early career. Also starring Dom DeLuise and Brooks in a small role.Epilepsy... "},{"Title":"A slapstick farce with a human side","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fans of Mel Brooks' 'The Producers' will find particular delight in 'The Twelve Chairs'; the two are of a distinctly different style than the more biting parodies that make up his later works.'The Twelve Chairs' is not a new story, even by 1970 standards.  The chase for treasure is an often-used hook to hang a madcap plot.  Slapstick and physical humor are employed liberally, most effectively by Dom Deloise as Father Fyodor, the Russian priest who has turned on the church to join in the run for the jewels.  His adventures as he is sidetracked to Siberia by the self-described 'handsome young desperado' Ostap Bender (Frank Langella) are funny and completely in character.What makes 'The Twelve Chairs' different is its human side.  The former Russian nobleman I.M. Vorobyaninov is portrayed by Ron Moody perfectly now reduced to a file clerk, he still lives in his pre-Revolutionary past, flatly refusing to beg when he and Bender are down to their last few rubles and still in pursuit of the chairs.  The audience roots for the flashy, smart Bender but also for the pitiable Vorobyaninov as his character grows through the experience.Characters we meet along the way define other human conditions (the traveling show producer's haughtiness, his assistant's greed, the railworkers' pride).  These elements make 'The Twelve Chairs' more like  'The Producers' than 'High Anxiety,' and a film worthy of a listing with Brooks' best. "},{"Title":"Serious Comedy","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A serious comedy from Mel Brooks. The Twelve Chairs borders on farce but is relatively restrained. This restraint is all the more remarkable in light of Dom DeLuise's manic attempts to take over. Ron Moody (who is best remember as Fagin in 'Oliver' on film and on the West End and Broadway)is superb. Frank Langella is less impressive, but he does bring the necessary character to the role. If you expect and want Blazing Saddles this movie is not for you. Nor is it as perfect a picture as Young Frankenstein. But this Brooksian take on a Russian comedy of errors is well worth your attention. The belly laughs are few and far between, but the tugs on the heartstrings (along with some slapstick) suffice. If I am spare on the details, it is only because I have not seen this motion picture since its theatrical release in 1970; it's definitely one to which I have to renew my acquaintance. "},{"Title":"The Twelve Chairs","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE TWELVE CHAIRS is a different kind of Mel Brooks comedy. Its story, from a Russian novel by Ilf and Petrov, will seem very tasteful and human to those who are acquainted with Brooks' usual raunchiness. This movie is a nice change. Ron Moody and Frank Langella star, with Dom DeLuise and a special appearance by Mel Brooks as Tikon. "}{"Title":"A Typical Mel Brooks' Comedy","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Twelve Chairs Years after the Russian Revolution in 1917, the former aristocrat Ippolit Matveevich Vorobyaninov (Ron Moody) is informed by his terminal mother-in- law that she has hidden her jewels in a the upholstery of chair from a set of twelve chairs. The Orthodox Father Fyodor (Dom DeLuise) also hears and leaves the Church to seek out the treasure. Vorobyaninov travels to his old house and meets his former servant Tikon (Mel Brooks) that adores him. He learns that the chairs had been expropriated by the new government and sent to another place. However the con artist Ostap Bender (Frank Langella) convinces Vorobyaninov to be his partner. They travel to Moscow where Ostap succeeds in luring Father Fyodor, telling that the chairs belong to the Engineer Bruns (David Lander), who has very similar chairs and lives with his wife in Siberia. Will Vorobyaninov and Ostap find the twelve chairs?The Twelve Chairs is a typical Mel Brooks' comedy with the usual type of humor with a satire to the Russian Revolution. This comedy is also the debut of Frank Langella in the cinema. Fans of Mel Brooks will certainly like it, but who is not his fan may not find this comedy entertaining. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Banzé na Rússia (Mess in Russia) "},{"Title":"Not a regular Mel Brooks film","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was hard to expect too much out of this apparently low-budget production filmed in 1970 Yugoslavia. The script is loosely based on a novel in Russian which originally did not center on treasure hunt but rather on the picturesque characters surrounding the three losers who could not fit in the new life.I decided to watch this as the only Mel Brooks film never seen before. Unfortunately I had nearly memorized the novel... and in my eyes the movie only reflected about 2% of the potential laughs, while I believe about 40% could be funny if it could make it in the script. The original material was not without flaws but it was mostly satire and drama, which was totally left out of this film.Seeing Dom DeLuise and Frank Langella 40 years younger was a surprise! They actually account for 50% of the fun, while the remaining half belongs to the brilliant acting by Andréas Voutsinas in the two minutes of screen time! Mel Brooks wrote the title song for the film, and the score is OK, but the scenery is out of place and dress designer had no clue about any Russian clothes.So, it's far from an average Mel Brooks film. Overall, I would still give it 5 out of 10, mostly for Andréas Voutsinas. "},{"Title":"both delirious and low-key in separate measure, a decent early turn from Brooksfilms","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Twelve Chairs is not one of Mel Brooks's funniest comedies, but then again it IS a Russian based comedy, where big laughs are as hard to find as a tropical climate. This film does, however, display the director actually able to really tell a good story, and act as storyteller with characters in a plot to care about. If it is not really as successful as his other films though it is in this- I didn't really have a BIG laugh during the length of the 90 minute running time. I note this not because it is a laugh-less comedy, as I had good chuckles, grins, and smiles at the material presented. But in most of Brooks's films, even when the structure is held on a thread of sketches and bits, they become the funniest in modern movies. This time there is actually a lot of reverence to the early 20th century Russian times, even as there are some moments when the irreverence Brooks is best at pops up. Perhaps if you're die-hard into Russian history it might serve more for the in-jokes and the well-captured reality of the times.The acting is good, and the main cast is well placed, even if too not the best work is turned in. Frank Langella is definitely very good as the straight 'handsome desperado' character to Ron Moody's crazy old man, as he is an actor who maybe pulls out one good joke in the film. Moody meanwhile delivers some of the funniest moments just based on the delirious, if repetitive, bits on his face and in his unwavering dedication to the jewels stuck in the chair. It is Dom De Louise, on the other hand, who comparatively to other work he's done (primarily Brooksfilm work where he's genius in bit parts), as he really has to rely mostly on physical gags more than hysterical dialog. It becomes a running gag as the most desperate quack of the three hunting for the chair, and only intermittently (mostly when he tries to get the chairs from a husband and wife on a wild goose chase) is funny. And possibly some of the most memorable bits come with Brooks himself as the dim, clumsy but well-intentioned servant to Moody. One almost wishes he might pop up unexpectedly later in the film just as a brilliant goof.This is not to say I wasn't glad to finally see the often under-seen film in Brooks's oeuvre. It's certainly a good notch above the worst the director's done (Life Stinks and Dracula Dead and Loving It), where unlike those unfortunate moments he doesn't shoot for jokes and gags and puns that just don't work. Here they do, and they're juxtaposed with a story that allows for some good tongue-in-cheek moments(including a few smart moments when people chase each other in sped-up silent-film comedy style), while with a dramatic adventure story. There's even one or two moments where Brooks reveals a fine cinematic eye for the real locations on the character's travels. At the end, I felt I hadn't seen the great sleeper of a career, but a fun enough romp that has good intentions for something different- and what's more 'different' than a comedy set in Russia. "},{"Title":"Not a great film.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is far from Mel Brooks' best, and not a very good adaptation. The details differ significantly from Ilf & Petrov's novel; fewer people die, and certain issues aren't addressed (such as why Engineer Bruns had the chairs in Yalta; it looked at first like he was on vacation.) The characterisation was a little off; Ostap Bender was far less of a convincing drifter than would have been optimal (far too cleanshaven, and the actor was very obviously Acting, if you know what I mean), Father Fyodor shouldn't have been played by Dom Deluise, and otherwise many aspects were unsatisfying. That said, there were some decent moments; the sight gags with various official signs (i.e. in the Housing Bureau) were nice, and shooting it in Yugoslavia helped with the general atmosphere. I'd like to track down a subtitled version of the 1971 Russian film, and compare. "},{"Title":"A Lesser-Known Mel Brooks","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1920s Soviet Russia, a fallen aristocrat, a priest and a con artist search for a treasure of jewels hidden inside one of twelve dining chairs, lost during the revolution.I honestly don't even know if I heard of this movie before I picked up a copy of Mel Brooks' blu-ray box set. I think I can safely say it is his most obscure full-length feature film. And even more odd, it was based on a novel and has been made in multiple film versions... I was not aware of any of this.That aside, this was actually pretty funny. A bit subtle, but I think it worked that way. And Dom DeLuise. Wow. I never knew he was actually somewhat thin once upon a time (though still bald). He was excellent. And Frank Langella looks so young, too! I'm more used to seeing him as Dracula. "},{"Title":"The art of the seizure","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tragedy is when I cut my finger. Comedy is when you fall into an open sewer and die.Wiser words were never spoken--or promoted from theory to application as well as in Mel Brooks' adaptation of Ilf and Petrov's Russian novel, The Twelve Chairs.The confession of a dying woman--that she's hidden jewels in one of twelve chairs--finds its way into the ears of three very different, but equally greedy, men. There's her son-in-law, Ippolit (Ron Moody), a man born with a silver spoon his mouth, which he proceeded to choke on. There's Ostap (Frank Langella, who, against all common wisdom, was once among the youth), a young con-artist whose first treachery is his fresh face. And lastly, there's Father Fyodor (Dom DeLuise), who seems less a product of seminary school than clown college.As with many of Mel Brooks' films, there's the foreground comedy and the background comedy, working simultaneously to their mutual benefit. The background jokes always get me, because I least expect them. For instance, the signs plastered all over Soviet Russia all seem to end in an exclamation point, no matter how trivial the message. Also, there's a hilarious theater troupe advertisement which reads, Hamlet and the October Revolution by William Shakespeare and Ivan Poppov, in reference to Communism's everything belongs to everybody philosophy.While Langella is restricted to playing the straight man, both Moody and DeLuise are given total freedom to writhe, stretch their faces beyond the norm, and shout so much gibberish that by the end of the film, I think I began to understand. Moody's Ippolit, an otherwise timid character, is reduced to agitated mammal when possibly in the presence of the riches. DeLuise takes it farther, no better than in a tremendous scene where he finds himself in the home of a couple suspected of having the chairs. The physicality of his performance is top-notch, as he grovels and attacks, bouncing between affection and rage, unsure of which method is most likely to land him the chairs-- to the befuddlement of the couple, obviously. Despite having more of a dramatic core than Brooks' other films, The Twelve Chairs feels completely at home in Brooks' filmography. However, it's less broad than his films went on to be--there's no fourth wall breaking or seeing the orchestra on screen. It might have my single favorite showcase for character development, as a character fakes a seizure early in the film in a pathetically, doggy-paddle fashion; whereas later in the film, his method evolves into a loose, childlike dance. Bizarrely, this is only one of two satires of/by Russian literature done in the '70s by a Jewish comedian. The other is Woody Allen's Love and Theft, which is better. "},{"Title":"Good story, but not a good movie","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For a Mel Brooks movie, far from the best. For a 60-70's comedy, I've definitely seen better. A poor man's Mad Mad Mad Mad World.Was it interesting? That was the best part. The story is complex, characters were developed with reasonable motivations. It's just the transition to a movie that didn't really do it justice. 1.5 out of 3Was it entertaining? The comedy was slightly humorous in parts, but mostly predictable or too drawn out. 1 out of 3Was it memorable? The locations were pretty well done, and the acting was better than the dialog. The problem is that pacing was so slow I almost fell asleep 2/3 through and was wanting to fast-forward in the last 5 minutes. 1 out of 31.5+1+1=3.5+1(default 1)=4.5 Round up or down for overall feeling and this feels like a 4. This is not a movie I would want to see and felt like my time was somewhat wasted. "},{"Title":"dark satire from Mel Brooks","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's 1927 Soviet Union. Ippolit Vorobyaninov (Ron Moody) is a poor Russian aristocrat who is told by his dying mother-in-law that she hid her jewels in one of her twelve chairs which are now gone. Ostap Bender (Frank Langella) is a con-man from the streets. He befriends Tikon (Mel Brooks) and then bullies his master Ippolit into joining him in his search. The priest Father Fyodor (Dom DeLuise) brought in to give the Last Rites also tries to find the chairs.It's a satire based on Ilf and Petrov's The Twelve Chairs. The film has a bit of slapstick and a bit of stinging rebuke of the communist system. It's not as vulgar as his later works. That's probably due to the need to follow the source material. It does lack a good rooting interest. Frank Langella is not a fun con-man. His intensity doesn't allow the comedy to flow easily. He's a serious actor and not really a comedian. This is interesting with a few good chuckles. "},{"Title":"My Kind Of Humour","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Russian revolution. Yes. Mel Brooks. Yes. This man is a comedic genius. I laughed throughout most of this film. Dom DeLuise is hilarious. And at times Frank Langella reminded me of Kaa from Jungle Book. Ron Moody gives an outstanding performance that is also rather cringe worthy at times, but portrays the desperation of this era. This is a poignant film that also doesn't take itself seriously. You can't escape the struggle of class, (and if you're like me) will be laughing out loud along the way. This is brilliant, clever, silly humour and I recommend to those with half a brain. "},{"Title":"Parentage of The Twelve Chairs","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comment contains what might be called an anti-spoiler or unspoiler. In the novel by Ilif and Petrov, Ostop is ultimately murdered by Vorobyanninon, but in the film he lives. The Twelve Chairs was preceded by Keep Your Seats, Please! (1936) and It's in the Bag (1949) starring the perfectly matched partners, Jack Benny and Fred Allen. The latter film is an overlooked gem. The plot gimmick of a treasure buried in the seat of one of a set of matched chairs is apparently rather common. Another link between Brooks and Benny is in the remake of Lubitsch's To Be or Not To Be where Benny's part is played by Brooks. A glimpsed street sign carries the name, Kubelsky, which is Benny's real name. Fyodor Dostoevsky plays a role in The Twelve Chairs and one wonders whether Woody Allen's tale of comic Russian rascals, Love and Death, was partly inspired by The Twelve Chairs. "}{"Title":"Watchable, not highly entertaining though","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I chose this movie because it was set in Russia and was pleasantly surprised, because I felt it presented a reasonably accurate portrait of the post-revolution Soviet Russia - obviously, that's just my opinion, but in this respect the movie delivered what I was hoping to see. I am not familiar with either Mel Brooks or with the original book so I did not know what to expect. The plot was pretty simple to follow, however, I didn't really feel it was enough to carry the whole movie. I think it was supposed to be funny, though I wouldn't call it a comedy. It had moments that elicited a chuckle or two, but that was about it. I would recommend it to get a glimpse of 1928 Russia which I thought was the strongest asset of the movie. If possible rent it rather than buy it, because I don't think this is a movie you would want to watch more than once. "},{"Title":"A bit better than the Cuban version...though apparently there are several more versions of this Russian story waiting to be seen","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A week ago, I saw the Cuban version of The Twelve Chairs and assumed it was the first version of the famous Ilf and Petrov novel. However, I researched a bit and found that there are at least two other versions out there--and possible more. In the 1930s, there was a Czechoslovakian filming of the story (the first) and then a British version as well. I also learned that all of these versions are different and not so bleak as the original story--a story where one of the partners in crime KILLS the other--only to learn that the jewels are not in any of the chairs. I could see how this version would be better for Soviet propaganda--but funny, no way. So the movie versions apparently have a more innocent and funnier slant--a good idea if you ask me.This Mel Brooks version is quite different from the Cuban one--much more slapstick, more cinematic and possessing much more energy. In fact, the lack of energy was my biggest complaint about the Cuban film. For a comedy, it was just too retrained. Here in the 1970 version, however, the opposite is true--at times the story has a bit too much energy and relies a bit too much on slapstick. For example, during a few scenes Brooks does something I HATE--speeds up the camera to indicate it's a funny scene. However, if it's funny, let it be funny on its own merit--don't do cheap camera tricks. Also, while adding a new character to the story was not necessarily a bad idea, Dom DeLuise's priest was, at times, over the top and didn't fit with the mood set by the rest of the film. Eliminating the camera tricks and keeping DeLuise under control would have improved the film immensely. Also, keeping Brooks out of the film completely wouldn't have hurt, either. I loved his writing and directing, but his best films had him barely in them (such as The Producers and Young Frankenstein).Now I have criticized the film quite a bit--but there is a lot to like and I think it's one of Brooks' better films. The most obvious plus in the film was the wild and crazy performance by Ron Moody. Because Moody had many quiet and restrained moments, his crazy scenes worked well. For example, while a generally restrained man, seeing him, out of the blue, climb up the pole to the high wire was hilarious. And, a few other times when he lost control, couldn't help but smile. RESTRAINT and selective craziness was what made him a joy to watch.I also respected the nice location shoot in Yugoslavia. It could have been made in the States but filming in a locale more like the USSR helped--and there was no way the Soviet Union would have allowed the film to be made there considering the state of US-USSR relations at the time. The color cinematography and locations shoots were nice.I was surprised, but Brooks' song Hope For The Best, Expect The Worst was also a wonderful song. It was catchy, summed up the film well and I found myself humming it after the movie was over.Finally, I liked the relationship between Moody and Frank Langella--particularly at the end of the movie. Going for a sentimental ending with some pathos was a great idea--and ending it like the novel would have been just awful.Overall, while I am sure many would disagree, I think that apart from The Producers and Young Frankenstein this was Brooks' best film. There is a likability and subtle (at times) that you just never see in his later films...and I like this and find it endearing. Too bad his films became progressively goofier and self-indulgent. "},{"Title":"The Chair With The Swag","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By the Nineties what you expected from a Mel Brooks movie was a satire of film genres, whether it was horror, western, science fiction, the backstage show business story, the fertile mind of Mel Brooks somehow skewered them all. He did one remake of a classic comedy from the studio era with To Be Or Not To Be. But most of his work was his own original take on a film genre. The Twelve Chairs stands out as an odd fish among his work.Although it has some very funny moments it doesn't quite come off as well as The Producers or Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein. Perhaps it was because Brooks was not creating his own original work, but was filming a play from another source, a novel The Twelve Chairs by Soviet Union authors Ilyiu and Petrova.Former aristocrat Ron Moody who was quite lucky to be alive after the Russian Revolution hears a death bed confession from his mother that the family fortune is in jewels that the Bolesheviks didn't get, but was hidden in one of twelve parlor chairs the family owned. The Soviets confiscated the furniture and sold it to benefit the new government.Moody teams up with young gentleman thief Frank Langella to try and find the one chair with the loot. They have a rival in fake Russian Orthodox priest Dom DeLuise also looking for the chair with the swag.Moody steals the show in this one, thinking about the lost life he once had and that the chair will gain it back for him in some measure, he becomes positively more manic as the film continues. His performance is a whole lot like Zero Mostel's in The Producers.Still The Twelve Chairs is not what I've come to expect from Mel Brooks. He'd do so much better in his next film, Blazing Saddles. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Change of Pace Brooks Film","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ron Moody and Frank Langella are wonderful as the beggar duo and have some tender moments - especially for a Mel Brooks movie. I find their casting perfect and think that they work very well together. Dom DeLuise steals the show, however, as the greedy defrocked priest. His slapstick comedy relief contrasts nicely the more philosophical nature of the film.Granted, it's not true to the original book, but remember that this is a Mel Brook's film! It's a little dated now days, but still worth seeing. It's still the only time that I've ever fallen out of my seat in uncontrollable laughter at a movie theater. Watch out for Dom DeLuise going up a really big hill! "},{"Title":"Frank Langella's first big movie","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although many have never seen this film; Washington,DC was lucky enough, in the 60's - 70's, to have a theater (The Circle Theater) that played new, smaller films. I saw this in 1970 when it first came out and have remembered it, and love it, ever since.Ron Moody, Dom and Frank each gave top notch performances both in comedy and action. I know I went back and saw it at least ten times just so I could drool over Langella, and I haven't stopped yet, some 38 years later.It has always been one of my top ten films (it's a very long list of top 100). "},{"Title":"At least It Takes Place In Russia","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen this film several times, having owned a VHS copy for years. It has it's funny moments, but Brooks spends a fair amount of time actually trying to remain faithful to the original 1928 Russian novel, which is to his credit.I just recently watched 12+1, aka The Thirteen Chairs, which was a 1970 French/Italian co-production. It's most famous for it's cast than for anything else. Top-billed was the late Sharon Tate, who was murdered by the Manson cult shortly after this film was completed. The cast also includes Orson Welles, Lionel Jeffries, and Terry-Thomas.I mention the above version for a reason. It strays radically from the original novel. Brooks' version is more faithful. It's interesting that both 12+1 and The Twelve Chairs were released in the same year (1970). They couldn't be more different. 12+1 takes place in Italy, England (mostly) and the United States. Other film versions have been made in Cuba, Germany, and Argentina.Brooks' version does have it's humorous moments, mostly when Dom DeLuise or Mel Brooks are on screen. Otherwise it's mostly a serious film. Both DeLuise (looking quite thin for him) and Brooks are scene stealers. One wonders what the film would have been like without them. Not as good, in my opinion.Mel Brooks proves yet again that he can be quite a good filmmaker when he chooses to be. I'm a great fan of his, but this film is different from anything else that he has done. Just bare that it mind before sitting down to watch it. "},{"Title":"Good family movie","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is by Mel Brooks and so of course it has very some funny moments. Each of the main characters has some great bits.  (This movie came out about the time Woody Allen started making films and some of the off-the-wall stuff reminded of his early films.)If you are looking for a family movie, I would recommend this because it was clever enough for me and my wife to enjoy and silly enough for our kids. "},{"Title":"12 Stars. . .","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK perhaps I'm a bit biased as I saw the 12 Chairs as a kid at the Gateway Theater in Chicago, a favorite treat of ours to stay up extra late.I saw this film again not long after learning Russian and still love it! Sure it has plenty of Mel Brooks' silliness, but what do you expect. There are many memorable lines, my family still routinely says . . .all the Michael's are dead when someone can't remember something.This a fun film for the whole family with a great cast. I was reminded of it just the other night when I saw Frank Langella in Superman Returns. Too bad it's difficult to find on DVD. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Russian film","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A great many people might not get this movie. It is based on an story written by a newspaper reporter in post revolution Russia. If you have spent time in the formerly Soviet Union, or enjoy Russian culture, you'll like this movie.Its hilariously ironic in the Russain style, and includes many jabs at the Soviet system. The humor is some what dark, and the ending isn't preciously happy, and yet it's a truly great movie. (But thats Russia for you. One of the most popular Russian films, and their equivalent of Its a Wonderful Life, is The Irony of Fate in which the characters are cheerfully miserable for the entire film. How is this possible? Well, one theory is that Russia has been so unhappy, and has had such bad leaders, for so long, that the Russians have had to move on from that, and be happy any way.) Our family has spent a lot of time in Eastern Europe, and we all love this movie. How can you not? Its loads of fun. One must simply embrace it for itself, rather then compare it to Brook's other works. "},{"Title":"See this film!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks directed four of the funniest movies ever made, and this is one of them.  Brooks is one of the few directors able to bring Russian tragicomedy to an American audience and pull it off.  This is an absolute must own for every Mel Brooks fan!  "}{"Title":"You're so strict!!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best Mel Brooks comedy, in my opinion. The photography is beautiful, Frank Langella is beautiful...I'm sure the jewels were too.The Twelve Chairs has some of the funniest scenes in film. Dom DeLuise in Siberia is possibly the most hilarious few minutes I've spent staring at a screen. In fact, every scene with DeLuise is wonderful... Ron Moody as the displaced snob; Langella as the likeable rogue; the premise of a road trip in the nineteenth century...the quest for the Grail inside a chair.To see this movie is to wonder where along the line Brooks lost the ability to weave the elements of hilarity, good story, and excellent acting into a tapestry that does not offend the viewer. He has/had the talent to create truly good films, and we're all the sadder when reminded.If you like Space Balls, skip The Twelve Chairs. You belong to a later generation of Brooks fans. Never the twain shall meet.  "},{"Title":"Was that long wait worth it?","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At one time this was the great lost Brooks film. It was often alluded to but was generally unavailable for years. The movie was created between The Producers and Blazing Saddles. I happen to belong to the school of thought which feels that The Producers is funny but all of the other Brooks films are idiotic. Regardless of one's personal opinion, The Twelve Chairs marks the transition to Brooks's most popular and successful period, and is of interest for that reason.I was also curious to see this one because it's based on Ilf and Petrov's hard-to-find book, considered a Soviet classic, and often mentioned in overviews of Russian literature. (I should really know more about that aspect since my IMDb ID is a character from Pushkin.) I hadn't realized the book had inspired so many productions until I browsed the IMDb.So for a couple of different reasons, I've always wanted to see The Twelve Chairs, hoping it would be in the manic style of The Producers. And how did it measure up?I manifested 12 chuckles and was convulsed by one laugh. Not a great score and slow enough to count. Those more open to the broader Brooks style might find more to enjoy. Brooks does avoid being Rabelaisian in this one, as he used to like to put it in interviews, which is a good thing I think. (The rest of us would just say scatological. For any former Soviets new to English and reading this comment, that means there are not a lot of shit and fart jokes.)Picturesque (former) Yugoslav locations stand in for Mother Russia and do very nicely.We get a chance to see Andreas Voutsinas again. He was the memorably fruity hairdresser in The Producers, Carmen Ghia. (That swipe at the Volkswagen sportscar was another of Brooks's jabs at the Germans.) Voutsinas is still fairly swishy in this one but less funny and/or outrageous. A wasted opportunity.Dom DeLuise does his suicidal schtick that he later reprised in The End with Burt Reynolds. He was responsible for most of my modicums of mirth.Ron Moody appeared here after his triumph in Oliver! as Fagin. A bad career move for Moody -- he ended up in junk almost exclusively after that. Perhaps he continued to have a successful career on the stage in Britain? I hope so.The actors are really all pretty good, especially Frank Langella -- it's such a shame that they have so little in the way of a script to work with.These situations could be funnier in more talented hands. Brooks's forte is really as a producer (The Elephant Man), as a gag writer when partnered with someone else (Get Smart with Buck Henry, The 2000-Year-Old Man with Carl Reiner), and as a husband (when partnered with Anne Bancroft). Many would disagree with my assessment and that's fine -- to each his own species of idiocy.  "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks worst, even History of the World was better","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this years ago and it was painfully unfunny. I showed it to some friends because Brooks is usually funny and I wound up being embarrassed. I barely remember what it was about, but what stuck in my mind was that it was laugh free. It has something to do with three losers during the 1920's in Russia looking for some jewels that are hidden in the chairs of a deceased aristocrat They go through various ordeals and at times bored me to tears. Brooks here shows none of the talent he would later display in films like Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein. I really hated this film and can't imagine what parts anyone laughed at. "},{"Title":"THE TWELVE CHAIRS (Mel Brooks, 1970) **1/2","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had first watched this as a kid on Italian TV and it must have seemed very different to me than the typical Mel Brooks film (after all, THE TWELVE CHAIRS was only his second outing) but, back then, I wasn't familiar with THE PRODUCERS (1968) either; it was with his next effort, BLAZING SADDLES (1974), that Brooks really found a congenial formula, i.e. parody, which would occupy most of his subsequent career.This was adapted from a popular Russian source much filmed over the years all over the world in Britain as KEEP YOUR SEATS, PLEASE (1937), with George Formby (which I have just acquired but, alas, don't have time to watch at present), in the Hollywood as IT'S IN THE BAG (1945), co-starring Jack Benny, the international production 12+1 (1969) featuring the last appearance of the ill-fated Sharon Tate and a starry cast (Vittorio Gassman, Orson Welles, Terry-Thomas, etc.) and there's even a Cuban version from 1962 by Tomas Gutierrez Alea (which has recently been released on R2 DVD but which I have yet to acquire). Brooks' version, then, is the only one I know of to utilize the original Russian setting which, in spite of generally amusing (if overly familiar) situations, rather makes for a dreary-looking film. For the most part, too, the show's more glum than fun &#150; with pratfalls uncomfortably rubbing shoulders with (misplaced) social conscience! In any case, Ron Moody (fresh from the success of OLIVER! 1968) is ideally cast as an impoverished aristocrat in search of the family fortune sown into one of twelve chairs which have been sold to various parties following the 1917 uprisings. His co-stars are a dashing Frank Langella (who, incidentally, I watched performing on a London stage in January 2007 and might well be up for an Academy Award next February in Ron Howard's film adaptation of that very play I saw him in, i.e. FROST/NIXON) as a wily schemer, who plays it straight but is equally effective, and Dom DeLuise as the greedy priest to whom Moody's relative has confessed before expiring; I suppose that his hysterical shtick and zany antics seemed funny at the time but it's rather overbearing to watch nowadays. Last but not least, Brooks himself cameos (he'd appear in all of his own films from then on) as Moody's loyal but befuddled servant. "},{"Title":"hope for the best","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is actually a serious movie with Brooks wackiness as a topping. Because the plot is kind of wild it almost serves as a Mel Brooks type of story. It is a typically Russian story, heavily laden with irony and pathos. Actually pretty well done in my opinion, but kind of choppy. As in some other movies, Brooks has a very good song in this one. Hope for the best, expect the worst. That pretty much sums up the movie, which will disappoint his fans who like Blazing Saddles and so forth. But I recommend it to them anyway, if only for the sake of completeness. Note Fans of the British comedy Are You Being Served? can see Nicholas Smith (Mr Rumbold) in a small role here, two lines I think. "},{"Title":"THE greatest comedy of all time.","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK so the greatest comedy of all time may not actually be a perfect film, but it is the only truly dumb comedy that actually transcends the great Russian literature that inspired it.Brooks once said that he needed BIG thinking to inspire him and this movie is that rare thing a political comedy that actually works.It is also a buddy movie, road movie, theological treatise(GOD YOU'RE SO STRICT) and ultimately a love story that climaxes with the main protaganist faking a brain disorder.This film works on many levels and how many broad comedys truly do that, even Woody Allen repeatedly tried and failed.Hope for the best, expect the worst, enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"American people can't understand hummor","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is not even close to the REAL classic 12 Chairs 1971 movie by Leonid Gaiday. The problem is not in the director or actors. Brooks may be a good director, whatever, the facts are that American nation will never understand the classic Russian humor the way it's meant to be.The Russian 1971 version of 12 chairs together with adventures of Shurik is widely considered to be simply the best Russian comedy of all time. Watching American 12 chairs version would be the same as forcing Pierre Richard to play a Schwarz's roles. Ridicioulus...I can't believe that people like this movie and have read the novel at the same time, this is hard to understand...Don't watch this movie! Watch classic 1971 and 1976 Russian movies instead! "},{"Title":"Poor work","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is an incredibly bad screen implementation of one of the greatest satiric novels ever written in Russian. Mel Brooks shows no talent nor as director nor as an actor. The plot is screwed up and it is even difficult to recognize the original version by Ilf and Petrov. Some scenes are brought just out of the blue and never were mentioned in the original. Needless to say they do not improve the plot. Actually I never noticed even a reference to the original book. I probably missed it. In addition to bad acting and directing the translation is below any kind of critics. I never saw other Mel Brooks movies but as Tikhon he is close to zero as an actor which is pretty much recommendation for his talent. In summary if you do something do it properly or do not bother.Andrei  "},{"Title":"Somewhat funny, if you can ignore its shameful pro-Soviet leanings.","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Even someone totally unfamiliar with the novel should be able to pick up the obvious hints that this story had sprung out from the corrupt loins of the Soviet propaganda machine. The greedy priest and the selfish nobleman, for one thing; these serve as not only main protagonists but as symbols of everything that was wrong with pre-revolutionary Russia. The Orthodox Church and nobility were the main enemies of the Bolsheviks, hence why these two characters are portrayed as greedy, selfish, pathetic creatures to be laughed at and despised.Secondly, the ending. The jewels and diamonds found in the chair were used by the Communist Party to build a club (or something or other) for the people - a rather fanciful and laughable approach, in stark contarst to actual harsh realities of 20s Soviet Russia. Plus the fact that pre-Stalinist Russia (pre as in merely months before his arrival) isn't shown as destitute but as prosperous even. Dom deLuise's visit to Siberia is merely cold; Brooks doesn't even throw a hint that it is a place where millions of political prisoners are dying (and about to die) in ultra-inhumane conditions, there isn't even a speck of a joke regarding gulags. So much for yet another bleedin'-heart liberal who cares for his fellow man; Mel Brooks is a grinning scumbag of the worst kind. A hypocritical left-winger who amasses a fortune while supposedly caring for the poor. Thumbs up for anyone daft enough to fall for this transparent con-job.Mel Brooks, by being fairly faithful to the book, became a willing tool of Soviet propaganda, and this little Red gesture didn't go unnoticed in Hollywood, which gave him several awards for being so pro-Soviet. Comedies very rarely get recognized by any juries, so this was quite telling, especially given the fact that this was by no means a brilliant movie. (Except perhaps by Brooks's own rather low standards.) Brooks could have easily written in another character a corrupt, greedy Party member as an additional seeker of fortune. This would have been a perfect way to cancel out the blatant pro-Communist leanings of the story. Or he could have re-written Langhela's part to that effect, but he chose not to. He didn't want to make this an intelligent, politically neutral tale, because that isn't what he believes in.12C is a decent comedy, there are some laughs here and there, but that peculiar Mel Brooks touch always gets in the way from turning it into a very good comedy. He made several mistakes. Aside from including the usual barrage of cheap, unfunny melo-brooksian jokes, he also terribly miscast Frank Langhella. Langhella is neither funny nor has he got the kind of easy charm that is required for that type of role. His face is stern, and his voice serious. And yet we see much more of him than Dom DeLuise, who is fairly funny as the increasingly insane priest but a bit of a side-character. "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Twelve Chairs hast to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I can't believe  this was one of his films!  A horrible story, bad acting, and I never laughed once!   Although some people actually like this film, I thought it was awful. It's nothing  compared to other Mel Brooks's films.  High Anxiety is on my top five favorites, and  Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein on my top ten, The Twelve Chairs is on  my bottom five favorites. I'd give this movie, nothing/*****. "}{"Title":"Desecration of Superb Source Material","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who liked this movie cannot be acquainted with the source material,  a masterpiece under the joint authorship of Ilf and Petrov. Even in translation, it's hysterical. This movie was simply butchery. "}]