[{"Title":"Best kind of tearjerker","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"64 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wasn't even alive when this came out. I'd never even really heard of MacGraw nor O'Neal before (though they both looked vaguely familiar). The Love Story theme, I was definitely aware of though.I saw it for the first time in 2002, and bawled like hell. I saw it for the second time a few weeks ago (2005) and cried like a baby again. I instantly needed to get my DVD copy. My parents always say that they don't do movies (or music, for that matter) like they used to, and on this occasion, I had to agree.The movie's premise is simple the typical boy meets girl love story, with the cliché rich boy, poor girl angle. But I think its simplicity is part of what's so great about it. I fell in love with Oliver and Jenny (and as corny as it may sound, I think their undying love for each other is ultimately what we're all searching for), and their tragedy became my devastation as well. It's generally your typical soppy chick flick (with the exception that the pair don't live happily ever after), but probably the best one of its kind. A story like this has become so banal today, 35 or so years later, but it was surely one of the first of its kind. It hits all the right emotional buttons, and although I'm not one to usually cry over films, this one certainly had me in tears.The two very attractive leads make a cute couple, and have good chemistry. O'Neal and MacGraw both turn in very solid performances, and I quite enjoyed the foul-mouthed MacGraw. Good writing, solid acting, great music (I could listen to the musical score all day), beautiful scenes. I love Love Story. Hee! 10 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"Love knows not its own depth, until the hour of separation.","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The sentimentality of Love Story (What can you say about a 25-year-old girl who died?) is a hearty welcome retreat to the past... There is nothing to spoil love, trust, confidence or even the events... Jenny seems to die... She just escapes in loveliness...Jenny (Ali MacGraw) is half of a pretty young married students from a working class background... And Oliver (Ryan O'Neal) is from a very wealthy family... Both have the predictable problems with disapproving parents... Both struggle along through hard times, until Oliver obtains a fine job with his own merit... When Jenny tries to get pregnant, the doctor finds out that she has an incurable disease, and has a very short time to live...Ryan O'Neal plays well the intense sensitive rebel, giving a heart-breaking performance as the ultra-rich man's son who works to pay his way through law school when his father won't...Ali MacGraw is good and touching in her portrait of Jenny, the dying heroine, the poor baker's daughter studying classical music at Radcliffe, the smart young girl who gives up her plans to study in Europe in order to marry Oliver... She never missed a 'shred of her beauty' in her role...Ray Milland is the 60-year-old Oliver Barrett III... He is a strong, articulate, civilized millionaire from Boston who refuses to support his son in marrying a girl of such low social stature... He commands him instead to finish law school...John Harley is Phil, the father of Jenny... For him, Father's love is something to cherish and respect.There is three sequences that I liked the most in the film- Jenny and Oliver wonderful kissing scene... From this point on, both were entirely engrossed with each other, ready to risk anything for love...- Oliver's long day search looking for Jenny, until he sees her sitting, outside, on a stair... She forgot her keys... Jenny is comforted by Oliver who tries to apologize for his continual disputes... Jenny, all shaken, and with tears in her eyes and with an emotional voice stops him with words of deep affection Love means never having to say you're sorry.- Oliver, sitting alone and lost to the world, uncertain and perplexed, unable to understand Jenny's tragic fate... If Jenny could spend an hour in his mind, a minute in his heart, a second in his soul to discover what he really feels loving her... Why Jenny has to die so young? Why destiny is against us sometimes, smashing all our hopes and happiness? Why we feel so impotent in front of the will of God? Why can't we understand that we are 'blessed with Life,' and this is our great gift, our true treasure! Barrett's millions could never save Jenny!The Lebanese poet Khalil Gibran said once Love knows not its own depth, until the hour of separation. And let me say that 'nothing is more beautiful than the love that has weathered the storms of Life.' They say Time mends a broken heart and true love never ends... But if true love never ended then time wouldn't have to mend... So Love Story was followed by Oliver's Story.Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw are splendid and beautifully matched... Arthur Hill's sincere direction commend the picture to a wide audience eager to a flood of tears... Love Story won 7 Academy Award nominations and Frances Lai - touching music - mixed by Bach, Mozart and Handel, won an Oscar, enriching the beauty of the film...An intense, tough-looking leading actor is seen Tommy Lee Jones in his film debut... "},{"Title":"Effectively simple and straightforward tearjerker","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A box office phenomenon at the time (this was one of those movie that people reportedly waited in line for hours to see), LOVE STORY has continued to be ridiculed by cynics and adored by romantics for decades. The secret to the film's ultimate effectiveness is in it's simplicity. Director Arthur Hiller wisely films Eric Segal's screenplay (an adaptation of his own best-selling novel) in a concise and straightforward manner, allowing audiences to become enamored with the characters and involved with their plight. The film even manages to make subtle commentary on class struggles, personal identity, and even the changing attitudes of religion, all of which while never appearing preachy or obvious under Hiller's unpretentious direction.Ali MacGraw brings an undeniable spunk to her characterization here which helps undercut the potential sentimentality of the picture, and lends the finale a greater emotional punch. The natural handsomeness and effortless charm of Ryan O'Neal is used to exceptional effect, and the supporting performances of Ray Milland and John Marley (as two very different types of fathers) are terrific. This is a film that never attempts to disguise it's own thematic manipulations, which may very be why it remains so effective. French composer Francis Lai's haunting original score further enhances the film, which is justifiably considered by many to be one of the all-time tearjerkers. "},{"Title":"It's widely regarded as the ultimate romantic movie for a good reason.","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest I was quite surprised as the low rating the movie gets her, since I've always been under the assumption that this movie is widely regarded to be the best and ultimate romantic movie ever made.The movie has all the ingredients a romantic movie needs, even the most formulaic ones. Two totally different boy and girl from different social levels fall in love with each other and of course not everyone in the environment (mainly the parents of course) are happy with this. Their love life has a couple of ups and downs in which they have to weight some choices for themselves against choices for their love together. Further more the movie also features an unavoidable dramatic twist in which one of the characters get seriously sick (Don't worry, this is not really a spoiler since this is mentioned right in the beginning of the movie already). In other words this movie has all of the formulaic sappy sounding ingredients to make this a sappy formulaic romantic movie. Yet Love Story is not. Why? It's hard to put your finger on why Love Story is so much more and so much better than your average love story but I guess that you can still answer this question, once you start analyzing the movie. Although the story and all of its elements are sappy and formulaic the movie itself doesn't try to be sappy or dramatic. The movie doesn't attempt to make you cry, by putting in over-the-top dramatic filmed moments with dramatic loud music and all that sort of stuff. Instead the movie chooses to take a realistic approach, no real surprise, considering that this is a '70's movie. The decade in which the most realistic (and best) movies were made. It has as a result that the movie never feels forced or overdone. It even makes the most formulaic and predictable elements of the movie work out, as strange and unbelievable as it might sound. You also have to keep in mind that at the time it was released, this movie was not formulaic at all. It was a fresh approach on the genre and inspired many later movies. In a way Love Story was bare raising and set the standards for many later romantic movies. The movie was nominated for 7 Oscar (of which it won 1 in the end) not just for no reason. The movie is obviously made on a low budget but it makes the end result look all the more creative. It's effectively directed by Arthur Hiller, who later went on directing lame comedies. A real waste of talent. The musical score by Francis Lai is a classic and the simple effective cinematography from Richard C. Kratina makes the movie feel all the more realistic. The movie made Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal big stars for the moment and they were both even nominated for an Oscar. To be frank I didn't even always liked their characters in the movie and I've never been to fond of Ryan O'Neal as an actor. In that regard I liked the supporting cast way better with John Marley, Ray Milland and Tommy Lee Jones in his very first (and very small) screen appearance. He looked so amazingly young, that he was hard to recognize.Although the movie takes some formulaic and obvious dramatic turns, the movie still always remain perfectly watchable, just not always emotionally involving enough. So I'm not to sure about it if this is a movie that can (still) make people cry. Nevertheless the movie still has its powerful moments, mostly due to the realism of it all. Everybody should be able to recognize the situations- and put themselves in the place of the characters of the movie. Everybody have been through similar events in their life at one point, in one way or another.Now days lots of people actually complain about the tag-line and famous quote from the movie; 'Love means never having to say you're sorry'. People find this a stupid and illogical line. To those people I would like to say; Wait until you've truly falling in love once. If you've REALLY been in love, you'll understand what is the meaning of that line. Love is about mutual respect and also accepting each others less pleasantries and still love each other for it. This also means never having to apologies to each other. Actually when I was in love once and the girl felt the same way about me (Yes amazing, I know. It seems like ages ago now), whenever one of us said 'sorry' for something the other always said; 'You never have to apologize for anything to me'. None of us had ever seen the movie or heard of its famous line before, so I think that really says something about the line and the truth that is in it.It in my opinion certainly is one the best and perhaps most influential romantic movie ever made. A must-see that deserves more objective respect and higher rating on here.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The modern tear-jerker.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The modern tear-jerker for today's audiences. By today everybody knows the story for this film; boy meets girl, boy and girl fall in love, boy discovers girl has terminal illness.Even though I am a guy, I cried at the end of this (something very rare). Well done all around. Great acting and direction, with a brilliant music score and very well adapted from the book. Without a doubt in my mind, the greatest romance film ever made between the 1970's - the present. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and emotional romance","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Love Story' is not your typical romance film, although it is a story about a boy and girl from different backgrounds who fall in love. Jenny is an intellectual music major with a passion to travel, and Oliver's parents are well-to-do, and he enjoys sports. It seems like an unlikely match, but the two of them hit it off and travel through the perils of relationships. It is a touching story, and the direction and coordination of some of the scenes is amazing. (Particularly the scene with Oliver sitting outside in the playing field and narrating the story is a classic moment in this film, and it is possibly one of the most memorable scenes in film history.) If you have never seen this film, you should. Anyone who has ever been in a relationship can relate to it, but if you are a sensitive person and cry in nearly every film you have ever been to, keep a full box of tissues handy. "},{"Title":"Not my kind of movie (?)","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie by chance a couple of days ago. Me being a typical action-junkie, I would not intentionally have set out to watch this movie. Although I do enjoy the occasional romantic comedy, the word drama and the fact that the movie is 36 years old would have been enough for me to avoid this one. However, during one late night in front of the TV zapping, I stumbled over the beginning of this movie and got hooked.I loved the lead characters and above all found the dialogue brilliant. I am not very good at analyzing actor performances and other aspects of the movie but judging from the Academy Award and nominations and the 709 other people that has given this movie a 10/10 rating I would guess that I am not the only one to like the movie.Finally, I would not have lost any sleep if they had left out the part about Love means never having to say you're sorry. Nice Feel-good/Break-your-heart movie. "},{"Title":"A Witty Tragic Love Story","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had been avoiding watching 'Love Story' because I thought it would be another one of those corny sugarcoated love story with excessive melodrama. After hearing a friend's recommendation, I decided to give it a chance and I was pleasantly surprised. It's a simple film in terms of everything execution, performances, background score, direction, dialogues...The writing is incredibly great as the dialogues are creatively and amusingly witty. The movie stays focused on Jennifer's and Oliver's relationship that is portrayed with the utmost simplicity. A movie like 'Love Story' could have easily gone wrong but kudos to director Hiller for his fine execution and for pulling all the ingredients together so effectively with the help of whimsical cinematography, impressive soundtrack and fine actors. The chemistry between O'Neal and McGraw sizzles on screen. Both actors complement each other brilliantly and convincingly portray the 'opposites that attract'. Hiller has done a commendable job by bringing these two actors together and a strong rapport with them to enhance their work. Of the supporting cast John Marley and Ray Milland stand out by their strong presence. Overall, I liked the film a lot for its subtlety, ambiguity and simplicity that makes it feel more genuine. Clearly it stood the test of time as there are hardly any more movies being made these days that could reach anywhere near the level of this classic. "},{"Title":"Timeless classic!","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"29 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very pleasant surprised by this wonderful and brilliantly acted Love Story. Owkay, the title captures everything of the movie. You instantly know what it is about. But that doesn't bother. This movie is almost twice my age and before I started watching this movie, I wasn't sure if I would like it. After all, I want a movie to be recognizable (at least with a movie about a love story, I'm not talking about movies in general. You can't expect a movie like The Godfather to be recognizable) and the acting has to be real. With certain movies from a couple of decennia ago, I sometimes have the feeling the acting isn't real, you're all the time aware of the fact that they are acting, and I think a movie can't have that.The acting here was amazing. Ali MacGraw as well as Ryan O'Neal were both excellent in their roles as Jenny and Oliver. I thought both fathers were quite good as well, specially Jenny's father Phil, performed by John Marley, who surely deserved his Academy Award Nomination. The music was also terrific in this movie. I think it's, beside the acting, one of the most important points to make this movie timeless.Unfortunately, this movie became the only success of the leading actors. It could have been the beginning of a brilliant acting career, but Love Story became the highlight of their career. To conclude I can only repeat that Love Story is a brilliant and timeless romantic classic! Watch this movie! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Love means never having to say you're sorry?","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"66 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a bunch of baloney!! And it was a tagline that became as famous as the movie itself.Love Story is a simple tale of young love defeated by death. It's not deep and the characters are not very appealing for a movie that depends on us loving them enough to hurt when they do. Ryan O'Neal's character is a spoiled, sniveling rich boy who falls in love with the opinionated, bitchy Ali MacGraw.I think the big problem with the film is that MacGraw's character is so abrasive it's difficult to muster up enough sympathy for the ladder part of the film when she lays dying in a hospital. Even as she lays dying she is still strong enough to spout her opinions and swear like a truck driver (well, like a truck driver in a 1970 PG rated movie).O'Neal comes off far better and we do have sympathy for him. It also helps that the beautiful musical score is played over every touching scene to help underscore our emotions.Watching Love Story today it is easy to see why it was a blockbuster back then. All the ingredients were there. It will move you. For some hard nosed viewers it may just move you on to the next channel. "}{"Title":"Love like it ought to be","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Superb acting, wonderful stars, a great story, very funny jokes and very real tears. If you're looking for a romantic yet soppy movie, this is the the best deal. Love Story is the finest in it's kind. "},{"Title":"Generic Title Says All That's Necessary About This Unapologetic and Severely Dated Movie","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1970 hit film has not aged well, but frankly, it was not that good when it was released. Yet, it was a hugely popular success perhaps because the idea of fatalistic young love must have appealed to audiences saturated by constant TV coverage of the Vietnam War. The plot is pure drivel as it concerns Oliver Barrett IV, a privileged Harvard hockey player, who meets and falls in love with Jenny Cavelleri, an antagonistic Vassar music student proud of her working class background. His old-school father naturally disapproves of Jenny, and in a typical act of rebellion, that means the young couple gets married in one of those hippie-era, extemporaneous ceremonies. He lands his dream job in New York, but she gets unexpectedly ill and dies of her terminal disease. There is a veneer of then-contemporary film-making techniques displayed by director Arthur Hiller, but none of that can hide the old-fashioned, cliché-ridden story at its core. The inevitable ending left me particularly unmoved.Both Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw became stars with this movie as Oliver and Jenny but inexplicably so since neither seems able to convey the depth or complexity required to make their characters compelling. At least the boyish O'Neal is sincere in his weakly defiant approach, but MacGraw is so wooden and smirky in behavior that it's hard to see what Oliver sees in Jenny beyond her sarcastic façade. John Marley (two years before finding the decapitated racehorse in his bed in The Godfather) does better as Jenny's plainspoken baker father Phil, as does Ray Milland as the seemingly insensitive Barrett paterfamilias. The overly familiar Frances Lai music has almost become parody in itself over the years. The print quality on the DVD is good, though the only extra is a rather effusive commentary track by Hiller. The most interesting bit of trivia is that author Erich Segal (upon whose book this movie is based) conceived Oliver as a mix between two Harvard roommates he knew &#150; Vice President Al Gore and actor Tommy Lee Jones, who happens to have a bit part in the movie as one of Oliver's roommates. "},{"Title":"Romeo and Juliet for Dummies","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Start with Romeo and Juliet, remove the soaring Shakespearean language, the interesting characterizations and plot intricacies, and keep Romeo alive at the end, and you might get something approximating this gloopy 1970 blockbuster.Love Story made temporary box-office stars out of Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal, who both fooled American movie audiences into thinking they could actually act based on their performances as star-crossed lovers whose socioeconomic status threatens to keep them apart. Never fear though -- love always triumphs in the end, unless of course leukemia triumphs first.O'Neal's star would last a little longer, and at least he would choose a couple of very memorable films throughout the next few years (Paper Moon, Barry Lyndon) even if his performances would be instantly forgettable. To be honest, I can't come up with one other film starring Ali MacGraw. I know she recently appeared in the play Festen, based on the Danish film The Celebration, which opened on Broadway and quickly tanked.Some 37 years later, the only truly memorable thing about Love Story is its musical theme.Grade C "},{"Title":"Where do I begin?  It bites!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love a good sappy love story (and I'm a guy) but when I rented Love Story I prayed for the end to come as quickly and painlessly as possible and just the opposite for Ali McGraw's character.Ali McGraw as Jenny alienated and irritated the heck out of me within the first 15 minutes.  When we learn that she has been diagnosed with a life threatening illness I couldn't help but wonder if her death would be such a terrible loss for poor Oliver or if anyone watching this film would even care. If she didn't die her grating personality would probably have pushed Oliver over the edge and eventually landed them in divorce court.People love this movie but it's one of the worst of the 70's. "},{"Title":"I'm not in Love with this Story","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was dragged to this movie by my sorority friends when it opened in the theatres. I squirmed in my seat through the movie. Thank god for raisinettes. I kept expecting it to go somewhere, and then it ended and I stood up and said, What the hell was that? This script and direction of this movie, along with over the top acting, could not be saved not matter how much schmaltzy piano music you jammed into it. The plot line was the usual plot line of the rich boy loves a girl from the other side of the tracks and only their love will make it work. No, not even killing off Ali McGraw at the end could give this piece of dreck any credibility.Utter crap from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"People in love have to say I'm sorry -- often!","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been in love -- a lot -- good, bad and indifferent. I still think that Love is never having to say you're sorry, is still a stupid remark, just as stupid as it always was. And as untrue as it always has been. Absolutely, totally, continuously perfect behavior, always, with never a slip -- now THAT is something that means never having to say you're sorry. Frankly, love -- more so than most things -- requires many, many opportunities to say, I'm sorry. No lasting love will fail to have many occasions when saying I'm sorry, is the least thing required to keep the relationship together.As far as this being the greatest romantic film, ever, please, please give us a break! I was once in love with one woman who, unhappily, had cancer, and she died from it. I remember that she loved this book and the movie. I thought the book, and the film, were utter slosh. I found it prudent to preface this view, when I voiced it to her, with, I'm sorry, but..... But that to the side, of course people in love often need to say, I'm sorry. It would be a strangely unreal and perfect world where such an assertion were true. "},{"Title":"It Ain't Easy Being Cheesy...","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Man, there is absolutely no middle ground with this flick. You either love it to tears and it rocked your world or you think it's the corniest, cheesiest movie in history. Personally, I'm with the latter group, but I do love this movie because it makes for great conversation (it's also made for some of the best, and funniest, negative films reviews I've ever read). Hell, my wife practically tears up at just the very mention of love means never having to say you're sorry. My god, what does that mean? In my experience, being in love means you're pretty much saying your sorry, oh, just about every day. Anyhow, love it or hate it, you can't deny Love Story's influence. Did I mention my wife's name is Jenny? It was only the most popular name in the country from '71-'74. How's that for influence?  "},{"Title":"Romantic tearjerker, rather silly and unoriginal in retrospect","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm giving this romantic flick a fairly generous rating out of a sense of nostalgia. Yes, it's mildly entertaining and might even bring a tear to your eye. When I first saw this movie shortly after its release, I was a young college student myself (sorry, I'm dating myself here) and absolutely adored it beyond words. But time passes...oh, to be young! I haven't seen it since, but suspect my current reaction would be quite dramatically different. I'm afraid I might snicker.To summarize, it's the tale of two college students who fall in love...a rich Harvard law student, Oliver Barrett IV (played by Ryan O'Neal) and a beautiful, rather sassy, dark haired Radcliff music major, Jenny Cavalleri (played by Ali McGraw), daughter of a working class Italian father. Naturally, as one would surely predict, the course of true love does not run smooth. Oliver's authoritarian father (Oliver Barrett III) disapproves of the romance and threatens to disinherit his son. No surprises there. Rich boy, poor girl...one would be shocked if the father DIDN'T threaten to disinherit.*** WARNING SPOILER AHEAD *** The pair bed (ooooh, how risqué) and eventually wed, though not in a church of course...heaven forbid such a traditional, religious ceremony. To the best of my recollection, though Jenny's Italian father is Catholic, these two don't believe in God. Oh dear me, no, having faith would never do. Alas, before too long there is trouble in paradise. Jenny is soon diagnosed with leukemia (I believe) or a fatal illness of some sort and quite dramatically dies, more or less in Oliver's arms and basically looking, I seem to recall, every bit as healthy and gorgeous as the day he met her. Mind you, the death scene was all very touching for me back in 1970. I wept for quite some years.That was THEN. As for NOW, I consider the tale pretty unoriginal at best and not particularly well done even, though both the novel (by Erich Segal) and movie as well as their sequel, Oliver's Story, were cult-like popular at the time. I succumbed like almost everyone else of my vintage.The famous line Love means never having to say you're sorry now seems, after I've enjoyed nearly a quarter century of happy marriage, downright idiotic. Please, I beg you, don't gather your marital advice from this film. A word to the wise, as another reviewer also noted ... Love means learning to say you're sorry quite frequently, and meaning it... that is, if you want a romantic relationship to endure. I'm afraid too many viewers may have taken Jenny's pearl of wisdom to heart and that's why our divorce courts are so full today. I've read some of the flattering reviews and am pleased for those of you who still like this movie; I don't begrudge you. But how many of you middle aged folk have actually watched it lately? Are you sure you're not just waxing nostalgic about your own youth and college years, recalling how much you loved it way back when? That was exactly what I was tempted to do myself; then I got to thinking... By all means, see Love Story and consider it sort of a period piece from the hippie era. There ARE worse ways to spend an hour and a half, but frankly, there are an awful lot of more moving romances out there, with more original plot lines and more engaging, sympathetic characters than this stereotypical pair. The only chemistry here is in the nearby university science buildings. Jenny seems downright rude and cocky to me now...sorry, fans, but I mightn't care much about her terminal illness any more; I don't even much like her; she's just not very nice... and Oliver (albeit he's quite handsome of course) is well, just a little dull.You must realize, I'm not spoofing this movie as much as I'm mocking my foolish, younger self. Sorry, Jenny and Oliver...I feel kind of guilty betraying you like this but I can't help it. I'm still a romantic, I'm not normally a cynic and still love a tearjerker, but I realize more now what true love is and what it isn't. I've grown up. "},{"Title":"Love stinks.","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You may live in your own airbrushed utopia where everything smells of roses and girls as beautiful as Ali Macgraw never get sick, but Love Story is here to gleefully stomp on your idealism and shake you awake to the realisation that the world is actually a pretty grim place. Once this stunning revelation has been uncovered, we can all have a good cry and get on with our lives, eh?!For those few individuals who actually lived in the real world before they watched this turgid sapfest, I'm afraid only tears of anger await.Anger at how we're expected to identify with two wannabe rich snobs who don't share a single likable quality between them and don't even act as if they're on the same planet as other humans half the time; anger at glib catchphrases dutifully trotted out so the smug middle-classes can put down their relationship manuals and parrot them while pretending to be Dr. Ruth; and great floods of anger leading to murderous thoughts every time Jennifer is vacuous enough to mistake the term 'Preppie' for a cutting insult. Ali Macgraw is nice to look at, but after hearing the *exact* same syllables fly out of her mouth countless times, it'll be a brave soul indeed who doesn't feel close to the edge of sanity.Above all, anger at the millions who were naive enough to buy wholesale into this shameless commercial formula and actually believe that the film they were watching invented our noble visions of grand passion. Swathes of cable channels pumped full of mediocre TV drama are their horrifying legacy, and sooner or later someone must snap their fingers so that this false reverie can come to an end. Anyone who can write a song as well as John Lennon also has the sense to know that 'love means having to say you're sorry every fifteen minutes'. Romance is beautiful, but it should be declared off-limits to everyone with marble-carved features who look like their face will break if they even attempt to crack a smile. Sorry Mr. O'Neal, but the criteria for membership of this particular club tightened YEARS before you came onto the scene... "},{"Title":"Love Means Never Having To Sit Through This Again","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" **** SPOILER WARNING ****Absolutely without a doubt, one of the funniest comedies ever created for the screen. Totally impossible to take any of this seriously. It would take a major novel to list all of the comedy routines in it. During the glory days of her program, Carol Burnett and company, who often did take-offs on films, skewered this one in ways that were hard to imagine. Carol played Jenny who suddenly became ill with only a slight cough and immediately the treacly music came up and everyone looked around wondering where it was coming from. Harvey Korman played Oliver with flowing locks and almost look liked Ryan O'Neal. The only thing funnier than this bit, is the real film.What a death scene at the end. Jenny really looks like she's dying alright...dying for her make-up artist to come in and give her a little color. And of course, we all know how often hospitals encourage a loved one to get in bed with them during the patient's final moments. The ending scene with Ryan O'Neal sitting on a bench in the snow contemplating his future in the movie business is an instant classic. He had plenty to worry about. He never did recover from this. "}{"Title":"Sappy, but classic & memorable love story","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Memorable Hollywood tearjerker gets the sugarcoated treatment here.  It's a simple story wealthy Harvard boy (O'Neal) falls for poor Radcliffe girl (MacGraw), they marry, then she gets sick and dies.  Very corny at times, but was the #1 film of 1970.  Perfect and unforgettable Oscar-winning score by Francis Lai.  "},{"Title":"The Love Story will stay with me forever.","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My review of the Love Story is just about the same as the first time I saw, in that I really enjoyed it. I saw it for the first time in winter of 1971and for the third time I saw it last night. I hardly ever wanted to watch any movie for the second time, but I watched it already two times this week.This 1970 hit film has not aged at all. I was surprised at Jenny (Ali McGraw)'s outwear and accessories, I noticed some her fashion has never gone out of fashion, I feel like I could put on even nowadays. The movie's story is simple the story is about very rich millionaire's son Oliver (Ryan O'Neal) who happens to fall in love with the poor girl Jenny till the day the doctor diagnosed her with cancer. Have you heard it all before? Perhaps, but even if I've heard melancholy stories many times I am quite charmed by the movie and it's one of my favorite movies. Although the story is very simple, it kept me glued to the screen without doing anything spectacular during two hours. In addition, the movie is well known for its theme song composed by Francis Lai, which won an Oscar for the best theme song. There are many songs of Bach, Mozart and Handel, which enrich the beauty of the movie.It seems wonderful to peep over the old buildings of the University of Harvard, with the Boston streets as the backdrop. And I just love the improvised scene of Oliver and Jenny playing in the snow on the empty football field. It is one of the all time great movie scenes. The music playing in the background and these two beautiful actors improvising a lovely scene of young lovers playing in the snow. I think the memories of such moments when we were young never leave us, and when we see the film again our original reactions come back with it. I recommend it to everyone who loves a great love story but don't forget to get some tissues and prepare to experience a story about life, a sad story, one that will stay with you forever. "},{"Title":"Worst Romance Film Ever","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Love Story in a Film Analysis class. This is definitely one of the worst films I've ever seen. The acting is terrible, the story is poor, and the direction is flat out lazy.The acting is terrible because the sarcasm used by Oliver and Jenny is tough to notice. Most people have some kind of joking tone, but Oliver and Jenny sound like two people in a heated debate. When Oliver makes Jenny angry and she runs out of the house, I don't feel the way Oliver is supposed to feel. His face is plain, but with an added gawk to add nervous tension to the scared husband that wants to apologize to his wife. Oliver's parents are the basic snotty rich people who have a son in love with a poor girl. Oliver, himself, isn't that interesting a character either. Jenny and her father are basic characters, the poor family with a small business that barely let them scrape by, and Jenny is the girl smart enough to get accepted to a good college.The story is generic as generic can be. It is simply a modern day Rome and Juliet story, but instead of Montagues and Capulets we have a rich Protestant and a poor Catholic. Dragging economic status and religious background shouldn't be a wedge between the characters because its not powerful enough, especially in this film. Romeo and Juliet is fine, we don't need to see its plot mindlessly abused by this film, among others. The only curse Shakespeare brought upon Romeo and Juliet was the simplicity of duplicating the story. What's even worse was that the novel was written by an English professor who was not satisfied with the romance genre of novels. A student then said that he should write one if he thought he could write a better story. The problem here This story is too basic. This film is basically the film student's guide to a quick buck, an easy plot, and how to go minimalist.On that Minimalist note, this film is incredibly lazy. This movie has a famous soundtrack, according to my Film Analysis professor. My complaint was that there is one song, and its used in the stupidest scenes. A scene where Jenny is riding her bike to her house that she owns with Oliver is accompanied by this abused song. When Jenny and Oliver are just playing in the snow the music plays. My point to my Film Analysis professor was how over used it was; my professor used an example like the Indiana Jones theme, my response was that when Indie is doing something heroic, we hear his signature theme. Love Story has a signature that is supposed to symbolize loneliness or being cast out, but it is played too often in unusual situations. Another lazy aspect of this film was the directing. In the scene where Oliver is running around town to apologize to Jenny, the camera hardly moves. It is right in front of Oliver, but when he goes into the laundromat the camera doesn't follow him inside. The camera doesn't had a sense of urgency. The rule with the camera was, Here's where I can see, so the actors walk within this one shot. Need more proof. The camera is lazy near the end after Jenny dies. Oliver is in the park and he's by himself, but the camera doesn't do much exploring, if you will.Avoid this film at all costs. You've probably seen this story before, its only Romeo and Juliet, which we've all read before. "},{"Title":"A true love story.","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There have been some great romance films in our time. My favorite, surprisingly enough, isn't a romance. It's a romantic comedy. Love actually is my favorite romance movie of all time. But I have one question that I think I can answer for myself. What is my favorite non romantic comedy but actual romance? My favorite is one that is clearly underrated, called Love story. Starring Ryan O'Neill.I am not going to go too far into the plot. Ryan O'Neill plays a rich man in college. He falls in love with a poor girl. His father cuts him off of money because he didn't want his son to marry her. But he does, and him and this poor girl become poor together. Working multiple jobs. Now this movie really is a romance. It's one of those Notebook deals but a hell of a lot better. Considering I didn't really like The Notebook. Everyone loves that movie. Why? Compared to this that movie is awful. Love story is an underrated romance movie, clearly. It should be a lot bigger.Love story****/**** "},{"Title":"A timeless subject...","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watch this one again after Mr O'Neal lost our beloved Farrah (Fawcett).This is why my parents were crazed and attached to this great timeless movie (despite the big cars common in the end 60s era...). This is a simple love story, between 2 characters of opposite classes. And of course the rebellion of a son versus his rich father who does not accept the fact that true love can overcome social gaps.Well written, well acted. This is at least one story which will never get old.To be honest, many critics did compare this to French director Claude Lelouch's style of film, due to the fact that French composer Francis Lai (who did score most of Mr.Lelouch movies) did the music for this movie.To watch, and re-watch again if you believe Love means never having to say you're sorry... "},{"Title":"This is really heartfelt love story","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Love is never having to say you're sorry' Maybe it is the most famous sentence in film history. And Love Story was a surprise hit in 1970. After watching this movie, a lot of couples questioned what were the love meaning. What made 'Love Story'so heartfelt? I think that one of the main reasons of Love Story's success was its tragic characters and characters who surrounded by good circumstances. Those two contradictory factors made Love Story a surprise hit. Oliver(Ryan O'Neil), and Jennifer(Ali MacGraw), both of them, were Harvard Students. Although a Harvard diploma doesn't take a rose-colored view to their future, at least they can come up in the world.Finally, they did it. Oliver became a lawyer in the Law firm and Jennifer became a school teacher(Wow. she had a very nice job. She never worry about being fired, good salary(25 year-career school teacher's annual salary is approximately $52,000~$53,000 in Korea. My country recorded just 40% of US' GDP per capita in 2005.) stable job, wonderful pension and retirement condition(62-year retire, until death, they'll receive $2,200 per a month) so that's why women school teacher become more popular in Korea) In contrast, Characters implied tragic factors. First, Oliver's father(Ray Milland) doesn't want them to marry. Second, Jennifer's sacrifices and dedications to Oliver. She doesn't want to be a teacher. She really wants to study with Nadia Blanche, a famous French Pianist, who lived in Paris, France. Their married life was very hard. They bought an apartment in NY by themselves.How happy they were? Jennifer's sickness, however, totally ruined everything. her dedications and sacrifices became meaningless. How could she be compensated for her efforts? Suppose Ray Milland should have respected Ryan's decision and supported them, Ray doesn't have to say I'm sorry to Ryan, Ryan doesn't have to remember his lover Ali in front of ice-skate link, and he doesn't have to saw TWA ticket to Paris. "},{"Title":"Boy meets girl, boy likes girl, boy marries girl, girl dies. (Basically)","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this movie Oliver Barret, a rich preppy Harvard hockey player, falls in love with Jennifer Cavalary, a poor Bach,Mozart, and The Beattles loving Ratcliff student. Oliver hates his father and Jennifer tries to bring them together.(Key word Tries) And after Oliver and Jennifer becomes married Oliver's father decides that he is financially cutting off Oliver. So the couple is left to start a new life for themselves. Years later Oliver Becomes a Lawyer. They also try and have a child but when they go and see why they can't they learn that Jennifer Is deadly ill. And Sadly she dies.I personally think that this movie is one of the best love stories. It just goes to show you that you don't have to be rich to find the one you love. The story is some what predictable like Guy meets girl, guy likes girl, guy marries girl, girl dies. But it's a great story of love. And the music is great if your into classical music. I think that it was a great performance by basically anyone in this movie. I give this movie Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"right this minute? even sooner...","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A love story set in the northeast between two college students whose initial attractions grow into a once-in-a-lifetime connection. After Harvard jock, Oliver, meets witty, Jennifer, a Radcliff girl---he is smitten and the two are married. Oliver's pretentious father disapproves and disinherits Oliver, forcing the two newlyweds to start their new life together with nothing but their love for each other.Cliché in that it follows the all you need is love motto, but Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw really make you believe. Even with frustrations and spats as Jennifer tries to get Oliver to reconcile with his father or when they are trying to make ends meet, their sarcastically loving banter and closeness seems to be perfectly enough for these two.As soon as things seem to be looking up as Oliver finally finishes Harvard Law at the top of the class and is able to support them, their world comes to a crash after a visit to the doctor about their inability to make a baby reveals Jennifer is terminally ill.Jennifer's now famous quote Love means never having to say you're sorry lingers as the film's last line as Oliver leaves the hospital after Jennifer has died, repeating her wisdom as Oliver's father tries to apologize to his son.They say It is better to have loved and lost than never to have lost at all. Just try to imagine Jennifer and Oliver never meeting...let Love Story make you a believer. "},{"Title":"A meme movie","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, all you reviewers have the same things to say, which are all technically true, but you can just save your breath, because technical things don't make a movie.  What matters in a movie like this is whether it is able to capture a mood, and this movie was monumentally successful at that.  This movie deeply tapped into the psyche of the early 70's on a number of levels, and the cinematography and music, while repetitive, caught the moment.  I defy any of you to name another sappy chick flick that accomplishes that. Sure, it would be easier to like this movie if it had an intelligent screenplay or more range of acting, but the moment is captured all the same, and in a perverse way it would probably only detract from the meme this movie evokes to be complicated by those things.  One of the great ones, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Uninvolving `love story' that has more flaws than strengths","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oliver is a Havard law student Jock type who's father is a millionaire and Jennifer is a poor Radcliffe student working her way through college.  When they meet they develop a relationship that eventually turns to love.  When they decide to marry, Oliver is cut off by his father and the two are forced to become poor as they try to study and work at the same time.  The two find that their love is strong enough to stand even the biggest tests of life.A massive hit and Oscar winner in the 70's it is easy to forget this film now, simply because it is so dated, flawed and unrelatable that I found it amusing but never emotional or moving.  The plot is a straightforward and goes just where you expect it to.  However that is not a major problem if the film had managed to be emotionally involving and powerful &#150; neither of which I found it to do.The biggest reason for this is the characters and the actors.  Oliver is a spoilt rich kid who has `issues' with his multimillion father only wanting the best for him.  It doesn't help that O'Neal can't act and delivers even the most touching scene like he was made of wood.  Meanwhile Jenny is rude and pretentious and quite an unpleasant person.  McGraw is pretty but I couldn't have cared less if a bus had hit her character in the first 10 minutes, such was the empathy that she made me feel with her.The music is awful &#150; it is shamelessly tearing jerking and written to create emotion where none is forthcoming from the action onscreen.  It runs constantly and got to the point where it grated on me.  The film is not without merit though, bits of it are funny and the basic love story had potential to be a professional weepy.Instead it is flat and uninvolving and is simply a Hollywood bit of fluff that left me cold despite a few chuckles or smiles.  It may have done good box office but if recent summers have taught us anything, it's that that is not an indication of a good film. "}{"Title":"Few Movies Make Me Cry","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Few movies make me cry, but this one did. Twice. Even though we all know what is going to happen, since Oliver (Ryan O'Neal) tells us in his wonderfully moving first line, What do you say about a girl who died?, it sneaks up on you. The success of Love Story relies heavily on the acting of Oliver and Jenny (Ali McGraw) and the chemistry they had together. It could have bombed, but everything clicked. Also look out for a very young Tommy Lee Jones in a small role as one of Oliver's Harvard friends. It is curious to note his appearance, since he was a Harvard alum and roommate with Al Gore. (Al Gore claimed that he and Tipper were the inspiration for the story.) The touch and feel of the movie feels like Harvard and college. It is obvious that the writer, Erich Segal, attended Harvard as well. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While it doesn't hurt that Ali McGraw was drop-dead gorgeous, I'd have fallen in love with her regardless of what she looked like. Women seemed to think that Ryan O'Neal was mighty easy to look at from their perspective. This is a strong love story (gee, d'ya THINK?) - one of those that can reduce lots of people to blubbering, teary tissue-grabbers. I think the film is powerful and touching, perhaps even a bit sappy at times. It is somewhat corny in today's society, but at the time, it was more or less timely. There's no nudity and only a little language, just enough to keep it from receiving the dreaded G rating (only Disney can make G-rated films that make money). There's no violence or even a REAL moral to the story, just a plain love story. IF there's a moral, it's more or less that Love Will Conquer All, but it's not hammered at the viewer. It's there if you want to pick it up, but you can ignore it and still enjoy the film. This film was influential in it's day. As one other reviewer has noted, Jenny became a very popular name for about 3 years after the film's release. This is absolutely a chick flick but is one that many men might enjoy. "},{"Title":"What was more important to Oliver, Jennie or pride?","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie numerous times and the one thing that bothers me is... when Oliver goes to his father for money to help with medical bills, why was he so unwilling to tell his father what the money would be used for?Every time that I watch the movie it bothers me more. It went from bother to irritating. Had it been my wife I would have told him anything that he would want to know!I seems that his dad wasn't the scoundrel that I got the impression that he was during the early part of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Great writing, well directed","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally got around to watching this after it had been in my room for a few months.  It's a whole lot better than the box suggests. The relationships in the film are constructed well.  There is clever, witty dialogue, and the characters still have flaws, but that humanity works for the charm of the movie. The direction is also well done...there are a few sequences that are handled very well in comparison to how similar material would be done nowadays (particularily the way that the discussion of/dinner with parents sequence is handled). And the movie doesn't insult it's viewers at all, by providing cheap ways out of problems. This is life as it is....it's not dark and gritty, and it's not really all violins and flowers.  It has a proper real-life feel.  When we see their cheap apartment, it's obvious that it's a little cramped, but we can also see that it's what they have, and they love it as their home. But I'd have a hard time suggesting this as a romance or as a comedy or anything....it's just purely a drama. "},{"Title":"Easy to understand why this had the country lined up around the block...","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone dreams of that love of a lifetime, which is perhaps why this film was so phenomenally successful. It features a young couple in love--in unabashed love--without a hint of that then-trendy lust or flaky passion. These college kids are not beatniks or rebels; they have family members who disapprove, but they forge ahead with their marriage plans while not seeming too reckless. At least not to us. We see that they have the kind of desire for each other that is so well-meaning it's practically G-rated (only some of Ali MacGraw's tart language keeps the film from being so). It's a moving film, not particularly warm or fuzzy (and by that, I don't just refer to the chilly Eastern locales). The couple face cynicism and tragedy, and director Arthur Hiller (doing his only truly great work behind the camera) is wise not to shift too much away from these two. The audience ends up hanging onto their every word in preparation for what's on the way. No wonder that final line of dialogue (Love means...) is so legendary the entire picture rests on it. *** from **** "},{"Title":"There's a lot to like about Love Story","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Story is one of the best movies from the seventies. The film follows the out, out, brief candle formula beautiful, beloved woman dies young. Unlike Moulin Rouge (the premature death genre's most recent product), Love Story presents its ideas simply -- and with great force. Boy meets girl. Boy dates girl. Boy marries girl. Girl dies. That's it. The other characters and (sub)plots augment, instead of distract from, the master plot. In addition, we know from the opening of the film the fate that awaits the boy and girl What can you say about a 25 year old girl who died? Alfred Hitchcock said that suspense (curiosity paired with dread) results when an audience knows that something terrible can or will happen. With that knowledge they begin to wonder how the events will lead to the inevitable -- and, most likely, through identification with the characters, start to hope that the outcome can somehow be avoided. Isn't this what happens? Isn't Jenny's death so devastating because we know it will happen? Love Story succeeds for other reasons, as well. First, the music. Again we find something simple -- a string of notes played over and over and over. These notes, however, are exceptionally plastic; they bend, bulge, surge, spiral -- move in whichever ways are needed -- to prepare the audience for Jenny's death, and then, once the awful event occurs, the notes sink it into our memories and hearts as deeply as Hiller's image of Ollie contemplating the Central Park snow. Second, the film's cinematography. Two examples come to mind the editing on Ollie's run through the Harvard campus; the widening field of white Ollie and Jenny cross as they head for the taxi. Third, the acting. Consider, for example, Ryan O'Neal's face as he watches Jenny perform on the harpsichord. Often actors will use the muscles around their eyes to convey emotion; or they will move the eyes themselves (Welles' in The Third Man, for instance). O'Neal simply allows his eyes to mist up -- just like a father watching his child at an elementary school awards ceremony -- and the effect is remarkable. And banal. But when the point of the film is to show how the death of a lover destroys someone, misty eyes may be one of the surest ways to establish, in cinematic shorthand, the soon-to-be-grieving's depth of emotion, attachment, and sincerity. Banal and remarkable, the two words don't belong together; but in Love Story, more often than not, they do. Is that so bad? Probably not. Quite often, the best art happens when the banal is raised to the level of the remarkable. Too often these days, I'm afraid, directors have it backwards, making the remarkable banal....Pearl Harbor, Enemies at the Gate, Moulin Rouge..... "},{"Title":"Should never listen to my curiosity sometimes","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had never seen Love Story until last weekend when I rented the DVD. I now understand that certain things should be left alone. I often have an affinity toward 70's movies , because they possess that rare charm that we almost never see in the post 2000 A.D. movies. I vaguely remember the popularity of this film as a child and that it launched two acting careers of the lead characters. As we all know, the story is told in redundant simplicity. Boy and girl meet in college. They spar, date, fall in love, marry, then she dies. All 100 minutes of this covers about 5 years of time and still seems to just drag. Ryan O'Neal as Oliver plays the Harvard rich kid of a wealthy magnate Oliver Barrett IV. He has no respect for his father and decides to rebel against his father's wishes of dating a girl who is beneath their social stature. Jenny played by Ali MacGraw is a glib music major at Radcliffe who falls in love with the boorish Oliver III. I didn't care one iota for either one of them and they had very little chemistry. The sentimental scenes were forced and had no spontaneity at all. The goofy 70's love montage of them playing in the snow and frolicking in the grass is about as corny as a tortilla chip. Oliver happens to drive an antique MG that looks so out of place, they both look dorky when driving through the traffic of the urban east coast. This is 1970!! Not 1932!!! A kid this rich should be given a cool muscle car like a Mustang, Corvette, Porsche or Ferrari. Not some flimsy, thin wheeled, open cockpit British jalopy. It just wasn't believable. Besides Ryan's acting in this is all wrong. His speech sounds affected like he was trying to use some upper class east coast accent. But it misfires and he just looks odd doing it. Ali MacGraw acts too poised and speaks too properly to pass as a tough Italian girl from humble upbringings. Their acting is not very good. The musical score however was very familiar to me, but it is overplayed a few times to much in this film. Twice would have been enough. Ray Milland gives a believable performance and he is the only real actor in this movie. Yes, he's snobbish, stuck-up and not the most likable guy. But at least he tried to make amends toward the end with young Oliver after Dad was completely rejected by him. Ali and Ryan make an attractive and sexy pair, but I would have preferred a couple with stronger chemistry. "},{"Title":"The greatest romance film ever made","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely the greatest romance film ever made, Love Story, broke all kinds of records at the box office becoming the biggest movie ever made to date in 1970. Its stars, Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal, became mega-stars overnight. Unlike most films of its genre, it paints a much more realistic portrait of life rather than glorifying romantic superstition and fate. But be warned - you will not leave the show without shedding tears as this emotional powerhouse will leave a lasting impression. The film's score is one of the most famous in movie history. (10 out of 10) "},{"Title":"MacGraw's Syndrome","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Boy meets girl, boy marries girl, girl dies of MacGraw's Syndrome, a condition which frequently afflicts young female characters in films. The main symptom is that the sufferer becomes ever more radiantly beautiful the closer she approaches death.The script of Love Story is, of course, a mass of traditional Hollywood clichés, but director Arthur Hiller was determined to give those clichés a modern gloss. The boy is Oliver Barrett IV, the rebellious son and heir of a wealthy Boston family so grand and patrician that they have taken to adding Roman numerals after their names as though they were royalty. The girl is Jenny Cavalleri, the daughter of an impoverished Italian-American pastry cook, who meets Oliver while they are both studying at university (he law at Harvard, she music at Radcliffe). The film is at pains to point out just how Modern and Nineteen-Seventies its two main characters are. They do things not normally done by the heroes and heroines of earlier Hollywood romances. They sleep together before their wedding; indeed, it is implied that Oliver has slept with plenty of other girls before meeting Jenny. They refuse to have a church wedding, disappointing Jenny's devoutly Catholic father, on the grounds that they do not believe in God (although Jenny is later seen acting as the local church choir mistress).What seems to have shocked seventies audiences most, however, was the fact that they use bad language. Profanity might have been OK in a crime thriller or war film, but the public obviously had difficulty in accepting it in the context of a romantic weepie. Jenny in particular has a weakness for referring to the excrement of male cattle. Oliver does not swear quite so often, but is fond of speculating that his father, whom he detests, may in fact be the offspring of a female dog.Although the two protagonists are clearly supposed to be appealing, I found them both rather unsympathetic. During the first half-hour or so Jenny is quite deliberately smart and cocky, playing games of verbal volleyball with Oliver. Everything he says is immediately met with a sarcastic put-down. The idea is to show that Jenny is using a cynical, flippant exterior to hide a sensitive, caring nature, but even later in the film, after the two have fallen in love, elements of her former persona kept coming through. Ali MacGraw never really made me believe in Jenny's sensitive side; I was left with the impression that she was using a cynical, flippant exterior to hide a cynical, flippant interior.The more unpleasant side of Oliver's character came out in his dealings with his father. Certainly, Oliver Barrett III is not an easy man to love. He is cold, authoritarian and snobbish, the sort of father who insists that his son call him sir. (That is not, perhaps, as absurd in an American context as it would be in a British one, but even so it does not suggest a relaxed or easy-going character). He reacts angrily to his son's marriage to Jenny, cutting off his allowance, but does at least later make efforts to heal the rift, all of which are rebuffed by Oliver.This difficult father-son relationship, in fact, tends to detract from the love story which the title suggests should be at the centre of the film. This was probably not the intention of the film-makers, but it did strike me that Oliver did not love Jenny as much as she loved him. Ryan O'Neal's rather angry performance did little to dispel the suggestion made by Oliver's father that his marriage to a girl from a poor, Catholic family had as much to do with a deliberate act of rebellion against his own privileged, Protestant background as it did with love. The sacrifice Oliver makes on Jenny's behalf never struck me as being too onerous. He might have lost his allowance from his father, but this did not mean he was reduced to poverty. Unless, of course, one's definition of poverty includes living off one's wife's income for a couple of years in a charming apartment in a historic district of Boston before taking up a position with a prestigious New York law firm.Thirty-five years on it is difficult to understand why this was such a cult movie when it first came out. Apart from the charms of its pretty heroine and even prettier hero, it has two things going for it. The first is the fine photography of Harvard University and New York; many of the scenes were shot in winter against a background of snow and misty grey skies, presumably in order to create an atmosphere of gently melancholy. The second is Francis Lai's famous musical score, reminiscent of a Mozart piano concerto, which well deserved its Best Music, Original Score Academy Award. All those other Oscar nominations, however, seem incomprehensible today. Thank goodness it didn't actually win any further awards. The Academy are often suckers for sentimentality (as they showed in 1984 with another manipulative tearjerker, Terms of Endearment, and with Million Dollar Baby this year), but a Best Picture award for Love Story would have been difficult to live down. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The greatest romance ever seen...","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think I used a rather challenging title for the comment, but I suppose I am justified in doing so, because  after watching the movie just like after reading the book(that of Erich Segal) I couldn't keep my tears rolling off my eyes... It's the only movie after which I have wept. That's why I can easily say that it's the greatest romance I've ever watched. Personally, I like romantic movies. I hate the movies in which there is no sentiment and no romantic appeal. But this movie, from the very start to the end is covered intensely with romanticism. In short, I think in romance, this movie is unsurpassable....  "}{"Title":"Love means never having to say you're sorry?... Pfft.... ha ha ha ha ha ha!","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just always laughed at that line, because we all know the truth now. Honey, I'm sorry, I wrecked the car. Sweetie, I'm sorry, I want to go out with the guys tonight. Baby, I'm sorry, I found someone better than you, your brother. OK, that's a little extreme. Well, I had heard so much about Love Story, I just had to see this movie. I know that it was popular back in the day and not to mention it still has some impact today. Now a days, we have The Notebook.I thought that actually over all, it was a pretty decent flick. Although, I really didn't feel for Ali McGraw, I'm sorry, just she was such a brat. Not to mention, that Ryan O'neil, you were kinda still mad at him, because I think he still got together with Ali for the fact that he wanted to rebel against his parents.It still was an effective movie over all and both Ali and Ryan did a great job of acting. I could see where they got nominated for their roles. They had great chemistry and made the movie work. Still, this was kind of a over rated movie.6/10 "},{"Title":"The Ultimate 70's Kitsch","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the previous reviewers wrote that there appeared to be no middle ground for opinions of Love Story; one loved it or hated it.  But there seems to be a remarkable distribution of opinions throughout the scale of 1 to 10.  For me, this movie rated a 4.  There are some beautiful scenes and locations, and Ray Milland turns in a fabulous job as Oliver's father.  But the movie did not do a particularly compelling job of telling its story, and the story was not so unique as to warrant multiple viewings, at least, not for me.  I may be a bit of a snob, but I tend to avoid movies with Ryan O'Neal -- I still haven't seen Barry Lyndon -- because most of them, but not all, are ruined for me by his presence.  The lone exception is What's Up, Doc?, in which his straight performance is the perfect underlining for Barbra Streisand's goofball protagonist -- and, not coincidentally, he takes a shot at Love Story for good measure!  McGraw and O'Neal tend to mug their lines, rather than act them.This movie is notable for the beginning of one fine career it was Tommy Lee Jones's first movie. "},{"Title":"Ali's nostrils get a workout, at least","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've rarely been as annoyed by a leading performance as I was by Ali McGraw's in this movie.  God is she bothersome or what?! She says everything in the same tone and is horrible, so horrible in fact that, by contrast, Ryan O'Neal is brilliant. There is not much of a story.  He's rich, she's wooden, they both have to Sacrifice A Lot for Love.  His father is Stonewall Jackson, hers is called by his first name, in case you didn't notice the Difference in The Two of Them that They Overcame in the Name of Love. The Oscar nominations for this movie indicate it had to have been a bad year.  John Marley is fine as Wooden's father, but a Supporting Nomination?  At least Ali didn't win.  I still think Katharine Ross should have played Jennifer, but then again, if it were up to me, Katharine Ross would have been in a lot more movies.  She's certainly a better actress than McGraw.  I didn't even cry when she got sick, never occured to me to even feel sad. It was nice to see Tommy Lee Jones looking like he was about 15, and the score is good.  But this one is so old by now it has a beard a mile long, and the sin of that is its not that old, but it feels it.  "},{"Title":"Love Passes By to Stay","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Story has gone down in collective memory as a monster of a sappy tearjerker, but the reality proves to be a bit different.Certainly, it's the simplest of stories Rich boy (Ryan O'Neal as Oliver Barrett) meets poor girl (Ali McGraw as Jennifer Cavalleri), and with some cocky persuasion, asks her out, she becomes his girlfriend, wife, etc. There's a twist in it, revealed in the first moments already Jennifer becomes severely ill and dies.It is important to note how short the film is. Brief moments, enhanced or surrounded by gorgeous images of snow, are so powerful that they are remembered bigger than they play out in the film. Much is made of the illness and how Ali McGraw becomes ever more beautiful toward the end but there's only one scene that shows her in hospital. Time rushes by, and when Jenny dies it doesn't prove any point but only adds to the volatility of the few valuable moments before.There are instances when the lovers make snow angels or say silly things like, Love means never having to say you're sorry. But we can believe that these characters are happy and carefree, and they wouldn't be as true if they'd engage in smart hipster talk. (That does not mean they're dense; when was the last time you saw a young couple lying together on a couch, each one reading a book?) For modern audiences, it may be disturbing that Jenny and Oliver place their love before all else. Oliver renounces the ties to (and the money of) his father (Ray Milland), and Jenny even passes on the opportunity to study in Paris, under an illustrious lecturer. To stay together, they take turns in working and studying, and dwell humbly. Their acts contradict our perceptions of emancipation and self-expression. But let's look at it from another perspective. Aren't we in some way mental slaves of the delusion of self-optimizing, self-fulfillment, self-anything? The title of this film is Love Story, after all, and not How I Made My Career and Found a Stable Mating Partner.Ryan O'Neal is the pampered jock, but he also invokes an unspoiled tenderness in his boyish behavior. Oliver will have much time to become a self-absorbed cynic like his father. Jenny, as played by Ali McGraw, will stay as that snappy-sugary girl that departed too soon. "},{"Title":"Not super but certainly cute and heartbreaking","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is kind of dated at this point, and everyone knows the plot whether they have seen it or not. However, watching it today is still an emotional experience. All relationships are different, and the quirky communication between the two main characters is often strange (albeit irrelevant, since you do see the love between them well enough). The side plot with the Barrett family adds to the character buy-in on Ryan O'Neal's performance, even if it's clear he can't act a lick. How did he get nominated for an Oscar here? McGraw isn't much better, in truth, but whatevs. The story is as timeless as Romeo & Juliet, in essence love torn apart way too soon. If you're not crying at the end, you're not human. As noted, the film could use more development to show the true love between the characters, especially in the beginning of the courtship. It is funny to see Jack Woltz in a different role here, and he's pretty good surprisingly. Overall, it's certainly worth seeing once just to say you've seen it, but after that, it can go back on the DVD shelf forever. "},{"Title":"Trying to Explore Romance Films More, This One's a Good Start","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oliver Barrett IV comes from a rich family but lacks confidence in his intelligence even though he excels in school. Jenny comes from a poor family but is full of personality and intelligence and is very blunt with people. This is Love Story, and it's a good one at that.The film doesn't hold back. It throws us into the focus of the film in the very first scene when Oliver is arguing with the school librarian, who happens to be none other than Jenny. They are an odd match since Jenny pressures him into buying her coffee with the attitude that she gives him (and he returns the attitude). They do begin to flirt though pretty quickly; Oliver asks her why she wanted him to ask her out to which she responds playfully I like your BODY.The conflict within the film stems from Oliver's father (Oliver III) being overly concerned with his son's life. He gives advice for what his son should do, but Oliver sees this as commanding him. Oliver Barrett III is basically the reason Oliver attends Harvard, he has connections (and when he brings this up Oliver feels insulted) and wants Oliver to maintain status in the upper class. With Oliver set to marry the daughter of a baker, this proves to be a great problem with his father.It's interesting to wonder which relationship drives this film the most the relationship Oliver has with Jenny, or the relationship he has with his father. The best scenes of the film prove to be when Oliver is conflicted with his father's presence in his life. These scenes prove to be well-acted by Ryan O'Neal. These scenes are heartbreaking, especially since one of them involves Jenny being on the phone with Oliver's father just a few feet away from where Oliver is sitting.The source of conflict proves to be very interesting for a romance story. However, it isn't difficult to notice how cheesy the film is at certain parts. The best line of the film is uttered twice in the movie, and while it is good it honestly also sounds like it comes from a Valentine's Day greeting card. In this sense, the acting in the film heavily outweighs the writing.This film may prove to be cheesy at times, but overall it is a very engaging love story which makes one question the importance of relationships and forgiveness. It is not the most entertaining of films, but it gets its themes across very well.3.0/4.0 "},{"Title":"Pretty Lame","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember when this movie came out when I was in high school in 1970. It was wildly popular. The theme from Love Story played on the radio 24/7. Author Eric Seagal appeared on all TV talk shows all the time, as did Ryan O'Neil and Ally McGraw. Every teenage girl in America copied Ally McGraw's hairdolong, straight, and parted in the middle. Some blonde girls even dyed their hair brown. Teenage boys carried around the Love Story paperback in school and got all the chicks because they thought he was sensitive. But the truth is, this was an awful movie. The acting was bad and so was the script. Scene after scene was so melodramatic...poor Oliver working in a Christmas tree lot...oh, the indignity! Big deal..like a strong 24 year old man can't carry a Christmas tree to a lady's car? And when the doctor broke the news to Oliver...so unintentionally funny...she has no symptoms at all and he announces she will die soon because they took three blood tests and found...what? Doctors don't announce a patient will die unless all extended treatment is exhausted. He didn't even begin treatment or tell Oliver what was killing her. Later on, they mentioned white blood cells and a lack of platelets, but even a veterinarian would treat your dog before giving up on it. Then, she seemed her usual bright eyed and bushy tailed self n her deathbed before she just croaked. Even if she had lived, I don't see how this marriage could have survived more than a few years.Oliver was passive, and Jenny was aggressive, rude, and teased him constantly while saying goddamn to punctuate everything. Best comedy of 1970. "},{"Title":"Preppy","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love means never having to say you're sorry.. Supposed to be romantic, but in reality, sounds absolutely ridiculous. Love Story is the first gushy, mushy rom-com with a terrible ending. What I can say, positively, is the chemistry between Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw. They play people that are hardly relatable, but their language of love is universal. Ali MacGraw is nearly the best thing about the picture. First of all, tell me she wasn't incredibly beautiful back in those days. The writing is also clever, in a Cameron Crowe kind of way.. despite allowing you to hate Ivy leaguers more than you already do. It suffers by being what it truly is. Along with one of the most annoying soundtracks of all time. Theme from Love Story is nails on a chalkboard bad. What you need to know, most importantly, is that time hasn't treated Love Story kindly, despite being so familiar and lovely in parts. "},{"Title":"She Should Have Gone to Paris","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A silly, trivial film, Love Story cons too many of its viewers with its schlocky sentimentality and its idealization of the East Coast power elite. Still, it presents an interesting view of social attitudes prevalent in a 1970's Ivy League setting. Love Story tries to make an egalitarian nod towards an unlikely romance between a WASP scion and a poor but gifted Italian-American woman. At the same time, the film constantly glamorizes and glorifies the northeastern top-out-of-sight Anglo-American culture associated with Harvard. The beautiful cinematography evident throughout the film pays homage to Harvard and to east coast chic.Spoiler AlertOliver Barrett IV (Ryan O'Neal) rebels against his anally retentive and classist father (Ray Milland) by marrying Jennie Cavalieri (Ali MacGraw), a working-class Italian-Catholic woman from Cranston, Rhode Island. Quel horreur! While Jennie pretends to disdain preppies, her obvious fascination with their social power is evident in her emulation of their clothing styles and her preference for WASPy men. She even claims (somewhat ironically) to love the number after Oliver's name. During her meeting with his nauseatingly pretentious parents the usually blunt Jennie is charmingly demure, and nearly as smooth as Sydney Poitier in Guess Who's Coming to Dinner. This is a romance motivated not so much by true love, as by mutual fascination with the Other from a different side of the tracks.Jennie's class crossover from proletarian Cranston to Preppieland may have been a major source of the film's romantic appeal, especially since the myth of movin' on up is cherished to an extreme in America.By my lights, Jennie Cavalieri makes a horrible mistake when she gives up a fellowship to study music in Paris with the acclaimed Nadia Boulanger. Instead, she falls for the oldest myth in the book by marrying Oliver Barrett, the quintessential bland corporate type from the right background. In the real world, unions between working-class types and preppies rarely work due to the snobbish attitudes of the latter. It is wiser for talented people from more modest backgrounds to gain entry into the upper classes through intellectual and artistic abilities that will give them staying power, rather than through marriage alone. Had Jennie gone to Paris to fulfill her dream of becoming a concert pianist, she not only could have realized her creative potential, but she also could have eventually married a man from a more culturally sophisticated and less class obsessed background than Oliver Barrett IV. This better spouse for Jennie would also have been more appreciative of her musical gifts.The ridiculous line, love means you never have to say you're sorry is the dictum of a spoiled and entitled richie who uses others for pleasure and profit. When Oliver throws this line at Papa after Jennie's death, this relieves the eminent Mr. Barrett of any responsibility for his vile snobbery. Oliver is welcomed back into the fold only after Jennie no longer exists as a threat to the Barrett family's WASPocracy.Fortunately in the post millennial world, a rich WASP man would not be viewed as the ultimate prize for a woman like Jennie Cavlalieri, since the current bourgeois bohemian culture in America would encourage her to seek other choices. Who knows? Perhaps Jennie's immune system had an aversion to Oliver's preppy sperm -- and this caused her fatal illness. "},{"Title":"One of the Few Clichéd Romance Movies that I Can Enjoy","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This review is going to be brief, because what can you say about a movie about a girl who died when she was twenty five? Only that it had meticulously-crafted cinematography, witty dialogue, honest performances from O'Neal and McGraw, a perfect score, and a clichéd story line that deserved none of that. But I enjoyed the movie nevertheless, probably because I'm around the same age as Jenny in movie's exposition, and I too enjoy Mozart, Bach...and even the Beatles. I'll also add (since IMDb asks that I add more lines to this review) that I'm a big fan of Ryan O'Neal's, so pretty much any movie he's in, I'll enjoy. I'll also add (perhaps unnecessarily) that he retweeted me today and it sort of made my life. "}{"Title":"I'll Love You If You'll Love Me","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hey! If love really is so wonderful, then why-oh-why does everything about this movie make me wanna puke, big time? I'm not kidding! Considering how mega-popular that Love Story was upon its initial release back in 1970 - I'd say that it sure reveals (with crystal-clarity) just how absolutely love-starved that particular generation of movie-goers really was.I'd say it's utterly pathetic, in fact! This modern-day Romeo and Juliet story is so unbelievably trite, clichéd and insipid that it's hard to imagine what a phenomenal box-office success that it originally was. I mean, Love Story is so bloody ridiculous that when Ali MacGraw's character becomes terminally ill she (get this!) actually grows more beautiful as her death approaches. (Like - What ails you, girl?) Isn't that just too hilarious? You can easily argue that I don't know how the hell to recognize great love when I see it. But if this sappy, little soap-opera-of-a-movie is supposed to be a prime example of that great love, then I'd say that the commodity we all call love is grossly over-rated. Yep. It sure is! Believe me, all you love-crazed, starry-eyed, little fockers - Unconditional Love Does Not Exist. It doesn't.Let's face it - Love is always having to say you're sorry. Now - How's that for some healthy, finely-tuned cynicism? "},{"Title":"Love means never having to say you're sorry","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Movies like this are what one should watch movies for. On the surface, it looks typical. At the very beginning,Jennifer's death is declared openly and the audience expect the thunderbolt from the very beginning and probably wonder what form it will take. But that is not what matters. The story itself is nothing too special. But what makes it special, or rather, what makes it different from a thousand other variations of this cliché? The answer is humanity. Both Oliver and Jennifer are relatable as human beings who want to find their way in the world,specifically Oliver who wants to stand on his own two feet and move out of his father's shadow. You feel for them and want them to succeed. There are compromises and sacrifices but you do understand they would not have it any other way. Oliver is lucky in many ways in that he got himself a wife who sacrificed her career and put up with his tantrums. Not everyone get such an ideal wife. But that is what love is. The writers have showed the ideal of love in these two characters. Love means having to sacrifice or compromise without expecting anything in return. It's unconditional. Thus, in real love, you don't have to say sorry. One can always say the real world does not work that way and will be proved right. But that is also an aspect of human nature. But this ideal is what keeps one moving forward. It helps us face the harsher aspects of reality and should thus not easily be cast aside. In the end, the point of the movie is that Jennifer's life was short but it was not insignificant or empty. That is what truly matters. "},{"Title":"Decent 1970 Drama/Romance","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone knows the theme music to this one. From what I hear, the film was a huge hit when it came out in 1970. The love story involves two students from Harvard The guy (Ryan O'Neal) is a likable hockey player from an incredibly rich family who doesn't get along with his rigidly high-class father (Ray Milland); the gal (Ali MacGraw) is an intelligent musician from a working-class family who strangely calls her father Phil and cusses a lot.When I first saw the film, over four years ago, I didn't much like Ali MacGraw's character. She comes off bizarre and annoying (Hey preppy -- preppy preppy preppy). O'Neal's character, on the other hand, I found to be an all-around likable guy -- tough, but very nice at the same time, filthy rich yet undeniably humble and respectful.MacGraw's character kinda turned me off to the the flick the first time I saw it. Seeing it again recently, I enjoyed Love Story more because I was prepared to handle and embrace her strange personality.The father/son 'relationship' is interesting O'Neal calls Milland sir at all times. In reality there's NO relationship at all. Hence, what ultimately takes place in the story is both understandable and believable.There's a funny scene when O'Neal finally takes MacGraw to his family estate to meet his parents. She's understandably overwhelmed when she realizes just how rich O'Neal's family actually is. Her true-to-character reaction made me bust out laughing.I enjoyed the New England locations and seasonal changes. The setting and tone naturally reminded me of Dead Poets Society. I'm not saying Love Story is anywhere near as good because Dead Poets Society is in a class by itself. Yet, Love Story is a decent drama/romance; Just keep in mind that it's from 1970. Viewing it is like going back in time; in other words, it's a fascinating period-piece.GRADE C+ or B- "},{"Title":"An average tale of romance","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a popular novel back in the day and the film was a blockbuster that propelled Ryan O Neal and Ali McGraw to stardom.It is a simple tale of two people who meet, fall in love, get married and then one of them becomes ill.Oliver is a rich kid who comes from a family of wealth and privilege. He has a distant relationship with his parents and its clear that his father played by the great Ray Milland disapproves of his girlfriend.Jennifer is working class, plain talking and with a sharp wit. Oliver gets a job as a lawyer once he decides to distant himself from his family.The film is actually rather hokey. Audiences rather lapped this film up but you have a film that does not state what illness Jennifer has, even the doctors do not tell her but tell her husband what is wrong with her.Its an interesting film of its time, nice music, a few stars making their early screen appearances but nothing much more except a famous line that has now part of everyday language Love means never having to say you're sorry. "},{"Title":"How awful is it?","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm in the middle on this. I can't deny LOVE STORY is pretty bad. Ali's bad, the script is mediocre. Blah-blah-blah, it's all true.But the era is the key to its appeal and perhaps it helps if one was alive (and remembers) at that time.The snow scene essentially saves the film --- largely because it evokes the lost, bittersweet, melancholy mood at the cusp of the '60s and '70s (much as the urban street montage sequences in MIDNIGHT COWBOY or the first season opening theme of THE MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW did and do).The world actually felt that way at that moment in time. Otherwise, yeah, it's kinda crap. "},{"Title":"Excellent Love Story","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Honestly, I wasn't expecting much from something made in 1970. But Ryan O'Neal and Ali McGraw were so compelling, I could not stop watching. Imagine, actors who really know how to act! And back then! The intensity portrayed by O'Neal as a son who was expected to always perform, as well as a love, really made it seem real. This is a talent I have not seen often.Yes, the ending is sad (spoiler alert), but that should not dissuade anyone from watching especially since there seems to be a much-needed reconciliation at the end.As one who normally does not watch love stories, since this had the action of hockey, it added action and really pulled me in. I am glad I had the chance to watch the movie. "},{"Title":"The legendary romance film probably loses some ground in the four decades since","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Story is easily the forefather of all the romantic films after it. I'm sure if I had seen this in 1970 that it would have felt revolutionary, unique and heartbreaking. Having seen it now, the problem is that countless other films have copied it and paid homage to it. The film absolutely relies on the chemistry of its two stars and you absolutely can't deny that. Both characters are very well written with distinct and vivid personalities that just click so well together. The story behind Love Story is simplistic enough and I was actually surprised at how simple it was. Perhaps it was the years of build up and discussion about the film being a classic that left me a little underwhelmed. But I even found the major turning point in the film (I don't want to blatantly give it away in case someone actually doesn't know) but I found it completely anti-climatic. I knew what was going to happen going into it but I didn't find it nearly as heart wrenching as I thought. I've heard people say that Love Story is the greatest romance film ever, and always have a Kleenex but I simply wasn't that moved. Was it good? Yes it was good but I don't quite see the same level of quality everyone raves about.Ali MacGraw is beautiful, sassy, full of life and perfect in her role. Nowadays I think her role might be considered stereotypical and predictable. You know, she's the wild and vivacious woman that tames the playboy. However, for its time I'm sure she was a unique character and she simply nails it. Almost exactly the same could be said for Ryan O'Neal. He equally is terrific in his role as straight laced Harvard jock Oliver Barrett. They are two very different characters which is really the entire point of this passionate romance. Their chemistry is unmistakable but the beauty of the romance is that its real. It doesn't feel all based on lust or passion but a real romance unfolds between them throughout their life. John Marley and Ray Milland are decent in supporting roles as MacGraw's and O'Neal's fathers respectively. They don't have big parts but they are vital to the story and do well in their roles.The key to Love Story is the phrase I keep saying, in its time. I don't know if that means that the film didn't age well but I think it is was far more important for when it was released. It was the end of the sixties, O'Neal and MacGraw were playing young lovers looking to find their way in the world like so many baby boomers. The simplistic and yet vibrant setting of the Harvard campus and Massachusetts is the perfect spot for their budding romance. The film feels incredibly short for the time span that it covers. We are to feel like this is an epic all time romantic love and yet they meet, they banter back and forth, they kiss, they make love, they marry, they work, they go to school...and then the ending. It all happens very quickly. The dialogue between them is terrific and of course the film features that classic line love means never having to say you're sorry. It was great to see the movie, but I just didn't get the classic vibe that its known for. It is mildly entertaining and fun to watch but I think it lost its effectiveness over the decades. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Story hit the theaters in 1970 and instantly became an international mega hit! Its cast was excitingly strong, using some of the best dramatic artists available at that time ... including Ray Milland! The biggest love affair with this movie was between the audience and Ali McGraw ... with so many young women trying to copy Ali McGraw's look, and attitude throughout the 1970s. However, the love, as well as the tears, also flowed for Ryan O'Neal as his career went global! The cast, as stated, was/is most powerful ... and it is Ali McGraw's character that crashes into the dramatics with her smart aleck comments which truly make this movie so enjoyable. The script is superb, and the acting /directing is perfection. However, there is one line that confused the public (big time) ... Love means never having to say you're sorry! Probably one of the most ridiculous lines ever spoken by a leading lady, and could have destroyed the movie had it not been for the rest of the movie being such a wonderful experience.One thing I really liked was the relationship between Ali McGraw's character and her father, played by John Marley. Perfection! Basically, this movie was so good that they produced a vinyl recording of all the best parts and it sold quite well in record shops.A quick note ... a couple of years later, Ryan O'Neal and Barbra Streisand made a sin-a-licious comedy called What's Up Doc and Ryan O'Neal gets to voice his opinion of the disastrous line from Love Story ... the audience applauded enthusiastically! Touche'! "},{"Title":"One of the saddest romance films I ever seen.","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If love is the topic of any film this just sets it self up there as the best and saddest film I've ever seen. And as a guy this film made me cry and that's rare. I feel for the guy and I would not imagine being in that situation. The film has it moments with a little funny moments. This brings the real world human endeavor to survive and all the trials in between, if the say the opposite of love is hatred I beg to differ it's selfishness. And basing on the main characters' personality you will see more love in every aspect of their partnership. You can definitely relate to the people and their lives in this film because it shows a realistic view of real worldly life not what you might see to modern genres at present. Just a classic film and top rated for me. This is the example of a true romance film. "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Romantic Film Of All-Time","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Story is a romantic drama that is well known as a tragedy.It is considered one of the most romantic film of all time.It stars Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw together with John Marley and Ray Milland. It was written by Erich Segal which was based on his novel with the same title.The movie was directed by Arthur Hiller. Oliver Barrett IV is a comfortably off Harvard pre-law student that falls in love with Radcliffe music student Jenny Cavilleri,who happens to be a freewheeling, delightfully profane product of a blue-collar Italian-American family. Oliver's father heartily disapproves of the subsequent marriage and cuts off his son's allowance. Despite financial travails, the couple is blissfully happy.Then Jenny is diagnosed as having an unnamed disease that consigns her to an early death.This is one of the most popular movies of all-time especially when movie's tagline Love means never having to say you're sorry became an iconic American catchphrase.Aside from that,it is one of the most romantic movies ever made also remains one of the most enduringly popular. This heartfelt tale of the love of a lifetime.Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw each received Academy Award nominations and became overnight movie sensations for their poignant portrayals of a young couple who cross social barriers, marry and ultimately face the greatest crisis of all that makes is a classic tearjerker. "}{"Title":"Flawed and clichéd, but I love it!","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm coming out of the closet. The closet that is of the people who find it fun to laugh at this movie. Yes, by 1970 standards, it was certainly dated, but audiences didn't seem to care. It was a smash hit and the Titanic of its time. It is the type of movie that MGM would have done in 1935 with Joan Crawford and Ray Milland (more about him in a bit!) as the lovers and Edward Arnold and Lionel Barrymore as the fathers. With Midnight Cowboy as the most recent Best Picture winner and big Hollywood musicals losing millions of dollars, how can an old fashioned love story so filled with clichés become so popular? Simply this-audiences needed something like this to bring them back down to earth from all of the social issues of the late 60's and early 70's and have a good old fashioned cry. While 1973's The Way We Were is probably the best love story of the '70's, Love Story (even with its generic title) isn't far behind, and influenced producers to look to simpler themes to bring in audiences. Without Love Story, there would have been no need for tearjerkers like Terms of Endearment, Beaches and Steel Magnolias, and that would have been a shame.Certainly, you cannot find more attractive and likable leads like Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw for this film; They are gorgeous, and were the hottest on-screen couple of the year. I think what makes the film work so well is that it reminds us all of our own mortality. John Marley, as MacGraw's earthy father, is magnificent, so totally likable that it is easy to understand why he would be friends with his daughter and that she would simply call him by his first name. As for Ray Milland as O'Neal's father, that is where the film's only real flaw comes in. His character seems to have no real motivation for being so controlling with his son. Milland, one of the best looking actors of the 30's and 40's, sadly gets some really bad close-ups here. Just take a look at his eyes. They looks like one of the monsters from the 1975 horror disaster The Devil's Rain. That's some Lost Weekend!.Love Story can be a trifle manipulative at times as the music swells to a powerful crescendo at melodramatic moments. But it is that music today that people remember, and it is beautiful. There are few totally perfect films, but Love Story takes predictability and makes it acceptable to be formula. It helps to rise above cynicism when watching films like this and just enjoy its tribute to innocent youth who must face mortality head on. "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I was a boy, the film that dominated my earliest memories of pop culture was 1970's Love Story. From the music to the saying, 'Love means never having to say you're sorry,' to Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal being everywhere, it was the biggest movie of its day; sort of what Titanic was to folks a decade ago. And, yes, like Titanic, it's a schlocky film. It has a few saving graces which place it above the doomed ocean liner picture, though. One, there's no Leonardo DiCaprio in the film. Yes, Ali MacGraw was a terribly wooden actress. Her wooden performance here is mind-numbing. But, it's still not as earnestly bad as DiCaprio's. Second, despite the title being meant to refer to the film's two leads, Oliver and Jenny, played by O'Neal and MacGraw, the far more interesting love story is that played out between father and son. O'Neal plays Oliver Barrett IV, while Ray Milland plays his father, Oliver Barrett III. And, it is this relationship, between WASP scion and patriarch, that is so good that it carries the otherwise predictable soap opera of a film over the threshold to passability as a film. Is it a great film? No way, but Ray Milland does give a great performance as the emotionally impotent father.The film was directed by Arthur Hiller, a serviceable Hollywood journeyman, and adapted from the bestselling novel of the same name, by Erich Segal. I used to get Segal and the book Jonathan Livingston Seagull, by Richard Bach, mixed up all the time, because of the Segal/Seagull and Erich/Bach 'ch' connections. Also, both films come from the dippy-doo era of American literature. Anyone who is in their mid-forties or older will know the tale, but for the young'uns, a brief recap. Young Oliver meets Jenny Cavellari on campus, at Harvard. She goes to Radcliffe. They have a series of very fast paced scenes that are ill-wrought dialogue-wise. Nonetheless, much happens in the first twenty to thirty minutes, and, in this way, Love Story was a precursor to the MTV-like editing style that has gripped film for the last twenty or so years. But, technically, the film is quite good. Its use of montage, superimposition, scoring (although, at two or three times the theme song intrudes too loudly), editing, and giving snippets of a scene and letting the viewer fill in the rest, works, and credit should go to Hiller for giving his cinematographer, Dick Kratina, room to experiment. In modern films, this utilitarian concision does not happen. A film is cut quickly, but the viewer has no way of filling in the action, so you get a sort of narrative strobing, whereas in this film, the cuts work because the setups so strongly reinforce what will happen, which is confirmed no less than a scene or two later.A final point, though. For a tearjerker, I was left dry. Love Story is schlock, pure and simple, but well made schlock. Cum-see, cum-sa. "},{"Title":"A simple and universal love story ... and an unfortunate hate story with movie lovers ...","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Why is love so underrated? Why one of the most sincere and simple romances epitomized the 'cool-to-hate' notion to an extent that only Titanic would reach? Love Story didn't even win any Oscars except for Francis Lai's iconic score. However, it did win 5 Golden Globes, including 'Best Drama' and like Titanic, it was the highest-grossing film of the year. The detractors say that Love Story is just about two persons meeting, falling in love, marrying and at the end, the girl dies. That's true and many loved the film for this straight-forwardness. It never lied about its premise, even opening with the famous What could you say about a 25-year old girl who just died? What were people expecting? Whenever I hear these cynical comments and how the film is used as a reverse alibi for a more sophisticated and Pauline-Kael-like taste, I can't discuss Love Story without sounding like the devil's advocate. But this is a film I would support and defend with all my heart, for all the aspects that cemented Love Story's greatness.And it starts with Arthur Hiller's directing, it's simple and it's elegantly discreet. Any cheap romance insists on close-ups or slow motion, Hiller's camera has just a unique ability to focus on the characters in a way that makes us able to understand their emotions, and feel the chemistry growing between them. The so simple but delightful snow scene that would make cringe all the cleverer movie lovers, illustrates the perfect use of a particular setting to a much more universal feeling. And I'm sure that even in the movie theaters of the hottest countries, viewers could relate to this juvenile insouciance, playing in the ice, kissing with the snow, and just being &#x85; in love. The talent of Hiller was to dilute himself, to use the settings, the places as foils for Oliver and Jenny's relationship, and make everything but them look secondary. For that, I guess Hiller had to really trust his cast and be confident that the film's quality wouldn't be undermined by the performances. On that level too, the casting is perfect. Ali McGraw might not be a beauty queen but what a personality! And Ryan O'Neal's eyes contain this mix of immature anger and sensitive idealism that immediately makes him fall in love with Jenny. Jennifer Cavalleri and Oliver Barrett IV have great personalities, and the chemistry is only believable because they do complete each other without being too different. He's a brilliant Harvard Law student, she's a gifted Music student, both have talent, ambition and dreams, and parents who're not just here to show 'where they stand for', but also highlighting their background and rebellious nature. Oliver Barrett can't stand being seen as the heir of a prestigious Harvard Dynasty, and Jennifer isn't as religious as her father. But here both Ray Milland as Oliver Barrett III and John Marley, Oscar-nominated as Phil Cavalleri, are so convincing that we feel empathy toward them, too.Indeed, I felt that Oliver was acting immature and having issues for wrong reasons, and I was glad to see that Jennifer admitted she also loved him for everything he was, including his name. The subplot with Oliver's father isn't overused, but it shows a certain intelligence. We believe in the characters not just because they're well played, but because they evolve and show that love is also about less ego and more responsibilities . The script works for its realism, the relationship between Jenny and Oliver starts like an intellectual volleyball and we're glad Oliver finally points it out. The death scene could have produced an overdose of tears, but it works with the perfect harmony between writing and acting, and Ryan O'Neal is extremely convincing when it comes to this.Maybe the tag-line is the only weakness of the film, the infamous Love means never having to say you're sorry, but this is a fallacious reason to condemn the whole script, especially if you consider it only meant that when you're in love, the one you love, knows you didn't mean to be hurtful. Quite a stretch, but I like to think of that, as a newlywed myself. No, if there ever were a flaw, it would be the way Jenny looked in her deathbed; I accept this because the one who came with the Ali McGraw syndrome, Roger Ebert, gave the movie four stars. But he also said that the film was about love, not death, death was already taking our friend Jenny, that it would take her beauty was not relevant whatsoever. So, Hiller had the story, the characters, the actors, all he needed was the music that would convey all these emotions. When he heard the proposition from Francis Lai, as I expected he would say in the 'Making- Of- interview ... he cried.The score transcended whatever the film defined, and became a universal hymn for love, even more because a foreign composer made it. Love Story would never have this success without Lai's haunting score, this extraordinary mix of melancholy, nostalgia and mourning of a lost love. Whether it's for the snow scene, the thrilling sequence where Oliver tries to find Jenny, the music emphasizes the emotional impact of every moment. Love Story is one of these films that are immediately identifiable with very simple notes, like Jaws or The Godfather, and I couldn't believe it didn't make the American Film Institute's Top 25. The music defines being in love; it's something that cuts straight to your heart, something that any viewer can respond to. If only the score, Love Story is a universal and timeless classic.With its remarkable simplicity, Love Story may not be a masterpiece, but I've seen masterpieces that affected me less than this classic romance, that portrays love in all its facet insouciance and happiness, but also maturity and responsibility. Love is more than just never having to say we're sorry ... "},{"Title":"A Decent Love-Story with Great Performances!","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Arthur Hiller's Cult-Classic 'Love Story' is A Decent Love-Story with Great Performances! I liked the film, but I found the performances superior to the entire material.'Love Story' Synopsis Harvard Law student Oliver Barrett IV and music student Jennifer Cavilleri share a chemistry they cannot deny - and a love they cannot ignore. Despite their opposite backgrounds, the young couple put their hearts on the line for each other. 'Love Story' is moving & extremely depressing, but that's what I liked about this Love Story. It begins with glee, but ends depressingly. Erich Segal's Screenplay is moving & yet depressing. Arthur Hiller's Direction is tender. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are fair. Oscar-Winning Original Score by Francis Lai, is indeed lovely.Performance-Wise Ryan O'Neal delivers a towering performance. Ali MacGraw is equally good. And, Their On-Screen Chemistry, from start to end, is WOW! John Marley is fantastic. Ray Milland is in form. Tommy Lee Jones appears in a small cameo. On the whole, 'Love Story' deserves a watch. "},{"Title":"Dated, but worth a look...","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree on the issue of the grainy film, the esoteric elitist, Cambridge atmosphere evoked here, the two actors in a simple story of young lovers with a sad ending.It is not perfect, but Ali McGraw looks believable and honest as down at heel Jenny a poor Radcliffe student (I assume she is on scholarship then), for her music studies.Ryan O'Neal, not a great actor but has a few scenes here like the Christmas church scene, as he views his wife teaching choir to young students. In those days he certainly was beautiful to look at, almost as much as the Ivy architecture of Cambridge and Boston.Overall I do not want to cast negatively on this film as it is beautifully photographed, the dialog is not overly talky (in fact the scenes between Oliver Barret and his staunch and stalwart father played by the formidable Ray Milland) could have been more developed. The trite theme of son rebels against millionaire father is not substantive.Recommended if you like flash backs to a time when films were less histrionic and shrill. The romance works, and the visuals are well worth it. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Ali You Need Is Love","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Harvard Law student Oliver Barrett IV (Ryan O'Neal) and music student Jennifer Cavalleri (Ali MacGraw) share a chemistry they cannot deny - and a love they cannot ignore. Despite their opposite backgrounds, the young couple put their hearts on the line for each other. When they marry, Oliver's wealthy father threatens to disown him. Jenny tries to reconcile the Barrett men, but to no avail. Oliver and Jenny continue to build their life together. Relying only on each other, they believe love can fix anything. But fate has other plans. Soon, what began as a brutally honest friendship becomes the love story of their lives. That DVD sleeve summary also notes that this film was nominated for seven Academy Awards; not sure how that happened, but it won the most deserved Oscar, for Francis Lai's excellent musical score. Writer Erich Segal does ratchet up the amount of naughty verbiage acceptable in mainstream movie of the time, which gives its young lovers a relatively more realistic appeal. In the right haircut at long last, Mr. O'Neal finally hits the big leagues, after Peyton Place; and, Ms. MacGraw builds on her Goodbye Columbus success. Director Arthur Hiller does especially well with the chilly Harvard locations.The opening lines give away the Love Story, and you simply wait for the big event to happen. Piano-playing Jenny and hockey-playing Ollie get less interesting as a couple. As their respective fathers, John Marley and Ray Milland have great roles; the relationship between Mr. Milland and O'Neal unexpectedly takes the emotional weight from the younger pair. You keep wondering what MacGraw's problem is - there is simply nothing to really fill out the characterization of the scripted conceited Radcliffe bitch. It might have better if MacGraw knew about her illness from the start, and hid it from O'Neal.******* Love Story (12/16/70) Arthur Hiller ~ Ryan O'Neal, Ali McGraw, Ray Milland, John Marley "},{"Title":"an unorthodox love story","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this is an unorthodox romantic drama.it doesn't follow all the typical conventions of the genre.the characters and their action aren't typical.and the movie isn't overly maudlin or sentimental.in fact,it has almost none of that.but it works.sure it does tug on the heart strings,but in a way that doesn't feel like manipulation it's very subtle.credit that to the writing of Eric Segal.the the two main characters,Jennifer Cavalleri(Ali MacGraw)and Oliver Barrett IV(Ryan O'Neal)aren't what you would call likable,yet they tend to endear themselves to you through the course of the film,enough that you do end up caring about them.overall,i was drawn in to the story from the get go right to the end credits.for me,Love Story is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Appealing - reality is a sad coda to this film","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ali McGraw is so appealing in Love Story. Ryan O'Neal too. The movie is overwrought but it's truly character-driven. Ali McGraw looks like an ex of mine, and the deathbed scenes reminded me of my mom's recent passing so I suppose the experience was preloaded. I found myself feeling that slightly painful feeling of falling in love. I suppose that's the motivation for the teenage girls who would see the movie multiple times during its first run.Ryan O'Neal was great at one time, fantastic in Paper Moon, funny in What's Up Doc? How did he turn into a bloated angry mess? Ali McGraw wrote a book called Moving Pictures where she describes her battles with alcohol and her relationship problems - like Jane Fonda she was only attracted to cold, withholding men. Who could have predicted that watching her be so fresh-faced, funny and cynical back in 1970? "},{"Title":"Love means never having to say you're sorry","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Originally it was supposed to be Love means not ever having to say you're sorry as mentioned in the best-selling novel of the same name.I have seen a lot of romance films released before, during and after Love Story, but none deliver the same emotional impact this one did to me. The story may seem simple and predictable (from the very beginning you'll know what is going to happen), but makes its message come across effectively. With only a few minor differences, the premise and development of the film's story is the same as that of the best-selling novel it is based on Jennifer Cavalleri (Ali MacGraw) and Oliver Barret IV (Ryan O' Neal) are two Harvard students (just like the screenwriter and novel author Erich Segal) from entirely different backgrounds who fall in love she is a poor, brilliant but sometimes foul-mouthed Social-zero Radcliffe Bitch , he is a muscular, smart and polite Harvard Preppie Millionaire . But their love for each other crosses all sorts of barriers, whether be class, religious, political, economical, or social differences. Their love for each other even outweighs the cold war between Oliver and his authoritarian father (Ray Milland), economic hardships and then the unthinkable.Ali Macgraw and Ryan O'Neal shine together, their chemistry is spot-on perfect and they are 100% believable as you laugh at the jokes they make to each other and cry at their trials and tribulations. The movie, just like the novel, starts like a comedy with their chatter and ends with on a very sad note. John Marley and Ray Milland-- the former plays Jennifer's father-- do not disappoint either with their brief appearances. Francis Lai's repetitive but catchy music score sets the mood perfectly. It is one of the very few romantic stories-- but the novel and the movie alike-- I actually love, one that makes me laugh so hard and then makes me cry for the last 30 minutes-- I cried even my way to sleep!Love it to tears--LITERALLY-- or hate it with your teeth, this movie, made on a shoestring budget of $2.2 million became the unlikely sensation of 1970 earning a spectacular $106 million in 1970/1971 and seven Oscar nominations (won one for best Score) and many other awards/nominations. "},{"Title":"A sweet tender film","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think Love Story is a tender, sweet well-made film. Ryan O'Neal is a pretty good actor who made the film worth looking at (and, of course, he is quite handsome AND sexy). But the film is well-made. I enjoyed watching it just last week after many years of not viewing it. And each time I watch it, I feel pretty much the same way? A poignant sweet film with believable and handsome cast. I love the plot, the acting, the music. Pretty much everything. Plus it has that classic early 70's feel to it. Classic. I don't think it has received enough credit as a good film. I don't know why, but I think it should be classified among one of the great films. No. It is not a blockbuster or one of those fantastic action films that cost millions of dollars, but who is to say that only expensive films are great films? For a small film, or what appears to be a film made on a conservative budget, I think Love Story does pretty, pretty well. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Tear Jerker","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Story was the premier tear-jerker of my generation and is the quintessential chick flick. Many of the girls I dated at school and college loved this movie. Having watched it again for the first time in years it's still an enjoyable experience.The writer, Erich Segal, adapted a plot, involving star-crossed lovers, that has been around since the Middle-Ages. Ryan O'Neal (Oliver Barrett IV) and Ali McGraw(Jenny Cavilleri) play Ivy League over-achievers who fall in love. The likability and chemistry between O'Neal and McGraw is the main reason the film works. Jenny is beautiful and a smart-ass. Oliver is a brilliant Harvard jock who is unable to communicate with his father. Oliver's family are rich and aristocratic while Jenny's father owns a pastry shop. Their engagement results in a rift with Oliver Barrett III (Ray Milland) who tries to terminate their relationship. The objective of big studio movies is to entertain and Love Story succeeds. The relationship between Jenny and Ollie sucks you in and is strangely intoxicating. The film is helped by Francis Lai's memorable music. The characters are articulate, the dialog is crisp and McGraw delivers some funny one-liners. Arthur Hiller does a solid job, telling the story clearly without the pretension and the over-indulgence associated with many seventies directors. Love Story was the top-grossing film of its year, and received 7 Oscar nominations. The film is worth watching especially if you like old, tragic movies. "},{"Title":"A Love Story   ... for all!","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You have to remember that this film/novel was way ahead of itself in 1970. Pre-marital sex was a no-no up until the late 1960's, so when Oliver and Jenny sleep together, this was quite a bold step! And saved the film/novel from serious and silly melodrama. I saw this movie in college, and I was a Music Major at a woman's college like Jenny, so you can well imagine the influence on a young woman's mind and the the power it had for me. However, obviously I did not die young! I still admire the look of Ali McGraw, the way they dressed her for the film is timeless. I think it will always be a classic... the piano score is quite moving, and in many key scenes, proves a perfect substitute and far more powerful than dialog, hence the lack of! I also think it was beautifully filmed. Look for Tommy Lee Jones, if you blink, you will miss him!A film for all ages, classic and moving. But don't bother with the follow up film Oliver's Story, just a way to make a quick buck, despite Candy Bergen as the love interest. You will be very disappointed. Hope this comment was helpful. "},{"Title":"The best romantic film of all times","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is by far the best romantic movie I have ever seen. It is a really wonderful movie to watch. It is a simple and touching story. The actors' performances are excellent, the scenes are beautiful and the music is fantastic. I was a little girl the first time I watched the film at my grandmother's house and I fell in love with it. I have watched this movie lots of times, and of course I got my DVD copy. I cry my eyes out each time I see it and I always enjoy every minute of it. I love Love Story, it shows you real life as it is, with its happiest and saddest moments. Everybody should watch this perfect film, it's unforgettable! And I think it's true Love means never having to say you are sorry. "},{"Title":"Love it, Love it, Love it...","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film as a little girl and fell in love with it that very minute.I don't care what anyone says, its wonderful.I cry my eyes out each time and enjoy every minute of it.Ryan O'Neal was so handsome in it and Ali McGraw was Beautiful.They don't make films like that anymore, a gentle weepy with such romance.To those of you who love the film with me, isn't it the best.To those who don't, don't watch it, just use your remote.We will be the lucky ones.Another favourite of mine is The Other side of the Mountain, which in England was called  A window to the Sky  another weepy. Still Love Story is and will always be the BEST. "},{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my all time favorites, right there with Goodbye Girl, where a witty writer, gets to also do the screen play (in fact the screen play was before the novel) and their real story gets portrayed on screen, rather than someone else's interpretation.The book was an easy read and the play follows it very close. The best part is the chase between the two principal characters (Ollie, Ryan O'Neal & Jenny, Ali McGraw) and the war between Ollie and his father (Ray Milland). Also, what a great start appearance for Tommy Lee Jones.Moreover, for those of us who spent many years on college campuses, the aura is a great relive.DrDimento "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic Movie Ever...","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really was astonished when I found that the rating is 6.2!! I mean how did that happen?! Did you really see the movie?! This movie is by far the best romantic movie ever and that's for sure, the story is so simple and so sincere, and the actors did their parts very well, and don't let start talking about the music!! The music is breathtaking, the one who composed it is a genius.I have seen this movie about four times and I'm willing to see it again and again and again and again and I'll never ever get bored, because it's a one of a kind!I'll end my comment quoting the last phrase in the movie Love means never having to say you are sorry! "},{"Title":"Title tells all, but it's told very well.","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Young stars O'Neal and MacGraw were able to push their stardom to the next level in this memorable film. Managing the seemingly impossible feat of being both generic and unique, it traces the romance of a wealthy Harvard law student (O'Neal) and a mouthy, middle-class Radcliffe girl (MacGraw.) They meet, spar, fall in love, make sacrifices and then are met with an insurmountable tragedy. Milland plays O'Neal's old school father and Marley is MacGraw's working class pop who tries to view things the newfangled way. What is a simple (and hardly new) story of love amongst class differences, tinged with heartbreak, is given a fresh coat of paint that includes four-letter words, frank (for the time) love scenes, charming montages of the couple's activities, a noted lack of syrup (though there is some) and a staggeringly beautiful musical score. The story is told in fairly brief vignettes and is filmed mostly in authentic Boston and New York locations, giving it a realistic and naturalistic flair. Only the trappings and some of the sociological viewpoints betray it's era. O'Neal is very good as the boy, continuously butting heads with is domineering father (whom he addresses as sir.) He isn't able to muster up any real tears during his scenes of turmoil, but he does stir the heart at other times, notably in one extended scene in which he searches (and searches) for MacGraw following an argument. MacGraw is given some off-putting attitudes at times, but eventually wins audience interest and sympathy. The role is mostly within her limits and she and O'Neal develop a charming chemistry. (And to her credit, at 32, she manages to seem much younger.) Milland is terrific as the crusty millionaire who can't bear to see his son avoid fulfilling the destiny he has mapped out for him. Marley (who is called Phil by MacGraw as an example of only one of the couple's many differences), does a nice job as a man rooted in tradition, but drawn to keeping up with the new ways. Most of the other characters are negligible, though one of O'Neal's fellow students is played by an already self-assured Jones. Director Hiller presents a kaleidoscope of vignettes, but doesn't skimp on the little, telling details such as O'Neal adjusting MacGraw's hair before she meets his folks and MacGraw nibbling snow off O'Neal's face, to name just a few. Forced to keep the film's budget in check, he demonstrates creativity in the staging and handling of the material. He links the scenes together well and works overtime to create the right emotional tone in his audience. The film was a massive success and the stars benefited from it, but, oddly, some of the cast either never worked again (such as Daniels, as O'Neal's roommate) or hardly at all (Balfour as O'Neal's mother.) The extraordinary music of the film acts as a thread for the somewhat fractured storyline and is nearly a character itself. The delicate and beautiful work retains its popularity today as demonstrated by its use in the famous Olympic gold medal-winning figure skating program of Sale and Pelletier. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made.","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who thinks this is a girlie movie is wrong.What makes this movie different than all the other movies made before and after, is that the story and the characters are so real. Which is why we laugh with them when they first get together and we cry with Oliver when Jenny dies. This movie goes way beyond the stereotypical love story, because it doesn't have a happy ending. It is probably one of the saddest movies ever made, but definitely a movie worth watching.This is a classic movie with many memorable moments, even funny ones. How can you forget Jenny, the music student, with the big glasses and the big hats, or Oliver, the handsome guy going to law school? How can you forget one of the most famous lines ever Love means never having to say you're sorry? How can you forget Jenny and Oliver fighting in the snow, or going to meet each other's parents, or their out-of-the-ordinary wedding? How can you forget what probably is, the saddest scene in film history the very last one, when Oliver sits on the bench where Jenny used to sit and watch him skate?O, this is definitely an unforgettable movie.I say to hell with all the romantic comedies that always have a happy ending. It makes me more annoyed than happy.So get some napkins, forget the popcorn (since you will be too much into the movie to even think of food), get comfortable, and prepare to experience a story about life, a sad story, but one that will stay with you forever. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hardly ever wanted to watch any movie for the second time. But I watched Love Story five times in a week. It's neither a perfect movie nor really dramatic. It's just a simple truth about a couple who love each other, that might happen to anybody in anywhere and anytime. So plain and real. That's why it's so touching. I don't understand why some people said Ryan O'Neal can't act. In my opinion, one of the most powerful aspects that made this movie so impressive (besides the music and beautiful scenes) was the way he expressed Oliver's feeling. Jenny by Ali McGraw was gorgeous and smart, however I wish I could see the expression of love in her eyes when her mouth said Preppy&#133;. "},{"Title":"The Best Love Story","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is in my opinion the best love story of all time. It is one of the most beautifully scripted and performed movies I have ever seen. In the movie Oliver Barrett, a rich Harvard jock, falls in love with Jenny Cavilerri, a poor Radcliffe music major. They deal with all sorts of obstacles, yet always in love and never losing hope. I have to warn you though, don't sit down without a box of tissues ready. I bought the movie because I remembered hearing about it a long time ago but I didn't really think I was going to watch it, or even like it, because it was from so long ago and you would think they would have better movie out. The day I bought it I watched in 2 times. I watch it almost everyday. This movie is amazing and it truly is the best love story of all time. Love Story has the power to ignite a deep feeling of sorrow and grief for the characters and it is truly a heartfelt movie. "}{"Title":"I love this movie!!","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie so many times I can quote it word for word. It's my favorite movie of all time. I love the way that things just happen. Such as Oliver graduating from law school. I don't see why there should have to be a scene for everything. Can't it just be understood that he's been in school while Jenny's at work? And I think that the actors/actresses in the movie couldn't have been played by any better people. They fit their roles perfectly. Just because it was didn't say what Jenny was dying of, it doesn't mean you have to know. It should be enough for you to know that Oliver loves his wife and is taking care of her the best way he knows how. Its a story about a love story between two people; it's something to be looked at and treasured. Not something to be looked at and over analyzed. If you do that to every movie, you'll never see anything good in them. And you certainly can't do that to love, because if you try to point out and find every detail, you're going to miss it. "},{"Title":"how come these unreasoning critics","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a Chinese living in China. I watched this movie on TV days ago and have been thinking of it these days. It touched me much. How many people can experience such a profound love, into the fresh and bone? Jenny died, but the love went on. I can't imagine what a life Oliver would go. It must be very hard. there will never be another love another time (as in the song 'love story'). I'm wondering why there are so many opposite words. I don't know about Oliver family, and haven't read the novel. But this 70's-made (actually end of 60's)film gives me more understanding on love and freedom. O'Neal can't act? McGraw is ugly? Hatchet job or echoing what other says? They are devoting actor and actress. As for the tearjerker, your tear is controlled by your own brain, isn't it ?  "},{"Title":"what was most hurting?","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hi, just saw Love Story, few days ago. I don't know how to express what I feel but, this is already week I can't forget that movie. It has had a hard impact on my life and feeling. This is like fire, it burns! In my life i've witnessed many 'love stories' filmed, but this one was something above, over, superior. Possibly the sincerity of young Ali and Ryan put their great effect. However, I can't say that I enjoyed it, though watched twice. Because it really burns, hurts. It is not just a movie, it is something else, something that is not talked about in the movie but meant, smth that even the producers and actors themselves did not know about. This is the fire of existing separation that is over there everywhere in the world where love is ever lived.. this hurts, and much. Nevertheless, i'm downing my head before Ali and Ryan for their brilliant work!  "},{"Title":"GREATEST ROMANTIC MOVIE OF ALL TIME","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surely, there will never be a movie like this one. The subject matter is also a matter of truth. Finding out that the one you love is ill takes a strength of GOD's powers to believe that life will go on after this. I have the DVD, the Video CD and the book on the movie. I'm sure that Mr. Segal wrote the story FROM THE HEART. I cry each time I read the book. It's funny, tragic and honest at the same time. Like some of your other reviewers, I was surprised about Tommy Lee Jones acting in Love Story. I had a doubt about whether it really was him! Now after reading the cast listing here on your site, my doubts are cleared! I would really love to know what happened to the two stars. I have tried many internet websites for Ali McGraw and Ryan O'Neal... Not much that I could get from them. One question though! Is the disease affecting Jennifer Cancer? If anyone can get back to me on that, I would be very grateful.  "},{"Title":"The finest romance ever made","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nearly twenty-five years after it was released in theaters, Love Story remains one of the finest romances ever brought to the silver screen. Erich Segal has harnessed his immense talent and dispatched it toward his pen to deliver one of the finest romance novels.With powerful performances and a story that brings emotions to the forefront, Love Story has risen to the highest plateau in Hollywood. The cast led by Ryan O'Neal, the stunningly beautiful Ali MacGraw, Ray Milland and John Marley, Love Story is truly unique as it is among the very best films.MacGraw and O'Neal turned in their BEST performances of their careers with Love Story, and will always be remembered as the most romantic couple on the big screen.Segal's plot surrounds the type of story, which makes me want to live within that world and never leave. Love Story is the type of movie one says to themselves that this is a place I never want to leave and a movie I want to watch over and over.True love and chemistry has not radiated from two characters on screen as Love Story did with Oliver and Jenny.This film covers the good times, bad times, sad times and everything in between. It is true testament to the talent of O'Neal and McGraw, the writer who penned the novel and the director who turned the novel into a movie.Love Story set the standard for which other romance dramas should strive to become. EVERYONE SHOULD WATCH THIS FILM.  "},{"Title":"A romantic masterpiece","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nearly twenty-five years after it was released, Love Story remains  one of the finest romances ever brought to the silver screen. Erich Segal has harnessed his immense talent and dispatched it toward his pen as he wrote one of the finest romance novels.From powerful performances to a story that brings your emotions to the forefront, Love Story has risen to the highest plateau in Hollywood. The cast led by Ryan O'Neal, the stunningly beautiful Ali MacGraw, Ray Milland and John Marley is truly unique to other romances.MacGraw and O'Neal turned in their BEST performances with Love Story, and they will always be remembered as the most romantic couple ever to come on the big screen.Segal's story is the type of story, which makes me want to live within that world and never leave. Love Story is the type of movie one says to themselves that this is a place I never want to leave and a movie I want to watch over and over.These are the feelings I have toward Love Story. True love and chemistry has not radiated from two characters on screen as Love Story did with Ryan O'Neal's character Oliver and Ali Macgraw's Jenny.This film covers the good times, bad times, sad times and everything in between. It is true testament to the talent of the fine actors involved, the writer who penned the novel and the director who turned the novel into a movie.Love Story set the standard for which other romance dramas should strive to become. EVERYONE SHOULD WATCH THIS FILM.  "},{"Title":"Glurge","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I darned near needed insulin after this piece of glurge.  I had to think in terms of dog breeds here.  Ali was a Gordon Setter, Ryan, a Cocker Spaniel, Ali's daddy was an Afgan Hound, Ryan's daddy, the Bulldog and Ryan's mom would be some kind of Poodle or a Bichon Frise.  When Ryan told daddy he needed 5,000 bucks, I'm thinking Buy acting lessons.  I couldn't even give this sappy thing of a movie the eye candy rating and they did have some nice, vintage cars.  I was stuck on my couch, sick and only wanted a good laugh.  Oh well, maybe some other day. Candar "},{"Title":"A straightforward romance","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I wasn't even born in 1970, but I think Love Story is the best romance movie ever made. (not that I have seen tons of romance films.) The scenes come and go fairly quickly with a good rhythm, which doesn't allow me to get bored. The whole movie focuses on the couple, and is free from any unnecessary casts or scenes. The conversation lines between Jenny and Oliver are written very well.The straightforward and pure nature of this movie is hardly ever seen in other titles.  I was very moved, and I watch it over and over again on video. Jenny's acting and the music were also stunning. 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"5.9 average rating? It's a joke","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very old movie.  Not to many care to know about.  The reason I like to write this comment because I see a 5.9 rating.  Frankly, I do not pay too much attention to other viewer.  Simply say this is one of the greatest love story of all time.  Real life, real story.  The music is as good as the movie, if not better.  A 10 (10 out of 10). "},{"Title":"If you accept that tragedy does occur without reason, you will find watching this movie easier.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been reading the reviews of this picture here on the database and I am struck by the persistent and rhetorical comment, why did Jenny have to die? Why not? Do tragic things happen to people all of the time without rhyme or reason? Absolutely! But that should not detract from the film, if anything, that should enhance its message.Losing anyone is profoundly difficult and one cannot produce a hierarchy of tragedy because no matter how long you have been with someone, or how many years your relationship has had the opportunity to grow, we seldom feel there is ever enough time. What is also difficult is that we so often feel we haven't begun to realize the possibilities within one another. Jenny's death, while certainly tragic and profoundly haunting and sad, does make sense if you remember that all things are fleeting. By addressing this issue this film is not a jaunt into sentimentality but a realization that the bonds of love exist on multiple levels of consciousness. We can only infer, as we watch Oliver struggle to assess his loss at the conclusion of the movie, that her presence and what she meant to him will persist in his mind for years to come. And perhaps that is what is the most powerful feature of this movie, his life must go on and she tells him, I don't want you to be sick. She knows he needs to move on, to find happiness, to not allow the sadness of his loss to obliterate the beauty of what they had together and that in life, beauty exists and can be found once more, regardless of whether or not we have fallen.This is an unusual depiction of a love story because one does not get the sense that the value of one's life can be assessed  solely by the involvement with another person. Oliver's life must go on and it will. He must get back out there and relearn how to live and he probably will. Does this mean that his life with Jenny is cheapened? No, because his life was enhanced by his time with her. This movie provides a mature examination of love and relationships, it does not tell us that once two young beautiful people find love that life is perfect and within their own relationship it is clear that life is not perfect, they do argue, they do have disagreements, they do have difficulties. However, they do have each other and they seem to be able to provide comfort and happiness within one another and perhaps this fosters a strength in Oliver so that he may continue?The music is deceptive. On the one hand the music tinges each moment of happiness with a touch of sadness, but on the other hand, the music itself should not let one believe that the movie is suggesting that without one another all of life is lost. And the line Love means never having to say your sorry does not belong here. It is a mistake because it is a gimic, a line designed to be memorable and to render the film, like a catchy song, stuck in one's mind. But the movie does not need this line to do so, the bond between these two characters, the quality of their love and the questions that they face is enough to make this film persistent and memorable. Sometimes Hollywood just has to sink its teeth into projects that would do find to stand alone. "}{"Title":"So sad","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have heard much of this movie before and so I just watched it. Well yes i did cry. It's a really good film. I think the cast was very good especially Ali MacGraw. The story is simple but it brings tears in your eyes. Why did she have to die? That was sooo sad. When Oliver first heard from that doctor that Jenny had to die and the walked through the streets with that piano-background music I started to cry. Because his face was so heartbreaking. I think it's a really really good film. A real classic movie. You should have seen it once. "},{"Title":"Short Review","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The intoxicating magic of this film does not lie in its plotting (the aforementioned notes do quite well to point out its banality and potentially offensive submissiveness of the female lead) or its acting (Ali MacGraw is the most wooden performer since Charlie McCarthy), but in the atmosphere of inevitable doom.College students with heart are the subject matter of the movie, and also the primary audience.  What do young, sensitive people want?  Not really to be happy, since they are too cynical to believe in that.  No, they want their sensitivity to be writ LARGE, to be displayed and appreciated.Ollie, the poor little rich boy, is the ideal symbol of these aspirations. He starts out being merely sexy, glib, and buff.  True love transforms him, opens him up, and lets him glimpse his buried emotions for his father. Man, that would be great!  Love Story is the fun side of depression, a cocktail of noble despair, and easier than reading Rimbaud.  Who does not hear the famous da dee da dee da riff of Francis Lai, without imagining himself trudging along the commons on a wintry day, eyes misty and haunted with the dawning knowledge that your true love is dead, and you will have 60-some years to grieve?Public martyrdom it's how young people without the balance to skateboard express themselves.As proof, I point to the ad copy of Segal's novel.  IIRC, my well-worn paperback copy included some comment about how whole dormfuls of sensitive youngsters stayed up all night reading Love Story to one another, crying.When you have stopping laughing, join me in applauding Arthur Hiller's direction.  The image of Ollie, bereft in the snow alone, bookends the movie.  The film starts at the ending, creating a closed time loop in which his pain and loss can be savoured -- er, suffered -- over and over again. It is brilliant.  It is the best use of that particular writing device since, oh, The Outsiders.  I can mock Love Story, but I can't resist it.  "},{"Title":"Falling in love with fate.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A terrific film about falling in love with someone different from you and about the sacrifice that have to be made. It will make you cry in more ways then one. A beautiful love story and an emotional tear-jerker. Recommended for all woman who enjoy romance. A timeless classic. "},{"Title":"A film to be treasured for years to come","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Story is one of the greatest if not greatest romances ever brought to the silver screen.It encompasses everything that a film should have. For example, a great cast, which is led by Ryan O'Neal and the beautiful Ali MacGraw. Another element is the supporting cast, which is provided by the late greats Ray Milland and John Marley. Last and certainly not least, all films must have credible and believable plots.MacGraw and O'Neal turned in their BEST performances with Love Story, and they will always be remembered as the most romantic couple ever to come on the big screen.This film covers the good times, bad times, sad times and everything in between.I have not seen more love radiate from two individuals on or off screen as I did with Ryan O'Neal's character Oliver and Ali Macgraw's Jenny. Mixed in with their teasing of one another, both were there for each other when they needed help.This is testament to the talent of these two fine actors. I credit not only the director Arthur Hiller but the writer Erich Segal.The bottom line is EVERYONE SHOULD WATCH THIS FILM.  "},{"Title":"The best movie of its genre","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I`m not what you would call an avid fan of the romance genre and the majority of the films I have seen with 'love' as the main theme I have usually viewed in the company of others (the movie having been their choice). I find that hollywood likes to make romance movies with the shallowest of plots,the most highly unrealistic characters, and to top it all off the obligatory happy ending. So it was with some foreboding that I sat down to watch this movie, but  much to my surprise it turned out to be a real gem. What I liked about this film was that it didn`t concentrate on two people trying to win each others love, but rather brought the two together early on in the plot and then concentrated on their lives as they progressed through their relationship.  The effectiveness of this film was in the realistic story line and characterizations which the majority of viewers would be able to relate to. It was this realism  that created such a powerful  ending. "},{"Title":"YOU WILL CRY!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not a pretentious movie. But the story is so beautiful that every generation has seen this movie for 30 years. Some girls that I know watched the end without watching the rest of the film and without knowing the story before They cried and they can't stop their teardrops from falling. I think you will cry too because this story is universal. For this reason, this movie is worth a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Love Story","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Story is one of my favorite books and movies of all time.  Erich Segal did a wonderful job.  The verbal banter the two share is both funny and witty.  Although I find much of the movie to be quite humorous bring a box of tissues for the end.  "},{"Title":"Wow,, what a dog of a movie!","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Finally, finally got around to seeing this and what a let down! I usually find most movies fairly agreeable but how this got nominated for academy awards is beyond me! Right from the start, the character of Jenny was so obnoxious, I can't see how any guy would be attracted to her. She put him down, insulted him and was flat out rude. Normally the guy would just leave. Second, I can see why Ali MacGraw's career tanked after this. Most over acted film I've ever seen. After the first few scenes I thought she would get it under control, but no, she had that horrible performance all the way through. Ryan Oneil was just as bad. Over acting and sappy. The scene with the doctor was most annoying. What kind of Doctor tells him flat out she's dying then suggests 'treatment'?? Also, his response was ludicrous. No question about what can be done to help her. Sorry folks, but wow, I thought this was bad. One major directing failure was almost the entire movie was just the two of them including the sickening sweet montages of them frolicking in the snow - which went on wayyyyy to long. Big thumbs down for me. However, I think the script has potential for a modern remake with some re-writing, better acting, and please no 'zoom ins' and 'zoom outs' like this movie. That style of film making was used briefly when the first invented the zoom lens, but quickly died it because it is too cheesy. Sorry for the negative review but I really thought this was an awful film. "},{"Title":"magical","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This picture is perfect. It sums up everything that I consider a film should contain. A lovely basic plot which is nothing out of ordinary but that adds to the magnetism of this film. The focus shifts from what the film is about to what do the characters feel. And add to that the beautiful acting from both Ali Macgraw and Ryan O'Neal who don't seem to act at all.It all adds to the subjectivity of the film and to its timeless character. It transcends language and settings and is pure film.This picture sums up what it is to be young and be in love. It is the ultimate romantic film to me. "},{"Title":"Three People Who Made This Movie a Classic","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Erich Segal, Francis Lai and Arthur Hiller, are the three people, who made this movie a timeless Classic. I will give TEN for the Music. This was greatest romantic, haunting piano music ever. The only other tune would be Lara's Theme in Dr. Zivago. Arthur Hiller, who refused to do God Father ended up directing this movie. He made some great casting choices, which was instrumental in catapulting this movie to the cult status. Both leading actors were wholesome, handsome and fresh and their love for each other and disdain for inheritance and prestige identified with the generation. Ryan O'Neil was the Travolta of the 60's and his acting was better than Ali Mcgraw's. John Marly as Phil and Ray Milland are subtle and good. All said and done this movie would have been another tear jerker if not for the Francis Lai's music who did not even speak English and in fact Hiller said to have wept when he first heard the composition. Robert Evans, who was a Paramount visionary, was instrumental in getting this movie made. Top Six, Most Romantic Movies of all time-Sangam,The World of Suzie Wong, Dr.Zivago, Sound of Music, Casablanca and Love Story. In my book a good movie is nNever having to Say Sorry to the Audience. "}{"Title":"Something You Should Spend Some Time On It.","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The major reason makes me interest in this book and DVD was my Dad. This movie was shot before I was born. When I was a little girl, I saw Dad watching this movie every time when it was shown on TV. My Dad is kinds of the action movie type. I was surprised why he loved watching this movie. So, when I was in the video store one day, I decided to rent the DVD to see what made my Dad to watch a love drama. Just like my father. I am totally devoted to the movie. I bought both Oliver's Story and Love Story and finished reading in one afternoon. For me, I like the Love Story more than Oliver's Story. The 3/4 part of the Love Story was a pleasant story. Both of them loved each other very much and would like to sacrifice for each other. For Oliver's story, it's all sad and how Oliver couldn't forget Jenny. Love Story is very well written. I highly recommend you to read it. "},{"Title":"Ali MacGraw rocks!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the quintessential 1970's romantic movie. It is one of the all time favorite romance movies of the era. Harvard, Radcliffe, Boston, rich boy, poor girl -- it has everything. Oliver and Jenny meet cute. And, Ali MacGraw is at her best playing the cocky Radcliffe girl. Who is her own way is really the one who is the snob. She may be poor but she is an intellectual snob! Ryan O'Neal is at his most handsome and most charming. He was born to play the rich boy prepster, OliverBarrett. It is a classic romance with all the usual pitfalls. It is wonderful to see the use of Boston and Harvard as the backdrop. And I just love the improvised scene of Oliver and Jenny playing in the snow,on the empty football field. It is one of the all time great movie scenes. It is just music playing in the background and these two beautiful actors improvising a lovely scene of young lovers playing in the snow. Even doing snow angels to boot! "},{"Title":"Average movie w/ masterpiece theme song","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average romance drama movie with a masterpiece theme song and super charming actress Ali MacGraw.Ryan O'Neal also helped this movie with his good looks and good performance.But the true foundation of this movie are the song Where Do I Begin? and the magic of MacGraw's charms.The production is simple and average.The story attempts to be philosophically deep but is realy not.The ending was not as climactic as it should have been due to the average screenplay.Only for big romance drama fans and fans of the lead actors.......    "},{"Title":"Pardon me, but love means saying you're sorry","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This picture is frequently shown on the American Movie Classics cable channel and I saw it again (after about 20 years) a week after Valentines Day. When watching this film I was struck not by how corny it was but by how affective Ryan O'Neil and Ali MacGraw are despite the words they are required to say. Neither of them ever really attained similar success again but they are both still widely remembered today. Probably largely due to this film. The music and cinematography are superb and those people old enough to remember Andy Williams' haunting  recording of the main theme will most likely get a double jolt when they hear the instrumental version. But the screenplay is definitely the films greatest flaw. And how this movie got an Oscar nomination for Best Picture is anybody's guess although its box office certainly didn't hurt. Airport, another box office smash but modest artistic achievement, was nominated the same year. When the film reached the part where Jenny tells Oliver Love means never having to say you're sorry! I sort of responded with Oh yeah, I remember this part. But having matured quite a bit in 20 years, I can only shake my head at how wrong poor dear doomed Jenny is. It's saying your sorry and meaning it that's hard. And the real tear-jerker is how so many of us aren't able to do just that. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry for having to say I never loved this","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I somehow saw this in the theater during it's initial release as it must have been the allure of Ali McGraw and I've seen it probably three times since over the years to make sure I didn't miss something about this film but I don't think I did. How could this small film have been nominated for eight Academy Awards? It was nominated for most of the biggest awards in Best Picture, Best Director for Arthur Hiller, Best Actor in Ryan O'Neal, Best Actress for Ali McGraw, Best Supporting Actor for John Marley and Best Screenplay for author Eric Segal as well as Best Score and Best song for Francis Lai. Well, Lai was a deserved nomination and in fact won those two Oscars but the rest of the nominations were a cinematic joke. The novella story by Segal never had enough material to be a full length feature film. He could have at least added a mindless car chase or a flying saucer scene to the screenplay to give the film some depth. This was McGraw's only third film and her follow up role in The Getaway with husband Steve McQueen was a far better performance. After that her career stalled and she never made of film of note again. Ryan O'Neal had made a couple of minor films before and was most noted for his television roles and he like McGraw turned in a stiff, wooden performance here and there was no on screen chemistry between them. John Marley and Ray Milland were good in supporting roles. Director Arthur Hiller had made the leap from television to feature films with a string of mediocre movies until moderate success with the Out of Towners before Love Story and after would see more moderate success in comedies in The Hospital, The In-Laws and Silver Streak but any success he ever had were in comedies. This as a serious film tries to be so serious it goes overboard. I would give this a 6.0 for good music and set direction and for sentimental reasons for once having had a teen aged crush on Ali McGraw. "},{"Title":"A Love Story that could have been very good, but ultimate fails at the most critical moment","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **plot giveaway but the first spoken line in the movie will do it too**It's amazing considering all the hype that surrounded Love Story, first as a novel by Erich Segal, and then this film directed by Arthur Hiller, that thirty years later it is hardly thought of at all.  While  not the best romantic tear jerker to run through a projector, it is certainly not the worst either.  It does have it's strong points, and if someone had dared to break away from Erich Segal's novella, then perhaps it would have been a very good film.  Unfortunately, since Segal also wrote this screenplay, and he stayed faithful to his best selling book almost to the letter, it ends up with the same problems as his novella.  When the first line of your novel or screenplay, tells the audience that one of the main characters is going to die at the end, you had better put that death and what leads up to it on the screen in such a way that it will pull some kind of emotion out of those watching.  Though I'm sure many people weeped heavily into their handkerchiefs at the end of this film, I am more or less inclined to believe that many of them did so because it was either expected of them, or maybe it was like some sort of communicable disease.  I had read the book, enjoyed it, but the ending affected me little as did the ending of the film.  More about that later.Many reviewers have been extremely critical of both Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw in their criticism of Love Story.  Though neither is a particularly gifted actor, I found them quite pleasant as Oliver Barrett IV and Jennifer Cavilleri.  The role of the preppy son of a millionaire seems to have been made for O'Neal, and MacGraw's Jenny has just the right amount of brashness, that we actually like her spunk instead of being put off by it.  MacGraw makes us believe that a baker's daughter could harangue a rich millionaire into falling for her, and that she could love him back.  Most of Jenny's and Oliver's scenes together are of two people, who use their own brand of verbal sparring, to express how much they care for each other.  Some say that is not possible, but speaking from experience I know for a fact that it is.  And in this film, it's always fun to watch.Ray Milland plays Oliver Barrett III, and does it with a cold austere demeanor, but yet we can still sense his love for his son.  John Marley, as Jennifer's father, Phil, is delightful in his few scenes, and his relationship with Jenny draws a sharp contrast to that of Barrett III and Barret IV.  His scenes near the end of the film, are the best Love Story has to offer, and won him an Academy Award Nomination.So what went wrong?  Since we know from the very first line in the film, that Jennifer is going to die (so you know I'm not giving anything away here), you would think that when we reach that crucial point, her death would be gut wrenching.  Unfortunately, when Oliver learns of Jenny's impending doom, Segal in his novel and in this screenplay, rushes to the death scene so fast it's as if he had an airplane to catch when he was writing it.  After Oliver returns from the doctor's office with the bad news, we get three quick meaningless scenes between Oliver and Jenny, so poorly written and staged even worse, that it leaves us feeling quite empty during the most important part of the film.  Even at the end, when either director Hiller or writer Segal could have redeemed themselves in a scene between O'Neal and Milland, they totally blow it.   A first year film student could have done better.  So instead of being moved to tears, we are simply left high and dry.  It also doesn't help matters that when Jenny does become ill, she never really looks it, and even in her final scenes looks as if she could get up and go out for dinner and a movie.  It is frustrating that the way this ending was filmed, almost destroys the good will it had built up before getting to that point.So what do we end up with?  About two thirds of a good movie with good characterizations by the four main actors, and an involving story.  It's just too bad the ending goes as sour as a fresh lemon.                 "},{"Title":"Cliché bound melodrama that connected with it's-good-to-cry types","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two nice-but-dull students have a difficult romance, but eventually decide to get married.A real curiosity piece in that it involved a plot so thin that you struggle to get it cover a single sentence. The fact that it involves a twist that even the producers wanted to shout about from the rooftops, it is hard to know why anyone would actually want to pay to go and see it.While maybe the wrong sex and too knowledgeable about film to gain anything from it (it borrows the little it has from Camille), but surely the producers could have worked in a little more plot. The box office success showed that there was still a market for simple minded romance, but this must be the most empty movie ever to be a major success. Today we have TV movies that cover three times more ground. The only saving grace is that MacGraw and O'Neil are at least pleasant to look at and be with and I have a soft spot for scenes set in snow. "},{"Title":"Academy Award Nominations for this!?","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had never seen Love Story nor read the book.  However, I vividly remember its popularity when I was a child. Now that I'm all grown up I cannot believe that 1970 America got mesmerized by such schmaltz.For Love Story to garner a Best Picture nomination must mean that 1970 was a weak year for films.  Others have panned O'Neal and McGraw's acting.  I thought it was adequate... nothing to do backflips over, but adequate...certainly NOT Oscar winning.  I've always liked Ryan O'Neal's acting.  Someone else should have played JennyI can take the romance, the young love, grievous feelings.  I've been there but what's most irksome about this film are the gaps in the story line.  I had NO IDEA what the hell Jenny was dying from.  Out of nowhere Oliver graduates from law school... did we ever see him crack a book.  The screenplay is lacking in my opinion.  This is certainly not the greatest love story ever told... at least not on film anyway.  Still, it's enjoyable and worth seeing if nothing else than to see Tommy Lee Jones in an early role and also for the beautiful winter scenery.Rating 7/10 or **1/2   "},{"Title":"Why did Jenny have to die?","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some reviewers asked this question over and over. The answer is simple. Jenny had to die because in real life people do die, and this movie is based on a true story. Erich Segal wrote the novel this movie is based on after he found out that one of his students lost his young wife to cancer. Segal started from this simply tragic fact and crafted a romance out of it.Anyway, I saw this movie (and read the novel) over ten years ago and liked it. Then, I saw it last night with some friends of mine who had never seen it. I was a little disappointed. The story is simple and sad, and the final scene makes women cry; yet, as a conservative guy, I could not help noticing some scenes that put me off. The two main characters' approach to life was too modern, they took the name of the Lord in vain repeatedly, and the way Oliver treated his father was absolutely disrespectful.Without these elements, it would be a real good movie to shed some tears on. "},{"Title":"Could have been great","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Few people seem to remember how big this movie was when it came out 1970. It was HUGE--a true blockbuster. Lines formed around the block and people kept seeing it again and again and again. Yet today it's virtually forgotten. Seeing it now over 30 years later, it's easy to see why.The story is simple Boy (Ryan O'Neal) meets girl (Ali McGraw), boy gets girl, girl dies of an unnamed terminal disease--the end. The movie has a lot of good things about it the absolutely beautiful views of Harvard University and Harvard Square in the winter; O'Neal and McGraw are both gorgeous; the theme music (a deserved Oscar-winner) is haunting and truly beautiful; seeing Tommy Lee Jones in his first movie is fun; old pros Ray Milland and John Marley are having a great time (and give the only good performances) and seeing what Cambridge looked like in the early 70s (it was working class back then--it's now wall to wall condos). Unfortunately there are bad things which greatly outweigh the good. The bad O'Neal can't act and McGraw is truly abominable--her character is very foul-mouthed and her acting is wooden; the dialogue is on the level of an Archie comic book (with swearing); that line Love means never having to say you're sorry is the STUPIDEST line I've ever heard, and two characters you really could care less about. I'm a sucker for sappy movies like this, but I was dry-eyed when McGraw died at the end. All I could think was, Good! Maybe she'll stop swearing now! But what really bothered me is these two characters had no personality or attraction to each other. I spent the whole movie wondering why they were together. Also the dialogue is pretty horrendous.A better script and actors would have helped. I'm only giving it a 6 for the music and the scenery and one exchange--Oliver, you're driving like a maniac! It's Boston--I'm supposed to drive like a maniac! Too true! "}{"Title":"ICK ! ! !","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surely the worst film ever Oscar-nominated for Best Picture, and with serious claims to being one of the worst films ever put on celluloid. This treacly, contrived romance about a snobby rich boy who falls in love with a poor girl (two awful performances, by the way) jerks tears only from the softest, dullest moviegoers.  I'm not a disparager of romance flicks in general; but this is an all-around atrocious film. "},{"Title":"Decent Love Story with Flaws","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Story (1970) ** 1/2 (out of 4)Rich law student Oliver (Ryan O'Neil) falls in love with poor girl Jennifer (Ali MacGraw) and even though the two have nothing in common they end up in a wonderful love affair that leads to marriage and tragedy. LOVE STORY is a film that I just watched for the first time and it's one that I knew about the ending long before. I guess everyone who knows anything about movies knows about the ending here but I'll get to more on that in a bit. I really, really, really understand why so many people love this movie and I understand why it was such a huge hit back in the day. Sometimes I watch movies and don't see what others see in it but there's no doubt that I fully understand the love some have for this film. With that said, it didn't completely work for me. There's no question that it will keep you entertained from start to finish but there were still a few major flaws that kept me from falling for it more. The biggest issue I had with the picture is that the screenplay was way too simple and cute for my liking. Not for a single second did I ever really feel like I was watching a real relationship and a real couple. Even their meeting scene and the eventual falling in love just seemed way too cute for their own good. It really did seem at times like the screenplay was just overbearing in its attempt to show how much these two loved one another. The dialogue was really forced at times and I think less would have been so much more. I also didn't think O'Neal was the greatest actor here. He perfectly fit the role and it's not hard to watch him here but at the same time I don't think the performance is great. MacGraw was good in her part as she certainly made you believe she was this character. Ray Milland was also extremely good because he didn't have to go over-the-top to play the mean father. I also enjoyed John Marley in the role of the girl's father. The film does benefit from some nice cinematography as well as a good score that perfectly fits the film. As for the ending, even though you're told about it at the very start of the film, it still manages to be quite good and perfectly handled by the director. LOVE STORY is a decent little movie but I think it could have been much better with a few changes in its story. "},{"Title":"drawing of love","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" basic question  is it a film ? adaptation of few pages ? body for eternal feelings ? not ! it is slice of a time. reflection of an age. testimony about a state of soul. nothing more. and this fact makes strange every verdict. because it is fresh, again and again, against each opposition. because it remains a kind of poem about beauty, happiness, touches, looks, joy, fever of a period. it is a classic. and little more. a Rubick cube. and something else. a drawing. and a mirror for a form of freedom out of words. it may be version of Juliet and Romeo but at each new meeting, it discovers something different. like a spell. like a trip in middle of our shadow. is it a good film ? no way ! it is only invitation to live again in skin of an age far of time influence. "},{"Title":"Overwrought, but a real weepie at the end","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I will admit this is not a movie for everyone, but for me at face value I liked the movie. Yes, some of it is slow, some scenes are overwrought and some of the characters aren't as well developed as they could have been. That said, it is nicely filmed, with pleasant cinematography, and Francis Lai's score is memorable. The song may grate on people's nerves, but even to this day it is one of those songs that has stayed with me for like forever, due to its hypnotic and haunting melody. The story is a very heady and simple mixture of true love and life-threatening illness, and I think it is quite effective, and the dialogue is bittersweet and touching. The ending is a real weepie, and requires at least 5 tissues. The acting is good, with Ali McGraw tragic and hot as Jenny and Ryan O'Neil appealing and somewhat sexy as Oliver. As his father, Ray Milland does a good job, he has been better, but he was still good here. Overall, not for everyone, but for those who aren't so cynical, it won't grate like nails on a blackboard as you think. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A beautiful love story about a love story","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful film. It's really sad, at the end, but the film is so great that it doesn't matter. Like almost every movies the film has some flaws but that is overwhelmed by the story and the acting. Ryan O'Neal and Ali McGraw (I wonder what she did after this film) make a perfect pair as the young couple who falls in love, gets married and goes through something hard when the young girl dies at the age of 25 or 26 or something. That's the only really sad thing in this glorious film. I recommend it to everyone who loves a great love story but don't concentrate a lot about the flaws, because this is a really good movie, so it shouldn't be over looked because of the tiny flaws. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Touching, well assembled weepie","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A touching movie of aphoristic length, mirroring the nature of its purpose. Ryan O'Neal and Ali McGraw create two modern, intelligent youngsters falling in love. Alongside them is John Marley's blue collar dad to McGraw who is not only more accepting of their union but also a better actor than the starchy Ray Milland, father to Ryan O'Neal.It's a wonderful movie to watch. It's shot in a distinctly 1970s manner, wide angle urban vistas and considerable steadicam work. There's a lot of walk-n-talk which resurfaces in Richard Linklater's fine pair of romance movies (Before Sunrise/Sunset) and also daring (but never gratuitous) urban crane shots, giving the intimate script a grander, operatic dimension.Best of all the film moves at a great pace. Save a snowy montage sequence to consolidate the dawning of the couple's love, the film doesn't marinade itself in its own sentiment. Impressive film-making 7/10 "},{"Title":"A story all of us could learn from.","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After seeing this movie last night, I can't stop thinking about it. The way the two meet, the feelings they have for each other from the beginning, their courtship, the romance, the ending, all of it worked. Even though the dialogue can be a little choppy at times (like when Oliver confronts his unforgiving rich father), and the cliché tag line (Love means never having to say you're sorry) was somewhat overdone, the movie is by far one of the best classic love stories ever made. The characters were genuine, and it's a really simple and heartbreaking story, along the lines of The Notebook and Moulin Rouge. You will never forget the ending (which is also the beginning). Guys, watch this with your girlfriend and you're guaranteed a quick lay. Trust me.... "},{"Title":"Timeless Classic. Romantic, Breathtaking, Tragic","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie once during a Valentine's Day movie marathon and it turned out to be one of the most tender and romantic love stories I had ever seen in my life.Ryan O'Neal & Ali MacGraw should have won Oscars for their portrayal of a young couple whose love was about the face the biggest crisis of all, despite the passage of 40 years this movie has remained very popular and still a timeless gem.Oliver Barrett( O'Neal) is a rich college student who loves playing hockey & Jennifer Cavilleri (MacGraw) is a music major at Radcliffe when the two meet sparks begin to fly. What started out as friendship soon blossoms into intimacy as they fall in love, when Oliver asks Jenny to marry him his father (Milland) threatens to cut him off should the marriage go forward. An argument between the two follows and they never speak again. Soon the couple marries with the blessing of Jenny's father (Marley), a few years pass and Oliver graduates from Harvard Law School now him and his wife are tying to have a baby, but when it's discovered that Jenny has cancer Oliver begins to think about what life will be like without the woman he loves.One of the scenes that made me cry the most is when his father comes to the hospital and Jenny has just died he apologizes to his son, Oliver responds with the words Love means never having to say you're sorry.To this day Love Story still remains the most romantic film in history and will probably always be a favourite for those who enjoy a romantic tearjerker. "},{"Title":"Insanely Amazing Film","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the greatest romantic film of all time, by a wide margin. This movie hits the heart like a cupid's arrow. Somehow, this movie makes you feel like YOU are living through the love of your life, and it will last only an hour and a half. You sense this from the very beginning and you begin to relish every second of its undeniable charm and power as like you would enjoy a virtuoso concert. This movie was released around the time I was born and I regret every year which I didn't see it. Never have I been more captivated by the characters and their chemistry. Their dialogues are both authentic and hilarious. There is not a single misplaced sentence which suffocates the flow of the film. Instead, the witty charms of the characters makes them irresistible. In effect, the audience falls in love with the characters, and wishes the story will never end, despite its obvious ending. Put this together with outstanding acting and unforgettable music, and you have a film that hits the heart like no other. The film feels like a passionate love relationship which you know will not last. "},{"Title":"the greatest romance film I've ever seen","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nearly twenty-five years after it was released in theaters, Love Story remains one of the finest romances ever brought to the silver screen. Erich Segal has harnessed his immense talent and dispatched it toward his pen to deliver one of the finest romance novels.With powerful performances and a story that brings emotions to the forefront, Love Story has risen to the highest plateau in Hollywood. The cast led by Ryan O'Neal, the stunningly beautiful Ali MacGraw, Ray Milland and John Marley, Love Story is truly unique as it is among the very best films.MacGraw and O'Neal turned in their BEST performances of their careers with Love Story, and will always be remembered as the most romantic couple on the big screen.Segal's plot surrounds the type of story, which makes me want to live within that world and never leave. Love Story is the type of movie one says to themselves that this is a place I never want to leave and a movie I want to watch over and over.True love and chemistry has not radiated from two characters on screen as Love Story did with Oliver and Jenny.This film covers the good times, bad times, sad times and everything in between. It is true testament to the talent of O'Neal and McGraw, the writer who penned the novel and the director who turned the novel into a movie.Love Story set the standard for which other romance dramas should strive to become. EVERYONE SHOULD WATCH THIS FILM.  "}{"Title":"Overrated, but maybe not in 1970","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally saw the legendary Love Story and was pretty let down, although I enjoyed the film here and there when I wasn't expecting too much.The director's commentary is somewhat dull (he even advises to turn it off if you don't like it, which I did halfway through) but he does state a few interesting things. Like how the film was needed at the time it came out because the 60's ended being the me me me decade, where if someone didn't agree they'd be the enemy. (I always thought the 60's sucked anyway) so Love Story showed people how love was done again, especially when love stories were out in Hollywood at the time. So while that may true, it stands to see how the film was huge in 1970, coming at the right time, but evidently as time went on the film because less important and its impact lessened. But in 1970 I'm sure this was major stuff.The director also states how the original beginning had Ryan O'Neil being told the girl was dying, and how that was changed because the audience didn't know the girl well enough to feel for her, with that news coming so early. So it was placed later in the picture. Thing is, who cares, when the audience gets to know Ali McGraw's character we see she is a wise-cracking unappealing wiseass, almost completely unlikable. Ali does a fine enough job, but the character is just someone you would avoid if you were a guy.Ryan does a fair job, nothing too special, he's ok, but just ok. He probably got the part more on his looks than his talent. He looks good in the role. Ray Milland is pretty cool as his dad too, but underused. The mom is there for a minute than disappears. No one cares anyway.One thing you can't say about this film is that it wastes time kicking off. They meet in the film's first scene and are in love just mere minutes later (screentime minutes). The verbal jousting becomes kind of tiresome really fast, and Ryan's character even says that to some extent in one scene, but it doesn't change anything. She is still a wiseass, for the entire film.And that damn music theme - it's all over the place. The only saving grace with it is that the vocal version is not to be heard here. At least I don't think so. Sometimes my attention was fading a bit. Did I mention Ali is almost the only girl in the whole picture? And she did overstep her bounds on the telephone with Ryan's pop.Being a hockey fan, I liked seeing the 1970 hockey scenes, and also all the cool old cars driving around. Love Story wasn't great but it was good. It was certainly better than The Way We Were but not as interesting because Streisand is fun to laugh at. I admit I was sad at the end, but I couldn't decide if it was because the girl died or I was disappointed about another legendary film not living up to the hype I've heard. Maybe a bit of both. Still, good to get yet another film  off the must see list.  "},{"Title":"Good, but disappointing","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember back when I was about 16 years old (I'm 28 as of this writing), and seeing a book on my parents bookshelf called Love Story by Erich Segal.  That book, along with many others that I never had any interst in, had been collecting dust on that bookshelf for as long as I could remember. That day, I was bored and felt like reading something, so I picked it up and thought I'd read it real quick (it's very short).  I knew nothing about the book, the author, or the movie at the time.  I ended up being quickly drawn into it and had it finished very quickly.  I loved the book, and naively thought What a great movie that would make.  Even though I knew nothing about film and had relatively little interest in it, I thought the book would be very easy to adapt to a movie and I had a lot of great ideas about who would play the roles, how I would alter the dialogue, etc, etc. However, I was only 16 and lost interest fairly quickly.  But I did love the book and would think to myself (and only myself) Someday...someday...About four or five years later, when I was in college, I saw something shocking on the shelves of a local video store and I was crushed.  You see, I still hadn't given up on my dream of writing Love Story for the screen, but there it was.  And it had been done nearly 30 years earlier.  I immediately abandonned plans to rent Mallrats and rushed home to see how my vision had ultimately played out.I enjoyed the Arthur Miller/Segal adaptation, but was disappointed for a number of reasons.  Over the years, as my knowledge of film has dramatically increased, I still find myself with the same complaints about Love Story that I had many years ago.  The biggest problem I have with it is the haphazard way it plows through the first part of the book, basically Oliver and Jenny's meeting, courtship and engagement.  That early part of the book is so critical because it's there that we meet Oliver and Jenny and see (read) their banter and bickering quickly evolve into love and infatuation. Emotionally, I was hooked by the book at that point.  I cared about the characters enough to be seriously moved by later events.  The film, in skipping so much early dialogue and interaction, doesn't give us the chance to make the same investment in the characters and it's hard to be moved as a result.  This is through no fault of the two leads, Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw, as the script doesn't give them a chance early on.After Oliver and Jenny are married, the screenplay actually follows the me at of the books story almost to a tee, which is frustrating because I felt it was more important that it followed it to a tee early rather than later. It's not as though Love Story is a long film (barely 100 minutes) and needed to be pared down for time.  Perhaps if I hadn't read the book and had simply seen the film, I wouldn't have these complaints and would have thought it as great as so many people did in 1970.O'Neal and MacGraw as the leads have actually grown on me over the years. I knew of O'Neal when I first saw the film (from Irreconcileable Differences!), but had no idea who MacGraw was.  Of course, neither would have been my choice at 16 to play the roles, but they do an admirable job with one serious exception  Almost without question, the most important line in the film is Love means never having to say you're sorry, and it is spoken twice.  Once by Jenny to Oliver and the other by Oliver to his father.  Both O'Neal and MacGraw's deliveries of this line made me cringe before and still do.  MacGraw's crying fit while she speaks the line is so nauseating that it makes the line almost comical.  O'Neal speaks the line so matter-of-factly that it conveys no emotion or comprehension of what it means.  The film definitely takes a serious hit because of it.  The emotional punch that that line delivered in the book was lacking in the film first because of what I stated earlier, and second because of these terrible deliveries.John Marley as Phil is a solid casting and his role in the film was one of the few things about it that didn't disappoint me, even when I didn't know who he was.  Fortunately, I hadn't yet seen the Godfather either, so his more memorable scene from that film hadn't been permanently planted in my mind.  Ray Milland tried to play Oliver III admirably, but was just too stiff.  Unfortunately, that's probably what he was told to do, so I can't blame him.  What seems to have been lost in the film version about this character was that he probably wasn't totally the old sonofabtch that Oliver IV thought he was in reality.  That's how IV saw him, and that's how he ended up on screen.  The emotion that III did exhibit in the book is lost onscreen.This film is not bad by any means.  Again, I actually enjoyed it, even the first time I saw it.  It captures the spirit, the time and the location of the book very well.  The leads play the characters very well.  And the second half of the film is superbly adapted.  But it was just utterly disappointing for me to see then, and now, the emotional wallup that the book contained almost entirely lost onscreen.  Maybe a remake will be in order someday. "},{"Title":"not as bad as people think","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised just how much some people hated this film.  I really didn't think it was all that bad.  Yes, the ending is given away in the first line of the movie.  In addition, the Love Story Ending has become a cinema cliche in the last 33 years...though this film created that particular cliche.  But I thought the chemistry between Jenny and Oliver was great, and it was nice to see a female romantic lead willing to put the male in his place to some degree (quite a feat when you consider the film was made in 1970).  In addition, some of the attitudes about males and females are dated, but once again the movie was made 33 years ago and when I took that into account, it didn't really bother me.  I've definitely seen worse in more recent films.Overall, it's a cute movie, a chick flick with a not-so-unexpected ending. To the reviewers who mentioned Jenny's swearing...in my mind, it was PG-style swearing and anyone over the age of seven has heard far worse. If you like this kind of movie, rent it and you'll enjoy it.  If you don't...you'll probably end up writing nasty reviews about it like some of the ones that appear here. "},{"Title":"An Opera of Laughs, Winks and Tears.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heartfelt and highly emotional production that is really more of a melodrama, a big-screen opera that tells its tale with an almost unending soundtrack and with actually very little dialog from its key characters. Harvard Law student Ryan O'Neal (Oscar-nominated) falls immediately for Radcliffe music student Ali McGraw (also an Oscar-nominee). There is friction at first, but we all know that an unbreakable bond of love and admiration is going to take place. Naturally O'Neal's wealthy father (a cold and chilling performance from the excellent Ray Milland) decides to dismiss his son all together when he realizes that he is indeed going to marry the much poorer McGraw. McGraw's father (priceless Oscar-nominee John Marley) loves the idea of having O'Neal for a son-in-law, but does question the couple's views on family and even more importantly religion. Throughout it appears that the main focus is for O'Neal and Milland to put their differences aside and come back together as father and son, but the film takes a much different turn in its final act and it is blatantly apparent that disease will break the earthly union that O'Neal and McGraw share. Love Story is another one of those films that acts strictly with emotion and not necessarily intelligence. Oscar-nominated director Arthur Hiller (easily doing the best work of his career) would rather speak volumes with silence than with loud verbal outbursts. The somber tone of the movie and its Oscar-winning score dominate the production and end up being the film's strengths and weaknesses simultaneously. Overall Love Story is a movie that will stick with you like glue. There are just some human emotions shown here that cannot be denied to movie-goers, but really sometimes raw emotion cannot overcome the lack of a possibly more intelligent approach. Watch for then-unknown Tommy Lee Jones as one of O'Neal's Harvard friends. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"One positive thought...","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree with most of the negative comments already posted about LOVE STORY.  The acting by the two leads is dreadful (McGraw got better; O'Neal never could act).  The storyline is trite and predictable, to say the least.  Above all, the two leads are so totally unlikeable and unsympathetic.  We're supposed to feel sorry for Oliver while he's crusing around Boston in an expensive European hot rod?  (here's a clue  sell the damn car and you won't need a scholarship to law school!)  Jenny isn't any better, but her excessive and gratuitious profanity makes her totally repulsive on top of her arrogance, nastiness and self-absorption.  Sorry -- it's just hard to get into a romance when you absolutely despise the couple.I will say, however, that I thought the cinematography was pretty good.  The hockey scenes at the beginning are very well done in particular, and the scene at the end where Oliver III and Oliver IV face each other through a revolving door (as one leaves and the other enters) is a very powerful shot.  Indeed, it's the cinematography that makes Oliver and Jenny seem even remotely human and likable.I found this to be an interesting contrast to a film from the same era -- Bang the Drum Slowly (1973), which has a large number of similarities (relationships; illness; success / failure; death; parents).  The contrast is that the story in Drum is outstanding, while the cinematography is absolutely dreadful.  LOVE STORY is the direct opposite.  I found this to be an interesting comparison, at least. "},{"Title":"Two love stories","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time last night, mainly because the TV guide described it as 'also starring Ray Milland'. Having only seen his performances in 'The Lost Weekend' and 'Dial M for Murder', I was pleased to see that he adapted well to the role of Oliver's conservative and rather domineering father. In fact Milland's character is pivotal to the whole film, though he appears in only three or four scenes and has relatively few lines of dialogue. For me the real love story of the title was that between Oliver and his father; it's clear that Oliver's father never stops loving his son, even though Oliver junior can't bring himself (because of his pride) to apologise for rejecting his father's love. Oliver quotes 'love means never having to say you're sorry' at his father towards the end of the film as if to forestall his father's apologies, when really he knows that it is he who should apologise for not reciprocating his father's affections. So a son's desire for the unconditional love of a parent is I think what is really described by the tagline.The eventual separation of Jenny and Oliver by Jenny's fatal disease is paralleled by Oliver's estrangement from his father, but I think the latter is in a way more tragic because it is caused by Oliver's pride and the two men's stubbornness and is ultimately avoidable. The father's pain at his son's behaviour is no less poignant than Oliver's grief at his wife's fate. One answer to the question 'why does Jenny have to die?' is that her death removes the bone of contention between father and son; in the best tradition of Shakespearian tragedy, the characters have gone through hell, but in the end order is restored. Though we see the death of one character and the end of one relationship, paradoxically this results in the longed-for reconciliation of Oliver and his father. The situation at the end of the film is essentially the same as it was just before Jenny met Oliver, except that both Oliver and his father are now sadder and wiser men. "},{"Title":"Cheesy love satire...GRADE C","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For my money, Hollywood's greatest love story is CASABLANCA (1942). Erich Segal's LOVE STORY (1970) drew tons of people, who were mainly flower children at the time, but failed to deliver with many people later in years. Many have called it cheesy and I would have to agree. It is plagued by poor acting and a soap opera-style screenplay. However, the film's catch line phrase love means never having to say your sorry can mean different things to different people. If you've seen CASABLANCA (1942), you should notice that neither Rick nor Ilsa say, I'm sorry for screwing up our love affair. Instead, we get here's looking at you, kid.OVERALL GRADE C "},{"Title":"Love means a lot more than this film's silly catchphrase.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Story came out at the right time, the end of the liberating 60s, the beginning of the 70s, the idea of a college student falling for a pretty girl and getting married against wealthy dad's wishes, then making it just fine on his own was the kind of thing we all could cheer for. Many of us probably secretly wished we could have been in his shoes.  Looking at the film today, there isn't too much to get excited about. The best part of the film happens between the wedding and his finding out that she had terminal lukemia. The last half hour drags, and the final scene where he ponders what has happened, and what his future holds isn't particularly strong. Has knowing her changed him, or his dad?  Not really, they were fine before and now they are fine after. It's just a sad chapter in life, with great memories, and if we live long enough we all have those.While Love Story is a pleasant movie, and one that I enjoy watching, especially for Ali MacGraw's beautiful smile, it is only slightly above average. It of course coined the phrase love means never having to say you're sorry, which sounds good but in fact is worthless tripe.  Anyone who knows what love really is also knows the value, the importance of saying I'm sorry when it is warranted. However it is amazing how many people latched on to this phrase, just because it was in a movie.  "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I watched this film was because of all the rave reviews it's received. After watching.. I don't know I guess I'm the ice queen but it didn't move me at all and I did not cry. I don't understand how it got all those oscar nominations. Yeah, yeah the song was nice but not all that great if you think about it. Overall, I thought this film was a snore and I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Great, but great what?","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My diary records my changing feelings about this film1979It wasn't a bad movie, but not a very good one either. It is better than most movies because it portrays above average, intelligent sensitive people, capable of love and fun. O'Neill may be likable, but he is horribly miscast as an intellectual.   The film's major flaw is the death of the girl. Pointless and irrelevant. It didn't move me at all. With a happy ending, as well as a better script, it could have been great. A great movie about true love would certainly not deal with squabbles and pettiness.   Love means never having to say you're sorry' - What on earth does it mean? 1990I like it even more now. This is one of the most beautiful movies ever made, a true gem. It captures romance, it has an incredible stylistic maturity. Granted, the golden tune is half the movie, but there is much more to it. From the very beginning you know, that this film is inspired. This is not at all a tear-jerker. The girl's death is handled with breath-taking good taste. The pacing is admirable, classic. There are no long, boring scenes. There is a fleeting quality that gives the impression, that the director realizes that a movie has to be organically whole, not a patchwork. By God, even the credits are presented in a breath-taking manner, and the title itself is lapidary in its stark simplicity. No doubt, this is one of the ten greatest American movies. A movie is more than its plot.  Am I a hopelessly silly romantic, or have I struck gold?  I never change my mind about things. Even at ninety I would love this movie. Love means never having to say you're sorry, is in itself not very meaningful, but the way it was presented, made it seem like some magical oracle. The actors were totally mismatched. O'Neal is not at all believable as a romantic guy.  1997The effect has worn off slightly. I begin to find fault with the many facial close-ups, but it is still a fine movie. I love many of its details. There is no doubt I will be seeing this movie again and again, although it is inferior to The Strawberry Statement.2000I haven't seen it recently, but my increasing cynicism prevails Why must the poor girl die? Could it be, because she dared to break the social taboo? Do the actors themselves like this movie, or did Ryan and Ali erupt in hysterical laughter about their silly roles? And the famous phrase could be paraphrased `Love means never having to say I hate you'. "}{"Title":"shame on them","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can't fault this film for being dated--- like all blockbuster hits, it's a product of it's time. Neither of the leads can act well, but for a brainless romantic tearjerker, they're certainly attractive enough. And the score is indeed beautiful.But this film's assertion that dying of cancer at a young age is romantic has got to be one of the most offensive, disgusting stunts ever pulled in a major Hollywood movie. Anyone who has survived cancer or lost a loved one to cancer knows how ugly and painful this horrible disease is. There is nothing romantic about it.The filmakers should be ashamed of themselves, and DVDs of this trash should be boycotted.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Both the movie and novel of the same name are absolutely insipid. One, people who die of cancer generally die slow and complicated deaths, not-boom! one minute alive and pink and the next six feet under; two, you don't look like a beauty queen when you're in the death throes (something the writers of Steel Magnolias didn't quite get, either); three, Ryan O'Neal is absolutely one of the worst actors of his generation, and Ali McGraw is wooden and utterly unsympathetic here. If you want a real story about sadness and lost love, go see Wuthering Heights. This is just mawkish. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, the good points  Ali McGraw is smart and sexy, even fully clothed with a scarf around her neck.  She and the college setting make college a lot more attractive than it really is. Piano playin'Jenifer (McGraw) also plays Mozart throughout. The theme, Where Do I Begin? has a touching piano beginning. Until the orchestra makes it's muzak. Mozart and Montevanni wanna-bes in the same film? That sums up the way I feel about this manipulative tear- jerker.  It starts looking really promising (with Tommy Lee Jones to boot!) but then once they graduate, Preppy (Ryan O'Neal) doesn't mature at all.  He hates on his father who tries to make amends.  Not even his wife's illness can change him.  What a jerk! Love means never having to say you're sorry.?  Bullcrap! And what was her disease anyway? This movie was frustratingly disappointing.   "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved the scenery (wintry New England in a college setting), the great chemistry and acting of Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal, and the gorgeous music! Good to watch on a cold gray day with a cup of hot chocolate, a blanket, and maybe even your special someone. "},{"Title":"I can't believe that this was a big hit","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very average story about two people in love is what sums up this movie.When I look at this movie now, I don't understand what's so spectacular love story is in this movie. These are two young (and dumb) students thinking they're in love. You see this even in our daily lives, so why did people identify with this movie so much back in the '70s is a mystery.The movie is not even romantic, and Ali Macgraw was such a horrible actor. It's an amazingly bad movie, and equally amazing that it was a box office hit. "},{"Title":"What does constitute an apology?","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two Ivy-leaguers meet, they argue with their parents, they marry, and suddenly tragedy strikes. It is simple, like love &#150; and it does translate well onto the screen with our two leads being Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw. Together their chemistry is shattering, bring to life a small piece of Americana, and the depth of life. As Jennifer and Oliver pour their literal hearts out on screen, the issues of Love Story, while not many, do break free and run rampant throughout. The lacking development, the clutter of language, the electric music, and the cheapened edits all culminate as utter distracts to this film. These errors pull from the story, creating a mediocre tale that could have been the greatest love story ever sold.Let me begin by saying that as much criticism as I give Love Story, it still (and probably will with another viewing) brought a tear to my eye. It is ultimately a story about the power of love, and even if you can see through the cliché language, parts of this film will remind you of a love you have or once had. It has sentimental value that presses on the right heartstrings at the right time. We can thank, and denounce at the same time, writer Erich Segal for this. His story takes us to love, but his words violently pull us away. Throughout this film, one cannot help but wonder if O'Neal and MacGraw read their lines off cue-cards behind them, or if the words coming from their mouths were to be staples of cliché for decades of romantic films to follow. In one corner we have a witty, independent woman who is not afraid to speak her mind, in the other corner, we have a guy who takes direction well &#150; OK &#150; I get that, but what else is there about these characters that we could learn about. If this is to be a talking film, let the words they speak to each other express their emotion stronger &#150; or at least develop a subplot around them that allows the viewer to see all the dimensions of both Oliver and Jennifer. I knew their connections, but I finished this film without really knowing them. From the book, one could hear their inner-voice, without that in the film, we were lead on a one-sided voyage through love without any potholes or pitfalls. Each and every time a conflict occurred, simple words were spoken, we were taken to a new city, and we began our story all over again. With conflict comes resolution, and one cannot resolve with just one phrase &#150; Love means not having to say your sorry.Clarification. The simplicity of this story is what kept me glued to the screen the entire hour and a half. The acting force behind O'Neal and MacGraw was consistent throughout, providing me with excited moments, emotional moments, and a heavy cardboard aftertaste. While their characters were enjoyable to watch, they lacked the depth needed to really pull further at my heartstrings. I knew what sort of characters they were, but they needed to take one more step to fully make me believe they were who they were pretending to be. Arrogance comes to mind because I believe writer Segal and director Hiller knew what they had for audiences by the end of their film, they knew that if they kept these two one-dimensional characters together long enough; they would have the audiences coming back by the third act. To me, this ploy seemed arrogant of them. Give us more, give us characters, give us at least impressive scenery &#150; but instead we were handed one phrase and tears. Not enough. The music could have benefited from either a dedicated theme song or a better composer, the strum of the piano chords never quite hit that level of emotion I needed to bawl my eyes out. The music was potent at first, but by the second act, it felt stale of overplayed. It wasn't the theme music of Oliver and Jennifer's love that could have further strengthened their relationship. Coupled with elaborately bad edits, our film stands solely on the doorstep of the actors. They are good, not quite great, but worth viewing merely for those small moments of joy where you feel like you are watching a film, not being a sinister voyeur on their lives. Love Story is a sad love story, alas, it needed something more &#150; a stronger element that would have shown Oliver's hatred for his father, his dedication to his life, and his ability to discover love anywhere in life. One needed a few more chapters of the book translated to the screen to make these characters full bodied enough to bring that climactic ending to a stand still. Instead, Hiller's direction just made it feel like an opus of clichés.Overall, Love Story was worth the singular view, but repeat viewings will not be needed. The choice of casting Ryan O'Neal and Ali MacGraw was superb, these were two people that could carry the weight of this world on their shoulders, but Hiller never gave it to them. There was never that oh yea moment in the film, where we suddenly realized who these two were, and why they were together &#133; mind, body, and spirit. Not thinking about the dreadful A Walk to Remember, this film could benefit from a facelift. Build the two characters stronger together, introduce more problems for the two to solve, really illustrate the confusion between Oliver and his father, and I think you would have yet another blockbuster on your hands. This is a rich film, executed poorly, but the groundlings are there. Love Story felt like a cold flat soda &#150; it still quenches your thirst on a hot day, but it just misses that punch. Grade *** ½ out of ***** "},{"Title":"LOVE STORY (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Story, the name says it all and it is the sort of platform for what once would be known as the Hugh Grantlike-movies as it's indeed for the weakhearted.  Base upon the famous novel by Erich Segal (later he should write the inferior sequel Oliver's story) tells the story about some rich millionaire's son who happen to fall in love with some poor girl. As you can guess the girl isn't accepted till the day the doctors are diagnosing her to have cancer. Have you heard it all before? Perhaps but even if I don't know how to react to this movie if I was 15 or 20 years younger (as after all it can be melancholy) I am quite charmed by the movie and it's one of the rare loviemovies I can see over and over again. The film itself is standard but due to charming performances from both Ryan O'Neal and Ali McGraw and an overwhelming soundtrack makes it perhaps the godfather of all based on true events-movies. Watch it if you never did before or else, well you know the trick as you first can order your packages of Kleenex. "},{"Title":"Lovely maturing film but its dialogues and attitudes date badly.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has now become something of a museum piece being today over thirty years old. My feelings on it are quite mixed. On one hand you have the everlastingly beautiful music, excellent picture quality and a lovely setting either in brilliant white snow or a deep blue sky which gives that crispy wintry look to everything. The story itself is objectively moving and the tragic end without doubt brings tears to one's eyes. The closing shot of Oliver alone with himself in the snow is approaching the limit of the emotionally bearable so to speak. Because the film has matured with time, like a good wine, it now seems dated, just as the films of the 1940's appeared dated in the seventies. But whilst the films of the forties have kept their charm sixty years one, certain aspects of Love Story lead one not to have nostalgia for the seventies !My main bone of contention is with the level of language and some of the ideas developed, the dialogues are often crude and lack elegance. Presumably the script writer of the time wanted to be hip and with it, but love is universally and eternally a magic thing alas not within everyone's grasp and my idea of being in love is certainly not via the sort of language and aggressive overtones used in the film. This way of speaking may have some historical interest as a souvenir on what it was like in the seventies, but is not suited to a romantic film where the subject is the development of an amorous relationship. One almost gets the feeling that the writer of the dialogues is seeking to deliberately use crude and unromantic dialogues either for the purpose of provocation or quite simple to be with it at the time. It's less a question of how many dirty words in the film than that of the general tone of the dialogues used. In 2001, a film about a similar subject ( now who mentioned Autumn in New York &#133;&#133;&#133;! ) would not contain these unpleasent dialogues. One also feels that the fad at the time was if you are rich it is bad and that one should stand up to one's parents and send them to hell, so to speak. In fact, its Olivier who is violent and disrespectful, not Jenny who in fact is much more level-headed and wishes Oliver to be less unkind to his parents. The other thing I could not bear was the fact that they didn't want to get married in the Church. I mean, if you don't want to get married at all just live together, but if you are deciding to opt for marriage then it should be done properly in a church (given that the film is taking place in a Christian Country ). This sort of rebellious-against-authority-for-the-sake-of-it-attitude  was unfortunately typical of the seventies and is far overplayed in this film. Though it can be argued on the other had that it remains for years to come a depiction of the prevailing rebellious attitude at the time. Anyway I feel this kind of attitude is off-putting and spoils the romantic side and charm of the film to which I am very attached ! Don't forget that the film is not supposed to be a realistic documentary of cruel life but something that makes you dream. The aforementioned negative observations put a damper on that side of the film but I reserve my definitive judgement for after a few more viewings of the work !!  "},{"Title":"What can you say about a 25 year old girl who dies?","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a heck of a lot.  Way too corny, much too sappy. Thinking back on this film after all these years, it amazes me that in 1970 we thought that love meant asking a woman to give up the dream she has studied for alll her life and do something completely different so that a man can attain his dream. "},{"Title":"Very average movie, with some poor acting","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is supposed to be one of the classics in Hollywood cinema. Unfortunately, the first watch itself is jarring.I do like love stories done well, or love stories which might even have tragic endings. The story fitted in well there. With that came excellent acting from Ryan O'Neal. What doesn't settle in is the EXTREMELY poor, wooden and unconvincing acting from Ali McGraw. Agreed, the script demands the quips and the 'smart alec' behaviour, but the acting is still very poor.Further to that, there are a lot of other great, tragic love stories out there, including City of Angels. "}{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure But Still Enjoyable!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie certainly shouldn't have been nominated for Best Picture, Actor, OR Actress, but I still enjoy it and even own it.  Ali MacGraw was just so attractive back then and Ryan O'Neal is believable as the college rich jock, so it's hard to despise this one.A 6 out of 10 and Arthur Hiller would make a much better film the following year - The Hospital.  The success of this at the time is understandable, but the Oscar nominations was a bit much (1970 was a very good year for films; Five Easy Pieces, Joe, Husbands, The Landlord, M.A.S.H., and Catch-22 to name a few.  Best performance = John Marley.  It still has it's appeal, though. "},{"Title":"Makes you lose your faith in humanity.","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It really is horribly depressing that millions of people fell for this trashy, nauseating movie. It seems you can't go wrong turning out shameless tearjerkers that play the audience for suckers. (Other examples--TITANIC, FORREST GUMP, GHOST, THE SOUND OF MUSIC, I WANT TO LIVE.) The setup is out of the 1940s--privileged, sheltered Wasp boy meets honest Italian Catholic working-class girl, and after some cute profanity-laced early friction, they fall in love. Trouble is, Ali MacGraw never gets past the friction part. She lacks the oddity and eccentricity Liza Minnelli brought to a similar role in THE STERILE CUCKOO, and she lacks most other things too--even ordinary beauty (she looks hard and cold and angular in front of the camera.) It is the most generic, boring star performance I've ever seen--she's Stepford Actress. (As Pauline Kael put it, As an actress, her only flare is in her nostrils.) Ryan O'Neal works hard to compensate, earning our sympathy, but I felt sorriest for poor Ray Milland as O'Neal's father (what did that character do that was so awful?) When O'Neal tells Milland at the end, Jenny's dead, I was dying for Milland to ask, How can you tell? "},{"Title":"Overrated.","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film called Love Story.Unfortunately, you have to trust the title, because the main relationship doesn't really exhibit anything remotely like a love story.The characters are cardboard stereotypes. You only know that they are in love because they say they are. But we never really see the relationship develop or evolve. It's just suddenly there.When one character dies at the end, perhaps the audience is supposed to have some significant emotional experience, but that would only be possible if the story worked as a love story, or if the character was actually remotely likable. But neither is the case.Given the couple's rejection of organized religion, the film plays more as a made-up story about how a jealous god takes his revenge on a pair of unbelievers, so as to keep the rest of the flock from following their example.Whatever the case, it was a tedious hour and a half or so, and I'm glad it's over. If I never hear that song again, it will be too soon. "},{"Title":"this movie sucks,my husband thinks so too!  this movie is trash!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh my word! its awful! I hated that jenny cussed so much and yes i detest cussing! another reviewer said something along the lines of everybody cusses anyways...well I don't & i don't like hearing it either! a pretty girl like her should not be cussing it makes her look like a pig and who treats their boyfriend or husband that way? how do you get love out of this, i don't see it transform into love anyways one day they just decide to get married which is okay thats its so fast but c'mon! the guy did an okay job of acting but blah I found the soundtrack quite boring, the movie was choppy, I don't like the fact they had to diss God in this movie God is love and love is God, He made love, me and my husband that I met at my church both of us waited on sex till marriage we both are each others only real love aside from crushes we had that never went any where my favorite part was the snow scene......I think the ending wasn't all that sad or anything but I think it is hurtful to people who's loved ones passed away,its like a slap in the face at one point and usually I love chick flicks and I love romantic sappy movies but this one is too cold hearted in my opinion, and it downright bothered my husband cinetamatically and spiritally enough to throw away the movie, I mean he really hates it! and yeah Oliver's car is really stupid he needed a mustang and a roof over it they looked like they would have been freezing in that scene! and the worst part of it is that they did not believe in God.... I really don't care if you are atheist or not! not believing in God thats just plain dumb like that girl says don't bull you know what me! how can you not believe in God?! and I don't care what decade it was this movie is dumb! it just makes you feel bad watching it! "},{"Title":"The Novel is much better.","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't say the movie was awesome, but I also can't say that it was crap. If any one would have read the novel by Erich Segal, he would realize the characters were depicted in the movie the way they were in the novel. So I can't blame Ali for looking wooden, or Ryan for that matter. Overall the movie is good if you are not expecting an intense drama. The tag line of the movie is absurd, and does not actually go with the theme of the movie. Nice movie to watch in your free time, specially if you like romantic movies. But if you really want to grasp the essence of the story, I'd recommend you to read the novel instead. I only watched the movie because I had read the novel and wanted to see it on screen, not because it had rave reviews or anything, or because it was recommended by someone. I think it is one of the stories which is better read and not watched. On an interesting note, although I can't say if it's actually true, the story is said to be based on American politician who studied with Erich Segal in college Al Gore. "},{"Title":"Very accurate for early 1970s! But now?","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERSHundreds of people flocked to cinemas to see this movie. It can be said that Love Story was a cult movie for the 1970s in most parts of the world. Young girls cried at the tragedy of Jenny, for most of them it was a good date when they were invited to cinemas by their boyfriends and went to see the film together. I heard about its popularity from my parents who were teenagers at that time and also liked it. However, while watching the movie now, I wonder what was really so great, so wonderful and unforgettable.SPOILERS HEREIN! First of all, the movie is VERY, VERY slow. Some scenes last forever, especially the one when Jenny walks to hospital with her husband. In fact, there is not much action in the film whatsoever. Perhaps because it is a love story and nothing more.The music? It's not bad as for the drama but too melancholic. I know that a lot of people may criticize me for my skepticism when applied to the beautiful song that was written later and the whole story. Yes, if you are deadly sentimental, you may say that my opinion is cruel. But, what I notice in the film is sadness and forcing you to be touched and cry. The terribly sad music combined with a very sad story is too much! It makes people grief just for the sake of it. It is something entirely different than being touched by a single scene in a movie or feeling a right empathy with the characters retaining awareness that it is ONLY a movie! Like with blood or sex, films may also exaggerate with sorrow. Then, it all becomes unnatural!I would, however, not do justice to the movie failing to notice the good sides of it. Of course, there are a lot of moments that move me in the right way (not melancholy but something that leads me to reflect and teaches me empathy). There must be a mention about the last scene and the profound words Loving means never having to say I am sorry. Yes, I admit there are moments for which the movie is worth seeing. It gives some kind of lesson of life. Moreover, love is showed gently. That is true. It means not only sex, as it is in many films concerning this topic, but it is understanding, unity, and faithfulness.All in all, the movie clearly fits to that period of the early 1970s Make love not war. However, there are still some people who may like it and find something precious in it. 6/10! "},{"Title":"Absolutely the most ridiculous bunch of garbage I've ever seen!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love means never having to say you're sorry? What drunk thought up that tag line?  Who came up with this terrible disgrace.  I'm sorry but in my opinion, THIS MOVIE SUCKS!!!!! I don't mean to be rude, but it really did. I give it a 1/4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why does Jenny swear so much in this movie? She said g*d damn 1/2 million times!!","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I could not stand all the swearing Jenny(Ally) did in this movie!!! And her calling him preppy was SO irritating!! Jenny was so supposed to be so cute and stuff....She just came off annoying... His car was cool though... Why do I have to write ten line on the comments section? This is retarded! Does anyone remember the movie Forever? I liked that movie a lot more...............I wonder what Ryan Oneil thinks about this movie. Also, I wonder what Farrah thinks! Well I Wonder Why? What did his Father do for a living? And where was his MOm? And did they ever say anything about Jenny's mom? And what did she die from? Leukemia? what was Jenny going to college for? "},{"Title":"The right movie at the right time","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sappy but emotionally effective romance story starring Ryan 'This is the only good movie I ever did' O'Neal and Ali 'My hat is going to change the world' MacGraw.When director Arthur Hiller embarked on this dubious venture, he had the luck of having talented people work with him like Francis Lai, who did the music. Hiller had never even met the man. Lai sent his music via air-mail from France, though Hiller tried to take credit for it by boasting that he (Hiller) told Lai what kind of music to create.... pffft! Yeah, right.Lai's beautiful and atmospheric score worked well with 'Love Story' novelist Erich Segal's script as well as with the gorgeous New England scenery - no doubt Hiller wants to take credit for God's work, too. This movie was one of those that came along at the right time and the best thing about it then, as well as now, is that it was good escapism - in 1970 during the Vietnam War, and any other time.Excellent supporting performances by Ray Milland as O'Neal's stern father and John Marley as MacGraw's devout-Catholic father. "},{"Title":"Love Story","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sappy! Sappy! Sappy! I lost count on how many times I vomited while watching this film. If I hear that Mancini song again, I swear I'm gonna go nuts. Nothing happens in this picture. Rich boy falls in love with snotty bitch. Nothing unique! "}{"Title":"Bad","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After all these years. I found Love Story DVD in the bargain bin at the store and bought it. I actually remember when it was first released in theaters, what a stir it caused. I was shocked to finally watch it. To me the entire script sounded like a bunch of one-liners strung together. The acting seemed old fashioned and cliché...like something out of a bad stage production from the 1940s. The characters were instantly in love at the beginning of the movie, but it made no sense because there was nothing lovable about either one of them. If it was released today it would fall on its face with a resounding thud. This movie was not good. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but ultimately lacking","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I actually like this film, up to a point. It is very much a product of its time. It has early 70s written all over it, and though I actually liked the 70s (remember more of the latter half, too young to remember this early), this film is the archetype of modern love stories that seem to dispense with God, the very paragon of Love itself. The early 70s were just emerging from the rebellious 60s in which we moved furthest from God for the first time. Everything became rely on yourself or believe in yourself, without that rock of security to fall back on. The characters celebrate life (and mourn death of course), but there is no gratitude for the life they have been given, or gratitude for the love they share. They take it for granted. And although the portrayal of love seems genuine...it ultimately falls flat. Yes it is a beautiful story and very well acted and well directed...but when I hear the lines spoken by Ali MacGraw, We're kind of negative on the church thing. We're kind of negative on the God thing. It really makes me sad. True love can only be appreciated and demonstrated by following an appreciation for God's most fervent love and a worship of Him who created us. To me, true love was the selfless expression of Christ's sacrifice on the cross. That's not being religious. That's simply acknowledging truth. I think the only way two people can express true love that really lasts is to abide in God's existence, His expression of Love, and His Word. These characters do none of that. They don't pray to God when Jenny gets sick, they rely on themselves...and we are all woefully inadequate to surmount our own illnesses and sufferings without God's help. Morally speaking, this is not a REAL Love Story...just one that makes us THINK it is. A nice try, but it ultimately falls way short. "}]