[{"Title":"A Memorable Ahead-Of-Its-Time Classic","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I went to see Bananas, in the early 1970s with three of my high school buddies, in our local theater. And, it remains -- three decades later -- one of the most memorable and one of my most talked about movie-going experiences ever. So much of it was comprised of absolutely hysterical scenes which I've told countless people about through the years, and still tell people about.   Watching this movie today, it seems as if it had been somewhat haphazardly written. I get the feeling that Woody Allen had kept a journal in which he noted the funniest sights he'd witnessed and the cleverest one-liners he'd heard, over a period of years, and then set about mixing all of these totally unrelated funny things into one script. It's like he was saying to himself, I think I'll throw in the bit about the guy trying to discreetly buy a sex magazine in a quiet neighborhood store and getting embarrassed, and then the snake bite bit later on. But first before the next plot turn, I think I'll put in the bit in which a guy gets out of his car and falls into an open manhole., etc. You feel at times like you're watching a Benny Hill-type comedy show, or a TV variety show with a series of comedy skits that have nothing at all to do with each other. Somehow, Woody blended it all together into a fairly coherent story. There are also a few scenes which feature Airplane/Naked Gun-style tongue-in-cheek humor. But, this movie had been made *long* before those were even thought of. There's a message in that This movie was ahead of its time. There's a segment of Bananas, early on, which is just one outrageously funny bit after another after another.   I guess the movie doesn't really have a point . . . except maybe that maniacal dictators are crazy, dangerous and should be driven from power . .. or maybe that freedom is worth fighting for . . . or maybe that some causes are worth laying down your life for. Obviously, there's relevance in all of that for us, today. Or maybe the whole point of this movie could simply be that Woody Allen knows how to make people laugh.  Later,    Art "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's best comedy","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of  Woody Allen's earliest films -which should rank with the all-time greatest  comedies. Although it was made back when the trial of The Chicago Seven was still fresh  and Tobacco was still advertised on television, Bananas is timeless and still topical J.  Edgar Hoover in drag; the CIA sending US troops to fight on both sides of a revolution  because they are afraid of being on the wrong side.  One can usually recall a few scenes  from a good movie, but Bananas is one of those great movies which one can replay in  the mind from beginning to end.  (Bananas is neatly bracketed at the beginning and end  by Howard Cossell playing himself in bizarre Wide World of Sports coverages.)  Allen has  total control as writer, director and lead actor as in his later films, but in Bananas, the  humor is broader and more cinematic. He plays the nebbish Fielding Mellish with less of  the existential whining that mars his later films.  There is a youthful resiliance like a toy  punching bag that keeps coming back up. That is what made Chaplin's little tramp both  comical and endearing.  "},{"Title":"pretty crazy, not altogether successful, but it's also very funny","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas is like a cookie-batter of all of those early Woody Allen jokes all plopped into a bowl and shaken around. It's a film loaded with political jokes, but without a direct focus aside from Cuba and dictators and the like. There are numerous sexual jokes, including one of Woody's funniest scenes involving a magazine (the buying and holding on a subway, very silent comedy-like). And even Howard Cosell becomes an iconic figure in Woody's comedy in the brilliant opening scenes. The plot is very loose, so if you're looking for that look elsewhere. Also, to put it mildly, some of the jokes may not work at all for some viewers of today. But it's the go-for-broke irreverence of the picture that has it still worth viewing today. Much of Woody's own verbal bits are very good, but it's also worth to note how the physical comedy- while crude and a little off-key- also has a good ring to it. Unlike the director's later films, you can still sense that he's trying to 'get' how to make a film, and so in trying to do anything he can think of to get a laugh, of course, some of it doesn't work. For example, in Cuba the gag where the gargantuan pile of dung is carried down the stairs with the Lain music in the background gives a grin, but not as big a laugh as might be intended. Indeed, this might be Woody's most 'immature' film, while still containing some of his more biting, satirical jabs at dictators and oddball politics. Woody would still have this wild, go-for-broke style of humor more akin to some of his quirkier short stories in other films of the early 70s. While this isn't as successful in that regard as Sleeper or Love and Death, I'd still watch it again if it was on TV; even the romantic subplot, undercooked in comparison with the rest of the more satirical stuff, is interesting. "},{"Title":"Often hilarious comedy with a few dead spots.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas is one of Woody Allen's earliest films a pure comedy, with some satirical and political overtones (which are about 100% on-target - like when the leader of the rebels becomes a dictator himself when he rises to power). It's a strictly hit-or-miss effort, but, fortunately, the hits are definitely more than the misses. It contains many laugh-out-loud scenes; the whole courtroom sequence, his military training, the scene where he tries to pass unnoticed while he's buying a pornographic magazine, and his reaction to the line You're not tense, are you? are among the many highlights. It does have its dead spots, though, and some rather too obvious jokes that can't match the level of the rest (the closing sequence does not work at all, IMO). Marvin Hamlisch's score is unbelievably catchy. "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas is just that on the surface - a crazy, off the wall movie written by, directed by, and starring a very young Woody Allen as a clumsy New Yorker who winds up as the leader of a small country. In the beginning, Allen plays a product tester whose parents are surgeons (in fact, he walks in on them at one point while they're performing surgery, and they have him take over the reins). He basically just wants to get laid, and when a young activist (Louise Lasser) appears at his door with a petition, he sees an opportunity. The two eventually break up, and in despair, he quits his job and goes to San Marcos, one of her causes. There he becomes a pawn in the revolution, later becoming their leader dressed like Castro but with a red beard.Only Allen could have imagined this, and it's quite brilliant. Underneath the one-liners and crazy situations is a statement about the war in Vietnam and the way it was reduced to sports reporting on television. To make his point, Howard Cossell is on hand for a play by play of the character's wedding night before an audience.Total Woody, with some hilarious moments. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Witty Joke with the US- Sponsored Dictatorships in Latin America in the 60's","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the Republic of San Marcos, in Latin America, the president is killed in a Coup d'État promoted by General Emilio M. Vargas (Carlos Montalbán). In New York, the products tester Fielding Mellish (Woody Allen) meets the political activist Nancy (Louise Lasser) and they have a love affair. Fielding has an unrequited love with Nancy, who believes that he is immature and without leadership. Fielding decides to travel to San Marcos and General Vargas plots a scheme the assassination of Fielding to be supported by the USA against the rebels led by Esposito (Jacobo Morales). However the rebels save Fielding and train him in guerrilla warfare. General Vargas flees to the United States. Esposito deranges with the power and Fielding becomes the President of San Marcos. He wears a long beard and travels to USA seeking financial support to the country and he meets Nancy again, who falls in love with him.Bananas is a witty joke with the US- sponsored dictatorships in Latin America in the 60's by Woody Allen. The story has hilarious situations, like when Fielding Mellish is buying the porn magazine Orgasm; or with the two subway thugs (one of them the uncredited Sylvester Stallone); or having dinner with the junta; or training with the rebels. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Bananas "},{"Title":"Allen's funniest movie ever","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas shows why Woody Allen's early movies were far better. He plays Fielding Mellish, a products tester who is wishing that he had stayed in college (I was taking black studies. I could be black!) After a brief fling with political activist Nancy (Louise Lasser), who is trying to restore democracy in the Latin American country of San Marcos (the movie begins with Howard Cosell hosting a live, on-the-spot assassination there). After she leaves him, he decides to go to San Marcos, where he gets involved with the revolutionary forces. Following the revolution's success, the leader installs some loony policies, and the US arrests Mellish for aiding the revolution. What follows shows the meaning of the expression trial and error! Allen truly reached his apex with this movie. It's just one crazy thing after another, namely when Mellish and the revolutionaries buy lunch. Sylvester Stallone, in an early role, plays one of the hoodlums on the subway. "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny, with some dull spots","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of Woody Allen's earliest movies, and I'd rank it probably 2nd out of his pre-Annie Hall movies, only behind Love and Death. It's certainly one of his funniest. The plot is pretty ridiculous (a neurotic product tester goes to the fictional San Marcos and ends up joining the rebels and eventually becoming president), but it's really secondary, and only serves to provide transitions from one comedy skit to another.It's pretty much a hit and miss movie, but when he hits (which is more often than not), it's very funny. There are plenty of hilarious one liners throughout. The music is very cheesy as well, but it fits in well with the silly humor. Obviously, this isn't like Woody's later movies, just take it for what it is -- a silly comedy -- and I don't think you'll be disappointed.Also of note, the opening credits are very funny and rivals Monty Python and the Holy Grail for best opening credits sequence. "},{"Title":"You cannot bash in the head of an American citizen without written permission from the State Department.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When asked why he titled his third feature-length picture 'Bananas,' Woody Allen replied, because there's no bananas in it. This, in a nutshell, pretty much summarises the general tone of the film. During the first ten years of his directing career, it's interesting to see Allen slowly developing his craft; as the years go by, from 'Take the Money and Run (1969)' to 'Sleeper (1973),' and culminating in 'Annie Hall (1977)' we notice how he learned to assimilate an unrelated collection of gags into a mature, cohesive narrative. 'Bananas (1971)' sits somewhere in the middle of all this, with a more developed story than its predecessors, but maintaining its roots as an anarchic comedy, much in the same vein as films like 'Duck Soup (1933)' and 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975).' Though I had not anticipated enjoying 'Bananas' very much, I must say that the film provided countless moments of immeasurable hilarity. Though slightly uneven in parts as is often the case, some jokes hit while others miss, the film delivers the promised laughs.The storyline is characteristically simple and absurd. After a revolution breaks out in the small South American nation of San Marcos, a mediocre, unintellectual New Yorker, Fielding Mellish (Allen), travels there to impress his ex-girlfriend (Louise Lasser). After the fascist government tries to have him assassinated, poor Fielding falls in with the rebel gangs, somehow eventually becoming the President of the Latin American republic. This absurd plot line allows Allen to pile one gag on top of another, and, interestingly, the story itself never seems to lose its way or go off on any tangents. The film's satirical take on war, with the Vietnam War still raging in 1971, was very timely, and Allen also aims a few jabs at the media's handling of warfare &#150; in the ridiculous and inspired opening, ABC's Wide World of Sports arrives in San Marcos to commentate the assassination of the current President. Later, Howard Cosell returns to host the consummation of Fielding's marriage, with an enthusiastic crowd watching the awkward couple tussling beneath the covers. 'Bananas' is a type specimen of one of Woody Allen's early, funny movies. "},{"Title":"One-liners aplenty, and definitely worth a watch.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" At the recommendation of a friend, I watched Woody Allen's Bananas. Allen is often portrayed in the media and by critics as an albatross of Hollywood, and I really don't have a lot of experience with his films. Besides Bananas, I have only seen Match Point, which is one of the best films I've ever seen. Being made in 1971, Bananas touches on the activism culture of the time, and the USA's involvement in South American politics. Focused around the the fictitious country of San Marcos, presumably any number of nation-states the USA was involved in destroying. It opens with the president of San Marcos being assassinated and a general taking the reigns of power in the country.Good afternoon. Wide World of Sports is in the republic of San Marcos where we are going to bring you a live on the spot assassination. They're going to kill the president of this lovely Latin American country and replace him with a military dictatorship.A strong-handed dictator, a group of (apparently marxist) rebels ban together in opposition. Woody Allen's character is living in the States and falls in love with an activist who is looking for support of the people of San Marcos. They make plans together to fly down there in a show of solidarity, but his girlfriend breaks up with him (in one of the most humorous moments of dialog recorded on film). Because he already had plans to go, he visits San Marcos where he is unwittingly joined to the rebel cause.This is a very funny movie, especially is you are a fan of Groucho Marx - Allen's influence is quite obvious through lines such as, I object, your honor! This trial is a travesty. It's a travesty of a mockery of a sham of a mockery of a travesty of two mockeries of a sham. But Woody also brings his own spin, which is pretty political - You cannot bash in the head of an American citizen without written permission from the State Department. Most of it is one-liners or character comedy, but there are also cleverly composed dialog sequences and wacky settings. The film making is somewhat weak, and the musical score is odd, but this is about on par with early 70s movies. The story was flimsy, but apparently most of the movie was filmed improv. It is definitely worth a watch if only for the last scene alone. "}{"Title":"Woody Allen's  best","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before I saw this movie for the first time last night, I didn't know what to expect. When I first saw Annie Hall, I didn't find it as funny as I expected (read my review of that movie for more info). But I heard that there was a love scene narrated by Howard Cosell, so I thought I would find it funny. Well, I saw this movie, and found it to be very hilarious. Before I saw this movie on TCM, Robert Osbourne was talking about how hilarious this movie was, and he obviously knew what he was saying. Many hilarious parts, like the scenes with Howard Cosell, the part where Woody Allen's character falls into the sewer, the trial, and many other parts. Also, keep an eye out for a then-unknown actor named Sylvester Stallone. I enjoyed this movie, and I don't see why anyone else wouldn't. "},{"Title":"Still fine, with added enjoyment now","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most of us saw this movie either when originally in theaters, or shortly thereafter, when everybody was younger and the film was topical and original and contemporary.I recently saw it again (the third time - saw it a second time, perhaps 15 or so years ago). It now is still humorous and clever, with some of the gags and sequences dated, and a number of the participants now gone or retired. But seeing it anew provides an added nostalgic enjoyment which can only occur with the passage of time. And much of what is dated is not only because of changes in politics and other areas over the years - but also because many of the gags and techniques have been adapted by others in many films since.It still contains the clear Woody Allen imprint, and gives us a memorable view of his earlier work. "},{"Title":"Great  Comedy  From  Woody  Allen's  Early Times","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's Career can be divided in two clearly defined times. In his first films Allen made us laugh with what we could call classical absurd comedy (Boris Gruschenko, The Sleeper or Play It Again Sam) and then he turned to a sort of more psychological and elaborated products that didn't lack comedy but this was not the main issue (Hannah and His Sisters, Manhattan). He was very good at both.Bananas is a gag-after-gag comedy most ingenious and entertaining with really hilarious moments (Allen's training as a guerrilla fighter is memorable as well as the frustrated attempt to kidnap the British ambassador). Let's accept that Allen's looks is funny in itself, but the man takes the most of it.You can be sure this is a film you'll watch with at list a permanent smile in your face. By the way, look for Sylvester Stallone in a very short but funny sequence, long before Rocky and Rambo. "},{"Title":"Back when the Woodman was still funny.","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The best Woody? Maybe.Allen was never known for physical humor, but he did a lot of it here. And it mostly worked.He played his usual loser type. He never seemed to take himself seriously despite his success, and this was before all the Oscars. The puns and jokes came fast enough so that even non-fans might enjoy it.The subject matter was interesting for the time too. And some might call it prophetic seeing as what happened in Central America in the eighties.Sly Stallone's first non-porno role.The best bit was when he went to the roadside café and ordered all those sandwiches because the rebel food supply was low. (1000 tuna, 998 on white, 2 on rye...) The deadpan expression of the counterman was priceless. "},{"Title":"Amusing Satirical Comedy","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When asked why this film is called Bananas, Woody Allen is said to have replied Because there are no bananas in it. Given that the action takes place in a military dictatorship in South America, the name is presumably a reference to the expression banana republic, and possibly also to the phrase go bananas, meaning to go crazy.Woody plays Fielding Mellish, an early incarnation of the sort of character he was to play in most of his films, the perpetually worried, neurotic New Yorker (although in this case less obviously Jewish than some later Woody characters). Fielding, who works as a consumer products tester, gets involved with Latin American politics when he falls in love with Nancy, a political radical whose pet cause is supporting the guerrillas fighting to overthrow the dictatorial President Vargas of the small Republic of San Marcos. When their relationship comes to an end, he decides to visit the country for himself, only to become mixed up with the rebels. The film ends with Fielding himself becoming President of San Marcos after a revolution and then, on his return to the United States, being placed on trial as a subversive.This film was made in 1971, near the beginning of Woody's career, and like most of his other early films such as Take the Money and Run, Sleeper and Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex&#133;&#133;. it is a pure comedy, without the philosophical depth or analysis of human relationships that were to mark later films such as Annie Hall or Manhattan. The film with which it perhaps has most in common is Sleeper from two years later, which also deals in a comic way with the theme of the little man getting mixed up in a rebellion against a dictator. Nancy has something in common with Luna, the character played by Diane Keaton in the later film.The main difference between the two films is that Sleeper, which is set in an imagined future two centuries hence, revolves around physical slapstick humour of the sort familiar from old silent comedies. Although there is some humour of that type in Bananas, such as the scene where Fielding tries to demonstrate an exercise machine for busy executives, the style of humour is less physical and more satirical, particularly in the scenes set in San Marcos.I particularly liked the scene where Vargas receives tribute from the peasants, each of whom has to present their President with his weight in dung on his birthday, so that he can fertilise his private estates- a farcical concept, but a suitably surreal and Chaplinesque comment on the politics of dictatorship (and there have been some dictators who have made their subjects do things that are almost equally absurd). Some of the satire is aimed at American foreign policy; during this period of history the State Department was prepared to support virtually any non-Communist ruler, no matter how oppressive (and even Communist ones, such as Tito, if they were anti-Russian), on the basis of he may be a son of a bitch, but he's our son of a bitch. The trial scenes (also very funny) can be seen as a critique of the American establishment's McCarthy-style intolerance of any political dissent.This does not, however, mean that Woody is simply concerned to attach the political Right from a left-wing position. There is plenty here to offend the political Left as well. Nancy is a shallow character, a radical-chic fun-revolutionary whose support for foreign revolutionary movements owes less to idealism than to a need to bring glamour and excitement into a humdrum existence. Fielding is initially even more shallow- his interest in the politics of San Marcos is due to nothing more elevated than his hopes of getting Nancy into bed. Woody's also satirises the Left through the figure of Esposito, the Marxist guerrilla leader (modelled on Fidel Castro) who succeeds in overthrowing Vargas only to prove as power-hungry as the man he has replaced, and even more irrational. If there is a political message here, it is that there is little point in a revolution which simply exchanges one dictator for another; Castro was originally supported by many American liberals who became disenchanted when, having overthrown the dictator Batista, he failed to hold free elections and instead turned Cuba into a one-party Communist state and a launch-pad for Khrushchev's missiles.I felt that the film started off rather slowly, although there are some good scenes even in the early part, such as the one where a reporter gives a commentary on the overthrow and assassination of the President of San Marcos in the style of a sports commentary. It soon, however, picked up and turned into an amusing satirical comedy. It doesn't, however, have the depth of some of Woody's later films or quite the same biting verbal wit. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A thoroughly hilarious comedy","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A satirical take on the Cuban Revolution and U.S.-Cuban relations, this is a thoroughly hilarious comedy. It has a fantastic script by Woody Allen and Mickey Rose and I was particularly impressed by the former's direction on this occasion, not least because it was only his third film. There are beautiful shots peppered throughout the film and the scenes featuring the rebels had a look which reminded me of documentaries of the era. This feeling of authenticity contrasts nicely with the comedic tone. The film makes great use of its locations in Peru and Puerto Rico as well as Allen's beloved New York City.The film stars Allen, who is a laugh riot as the wonderfully named Fielding Mellish, a deeply neurotic product tester who regrets dropping out of college and wants to make something out of his life. He thinks that his luck has changed when he begins a relationship with a passionate social activist Nancy, played very well by Allen's first wife Louise Lasser. However, it turns out that Nancy feels that there is something missing in their relationship since he is emotionally, sexually and intellectually immature. She also thinks that he is short, not very bright and has bad teeth but these things are just, um...what's the opposite of an added bonus? Anyway, in order to impress her, Fielding makes his way to the Latin American banana republic San Marcos which is in the midst of a revolution. I don't know whether it was inspired by it or not but it reminded me of Ambrose Bierce's fateful trip to Mexico during its revolution in 1913, after which he was never seen again. On the bright side, Fielding has more luck. Sort of. Carlos Montalban, Ricardo's lesser known elder brother, does not have a huge amount of screen time as San Marcos' military dictator General Emilio Molina Vargas but he nevertheless gives an excellent performance. Other than Allen and Lasser, he is the strongest cast member. He plays the role entirely straight and, as such, his scenes are considerably funnier than they would have been if he had sent it up. It is a shame that he and Allen only had a few scenes together as the contrast between them is incredibly funny. Other actors playing San Marcans such as Jacobo Morales as the Castro equivalent Esposito, David Ortiz as Sanchez and René Enríquez as Diaz adopted a similar policy but it was at its most effective in Montalban's case. Charlotte Rae has a nice cameo as Fielding's mother. The model and future Duchess of Feria Natividad Abascal is fourth billed in spite of the fact that she does not speak a word. Nice work if you can get it! The film also features the unmistakable Sylvester Stallone, who gives the best performance that I have ever seen from him. He doesn't speak a word either. This was one of his first films. Well, one of his first non-porn films.The film is full to the brim with great one-liners, mostly but not exclusively from Allen himself. Fielding is such a great character as he is an even more unlikely hero than Miles Monroe in Sleeper or Boris Grushenko in Love and Death. The opening and closing commentaries from the legendary sportscaster Howard Cosell were inspired and I could not stop laughing, particularly during the brilliant first scene. The scenes featuring Fielding's attempts to train as a revolutionary are another highlight, as are the frequent potshots that the script takes at American foreign policy and the conduct of the CIA in the last part of the film. I also loved the fact that the San Marcos revolutionaries used Fielding as a patsy after Esposito went mad with power after about ten minutes in the presidential palace.Overall, this is an incredibly funny film which never loses sight of its light tone but still manages to seamlessly fit in some well observed social commentary. "},{"Title":"Those who are too smart to engage in politics are punished by being governed by those who are dumber...","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas carries the same mix of tender goofiness and self-deprecating romanticism than Woody Allen's first-feature film, confirming what it had already established  the emergence of the most promising comical and comedic talent. I still prefer Take the Money and Run because the film was more groundbreaking as the first comedy to exploit the documentary-format, a sub-genre that would be labeled next as 'mockumentary'. However, rediscovering Bananas is like an insightful journey into the roots of Allen's talent.Take the title for instance; Bananas as a double reference to the slang word meaning 'crazy' and the banana-republics (a derogatory term defining South-American dictatorships) has the same political resonance than the Marx Brothers' Duck Soup. San Marcos or Freedonia &#x85; like Duck Soup, a fictional setting is the arena allowing to speak the most politically incorrect statements about human nature, and its thirst for power, in the names of such big words as 'freedom' and 'democracy'. But like in Duck Soup, politics are the vehicles for gags, not the opposite. Bananas has the texture of a satire, but when you realize that no drop of blood is shed, even during executions, you know the comedy is to be seen in a lighthearted way.Take now the main protagonist, with the perfect name for a neurotic loser Fielding Mellish. Mellish is a machine-tester for a General Equipment firm. The majority of movie lovers would recognize in his first entrance the clever wink to another comical milestone Charlie Chaplin, during the famous eating-machine scene in Modern Times &#x85; and the mayhem caused by the Execusizer (a gym built into office desk) is even funnier because it goes unnoticed by the firm executives. Other bits of silent humor are used in Bananas, a confrontation with two thugs in the subway (one is played by a young Sylvester Stallone), a training-montage in San Marcos' jungle. The legacy of Chaplin is so present I wondered if the grotesque sight of Allen with a false beard parodying Fidel Castro wasn't a reference to Chaplin as Hynkel &#x85; all things being relative, of course.However, Allen never imitates but rather uses his writing talent to plant the seeds of his comical inspiration, that would finally bloom with his first mature comedy  Love and Death, the film that would reveal another major influence  Ingmar Bergman. Woody Allen would reveal himself as the unlikely center of a wide cinematic universe, reconciling even the most different genres and directing styles. Annie Hall would become the consummate -thus the most acclaimed- Woody Allen movie. And in Bananas, you could tell there were some glimpses of Annie Hall through the intellectually engaging romance with Louise Lasser. The Allenian romance would be the director's signature. To close the Woody Allen's influences parenthesis, Bananas might borrow many elements from Allen's predecessors, but the film is original and unique in both style and writing.It borrows naturally a lot from Take the Money and Run, through its clever mix of realistic directing and journalistic format style. The cameos of Howard Cosell commenting on a President's assassination and the aftermath of a honeymoon, with Allen and Lasser's delivery mimicking the way exhausted athletes talk after a match, are ones of the film's highlights. And it's quite an accomplishment to use non-professional actors parodying themselves to such hilarious extremes. This material isn't revolutionary, the parody has already exploited by Mel Brooks and Monty Python, but Woody Allen elevates them to much higher summits by juggling with other forms of humor, without never distracting from the core of the story, and even when it does, it's always redeemed by a hilarious punch-line.Many viewers would look at the film as a series of disjointed sketches, each one working alone but not necessarily making a good film altogether. I would understand the criticism if it wasn't for the pivotal element of the film, which is Fielding Mellish. As the central protagonist, he's both the actor and the victim of all the unfortunate incidents that fill the film with its zany goofiness. He's never too glorious to be a hero, but never passive enough to be a victim. He's just the way he is, and Allen doesn't need many efforts to make us laugh, he's so weird and incomparable that no matter which situation you put him into, it's a laugh-out-loud guarantee. And I can't go on without mentioning one of the funniest break-up scenes ever, when Lasser tries to find out what is missing in her relationship. They enumerate the different aspects of Mellish' personality that could have turned her off, and the list is so long you wonder why he's still trying to find the one reason.Still, the romance is never independent from politics, which are the subject of more mockeries than Mellish' character himself. Most reviewers would try to analyze the film on the basis that it was meant to be a satire&#x85; and I think this is the best way for disappointment. I love to take the word Bananas as the most standard gag of a man slipping on a banana peel, this is what the film is a big gag. Belonging to Woody Allen's goofy period, the film is not to be taken seriously. Like in Duck Soup, it's all about the gags. If one scene puzzles you, wait for the punch line and you're going to get its reason to be. The gags are unequally funny, but as a whole, we spend a great moment watching Bananas. Last but not least the film is served by a catchy score and a love song signed by Marvin Hamlisch, who'd win an Oscar two years later for The Way We Were.And this is the way Woody was, not to be taken seriously is one thing, but when it came to comedic film-making, Allen was the most serious talent emerging in the 70's, the rest is history &#x85;(PS the titular quote is from Plato) "},{"Title":"Frequently hilarious","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Interiewed by Photoplay Magazine in 1980 about their then-new comedy film 'Airplane!', Jim Abrahams, Jerry and David Zucker cited Woody Allen's 1971 picture 'Bananas' as a major influence on their work. You can see why. Several gags, such as the spoof television commercial for 'Old Testament' cigarettes ( I smoke them...HE smokes them!, quips a priest, glancing upwards ), the honeymoon consummation scene which is shot like a televised boxing match, the trial scene which involves Miss America and J.Edgar Hoover disguised as a black woman, could have fitted into any one of the gang's pictures. 'Bananas' was only Woody's second film as director, the first being the seminal spoof documentary - yes, the genre existed before 'This Is Spinal Tap' - 'Take The Money & Run'. It stars our bespectacled hero as 'Fielding Mellish', a products tester who is incredibly unlucky when it comes to girls. Nobody wants to go out with him. He meets and falls for 'Nancy' ( Louise Lasser, Allen's real-wife wife at the time ), a political activist keen to end American aid to the banana republic of San Marcos in South America. They have had a revolution there, and the country is now being run by a dictator called 'Vargas'. When Nancy breaks off the relationship, Mellish flies to San Marcos to find her, only to get caught up in the counter-revolution, ultimately becoming its new President...As was the case with 'Run', this picture contains all of Allen's usual preoccupations - sex, death, human relationships. The gags come at you like bullets from a Gatling gun, some work better than others. My favourites include Mellish trying to buy a porno magazine, dealing with thugs on a subway train ( one of whom is played by a young Sylvester Stallone ), falling down a manhole as he gets out of his car, hurting his back during training with the rebels and being forced to crouch as he joins the queue for food, President Vargas thinking he has enlisted aid from the C.I.A. when in fact it is a Jewish organisation ( suddenly the streets of San Marcos are teeming with rabbis ), and Nancy telling Mellish that 'someone is missing' from their relationship. He asks what it is, and she does not know. He replies that if she does not know what it is, how does she know its missing? Woody has never made a secret of his love for the Marx Brothers' pictures, and their influence is evident. This hails from what what we might term his 'golden age' when, along with Mel Brooks, he was the best American comedy film maker around. Three films in similar vein followed - 'Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex But Were Afraid To Ask' ( 1972 ), 'Sleeper' ( 1973 ), and 'Love & Death' ( 1974 ) - before Allen decided to reinvent himself with 'Annie Hall' ( 1977 ). "},{"Title":"Bananas split my sides","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are so few comedic film-makers who can make me laugh out loud but early Woody Allen (just like early Steve Martin) does it for me every time - how I wish those guys had stayed true to their (comedy) school instead of getting all serious on us with their deeper although only arguably higher artistic ambitions.Anyway I watched Bananas afresh (probably the third or fourth time in all) and laughed my head off again at it, as I'm sure I will again any time in the future. I can't claim the comedy as timeless, but hey, it works for me.The gags come thick and fast from the start with the brilliant bookending devices of the spoof TV coverage of an actual assassination at the start and Woody and his new wife's marriage consummation at the end (and how much closer life is now to imitating art with CNN 24 Hour news coverage and reality-show television) delivered like a trouper by the iconic Howard Cosell. By the way, I loved the line about the ritual burning of the American Embassy - plus ca change...!.Of course the story is wholly episodic, moving from one gag-setting to another and Allen pays his due homage to the silents with some hilarious slapstick along the way, amply seasoned with more than enough sex-jokes to go round.My particular favourites are the the car-parking scene, the harpist scene and the interpreter scene, often bordering on the surreal at times. I also loved the torture by operetta scene which reminded me of Monty Python's hilarious Spanish Inquisition torture by comfy chair scene.You could argue that the mix of monologues, Jewish humour, sight gags and more besides makes for a disjointed movie and the sexism against women is a little dated now, but carping apart, it all pretty works for me and if it landed some telling shots about US foreign policy against the likes of Cuba and the manipulation of news media on television, more power to Woody's elbow. Loved the indirect pot-shot at Spiro Agnew too! He practically is the show here on the acting front too, looking like a cross between a young John McEnroe & the late great Marty Feldman, although to be fair this is his own persona which he developed over a period of years in the early 70's up until the some (like me) would say unwelcome detour into seriousness which really kicked off with Annie Hall, but I know which Woody I prefer.Make 'em laugh, Woody, make 'em laugh! "},{"Title":"Woody banana splits your sides in this banana republic comedy.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen returns with his third movie and once again stars, this time playing Fielding Mellish. Fielding is a product tester and, through a slightly bizarre series of events goes from lovable nobody to leading figure in the rebellion occurring in San Marcos.And that's all you need to know about Bananas, which is once again a great excuse for a series of rapid, hilarious gags about everything from sex to politics to religion to . . . . cigarette adverts. It's almost as funny as his previous outing (Take The Money And Run) and if it doesn't manage to pack in a chuckle from the very beginning to the very end that's simply because there are so many in between that the beginning and very end feel a little dry in comparison.The cast includes quite an enjoyable, and varied, line-up. We get Allen himself, of course. Louise Lasser plays the love interest who leads him into the world of political activity, Nancy. Fans of Stir Crazy will recognise Miguel Ángel Suárez in a small role and we even get an early on screen appearance from a Mr Sylvester Stallone.It's unfortunate that I've almost got through this review (and overlooked the fact in my review of Take The Money And Run, too) without mentioning the writing duties shared by Mickey Rose. I have no idea who was responsible for how much of each movie but it was clearly a successful partnership with on screen results as hilarious as their final product was.If you enjoy other Woody Allen comedies then this one has plenty packed into it to assure that you'll, at the very least, pick up some more great one-liners. And, I must say that the office exercise product gag near the very beginning had me laughing so hard and thinking of Modern Times that I knew I was going to enjoy this anyway. A number of scenes and one gutbusting manhole gag later and my aching sides were proof of just how much I was being amused.See this if you like Take The Money And Run, Water, Sleeper. "}{"Title":"Great Woody Allen","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I realize that comedy is subjective, but I love almost every scene in this movie. Everything. The courtship between Allen and Louise Lasser culminating in a boxing match with spectators. Allen saying goodbye to his parents before he runs off to San Marcos to get over his love, and the offhand remark that his father owns the hospital. The fairly curious look at a Latin American banana republic, with well filmed, beautiful scenery, and the absurd mix of New York humor as in the scene of Allen ordering a thousand tuna sandwiches for the rebel troops. The development of the familiar Allen character, in this case a believable pile of sexual and other anxieties, and still likable. His strategy is to cram the movie with jokes that hit and miss, and build up each scene as a separate set piece, and for me it works. I will admit that it's his early comedies that make me a fan, and my fondness for his movies ends somewhere around 1980 with a few exceptions. Love, love, love the sports metaphors in the end, shots of New York in 1971, and oddly complete reminder of US and world politics of the time. "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's Top Three","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is Woody Allen's most under-appreciated movie, and easily one of the funniest. He uses a brilliant twist on an old theme. Boy meets girl. Boy loses girl. Boy wins girl back be accidentally becoming dictator of a small South American country.Made at a time when the Cold War and Vietnam were in full swing, and it was possible to a man to get beaten up by walking down the street if his hair was too long, Allen manages to lampoon all sides of the political spectrum, yet nobody minds because they're too busy laughing.One example of this is when the CIA is sending troops to San Marcos, and one of them asks if they're supposed to be fighting for or against the government, he's told that the CIA isn't taking any chances, so some are for and others are against. Neither the establishment nor the rebels are safe from satire. While a lot of so-called comedies only have one or two memorable moments in them, this one has one in almost every scene, starting with a political assassination being covered live like it's a sporting event, complete with Howard Cosell.I have read some criticism that the film tries too hard to get laughs, but the last time I checked, that was what a comedy was supposed to do. It's rare when we get a film that was made to comment on a unique political climate that is still funny over 35 years later. It's easily worth watching. "},{"Title":"When Woody was witty","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dinner with the president..! mutters the protagonist dreamily halfway through the movie, as a chirpy harp melody starts playing in the background as if to celebrate the event. Perplexed, he opens his closet only to find an harpist hidden there. Bananas never stops it's packed with jokes, from physical comedy to biting satire, from surreal inventions to hilarious throwaway moments.In the first act we get acquainted with Fielding Mellish (Allen at his top form), a neurotic loser. Mellish falls in love with Nancy (Louise Lassater), but she soon dumps him (You are immature, Fielding,How am I immature?, Well, emotionally, sexually, and intellectually,Yes, but in what other ways?) In the second act, Mellish goes on a self-pity holiday to a small south-American country and gets involved in the revolution of Esposito and his rebels against dictator Vargas (Ricardo Montalban).In the third act, Mellish replaces Esposito, gone insane after seizing power, and returns to the United States for a farcical trial.8,5/10 "},{"Title":"Yes, well, freedom is wonderful. On the other hand, if you're dead, it's a tremendous drawback to your sex life. ","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In his earlier film, a pure comedy Bananas, screen writer/director Woody Allen stars as Fielding Mellish, a timid and nervous New Yorker products tester for a marketing research. Fielding does not like his job, I'm not suited to this job. Where do I come off testing products? Machines hate me. I should be working at a job that I have some kinda aptitude for, like donating sperm to an artificial insemination lab and gets rejected by his political activist girlfriend Nancy (Louise Lasser, second Mrs. Woody Allen with whom he had made three comedies) who tells him that he's missing something and doesn't have leadership ability. Mellish takes a trip to the South American country San Marcos, reluctantly gets involved in a revolution and becomes the president of the country.Bananas contains some great jokes and scenes and proves that Allen is one of the true comic geniuses along with Chaplin and Keaton. I liked the film a lot - but I liked the parts much better than the whole thing. Having seen every movie Allen directed, I prefer his later work and his funniest movie for me is Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993).Very young Sly Stallone make a short appearance in Bananas - he played one of two hoods who terrorized the passengers in the subway car. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Stupidity","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas is funny in a way that was far ahead of its time, 1971, in not only the way it deals it topical humor but also in how clever its portrayal of reality is. Like Allen's preceding two films, What's Up, Tiger Lily? and Take the Money and Run, Bananas has a silly sense of humor that gets off on stupidity. It took a lot of risks in a time when movies were not at all funny the way this film is. I can't think of any movies that were made back then that had sight gags like the ones in Bananas, or the brilliant satire of standard conversation. Like any comedy that is 100% screwball, it has its parts that fall flat, and many of them happen in a row, but there are so many huge laughs, especially in the courtroom scene.Whoever views Bananas after seeing many of Allen's later works---actually from Annie Hall to the present---will be surprised at the difference in his earlier screen persona to that of the immutable style he's had since Annie Hall in 1977. He's still the antithesis of suave or confident, but he allows himself to at least indulge in the delusions of being so at times. Louise Lasser, his first wife, plays opposite him in only this film, and though she has a couple of good scenes, she doesn't even compare, or even make the try-outs for comparison, to Diane Keaton. "},{"Title":"A burgeoning director","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I see the makings of a great director in this film. It is very funny. I like the line from when the CIA is about to help out the revolutionWhich side are we on this time? The CIA isn't taking any chances. We sending men to both sides.There is some good physical comedy and sight gags. His dream is pretty funny. Overall this is a good film, though there isn't much thematic unity. I can see Allen really mature as a director in his late 70s and 80s film, most notably Manhattan Crimes and Misdemeanors and Hannah and Her Sisters. Many people don't like Allen's almost constant homages to his favorite directors, primarily Bergman. I like them. I think that most of them work. I like the homage to The Battleship Potemkin in this one. I was looking for a silly, witty film, and this one fit the bill. "},{"Title":"As Relevant Today As When It Was Originally Released","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having just seen this movie, what stands out the most is the opening scene where ABC's Wide World of Sports is covering the play-by-play of a political assassination. When one thinks of how the news media operates today, it makes the scene even more funny and meaningful now and shows how perceptive Woody Allen is. However, there is not enough political satire in the film overall, unfortunately and Louise Lasser's character is underwritten. The film's length is shorter than most movies and might have benefited from an additional subplot. Still there are some hilarious lines and scenes that make this film worth watching (especially for Woody Allen and slapstick comedy fans) and Howard Cosell is great in his cameo. "},{"Title":"Everyone will wear their underwear on the outside...","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...so we can check.So, what happens when you take a NYC loser and involve him in the political intrigue of Central America? Lots and lots of laughs. From the famous opening Cosell sequence to the porn buying mishap to being chastised by a Generalissimo for not bringing an assortment to a state dinner, this is great and highly original stuff. The non-original stuff is great too; Woody's Groucho, Chaplin and Hope lines and mannerisms are pure joy. Sit back, and Suck out the Poison! "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy ever","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How Woody Allen ever came up with all of the jokes in Bananas, I'll never understand.  The movie's first 20 minutes are so hilarious, it's painful. I can't remember the last time I watched it and didn't cry from laughing so hard.  And Fielding Mellish?  When have we seen a better title character? "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's best film.","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bananas is Woody Allen's best film, hands down. Sorry, Annie Hall fans but the gags in here are the most creative I have seen in any movie of his. I would put Sleeper a fairly close second.  "}{"Title":"Slipping on Peels.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bananas is a quietly angry commentary on America's involvement in the Vietnam War. Woody Allen, obviously very upset at the nation's conflict in the 1970s and wanting to show a comedy that pointed the finger at U.S. policy and diplomacy, would come up with one of the more hilarious products of the period with this one. Allen is a New York consumer products tester who falls in love with glassy-eyed political activist Louise Lasser (never really feeling right in this film) almost immediately. It is very clear that Allen cares for her much more than she cares for him and he is dismissed. Love-sick and wanting her, Allen decides to join a revolution in San Marcos and soon he even becomes the leader of the fighting. Could it actually be possible that Allen could rise to the top and become president of the small land? We get running play-by-play expertise throughout via Howard Cossell (playing himself) and ABC's Wide World of Sports. Bananas is a very short product (only running about 82 minutes), but the movie is still pretty impressive nonetheless. Allen's unique brand of story-telling and humor are enough to make Bananas one of his more memorable pictures. Far from a masterpiece, the film will be loved more by Woody's fans than most others. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"An Impressive Satire!","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas is a very early Woody Allen film, the second film on his resume if I remember correctly. It's a small film, but it's one that opened the eyes of everyone to the comedic talents of Woody Allen. His flair for dialogue and comedic timing, both as a director and an actor, is prevalent. He also exercises his skill for dialogue, and this film is full of fresh, wonderful dialogue. Coming off the Vietnam War and world-known trouble in Latin America, this film was ripe for opportunity and Allen seized his chance. I love the satirical tone of the film, as it lambasts everything from politics to relationships. The movie doesn't take itself seriously, and that is evident from such scenes as commentating on a sexual encounter as if it's a boxing match and the main protagonist becoming a dictator of a country. It's all quite funny, if you are willing to suspend your belief.Woody Allen's film is about a man named Fielding Mellish who is a consumer products tester. When his girlfriend dumps him, he decides to go to the fictional South American country of San Marcos for a vacation. But he gets caught in the political turmoil of that country, which is led for him to being nabbed by the FBI.The film doesn't have any stars to speak of, maybe other than Allen himself. He's quite funny and he delivers his own dialogue with expertise. If you don't believe, look no further than the courtroom scene, where he cross-examines himself. His girlfriend was played by newcomer Louise Lasser, and she does a really good job of coming across as the bored girl of the relationship. If you look closely, you may spot a cameo of Sylvester Stallone, before his Rocky days. I also loved the commentary delivered none other than Howard Coswell, one of the commentators on ABC's Wide World of Sports.Overall, Bananas is a sharp, witty motion picture that has the customary humor we expect from Woody Allen. This really isn't one of those romantic comedies he is good at making, but rather a satire against politics. This isn't the best film to come from him. There were moments I felt the comedy was forced, especially when it came to the relationships. But on the whole, a very enjoyable film.My Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A very entertaining and manic Woody Allen funny film","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas is a prime example of one of Woody Allen's early 'funnies'. In other words it's a pure comedy it's as simple as that. The story is extremely broad and silly. It's about a product tester from New York who follows a political activist girl he has designs on to the Central American country of San Marcos. Soon, through a series of unbelievable events, he becomes the leader of the revolution and the nation's new dictator.This is far rawer and less refined than Allen's later work and at this stage in his career he was working with lower production values. So it might seem surprisingly basic at times and a little lacking in focus. But within all this, there are plenty of laughs and the more naive presentation is really a bit of a positive really, as it sets Bananas apart from most other Allen movies and gives it more charm. The action jumps from New York to Latin America and back again, so the story structure can be viewed as being made up of three parts. But in essence it's very episodic from start to finish being made up of a collection of comic set-pieces joined together by a loose plot. Some work very well, some not so much and others probably had more relevance back in 1971. But there is more than enough good stuff to satisfy Allen fans, with lots of slapstick, sight gags, light satire and one-liners. It also has, atypically for an Allen flick, a lively original Latin American influenced score. He would soon go on to soundtrack his movies with refined jazz and classical numbers but I personally enjoyed this early diversion from this formula. All-in-all, while he may have went on to make much better films, Bananas remains one of his most uncomplicatedly fun efforts and for this reason it's definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Goofy early Woody Allen","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas is a fun little film from Woody Allen in his pre Annie Hall days. There's some pretty funny gags, especially when Allen's character Fielding Mellish is on trial, but I didn't like it as much as his previous film Take the Money and Run. I did really enjoy seeing a young Sylvester Stallone as a thug that beats Mellish up in the Subway. The subject of South American revolutions isn't something that's satirized a lot but it definitely is rich with potential and Allen mines everything he can. You can see Allen coming into his own a bit more and having more confidence, but the writing isn't the same quality as his later work, but it's fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Early Woody is a riot of comedy styles","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After writing gags and doing stand-up, Woody Allen gets the chance to exert some control, as director, over his own film. The result is a real hodgepodge of comedy. Although it is held together by a story, Bananas feels more like sketch comedy, as though Woody was downloading his ideas straight onto film.If you like Monty Python, the feel of Bananas will probably appeal to you. The film includes all types of comedy. First, there is a heavy dose of the absurd. The film starts with a reporter doing a news story about the live assassination of a dictator. Then Howard Cosell delivers play-by-play and an interview with the dying head of state.Woody's character, Fielding Mellish, is a descendant of the stand-up persona he had created--a nervous, talkative, academic nebbish. He is the perfect foil for physical comedy. Mellish works as a tester of products for a manufacturing company. We see him test an Executive Workstation with funny results.The film even includes silent film sections. Feeling like a cross between Marty Feldman and Harold Lloyd, Allen's Mellish is a hapless victim of misfortune.Allen loves wordplay and, especially, witty repartee between characters. Note the scene between Allen & Lasser when she knocks on his door seeking signatures on a petition. It's like a modern-day Burns & Allen.Allen really loves the heavy subjects--art, philosophy, and religion, for example. This gives him a chance to express his opinions, to poke fun at silly conventions, and to ridicule those who are pompous. In a counseling session, Mellish delivers the classic symptoms and causes of neuroses on a silver platter for his psychologist, then skewers dream analysis with a recounting of a dream strong on religious symbolism that dissolves into the absurd.Bananas is the young Woody spewing ideas faster than he can censor or refine them. In only a few years he will move into his next phase of writing and directing--with more polished and sophisticated results. Here the viewer can enjoy the riot of ideas that are the basis for Woody's later creations. "},{"Title":"Early Woody Allen, His Nebbish Years","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When a bumbling New Yorker (Woody Allen) is dumped by his activist girlfriend, he travels to a tiny Latin American nation and becomes involved in its latest rebellion.Woody Allen's third film, as well as his third and last with co-writer Mickey Rose. Although Allen may be the more familiar name of the two, Rose actually had a very impressive career after this film, he became a regular writer for the Johnny Carson show.This is the young, energetic Woody, the one who is a bit more zany than he went on to become, with more stuttering and not quite the level of verbosity he achieved by the 1970s. Definitely some golden years for the man, and a period his fans love.What is interesting is how this film predates the Reagan years by quite a bit, and even predates most of the 1970s. Were people in 1971 thinking after left-leaning revolutionaries in South America? Perhaps not, but it is something that has only grown in years, making the film somehow more relevant. "},{"Title":"A messy series of jokes that have nothing to do with the plot.","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Whay isn't slapstick taken seriously? Because the reason it works s because folks take things so seriously. Bananas is a silly foray into the life and silliness of Fielding Melish, a product tester who falls in love with the first girl who knocks at his door, yet she's as neurotic as he. A perfect match? Not for a while, and we get to see why through skits, set ups, and ridiculously immature delivery. For me, this plays like a record with a theme that gets lost throughout but the excursions are funnier than the main plot. While a banana republic being propped up by a U.S. government is laughable conceptually, the small time nature of such a follow through seems only a set up for more gags. All of the rebel camp bits could be translated elsewhere and were in later movies such as the weapon assembly and training camp shenanigans in Love & Death, The Howard Coseel boxing match calls at the opening and closing scenes completely work for me, but your mileage may vary. "},{"Title":"Ahead of the Comedy Pack","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen is so well known now as more an artist than a comedian, it's hard to remember just how successful and ahead of his peers he was in his early days as a funny-man writer and performer.Bananas is a case in point. The fast moving episodic sketch and parody comedy is something that was often done by groups associated with Harvard Lampoon, SNL and Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker , but Bananas came out in 1971!The courtroom scene near the end, is highly reminiscent of that in Kentucky Fried Movie (1977), for example. And the fake ads an Execuciser is highly Not Ready for Prime Time Playerish as any.Funny, because in Manhattan, Allen portrays himself a successful TV writer who has it up to here with broad, scatological sketch comedy and quits. Maybe by then he'd done it all, before, and perhaps better, than others, and simply had to move on. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very fun concept When a bumbling New Yorker is dumped by his activist girlfriend, he travels to a tiny Latin American nation and becomes involved in its latest rebellion. It's definitely not the thing to see if you're in the mood for something fun and uplifting, or something with tons of thrills and action. The metaphors in this movie are so abundant. The director likes to show certain things scenes that might not be a part of the story, but add much to the story in general, the way a writer might prelude a chapter by describing something connected to, but not in line with the characters. I was deeply impressed "},{"Title":"Narratives of Ourselves","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is an excellent depiction of how people construct narratives of their own past. They take what they like, exaggerate those aspects, try to fit it into a coherent story. They try to construct stories that depict them as who they want to be. People may tell these constructed stories to others, but they also try to convince themselves of the veracity of their constructed stories. This movie explores these ideas in a very powerful way, through the viewpoint of a boy growing up. I found it especially meaningful because I can personally relate to it. I'm not going to spoil the best scenes for you by telling you the way in which the ideas are presented. "}{"Title":"Has moments of unevenness, but contains some of the funniest stuff Woody Allen has ever done","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not, in my opinion, one of Woody Allen's best, being not quite as endlessly quotable as Annie Hall, as heart-breakingly truthful as Husbands and Wives, as relateable as Hannah and Her Sisters, as visually beautiful as Manhattan or as ground-breaking as Zelig. But it is tremendously entertaining, very easy to like and is one of Allen's most accessible along with Sleeper and The Purple Rose of Cairo(also great films, especially the latter which is another one of Allen's best). Sure it has some uneven spots, the story does play second fiddle to the gags and does feel rushed with the odd occasion when Allen seemed to be losing control of his material somewhat; the ending personally did fall flat and there are too many copy and paste close-up shots which did have a dizzying effect. For its unevenness though, Bananas still works really well and is a case of being flawed but with the pros outweighing the cons by some considerable distance. The score is very catchy with the odd witty touch and is very fitting, Allen's directing is very competently done though with the understandable- seeing as Bananas was only his third film- sense that he was still properly finding his own voice and he does give a great performance too(one of his funniest actually), here he shows that he is completely at home in comedy without being too self-indulgent regardless of his intentionally neurotic character. The acting generally in Bananas is fine and there is good rapport between everyone with the chemistry between Allen and Louise Lasser quite sweet, though only Allen really stands out. But it is in the dialogue and sight gags that makes Bananas as fun as it is. The dialogue is deliciously biting and smart(though a few parts may not sit well with some today), with the best of the one-liners are unforgettably quotable. And the sight gags and slapstick are easily some of the funniest of any Woody Allen film, the best of which being the subway train, magazine and especially trial scenes. Loved the homages to Ingmar Bergman, Charlie Chaplin and Luis Bunuel too and the title, deriving from banana republics and the Marx Brothers' The Cocoanuts, is equally inspired. All in all, recommended highly, not a masterpiece but with a huge amount to enjoy. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Wacky Woody","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen is at the top of his wackiness here as a product tester who after being dumped by his activist girl friend goes over to a South American country, joins the rebels and ends up becoming the president. the starting scene which is a live assassination and the end scene which shows the live broadcast of Allen's honeymoon night is side splitting. there is a one minute un-credited cameo by Sylvester Stallone as a tough guy who roughs up Allen in a train. the farcical situations are numerous and the satire in Allen comes to the fore in the marvelous court scene where he is gagged and bound and then goes on to tear the witness apart. this is vintage Allen and his fans would rejoice seeing this early work as the hand of the master satirist is clearly visible. "},{"Title":"Prototype early Woody","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When the aliens in Stardust Memories tell the Woody Allen character they liked his early, funnier movies best, this was the sort of thing to which they referred.The premise here is what would happen if a coffee house philosopher got caught up in a revolution and wound up running a central American republic as its new dictator. As usual, the Woody character (Fielding Mellish) is a windbag who lacks the conviction of his posturing rhetoric and only gets involved in revolutionary politics because of a woman (Louise Lasser). The audience is taken along for a fun satiric ride through the messy tangle of political idealogies as the Woody dilettante soon finds himself among people with guns and convictions. And craziness... "},{"Title":"Another brilliantly funny early Allen film","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Incredibly funny, broad, slapstick political satire as Woody takes over a Latin American country to impress a girl. A few bits feel dated, and it didn''t make me laugh quite as much as 'Take the Money and Run'&#x99; when I recently re-watched Allen's 'early funny' films, but still has more than it share of great comic moments.The whole lengthy trial sequence is genius worthy of the best of the Marx Brothers or W.C. Fields. (Or, in a slightly more modern context Monty Python).The score bugged me a bit, feeling a bit on-the-nose, and like it was underlining jokes and comic moments too literally. For me, Allen took a major step forward towards finding his voice when he switched from having scores written to using existing tracks. "},{"Title":"Bananas (1971) ***","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another old vintage Woody Allen comedy classic which I stayed away from far too long, because of the political vibes it always gave off. But I wound up chuckling quite a bit during it, especially for the first half or so where Allen is on his home turf in New York, getting into all kinds of typical Woodish predicaments like trying to buy a porn magazine in a store with everyone watching, and trying out crazy gadgets in his job as a bumbling tester for new consumer products. The film's funniest moment involved Woody taking a subway ride when two hoodlums (one of them a very young Sly Stallone) stereotypically mug and badger a helpless old lady who's sitting next to Allen and nobody tries to help. Though it may not read funny, watching this bit without sound and only incidental music in place as Allen trembles behind a magazine, is a riot. Woody's character tries to date a political activist (Louise Lasser) but when it doesn't work out, he decides to join the rebels in San Marcos, who've just gotten a new dictator (another funny sequence is the opening scene where we discover what happened to the old president). I didn't think the latter half was as strong as the first, but there were enough outrageous gags strewn about to keep me happy overall. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"More hits than misses and great liberal use of irony","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of Woody Allen's earlier works, this film has moments of genius, particularly in showcasing Allen's trademark ironic dialog (and the pacing of it, which is uniquely his).The story is rather silly, like most early Allen films. It's essentially about a New Yorker who gets his heart broken and ends up somehow in the middle of a revolution in a fictional South American country. In general, the proceedings are quite silly too and the film is full of comic vignettes that are hit and miss and are sometimes completely extraneous to the proceedings of the film. While I can't say that Allen has ever exhibited a super tight focus, such is the nature of his comedy, Bananas has a tendency to wander and get lost in clowning.However, I have to give Allen credit because even at this point, he throws around very keenly observed verbal irony in so much of his dialog, exhibiting a strong awareness for the contradictions we make ourselves and in some ways, that's what Bananas is about. That element of this film is respectable and I feel it was a great base to build off of. Allen also has a wonderfully strong understanding of both film and television, which he exploits by meshing clashing genre elements into his film and his awareness of both how movies and television are perceived is quite apparent in Bananas.But for all the good, Bananas is a rather simple tale, with great potential, that gets a little lost in the antics. It's funny and sometimes it falls flat. The core story doesn't get built up enough to be strong, but it is enough to be satisfying. If you do watch Bananas, you'll want to watch it for the generally witty dialog and some truly silly moments that occur in the film. That said, this is not a must see, but enjoyable enough when seen. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Amusing and nice","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" BANANAS has to be one of the merriest, nicest things Allen ever did. It's nice, funny and attractive. It is very obviously a sex comedy, and it is bitter, funny, inventive and playful&#151;bitter and parody overtones. Notice the artistic quality a satisfying integrity and plenitude, a compactness that indicates Allen's craftsmanship and inventiveness.It's an auteur achievement&#151;being directed, written and played by Allen. It belongs to the first epoch of his artistic output (the only five films directed by him between '69 and '75). Play It Again, Sam (1972) also rightfully belongs to the same period, though it wasn't directed by him.This early output is universally enjoyed and savored by those buffs who dislike stuff like Woody's '80s mock&#151;European stuff (the mock&#151;Shakespeareian Woody of the '80s).It's likable; it's, to my knowledge, better than Wilder and Brooks.These first comedies of Woody have the deserved reputation of being pure comedies, without the Bergmanian&#151;mock&#151;Scandinavian things of his later (sometimes more fashionable and awarded) films.BANANAS has even some kind of style&#151;manifested, or conspicuous as gusto. As I said,it's compact. It's not _epigonic,i.e. referential, on the contrary, it has an ingenuity that makes the jokes works. It's not a boring exercise in style where a director tries vainly to amuse himself by quoting aimlessly all sorts of movies. "},{"Title":"Some Of Woody Allen's Best Work","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've never really been much of a fan of Woody Allen, and so I confess that I approached this movie with low expectations. The advantage of low expectations, of course, is that you can only be pleasantly surprised. I enjoyed this movie very much, and would certainly consider it to be among the best I have seen Allen in. Woody plays his usual quirky character here. He's a product tester for a major corporation who falls head over heels in love with Nancy (Louise Lasser.) Nancy is heavily involved in protesting against an oppressive South American tyrant in the fictional nation of San Marcos, and draws Fielding Mellish (Allen) in heavily, to the point at which he travels to San Marcos, becomes involves with the rebels and ends up as dictator of the country! Most of the laughs are found in the first half of the movie. The opening, I thought, was brilliant. Howard Cosell and ABC's Wide World of Sports are covering the assassination of the President of San Marcos as though it were a sporting event. It was funny. The scene in which Fielding tries to overcome his embarrassment to buy a porn magazine was a hoot, and the breakup between Fielding and Nancy was incomprehensibly funny, the incomprehensibility of the scene being deliberate. After this, the movie takes on the feel of a political satire, with far fewer laughs. There were a few, though. I loved the scene on the plane as American troops were being dispatched and the troops speculate about whose side they're on. Turns out some will fight for the government and some will fight for the rebels, just to be sure the U.S. is on the winning side. (That actually sounds believable!) Miss America's musings about freedom during Fielding's trial was humorous, and the scene in which Fielding speaks to one of his advisors on the phone even though they're only sitting a few feet away from each other (and can't hear each other because of a bad connection!) caused me to chuckle. The end, however, was disappointing and unoriginal. Cosell again, and this time ABC was covering the consummation of the marriage between Fielding and Nancy. It was funny at the beginning of the movie, but when Cosell appeared at the end, my reaction was not this again. It was also interesting to see a very young Sylvester Stallone make a brief (and uncredited) appearance. Allen deserves credit for recognizing both the potential and limitations of Stallone's acting talent. He played a thug on the New York subway but had no lines, which kind of sums Stallone's acting up, doesn't it.Overall, I really liked this movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"just before Woody started thinking on-screen","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen's 1960s stand-up was slapstick, yet intelligent.  But his first two forays into film as the lead actor and director are not as developed as his later work or his earlier humor.That's not to say Bananas is not very, very funny.  It is.  Standing by itself, it remains a comic classic.  But up against the rest of Woody's work, Bananas looks weak.  Not as funny as some later films and especially not as intellectual as his later work.No one can blame Allan for this - he couldn't be as daring as he eventually got while he was still attempting to establish himself as a filmmaker without losing all studio backing.  However, when looking at an artist who has worked over the course of several decades, one cannot help but look at early works in the context of later things.  And with that inherent flaw, Banana seems a little feeble in comparison with films he made just a few years later.But enjoy Bananas for a laugh - I still give it a 8/10! "},{"Title":"Remember no matter were the action is anywhere in the world ABC Sports will be there to cover it","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of Woody Allen's earliest and most personal films about someone very much like himself Fielding Mellish a product tester for the latest office exorcise equipment. Fielding falls for this social activist Nancy, Louise Lasser and ends up leaving the country for San Marcos, a country that Nancy is very personal involved with, helping it's fascist government be overthrown and replaced by a grass root peoples democratic regime.Fielding had been practically ostracized from his family because he didn't follow in his parents Mr. & Mrs. Al Mellish, Stanley Ackerman & Carlotte Rea, footsteps as heart surgeons. It wasn't Fieldings fault that he couldn't cut the mustard, or pour the ketchup, in that profession since the very sight of blood made him faint dead away. His relationship with Nancy fell apart since Fielding is such a snook who just can't get his act together in or out of bed and even his support for the San Marcos rebels, whom Nancy adores, is just half-hearted in his feeble attempt to impress her.Like a man trying to forget his past and joining the French Foreign Legion Fielding leaves the US and travels to San Marcos to forget Nancy but get's involved in a CIA-like black ops scheme engineered by that country's corrupt president Gen. Emilio M. Vargas, Carlos Montalban. Gen Varges tries to get Fielding assassinated by his soldiers and make it look like the anti-government rebels did it. With this stroke of genius on Vargas' part he can get the US government to rush in desperately needed military aid that he needs to defeat the rebels.With Fielding escaping an ambush set for him by Vargas' men he joins the rebel forces headed by comm-andante Esposito, Jacobo Moralas, and becomes the brains, as well as heart and soul, of the rebels revolutionary movement. Within two months Gen. Vargas is forced out of office and into exile in Miami with Esposito's forces taking over San Marcos. Esposito who wasn't that stable to begin with goes totally insane and drunk with power, forcing everyone in the country to speak Swedish and wear their underwear on the outside so that he can inspect them. Esposito's is himself forced from the presidency and put into a loony bin with Fielding, being elected president by a unanimous vote of the rebel officials, put in his place.Going to the USA on an official state visit Fielding, disguised in a phony red clip-on beard, is recognized as a former American anti-government activist. This was back when he was a product tester and trying to impress Nancy by participating in anti-government rallies, and put on trial for treason and attempting to overthrow the United States Government. At his trial Fielding, now without that dumb clip-on beard, acts as his own defense attorney and with the prosecution bringing in it's big guns including an undercover FBI Director J.Edger Hoover, Dorothi Fox, disguised as a middle-age black woman to testify against him it's an open and shut case for the government to win and it does. Fielding is quickly convicted of 12 counts of treason and inciting a violent overthrow of the government expecting to have the book thrown at him. Despite the seriousness of the charges Fielding only receives a suspended sentence!The movie Bannans ends like it started with ABC sports commentator Howard Cosell, looking like an Americanized version of Bela Lugosi, giving a play by play description, like he did of the president of San Marco getting assassinated at the beginning of the film, of Fielding and Nancy who has since came back to him, after finding he's the new and rebel president of San Marcos, making out under the covers on their wedding night. This both earth-shaking and X-rated sports event has the whole world watching both live and in living, and huffing and puffing, color on ABC Sports.You have to be a die-in-the-wool Woody Allen fan to really like Bannans since it's more like one of his many TV and nightclub stand-up routines and not like a full length motion picture, Woody's really hamming it up in every scene that he's in. There's are a few real good sch-ticks in Bannanas that don't have Woody Allen in them that are even better then the one's that he's in. The two best scenes, without Woody, are the ones with the jury members at Fielding trial passing around a joint as they try to take in the evidence being presented on the witness stand that included that of FBI Director J.Edger Hoover who could have, but didn't, had them all arrested for using a controlled and illegal substance. There's also the hilarious scene when this wild and crazy nut breaks into the courtroom spilling out his guts and admitting his guilt ,like in a Perry Mason episode. After a heart-wrenching confession on his part the crazy and befuddled lunatic finds out to his shock and embarrassment that he crashed into and disrupted the wrong trial! "}{"Title":"movie reviews - woody Allen's _bananas_","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The following are some keywords for woody Allen's _bananas_ from 1971 - revisited in 2006.one keyword is chaplin reminiscences .another keyword is .austin powers - bond girls .another keyword is .child molester .another keyword is .emperor clothes .another keyword is .the quotidian - restaurant bill .another keyword is .the quotidian -notes on prices .another keyword is .eisenstein's baby carriage .another keyword is .castro .another keyword is .translation (gameon language and ego trip) .another keyword is .incestuous relations .another keyword is .religious experience .another keyword is .speech of miss America .another keyword is .cigarette commercial - priest .another keyword is .big brother "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of all time!!!","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bananas, while not a great movie from the perspective of plot or production values, contains the greatest number of laughs of any film, ever. I'm a big fan of Woody Allen work-- at least, up until around 1994, when it took a significant downturn (excepting Deconstructing Harry). I'm also a big fan of comedies through the ages. For sheer, absurd hilarity, Bananas trumps them all.Great comedies almost never sustain their intense humor over the course of a full movie; I guess it's just too hard to save up enough great material. (All of the Marx Brothers movies flag a lot after their early zaniness, for example.) Bananas is no exception. I agree with one of the IMDb reviewers who divided the movie into 3 acts. The first act is just incredibly funny, with some of the most absurd situations and images I have ever seen. The second act flags quite a lot, in my opinion (when the action moves to San Marcos). The third act, with Fielding's trial in NY, is very funny once again although in a less manic way than the first act. The closing scene is one of the most imaginative satires of television ever aired, and taken with the film's opening scene it provides a wonderful set of comic bookends.Manhattan, Annie Hall, Hannah & her Sisters, and Crimes & Misdemeanors are all vastly superior films, but Bananas tops them all (plus every other film) in the sheer quantity (and quality) of its laughs. The way to appreciate Bananas fully is to go into it expecting a brilliant comic showcase with a slow middle act rather than a polished comic drama. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Early Funny Woodman When He Had Long Hair!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Great early Woody Allen spoof about a MILLION things politically, battle of the sexes, commerce BEFORE he was respected as a director. Louise Lasser (Woody's 2nd wife) is great and lovely (pre-MARY HARTMAN), and Woody (especially in the first half) as Fielding Mellish whose job is a products tester is beyond reality.A 7 out of 10. Best performance = Woody Allen or Louise Lasser. There are jokes in this that went over EVERYBODY'S HEAD when I saw it...until you got home. Open-minded, hilarious, topical, great opening and music...just completely in tune with what people were thinking (height of Viet Nam) and a million other subjects. If you don't like Woody Allen or don't understand him...you're in trouble. "},{"Title":"Woody's Masterpiece to date.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Bananas- AS Woody has put it himself- is his bid for a masterpiece, and it truly is; It's side-splittingly hilarious account of a Bimbo, who-in a series of very funny and bizarre turn of events- turns up as the president of SAINT MARCUS-A banana republic-and .....  . The gags in this irresistible comedy are enough to make 5 comedies ;the acting, writing, directing and everything is super-duper. My favorite is the new laws for Saint Marcus by the newly-elected president.... From Now on the official language of Saint Marcus is Swedish!!!!!!................... Noone writes funnier dialog! "},{"Title":"hilarious!!!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is really hilarious, as you might guess in the title. I don't think I have to explain a lot, for the trade mark is 'Woody'. You will have another fun finding a scene in which Sylvester Stallone was!  "},{"Title":"Probably funny when fresh, now very dated","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I suppose this was very funny when it was new. And I do get it, how fresh and new and different this humor was at the time. But this is not that time, and this film has not aged well. All of the funny things that had some (or a lot) of originality back then, have now been done to death. Like the Howard Cosell scenes. I'm sure that was a scream, then, but now it's old hat. I suppose I should judge the film from its own time, but I didn't see it then, I saw it now. Woody Allen's tiresome New York angst shtick has palled over the decades, and that's not new, or fresh, or funny anymore. I would probably suggest taking a pass on this film, unless you have some interest in it as film history. It won't work as comedy. "},{"Title":"There is none greater than Woody!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so hilarious that you will laugh for a whole lifetime. Woody Allen is a good actor, great director and brilliant writer.  I have seen all of his movies and this is his best so far.  I recommend it for everyone who feel the need to laugh for 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"It was pithy. It had... great pith.","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" BANANAS is not your typical Woody Allen movie. That may seem to be a strange thing to say, seeing as how it attempts to be a joke-a-minute farce and, like his stand up comedy, it has a stream of consciousness quality, one gag vaguely leading to the next. But while it does suggest the style of comedy of Woody Allen the comic, it doesn't reflect the style of Woody Allen the filmmaker -- or for that matter Woody the playwright or short story author. If anything marks Allen's growth as a filmmaker, it is his increasing ability to focus and structure his works. Woody tends to make films that are short and too the point, a blessing in a medium that has increasingly seen the advent of rambling, pointless and tedious epics running three to four hours long. That's not to say that his films don't occasionally take off on flights of whimsy, but they seldom stray too far from his central theme.Even though his other so-called early, funny movies also rely on the TV skit mentality, they tend to have a foundation, such as the documentary format (TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN) or as chapters in a book (EVERYTHING YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX*). Whereas, BANANAS is, well, sloppy, and not in a free and easy sort of way. Though sprinkled lightly with bits of political satire (National Review magazine is in the pornography section of the book store), the narrative of BANANAS seems mostly to exist as a springboard for jokes. And there is nothing wrong with that, if the jokes were just funnier -- or at least more consistently funny. The film has been compared to the films of the Marx Bros., an apt comparison; but even the Marx's best films had their share of clinker moments and embarrassingly ill-considered jokes. A compelling story and strong characters can carry a comedy as long as it doesn't have too many dud jokes. BANANAS has neither of the former and too many of the latter.Even within its own convoluted logic, BANANAS really doesn't go anywhere. Woody plays Fielding Mellish, a typical New Yorker (that is typical by Woody's standards) whose brief fling with a political activist (Louise Lasser) finds him involved with South American revolutionaries, the end result being his rise to the presidency of the fictional San Marcos. And then his being persecuted by the United States. There's no great logic here; in the U.S. there are jokes about New York and in South America there are jokes about military regimes. It is said that much of the material was improvised -- way out of line for a Woody Allen film -- and it shows especially when characters seem at a loss about what to say or how to react.One doesn't expect great character development in such a comedy, but vivid performances would certainly have helped. It says something that the most commanding performance comes from sports commentator Howard Cosell playing himself. Otherwise, only Woody actually has a character to play and even that seems to be his standard nebbish persona. The love story with his ex-wife Lasser is sidelined halfway through the film, giving Woody no comedy foil with whom to share the jokes throughout most of the story. It is almost a one-man show, like his stand-up routines.But to be fair, the film does have some classic funny moments. The bookend appearances by Cosell, first covering a political assassination like a sporting event, then returning to do the same as Woody consummates his marriage to Lasser, are both funny as gags and as a satire of the way the media views sports, politics, entertainment, sex and celebrity gossip as being interchangeable. There is a priceless scene where Woody goes to say goodbye to his parents, two doctors who apparently run their own hospital, only to be coaxed into helping finish up an operation in progress. But the high point is the climatic courtroom sequence in which Woody has to defend himself on charges of treason. It is as choppy and chaotic as the rest of the film, but the gags work. Among those testifying is J. Edgar Hoover, who is solemnly played by a black woman. That alone is funnier than anything else in the film. "},{"Title":"Mad and Great.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film was made in 1971 and I saw it in 2006 and still I feel it's a great film. Not many films can do that! It could have scored more if more time had been spent to polish it, as I understand there had been a lot of improvisations in its making.But Allen is really a master! The film is so mad and yet so transpiring that you have to think while you laugh.The courtroom scene was a masterpiece, and can come from no one other than a genius. That genius has the face of a comedian, the mind of a philosopher, and the fingers of an artist.Your're great, Allen! "},{"Title":"Self-consciously absurd satire","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Social satire starring Woody Allen as a neurotic New Yorker who is frustrated by not being taken seriously by his politically active girlfriend (Louise Lasser) and thus travels to a troubled South America dictatorship to join a revolution. Allen uses an absurd, frenetic style in which styles of dialogue and conventions from films and television are intentionally mixed and juxtaposed to spray satire in every direction and expose the essential ridiculous nature of everyone and everything. Its a work of pure genius with allusions to Eisenstein and the Marx Brothers, as well as to Wide Wide World of Sports, but one can understand the frustration of some viewers with the apparently disconnected narrative. "}{"Title":"So-so","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen plays Fielding Mellish, a timid New Yorker who goes to San Marcos, gets involved in a revolution and becomes head of the country!Plays as bad as it sounds.  It's a very dated and surprisingly crude comedy.  I'm giving it a 7 only because Allen is very good and there are quite a few truly funny moments.  Most of them come in sequences where he's paired off with ex-wife Louise Lasser (as the love interest).  But the revolution section is unfunny (and the bulk of the movie), stupid and dull.  Hard to believe Allen wrote those jokes!  Still, it's watchable.  Look for Sylvester Stallone as a hood.  One of Allen's lesser works. "},{"Title":"Cinema Hasn't Quite Recovered","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen's Bananas is simply one of the 10 funniest movies of all time. Each of Woody's films in the late 60s was an improvement over the previous one (as writer, director, or both); with Bananas, he hit the top of the peak.  The film is pure slapstick, verbal humor and black comedy (Woody's fascination with sex, death and religion comes out in many inspired sequences).  He would make better (which is saying, more serious) films in the future, but Bananas, with no point to make, is pure lunacy.  I can't imagine anyone not liking this film (unless, of course, you hate to laugh...) "},{"Title":"Not bad early Woody","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's Bananas is a comedy of hits and misses. When it's funny, it's very funny and the film features a number of real stand out moments, such as the power mad general dishing out the new laws he's made, and of course Allen's neurotic dialogue, which is always a treat. However, at a number of moments; you get the impression that Woody Allen is trying to be funny, but he's failing miserably, which only serves in being annoying. This is Woody Allen while he was still in his rather immature phase (everything before Annie Hall), and it shows by way of the rather ludicrous plot, which sees Allen losing he girl he is infatuated with, on the grounds of him not having leadership qualities. So, he goes on the holiday to San Marcos that the two of them were meant to go on, and somehow gets caught up with a group rebels there that are trying to provoke a revolution, and eventually becomes president. Hey, I told you it was silly!In Woody's immature period, he had several hit's and misses, with Sleeper being at the foot of his filmography, and the wonderful Everything You Always Wanted to Know about Sex at the summit. This one is more hit than miss, but to call it an actual 'hit' would be lying. Basically, Woody doesn't capitalise on the more interesting parts of the story, and instead seems all to keen to show us some slapstick humour. Although this is funny at a number of times, this film could have been a biting political satire on how America deals with other nations, or maybe even how rebels fail once they come to power. It could have even been an interesting commentary on the superficiality of love. Maybe Allen could have outdone himself and gone for all three! Basically, this is a 7/10 movie where a 10/10 one could have been. Don't get me wrong, this is definitely a good film and well worth watching, particularly for the Woody Allen fan; it's just unfortunate that it came at a time when Woody was still a clown. "},{"Title":"Too much physical comedy.","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have started a Woody Allen month and this is my third movie after Annie Hall and Anything Else with Annie Hall as may favorite so far. Those other movies had philosophy of their own with great dialogs and very sophisticated humorous lines. But on this one Woody Allen just falls, acts clumsily etc.which I don't really appreciate for a comedy.Sure the movie as a whole very clever one with its topic and countless needles on the events of its time. Moreover the absurdity of the movie is incredible, the beginning and the ending sequences just blew my head, I just can't imagine the reaction this picture got in 70s.All in all this is not the best comedy ever but it is sure another piece of art from Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"Among the Best of Early Woody.","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is pretty funny stuff, a story about Woody who quits his job as a products tester in New York and travels to the banana republic of San Marco in order to win the affections of a political activist, Louise Lasser.A few of the gags are no more than silly (everybody wants to suck the venom out of the breast of a young woman who has been bitten by a snake). Most however clear a more demanding bar, and some put Woody's unbridled imagination on display. When the rebels take over, their leader announces a new regime in which everyone must change underwear every half hour, and they must wear their underwear on the outside so they can be checked. Furthermore, all children under the age of sixteen are now sixteen years old. There are semi-intellectual jokes involving philosophy too. And Woody's physical comedy is as good as the verbal.If there is any serious message involved, it's mighty covert. If it exists at all it must be that rebellions are by their nature absurd. He was to take the notion further in Sleeper, which in many ways is his most successful pure comedy. After that he did Annie Hall, which is in my opinion his best blend of ludicrous incidents and serious examinations of romance. And after THAT, came Interiors, which shouldn't have happened, and then a return to amusing divertimentos.The direction is sometimes clumsy. The staging isn't always effective and Woody uses too many close ups and wavering cameras. But none of this matters because, really, we're likely to be laughing too much to notice. "},{"Title":"And Nary a Banana On Screen","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before Woody Allen became a serious director, often bringing his admiration and influence of old Hollywood and Ingmar Bergam into the forefront, he directed one of his funnier entries in this, his 1971 movie BANANAS. Here the jokes come rather fast and furious as his alter-ego Fielding Parrish, a product tester who has a thing for Nancy (Louise Lasser) who wouldn't want anything to do with him anyway. Somehow he finds himself in a Central American country called San Marcos, where he becomes its guest of honor and later its ruler, a position which later places him in hot water as he becomes labeled a subversive. Sight gags abound left and right even when it feels sketchier -- less of a movie than a short reel, and foreshadow the side-splitting comedies EVERYTHING YOU WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX and SLEEPER. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's not deep or meaningful and the jokes are corny but it gave me an hour and a half of pure fun. I was laughing out loud for at least half of it. The plot is completely contrived but that just adds to the fun. Woody Allen is at his comical best and the rest of the cast played out their absolutely ridiculous roles perfectly! The opening scene is a killer and it doesn't let up even for a minute after that. Wow! "},{"Title":"Some hilarious scenes but disjointed and Woody alone","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fielding Mellish (Woody Allen) is a pathetic worker drone. He tries to push out a couple of subway thugs (Sylvester Stallone) but it doesn't quite work out. Political activist Nancy (Louise Lasser) knocks on his door and he falls head over heels for her. He tries to impress her by going to the banana republic of San Marcos ruled by dictator General Emilio Vargas and then joining the revolutionaries.The humor is a bit random and a bit too broad. Also Louise Lasser is not compelling enough. She definitely doesn't add anything to the comedy. I just feel this comedy is way too disjointed. I get whiplashed from one comedy skit to another. One scene may be funny but the next one has me scratching my head. Even the camera style seems disconnected and too much of the comedy fails to hit. It's suggested that there are some improvisations but that is a particular skill that not all comedians or actors have. Woody seems capable but I wouldn't bet anybody else in the movie is quite as capable. Woody needs a good co-star to play off of him. This is a movie that has some great jokes but when the jokes don't work, they really bother me. And he really needs better comedy partners in the movie. "},{"Title":"Raunchy,religion bashing slapstick isn't my cup of tea.","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am not a big fan of Woody Allen.A lot of it has to do with his persistent slams against Christianity,which I don't find funny.This film does little to change my mind,but I will have to give him some credit here.At least he kept the religious slams to a minimum with this film.He took the basic elements of slapstick comedy that we had known throughout the years and incorporated it into a much racier period in film history quite successfully,but it's not enough to impress me personally.Slapstick is much more appealing to me without all the raunchiness.Give me the Marx Brothers or Laurel and Hardy any day of the week. "},{"Title":"Comic purity marred only by time","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although an obviously low budget might keep some from fully appreciating the comedy in this movie, I think most people who like Woody Allen should enjoy this movie very much.  While it hasn't aged as well as some of Allen's other early films (particularly the classic Love and Death) fans of his earlier, funny movies will definitely get a kick out of this one, which combines wacky visual comedy with a wry script. "}{"Title":"Should be Rereleased","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A lot of the jokes in this comedy resonate better now than when the film was first released (at least it seems that way).  In any case, this movie has aged well and shows Allen on the peak of his slapstick game.  In the 80's they used to have Woody Allen festivals where they would show triple features.  Seems impossible today with the was distribution is as well as Mr. Allen having shot himself in the foot, but it would be nice to see a retrospective of his better works.  Also, the music in this film is perfect and the opening credits are a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Another funny rainy day movie from the Woodman","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I pity those who cling and clamor towards the more intellectual works of Woody Allen and neglect the few early slapstick comedies he started out making.  Woody's second directorial effort, Bananas - just as much as Take The Money And Run, Play It Again, Sam, Sleeper, and Love & Death - is ninety minutes of complete stupid, laugh-out loud comedy. There is not much of a plot and little in the way of character development or storytelling.  The story is just a set-up for Woody to pour out his endless bundle of jokes.  As consumer products tester Fielding Mellish, Woody falls in love with Nancy, a political activist looking to enroll him in an upcoming protest march.  The two strike up a romance, but Nancy soon finds Fielding is not dedicated enough to his political beliefs and leaves him. Looking to impress her, Fielding leaves America for the fictional Latin country of San Marcos where he finds himself embroiled in a revolution and unintentionally becomes their leader (replete with a fake beard a-la Fidel Castro).I've noticed other comments criticizing the political naiveness of the film and it is again a sad reminder of the touchy-feely, overly-sensitive times we are living in.  The film isn't meant to stir your emotions or awake any political apathy you may hold, the movie just wants to make you laugh! It's easy for comedies that use sight gags to hold up over repeated viewings, but the verbal barbs in Bananas still crack me up over and over. Like all of Woody's pre-Annie Hall films, this movie is perfect for rainy days.  Just stretch out on the couch, turn off your brain, and laugh away. So, you've got problems?  Well this film won't solve them, but it's bound to make you forget them for an hour-and-a-half.Maybe part of the joy of watching this film over and over is just to laugh at the familiar jokes I've seen one hundred times already.  The near-climax where Woody cross-examines himself in a courtroom is hysterical, as well as a scene in San Marcos where Woody enters a local diner and orders lunch for 1,000 army troops in complete dead-pan manner.  There is also Woody's fantastic reaction to hearing someone utter the word castration.  The one-liners never quit either, whether Woody is trying unsuccessfully to sweet-talk Nancy during lovemaking (I can't speak French, how about Hebrew?) or when he tries to invite himself to a party where coworkers are going to watch porno films (You need an usher?).  It's also worth noting that in his early days, Woody was one of the great physical comedians of his time.  I savor Woody's early films so much - even if they don't carry the weight of his later work - simply because this slapdash kind of moviemaking has since become extinct in today's cinema.  Like I said, this is a funny, insignificant, little film; great for a quick escape.  So long suckers! "},{"Title":"Excellent humor","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of Woody Allen's film, so it had little funds. Moreover, he couldn't get well-known actors. However, the dialogues and gags are simply excellent, with absurd, brilliant, direct humor. I'd say it's one of the funniest fims of Allen, with a kind of humor diferent to Annie Hall's or Manhattan's. "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's Best Early Films","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Those of you who are familiar with Woody Allen, and anybody who has seen any great amount of his movies know that his films have mainly two periods. The first is a much lighter humor, visible in Sleeper and Bananas, and the other, which occurs much later on, is a dark, cynical take on life (Deconstructing Harry)     This belongs to the first category, and is an absolutely brilliant film. Woody is one of the true comic geniuses in this country, along with Chaplin, Keaton, and a select few others.         The film grabs you from the first gag, and never lets go. It is laugh-out-loud hillarious, and anyone who liked Sleeper should definately check this out.      "},{"Title":"lots of great moments and lots of flat moments","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a lot like Allen's prior film, TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN, in that there are so many hilarious moments as well as very flat and unfunny ones. Some of the best moments included the harp player in the closet, his going to the take-out restaurant to get money for the guerrilla army and his going to dinner with el Presidente (and so he brings some danishes). It's raw and silly and lots of fun! The flat moments are many, such as the Howard Cosell ending to the film and most of the time he's acting with Louise Lasser. But, I'd rather see a film like this that lacks polish than many of his later, more refined, films. That's because unrefined or not, I laughed myself silly several times during the film.SNAKE BITE!!! "},{"Title":"My favorite Woodman movie","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so I lied on Play It Again Sam.  THIS is my favorite Woody movie. Woody tries to impress activist Lasser by going south and involving himself in Central American revolution.  Many comical highlights, including the climatic trial of Woody on charges of subversive activities.  Nice to see Howard Cosell again.       "},{"Title":"Woody at his best!!!","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one of Allen's films i was dying to see!I wasn't let down.The comedy is brilliant and Woody knows how to make his audience laugh better than anyone else.It's a shame that his films aren't as successful as the many intellectually undemanding comedies we get nowadays. "},{"Title":"BANANAS 3.5/4","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BANANAS is, and it seems that it will remain, Woody Allens funniest film.  It is certainly not his greatest film (that would have to be Manhattan) but the jokes and the gags just never stop, and each and everyone one of the jokes is better then the last.  There isn't a strong plot holding the hilarity together, but the main joke here is that Woody Allen is leading a revolution.  Why is he doing this you ask?  He is doing it because he wants nothing more then to impress the woman he loves.  Some of the best bits are when allen gets lunch for an entire army of 1000 and the whole subway bit where he throws 2 pick pocketers off of a woman.  If you are into classic comedies, see BANANAS.  "},{"Title":"Woody with a-peel....","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen fans are a funny bunch.  They like his serious films as much as his funny ones.Me, I like a good old-fashioned laugh more than personal introspection any day.  So that's why one of my favorite movies has to be Bananas. Woody basically plays himself, testing office exercise equipment, falling in and out of love, getting involved in a South American political battle then becoming a reluctant puppet leader.  Our hero.The humor is limitless, especially with Woody at the helm.  Too many to count here but you have to love any movie that has Howard Cosell doing color commentary of a political assassination and a honeymoon.Ten stars.  And if you're looking for help to keep your government in power, remember it's spelled C - I - A. "},{"Title":"Not his best...","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...but certainly not Woody Allen's worst film. While it is hilariously funny, it lacks the educated verbal wit of Annie Hall or Manhattan. Although, this is obviously not meant to be an intellectual piece. It is done more in the tradition of Everything You Always Wanted to Know about Sex* *but were afraid to ask. Of course, it puts his recent work to shame. The last semi-decent movie Allen has done is Deconstructing Harry, and even that wasn't nearly up to his caliber of writing. Curse of the Jade Scorpion and Hollywood Ending, and even Small Time Crooks were pitiful attempts at recreating a style that, unfortunately, has not really been accepted by American society in over twenty years. The best and most recent work of Allen is by far Manhattan Murder Mystery. If you like dumb slapstick and some tacky but sharply hilarious jokes, check out BANANAS.  "}{"Title":"Really awful from every perspective. 3 Given out of Respect for Woody Allen","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yikes!We did funnier skit comedy as kids in grade school. Allen was fortunate to have continual opportunities to hone his movie making skills. This is really rough to watch. I mean really...how can any critic give this a positive review?I admire Allen, love many of his movies, but Bananas was hard to like when I was 13. Seeing it again was painful. Sorry, but my 3 rating is generous. Not worth detailing the reasons. I'm going to watch Sleeper next to reinstate the Allen comic mojo. "},{"Title":"Anything Goes Woody Allen","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While, in my younger day, I loved these movies, I see now how hit and miss they could be. Woody takes his shtick to a banana republic where there has been a revolution and uses every cliché about how unstable a government can be. He ends up on trial for his life, being confronted by a black woman claiming to be J. Edgar Hoover. Miss America also shows up. There is a consummation of a marriage with commentator (big at the time) Howard Cosell. Anyway, the story is nothing but an excuse for sight gags and silliness. Allen is often at his best in vignettes and this is full of them. As time passed, he became of the world's great directors, but it took time to get the whole package. Actually, when Annie Hall came along. See this for a lightweight bunch of laughs and realize that all this stuff is still going on in South and Central America. "},{"Title":"Funny and Forgettable","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To impress his political activist girlfriend, a product tester leaves New York to lead a revolution in a South American country. In Allen's third directorial effort, the jokes and sight gags come in rapid fire and of course they are hit and miss, mostly the latter. Watching this movie is like listening to a stand-up comic. It's amusing enough while it happens, but is quickly forgotten after it's over. Of course Allen realized this and turned to a more sophisticated brand of comedy after a few years. Lasser, Woody's wife at the time, is pretty good in the kind of role that would go to Diane Keaton and Mia Farrow in later films. "},{"Title":"We had read the book and looked forward to the movie.","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My husband and I had read the book on which the movie is based, and thoroughly enjoyed it, so looked forward to the movie. Unfortunately at the moment, I cannot remember the original book title or the author. Perhaps someone can help me on that - or I'll catch it in the credits tonight. It has been quite some time since seeing the movie, but I had noticed in my TV guide it is on tonight, so plan to see it again. We are not Woody Allen fans, so was originally disappointed to see him in the role, and it seems the movie did not quite follow the story line of the book totally, but I do think we enjoyed it on it's own. We'll see if we still feel the same after tonight. "},{"Title":"Not typically Woody Allen,but still one of his best!!","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bananas is not your typical Woody Allen movie although it has got a lot of dialogue and verbal jokes in it. Still,it doesn't resemble other Allen classics like Manhattan(10/10) and Annie Hall(9/10).where those movies are all about lost love in New York this movie is a completely chaotic and hilarious rollercoaster about love,dictatorship and 10.000 other subjects.It is impossible to explain every joke since there are so many.you would almost call it a screwball comedy,but then 100 million times as good.The jokes are,although sometimes pretty childish,extremely funny and right on the spot.highlights are the order of 1.000 sandwiches,the rebel-training in San Marcos and the brilliant court sequence in which the jury smokes grass and Woody Allen talks while he's got a bandage around his mouth. Watch closely for the sequence pretty much in the beginning of the movie in the subway when we see a young Sylvester Stallone as a mugger! This performance would go on to be,together with Rocky, the best in his career if you ask me.(I hate Stallone) Woody Allen's performance is great as ever and he carries the movie to an insane frenzy that is Bananas. 10/10  "},{"Title":"amusing","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BANANAS is not one of Woody Allen's greatest achievements.  But, like his earlier works, it contains plenty of spastic humor to make it worth the viewing.  There's also a brief scene with Sly Stallone prior to stardom.Ted's Grade B  "},{"Title":"Sly Stallone Is A Subway Thug Is The Best Thing I Can Say About This","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think your enjoyment of this movie depends if you are a fan of Woody Allen or not. Since I am not, I didn't enjoy it at all.Plot In A Paragraph Fielding Mellish (Woody Allen) works as a product tester. Fielding has the hots for Nancy (Louise Lasser), the girl collecting petition signatures door to door for the liberation of San Marcos, so he pretends to be interested in her cause. A relationship develops between them, but when she dumps him, he is devastated. He thinks he'll have to get very involved in the situation in San Marcos to win her back.I did enjoy the scene with a young Sylvester Stallone (as subway thug) interestingly enough, Woody Allen initially sent Stallone back to the casting agency after deciding he wasn't 'tough-looking' enough. Stallone pleaded with him, and eventually convinced him to change his mind. And I did like Howard Cosell's scenes at the beginning and end of the movie, but I am at a loss as to why it was called Banannas "},{"Title":"Wasn't funny at all! 1/10","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Review This has to be Woody Allens worst film! The storyline is badly written and the jokes were terrible. As usual, Allen seems to get his leg over at some point, which wasn't surprising, but the whole political storyline was all over the place. Personally, I lost interest halfway through the film and I struggled to stay awake. And why  doesn't he comb his hair! Anyway, I usually prefer his earlier work to his films during the 90's, but I can't see why anyone would enjoy this film. Judging by the movies taking, it must have gone down well with audiences, which must be down to the period that the movie got released. Terrible!Round-Up I don't know what Woody Allen was trying to attempt with this film. Most of his movies have a hidden message, but this film is completely bananas. The commentary from the news cast was also a bad attempt at humour along with the terrible training in the jungle. Basically I found this film a total waste of time and I can't find a good word to say about it.Budget $2million Worldwide Gross $12millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a product tester who gets kidnapped by rebels. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Sporadically funny but messy film that is too hit and miss to deserve its high reputation","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fielding Mellish is a product tester who is unlucky in life and in love. When a beautiful woman turns up on his doorstep seeking signatures for a petition to the US Government to support the rebels in a small South American country, Fielding falls for her immediately. They date for a while but ultimately Nancy is put off by his lack of passion for political suffering and breaks it off with him. As part of his rebound, Fielding heads to the military dictatorship of San Marcos and manages to find himself embedded amongst the rebels as they prepare to storm the capital from the mountains.Watching some modern Woody Allen films put me in the mood to go back to the start and watch some of his earlier films that I hadn't seen for ages or had never seen. Bananas was one of these as I don't think I had ever seen it but I had heard good things about it as it is considered one of those captured by the phrase earlier, funnier films. Loving Love & Death and other of his films from this period, I had no reason to suspect it would not be as good as others have said, but sadly it is not. The plot is a doozey of an idea and offers so much but it is only here and there that Allen's script manages to hit this target. Outside of thee moments a lot of it is more hit and miss and a lot more sporadic in terms of the type of humour it is. We have plenty of good lines that are quite funny but too much of the film that isn't. The silent film-inspired physical comedy is a bit too obvious and relies heavily on Allen pulling faces rather than delivering inspired sequences. The film is best when it is built on smart lines but the messy plot development does keep it messy and prevents it being consistent.Allen himself is good and does deliver some great moments as writer but ultimately he doesn't pull it together to be as roundly satisfying as some of the films he would do later. Lasser doesn't have much in the way of chemistry with him, which isn't a massive problem because she is not in a lot of the film but does limit her scenes. The rest of the cast are OK and I did enjoy the use of sports and news casters covering the action at the start and end of the film (although their dialogue is not funny enough to support the joke going on for as long as it does).Bananas is amusing but it is far from being the classic comedy that collective wisdom will tell you that it is. It is sporadically funny across the running time but too hit and miss to really satisfy. Some random parts are funny but it cannot deliver consistent laughs &#150; this will satisfy those who love Allen to the point that they love everything he does but for the casual viewer it will be far too messy and hit/miss to satisfy and be anything other than an amusing film &#150; not a great or hilarious one. "},{"Title":"funniest opening ever for a movie","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think that the opening of the film is the best and funniest ever - brilliant and riotous humor. After touring around in South America and especially Cuba, learning about the Political history of the relevant time period, one can see how brilliant the assassination on live television scene is in the beginning.Howard Cosell plays the role brilliantly, and to see more of his characteristic antics that are satorized here, watch Monday Night Mayhem and Ali (played by the brilliant John Turtorro and Jon Voight).Unfortunately the movie doesn't live up to its promise and doesn't fall within the all-time Woody Allen greats as Annie Hall, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Manhattan, Play it again Sam, Bullets over Broadway and Sleeper. Have fun and enjoy the opening. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Bananas Is Not One of Woody Allen's More Ripe Comedies (May contain spoilers, I don't know!)","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have always found Woody Allen's more high brow style of humor refreshing in a industry where each new year brings its crop of toilet bowl humor. In spite of Allen's obsession with prostitutes and porn, he manages to make the lives of his intelligent, but neurotic and dysfunctional characters largely interesting. Here, he takes a common man; a product tester named Fielding Mellish and transforms him into the dictator of a Latin American country. However, the concept turns out funnier than the actual delivery. Before seeing this movie, I thought of films like The Mouse that Roared, The Great Dictator, or Dr. Strangelove, which take the ideas of war, and/or dictatorships (both normally very serious subjects) and make them hilarious.However, Allen's film never reaches the comedic heights of these other films. First he opens with a confusing scene in which ABC Wide World of Sports covers the assassination of the president of San Marcos. Next we see Fielding at work in a scene that looks like a tribute to Charlie Chaplin's chaotic scene in Modern Times, in which he is made to carry out multiple tasks at the same time, but with less comedic impact than in Chaplin's scene (where Chaplin is even fed while working on an assembly line). Bored and without love in his life, Fielding goes home to his lonely little apartment, and is soon visited by Nancy, an political activist collecting signature for a petition. In order to get her in bed, Fielding convinces Nancy that he agrees with her about her support for the guerrillas fighting the dictatorship of San Marcos, and takes part in a series of demonstrations. After Nancy dumps him because there is something missing in their relationship, Fielding flies to San Marcos, where he fights with the rebels.When the rebels win the war, they name him the new dictator. Fielding then makes a state trip to the U.S. and encounters a smitten Nancy (who not recognizing him, badmouths Fielding). The U.S. Government soon realizes that Fielding is a U.S. citizen, so they put him on trial for trying to sabotage the U.S. Government (or something like that). One of the somewhat humorous moments of the movie is the courtroom scene where Fielding acts both as his own attorney and as a witness for himself. Once that whole nasty treason thing ends, Fielding is free to pursue Nancy again, and the movie ends with yet another ABC Wide World of Sports event. I for one, would have rather watch ABC cover the world of golf than look at this film again. Sorry Woody, but this is not your best effort. "},{"Title":"Small laughs - but better than no laughs at all.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A comic tale of how a mild mannered product tester (Allen) gets himself involved in a third world  revolution, simply because he wants to impress a politically-minded girl.Very much the part of the earlier (funnier!) period before Allen (the film maker) had the courage to try and ape European cinema or use drama as anything more than a device for us to jump  from one comic moment to the next. Even primitive slapstick wasn't off the menu back in 1971.As per usual, being Allen's main-squeeze of the day gets the leading female role; although Lousie Lasser is only a laid-back hippie type who can't act a jot (despite her angelic looks, she later got in to legal problems with regards her consumption habits.) Not hard to see why Allen, the man, moved on to fresh pastures.You know the score some jokes work, some jokes don't - but don't worry there is another one along in a minute. The central political theme is throw away, although not to say it doesn't score with a few jibes (Rebel Leader These people know nothing of democracy.) and Allen manages to tag his best gag (I won't spoil it) on at the end of the picture, although it has little to do with what has gone before.   Like much of his early work, has the look of being rather thrown together in haste and without enough love, but there are enough easy laughs for us not to care too much.  "},{"Title":"Tasteless and politically naive","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Allen's younger self was even more unprepossessing than his middle-aged self. The charm of some of his more mature performances is also missing here. He is matched in charmlessness by his co-star, Louise Lasser to whom he was married at the time. The plot is tasteless and politically naive. The New York section resembles a proto-Annie Hall; there is even a cut-price version of the lobster joke with Allen chasing a block of frozen spinach around the kitchen. There are some good jokes which partly redeem the weak material and also signs that Allen was more in control of the slapstick element than in his other early films.In the courtroom sequence Allen has J Edgar Hoover as a witness disguised as a black woman. It is interesting to speculate whether Hoover's sexual proclivities were common knowledge in 1971 or whether Allen's joke was ahead of its time.  "},{"Title":"American Movies Yes, Bananas No! *","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stupid, inane Woody Allen vehicle where he spoofs revolutions in Central America, love relationships and assortment of other topics. Problem is that he tries to blend too much in and as a result this film has problems.Woody is always so interested in philosophy. It seems to be a constant theme in it. He should have stayed in college and majored in it.Louise Lasser, who had divorced Allen in 1969, should have broken all ties with him before making this 1971 film. She is silly and the rebel with a cause in all liberal undertakings.How Allen thinks that leading a revolution with UJA officials running with the revolutionists is ridiculous at best. This obnoxious scene doesn't even dignify a response from the viewers.Howard Cosell and Roger Grimsby are along for the ride as the play themselves as commentators on this nonsense.Real schlock at best! "},{"Title":"Worth watching for the political and social satire.","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Over the years I've grown tired of Allen's sex obsessed neurosis (& jokes about child molestation just aren't funny ever...especially given his history). This is not a very feminist movie by any stretch of the imagination lots of female nudity and 1 dimensional women existing solely for sexual gratification.However, several scenes make it worth watching.... the opening scene with a sports announcer calling an assassination and the trial scene where one witness states she thinks he's a traitor for not agreeing with the president. The movie had several such gems where it (sadly) hit our own foreign and domestic policies dead on. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen, El Presidente","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just recently re-watched a double feature of Bananas and Take the Money and Run, and came away thinking how much better Woody Allen's goofy early comedies were than the equivalents he's still churning out like clockwork now (Scoop comes to mind).Don't get me wrong, Bananas is no comic masterpiece. But it is awfully funny, and nearly every joke lands on its feet. Allen himself plays Fielding Mellish, a nebbish products tester who gets dumped by his true love, an activist played in a divinely zoned out performance by Louise Lasser, and then heads to the Latin republic of San Marcos, only to find himself embroiled in a guerrilla movement to overthrow that country's brutal dictator. Sight gags and one liners abound. There's an hilarious montage that shows Allen being trained for guerrilla warfare (he just can't seem to get the hang of grenades, and he's squeamish about sucking the venom out of a comrade's snake bite until a buxom female compatriot winds up with a snake bite on her breast), and there's another hysterical moment when he ventures to a nearby restaurant and places an order for the entire rebel army that ends with him asking for a thousand 7-Ups (the cole slaw has to be transported to the camp by wheelbarrow).It's all very silly and completely untaxing on your brain, like a very well done sketch comedy show. Woody Allen credits the Marx Brothers and Ingmar Bergman (what a combination!) as his primary influences, but I think he left out Monty Python.Grade A- "},{"Title":"The earlier films weren't funnier--or better","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Actually, the movie's improvisatory style seems more forced and contrived than a later film like Love and Death. Woody's humor got even better when he started being more serious. Both Manhattan and Radio Days have a great balance that keeps the comedy from becoming tedious. There are brilliant scenes--especially the early ones with Howard Cossell, but scenes like the exercise workplace test lack the precision of the similar scene in Modern Times.But comedy is such a matter of personal taste (think of the 3 Stooges and Jerry Lewis as examples of love it or hate it comedy) that I'd just as soon not try to make sweeping statements about what is the funniest Woddy Allen movie. (Although I have to say that I can't see What's Up Tiger Lily? without laughing myself sick). "},{"Title":"Awful. Absolutely awful. What a terrible movie.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie last night. This is a terrible, low-budget, poorly written comedy that has no point and a story that doesn't go ANYWHERE.This movie's story jumps around so much that it's just too hard to follow and your attention span gives out after a while, so you find yourself 'sitting' through the movie and not really watching it.Alright this movie does have some funny parts. I did crack a few laughs I'll admit. But this movie seems more like a bunch of funny parts slapped together than a story that flows smoothly and has some semblance of structure.(Why is this movie called Bananas anyway? What does this movie have to do with bananas?)But then again, what does this movie have to do with anything. This movie is so hard to follow it might as well have been called taco salad. As far as I remember from trying to follow this movie, it's sort of a romance where he's trying to impress this girl he likes by demonstrating in South America at peace conferences...but he finds himself elected by the people of some country to become the new president? I don't know. I couldn't follow it after a certain point. I only like movies that make sense.Also an interesting thing about this movie is that Sylvester Stallone plays a small role in this movie(one of the gangsters on the subway train)...yet, his name doesn't appear in the credits! Not even at the end! If they knew some day he'd be clearing $20 million for every picture he did then I'm sure they'd have his face on the cover.Oh well...it was interesting seeing Sylvester Stallone in his early 20's...you hardly recognize him when he's that young. But this movie gets an F. Because a movie needs a point.R-Zone "},{"Title":"Good, especially for a Woody Allen Flick","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having grown up in the 80's, I could never understand what genius people were talking about in regards to Woody Allen. I was in high school when I saw the Purple Rose of Cairo, and I just didn't get it, like all of his other films then and ever since. I asked a theater professor what's the deal with Woody? He suggested that I take a look at Annie Hall and his prior flicks.Bananas is funny, despite the fact it has the now 'o-so-worn-out' character of the neurotic, New York, Jewish guy, that Woody acts in every film. The film's saving graces are the outlandish situations he gets himself in, and the slap stick comedy which is lost in most of his later films.Like his other films, Bananas is dialog driven, but has some good visual gags. The plot is quite out there, which is funny unto itself. Even though Woody is in almost every frame of this film, I didn't get sick of him, as I usually do in his other films.I can now see where Woody got his 'genius' reputation. However, I really wish he'd included more of the slapstick in his later films, so my generation could appreciate them too. "},{"Title":"Only for Die-Hard Woody Fans","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm generally a big fan of Woody Allen's, but Bananas is definitely one of his weaker efforts, worth seeing only if you're also a big fan. It's extremely hit and miss. Like his other pre-Annie Hall films, Bananas is very episodic and full of wacky visual humor; he was probably heavily influenced by Charlie Chaplin. There are some genuine laughter (or at least chuckle) -inducing moments. However, a lot of the humor falls flat.For the Woody fans, it's interesting to note the similarities in plot, and sometimes even dialog, between Bananas and the subsequent comedies, Sleeper and Love and Death. You'll see political rebellions (Rebels are We is sung in both Bananas and Sleeper), silent sequences of Woody wooing women, Woody being unwillingly drafted into battle and leadership, and more. "}{"Title":"One for the junk pile","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A Woody Allen film is either very good or very bad. Bananas is worse than bad. The acting is as shallow as the story. There wasn't even anyone to pull the character out of Woody.Fielding Marsh (Allen)  needs a girl and is will to go anywhere and do anything to get one. He winds up in San Marcos a small South American country in the middle of a revolution.I would leave this one on the shelf  "},{"Title":"The worst Allen ever","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I quite like Woody Allen movies, especially Deconstructing Harry. But Bananas - even if it starts good, very good indeed - is too ridiculous to be funny. Its political agenda is admirable but it comes short in terms of delivering entertainment. It is funny in a Roberto Benigni-style. That means not much fun, actually. "},{"Title":"Banana Split","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bananas is a fitting title to this film, as the only people who could possibly find it funny are Monkeys, and they're not even people.First of all, what does Woody Allin have against the Vietnam War? If there was ever a more clear cut reason to go to war than there was in Vietnam, please let me know, because I've yet to hear of one. Woody Allin is about as out of place in the army as a piece of bread in an Atkins convention.I thought that Howard Cossell was ok, but that may just be me yearning for some real entertainment, like a football game.This movie would have been better served with peanut butter in a sandwich and fed to Elvis. "},{"Title":"One for the junk pile","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A Woody Allen film is either very good or very bad. Bananas is worse than bad. The acting is as shallow as the story. There wasn't even anyone to pull the character out of Woody.Fielding Marsh (Allen)  needs a girl and is will to go anywhere and do anything to get one. He winds up in San Marcos a small South American country in the middle of a revolution.I would leave this one on the shelf  "}]