[{"Title":"Classic feelgood exploitation!  One of Roberta Collins' finest movie moments!","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a great movie!  An entertaining female Great Escape!  Roberta Collins, Pam Grier and Sid Haig in particular are real hoots with some great moments and dialogue. Bodine (Pat Woodell) is a great character too (introduced as someone not to be messed with), especially letting loose with twin machine guns in the final gunfight. Lots of fun to be had in Jack Hill's Women In Prison exploitation classic. See Matilda The Hun and Foxy Brown themselves duke it out and mud wrestle. Ponder as to how someone so skinny (whereas the resident junkie is quite healthy) got to be head guard. The obligatory prison breakout relies on the help of one prisoner's pet cat to come through at the right time. The scenes with the junkie being completely out her tree are hilarious, although she also gets to show her creepier, more deranged side too in some scenes. The prison break attempt and the final gunfight with the authorities are fun and exciting stuff and for me Roberta Collins steals the show. Not content with the aforementioned mudwrestle with prison bully Pam Grier, she gets some male action at knifepoint and gets great revenge on the evil prison governess. Roberta has some great dialogue too in Get it up or I'll cut it off! and Bye bye lardass!  The head guard has a slight Barbara Steele resemblance. The ending is a bit rushed, some character's fates are left up in the air and the dialogue that seals Judy Brown's fate was a dub forced on the film but it's still great fun and was a groundbreaking hit for AIP. Roberta, Pam and Judy had all just been in Women In Prison beforehand and Jack Hill later also directed Pam Grier in some of the blaxploitation flicks that made her an icon. Roberta Collins would of course go onto starring in the masterpiece Death Race 2000 and the inferior (in my opinion) prison classic Caged Heat.  As you'd expect from this type of movie, there are chances to see attractive women getting naked or scantily clad and you get amusing foodfights and catfights.  The female leads are obviously in on the joke though and have fun with it.  There's some amusing moments and unlike the Charlie's Angels tv show, these resourceful, smart women really do get a chance to kick ass and get tough.  Classic feelgood exploitation!  "},{"Title":"Fantastic women in prison exploitation!","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Big Doll House was followed-up by The Big Bird Cage a year later. The two films do not follow on from each other; but are very similar in style and content. While this film is not quite as great as the later one; it's still an excellent women in prison flick. The film was shot in the Philippines and set in some backwater country; but we don't get the same great outdoor shots that we got in the later film, and most of this film takes place in the classic, dingy, prison setting. That, however, is not a problem; as a constant stream of sleaze and action will keep most viewers from worrying about where it's taking place. Naturally, the film takes place in a prison where most of the prisoners have little chance of release. A new girl enters the prison and is put in with a motley crew of female prisoners. It's not long before the conditions inside the jail force the girls into planning an escape; but not before various rivalries amongst themselves are sorted out.This film is just great fun to watch, and that's what makes it so successful. The script is rather ridiculous; but there's plenty of laughs to be had with it too so it doesn't matter. The biggest names in the cast belong to Sid Haig and Pam Grier; although neither one of them is the star. As would be the case with the later film, Sid Haig provides the most memorable role; this time as a pervy bloke that goes round delivers various goodies to the female prisoners. Most of the rest of the cast are nice to look at, as is standard for films like this. The Big Doll House is a rather lighter affair than the women in prison films by the likes of Jess Franco et al; but it's all the better for it. There's plenty of action to keep the pulses racing, including various cat fights, arguments and gun fights. There's also a series of rather trippy torture scenes, which seem weirdly out of place in the film. The Big Doll House boils down to an explosive ending and overall I wouldn't hesitate to name this as one of the all time best women in prison films (although The Big Bird Cage is slightly better). "},{"Title":"Reasonably well made and certainly never boring Women In Prison film","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Big Doll House is the film thats, along with its follow-up (not exactly sequel) The Big Bird Cage, mainly kicked off the whole Women In Prison exploitation subgenre. The surprising thing is that its not nearly as exploitive as other entries in the genre. Sure, there's the obligatory shower sequences and sadistic guards and wardens, but the female prisoners are shown in a genuinely positive light with lots of determination and smarts. I'm not saying its some kind of feminist masterpiece, but its more politically correct than most entries. Jack Hill was always one of the most intelligent drive-in filmmakers. His direction is skilled and keeps everything moving at a quick and exciting pace.The acting all around is quite accomplished for a b-movie as well. As the heroines, Roberta Collins and Judy Brown create compelling and sympathetic tough girls who are easy to root for. Pam Grier is in this, but shes merely given a supporting role. Her real breakthrough to super-stardom came with the blaxploitation classic Coffy two years later (also directed by Hill). Sid Haig and Christiane Schmidtmer both offer good sleazy support. As the sympathetic and reform minded doctor, Jack Davis offers the dullest portrayal in the film, but hes really not an important role. The Big Doll House is one of the most important exploitation films of the decade if far from the best. Its still enjoyable to watch nowadays. (6/10) "},{"Title":"The Big Doll House is the best of exploitation","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I look at the negative reviews of this movie and I have to ask myself what did these people think they were going to see? Titanic? Gone With The Wind? Driving Miss Daisy? I judge movies by how much I enjoy them, and - honestly, I can't think of a movie that has more entertainment crammed into it than this movie. It has everything you could possibly think of...and more. At first you enjoy the cheesy aspect of the movie and laugh, but then you start caring about the characters...and you HAVE to see how it ends. Oh and while I'm talking about this picture I want to say something about Roberta Collins even though most people you talk to won't even recognize her name, she was a talented and underrated actress...a natural comedienne. This film, along with the Jonathan Demme helmed Caged Heat, show what she was capable of. I highly recommend both of these films if you enjoy movies under the heading of Exploitation. ROGER CORMAN RULES!!! "},{"Title":"The Big Doll House","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Women in prison. So many films featuring women behind bars desiring to break out. Luscious women in the shower, naked and yearning for the sexual contact of a man. The sadistic warden who makes life a living hell for the girls, and it's at times a woman who runs the show. The cat fight in the mud or the food fight that breaks out usually resulting in the whole group being punished. The torture sequences featuring prisoners being whipped by a bull dike guard who really seems to be enjoying herself. The planned break out often assisted by outside help. Those who punished and harmed the girls while they were in prison get their comeuppance.Many of the girls are tough talking, strong willed, incredibly sexy, and(..my favorite part)push the guys, that do appear, around. I've seen quite a few of these types of movies, but can not really consider myself an expert because there are still many staples of the genre I haven't viewed as of yet. This has to be the sexiest female cast I've seen in one of these movies..Pam Grier, Judy Brown, Roberta Collins, Brooke Milles(..my girl of the film), and Pat Woodell all preparing for a great escape just so they can be free of the sweaty, trashy confines of their Banana Republic prison cell. Christiane Schmidtmer is Miss Dietrich, the tyrannical ruler over the prison and Kathryn Loder is her ruthless head guard with an affinity for acquiring jungle snakes as a torture(..or murdering)method to extract information regarding possible illegal activities or plotting(..she likes to let her hair down when it's time to whip or pummel a girl). Sid Haig, a prominent Jack Hill regular, has a field day as a food(..among other items of interest)supplier, assisted by Jerry Franks(..who is actually accosted by Collins, who forces him to sex with a knife she confiscated from the kitchen area!).I will admit that I love beautiful women. Especially, beautiful women wearing merely a raggedy dress that barely covers their panties, revealing their wonderful curves and sexy legs. This movie was more violent than I was expecting, but it isn't anything worse than what we normally see in today's cinema containing the damaging treatment towards women. In my opinion you couldn't assemble a more sexy group of gals to spend 90 minutes with. These were the days when inhibitions run amok and women weren't as prudish in endowing upon us their alluring naked bodies. I feel like the 70's featured some of the most stunning women, often barely starring in anything other than a few movies within the exploitation genre, before moving on to other things. I don't know where Corman and Hill were able to secure so many of these delcious sex pots, but they kept them a comin'. Unfortunately two of my favorite scenes feature a character in a heroine induced bliss, addict Harried prancing around in her cell, as if performing some type of yoga exercise, and the other where she's showering, making this little giggling sound with her face just lit up. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable chicks'n'chains movie.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'The Big Doll House' may not be the first women in prison movie of the 1970s but it was one of the most influential, kicking off the short lived but legendary Made-in-the-Philippines-but-set-in-some-nameless-Banana-republic cycle. The tape I watched was part of The Pam Grier Collection but to say Grier is the STAR of this movie is an exaggeration. Judy Brown is the star and Roberta Collins is equally important as Grier. But Brown didn't do all that much after this, and Collins is only remembered by exploitation buffs (for 'Caged Heat', 'Death Race 200' and 'Eaten Alive'), while Grier became a blaxploitation icon. That's cool, but let's not fool ourselves here. As enjoyable as it is watching Pam in this one she really doesn't do all that much. Jack Hill regular Sid Haig ('Spider Baby') has some memorable and amusing schtick with her. He plays a horny guy who brings the female prisoners food and other treats for cash. Grier and Haig obviously made a great team, and Hill would exploit this in his even more enjoyable 'The Big Bird Cage', which isn't a sequel to this movie as many seem to think. 'Bird Cage' is the better movie, but 'Doll House' is still a pretty good movie that any fan of 1970s b-grade movies will get a kick out of. "},{"Title":"Very good for its genre","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What separates - and, in my book, makes better - The Big Doll House from most Women-In-Prison films is that the focus here is NOT on the exploitation of the women (though there is some of that, of course), but on their STRENGTH and determination. Roberta Collins and Pat Woodell, in particular, have well-defined characters that know how to take care of themselves. The fights (including some mud-wrestling) are rough and wild. The casting is excellent you know something is right when Pam Grier isn't even the most beautiful woman on the screen! Collins, in particular, has a kind of beauty that you rarely see nowadays. Contrary to what other people have said, I found the scenes involving Sid Haig and his partner to be the most undesirable they do provide some form of comic relief but they go on too long and occasionally kill the pace of the movie. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable 70's chicks-in-chains drive-in gem","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The female inmates at a women's prison suffer severe mistreatment at the brutal hands of wicked warden Miss Dietrich (a nicely icy turn by Christiane Schmidtmer) and sadistic head guard Lucian (a gloriously florid and theatrical portrayal by Kathryn Loder). Director Jack Hill, working from a compact script by Don Spencer, relates the fun story at a constant brisk pace, stages the action set pieces with real aplomb, and keeps the tone cheerfully seedy and tongue-in-cheek throughout. Moreover, Hill injects plenty of wickedly funny brash humor which keeps this picture surprisingly breezy and entertaining throughout. The cast have a grand time with the sordid material Pam Grier as the sassy Grear, Judy Brown as the feisty Collier, Roberta Collins as the hard-boiled Alcott, ravishing redhead Brooke Mills as pathetic strung-out smack addict Harrad (Mills' crazed and sensuous little stoner dance rates as a definite highlight), Pat Woodell as the formidable Bodine, Gina Stuart as slinky minx Ferina, and Jerry Franks as the amiable Fred. The always great Sid Haig almost steals the whole show with his wonderfully robust and engaging performance as happy-go-lucky merchant Harry. Of course, this film covers all the satisfyingly sleazy grindhouse bases a generous amount of tasty distaff nudity, a group shower scene, a fierce catfight (in the mud, no less!), rape, torture, a messy cafeteria food fight, and an exciting last reel breakout. As an added plus, the divine Ms. Grier heartily belts out the groovy theme song Long Time Woman. Both Fred Conde's reasonably polished cinematography and the funky syncopated score by Hall Daniels are up to speed. Essential viewing for exploitation cinema aficionados. "},{"Title":"Finally, an exploitation film that delivers on its premise!","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After having to sit through film after film.with a fantastically ridiculous premise that mostly features 90 minutes of people wandering around doing nothing, it's nice to go back to a legend of the genre and know that I can still trust.The Big Doll House was my third Women in Prison film, after the infamous Ilsa She-Wolf of the SS and the Defiant Ones-inspired Black Mama, White Mama, but where both of those films seemingly ran out of inspiration fairly quickly (Ilsa grows wearying quickly, and Black Mama stagnates as most of the film is uninspired wandering.While I grew restless with both of those films, Jack Hill and The Big Doll House seemingly has it all covered, and surprisingly, the film draws its strength from restraint and respect towards its characters. Where Black Mama had plentiful amounts of gratuitous nudity, the standards were quite low and, for the most part, it wasn't PLEASANT nudity, while in Doll House, there is nudity, but more usually, they're dressed in these sort of adorably tiny dresses, like over-sized wifebeaters, and it makes them look far more attractive and pleasing to the eye than if they had been naked the entire time.The other unique thing for this film of the three is that the prisoner women seem to be constantly in power. They're never weak-willed, they may get tortured a bit, but they're always feisty, always defiant, and although you definitely get a sense of sexualized satisfaction (it's a Women in Prison movie for f-ck's sake, there's shower scenes, groping scenes, even a scene scantily-clad mud wrestling), you never get any of the uncomfortable, misogynist sleaze you most definitely get from Ilsa. That's a film that delights in the torture so much that it neglects story for much of its runtime.The acting is actually fairly solid save for our hero, Pam Grier (amusingly playing a character named Grear). But Judy Brown, Robert Collins, Brooke Mills, Pat Woodell, Kathryn Loder, Gine Stuart and Christiana Schmidter as the warden Miss Dietrich all acquit themselves admirably. On the dude side, the ever-reliable Sid Haig rocks it out without being obnoxious, and Jerry Franks is solild support. They are also given one of the better scripts I've heard here, with a lot of memorable and quotable lines (Get it up or I'll cut it off! being the most infamous, although my favorite was One of these days, I'm gonna come in here, and ZAP! Zap? You know, Zap. R-A-P-E zap.) As for the awesomeness, it's really a laundry list that never runs out. A crazy heroin addict who lights people on fire, a lesbian prison guard who threatens people with cobras, the aforementioned mud wrestling, threats of castration, people getting stabbed (including Pam Grier, who unexpectedly doesn't even survive the film!), the shower scenes, and just the basic gratuitous nudity just seems to be at a higher standard than subsequent films. Oh, and then, when all seems over, they add AUTOMATIC WEAPONRY (and rape-as-comeuppance). I do look forward to seeing more of them to be able to compare, and although being an expert in Women in Prison films is not going to be something to put on the 'ol resume, if any of them are as well-composed as The Big Doll House, it'll sure be a lot of fun.Grade 8.25/10 (B+/B) / #12 (of 26) of 1971 "},{"Title":"Sid steals the show","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" - A WIP film with Pam Grier and Sid Haig with Jack Hill directing &#150; what could go wrong? The Big Doll House is not as over-the-top as it might have been. In fact, a lot of what happens is fairly tame for a WIP. The torture scenes aren't as graphic as you might expect. The fight scenes aren't as brutal as you would hope for. And some of the acting is terrible. Pam Grier may be one of my favorite actresses of all time, but it's easy to see that this was one of her first movies. There's a big difference between Pam Grier in The Big Doll House and Pam Grier in Jackie Brown.- So why rate it a 6/10 and not lower. Regardless of its problems and shortcomings, it's still an enjoyable movie. There's a lot of really fun 70s cheese on display. And Sid Haig is magnificent. Every scene he's in is a highlight of the movie. Watching Sid run through the woods in his tighty-whitey's had me laughing out loud. "}{"Title":"The Definitive Women in Prison Movie","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Beautiful women prisoners are abused in a Philippine prison, until five of them plot an escape by taking the evil female warden hostage with the reluctant help of two male fruit vendors.I have to say this film is an exploitation movie, and therefore has some aspects that many people might find objectionable -- gratuitous nudity, sexual assault and some scenes of torture. This is not just a fun film to watch with your kids.That being said, director Jack Hill makes the most of the exploitation genre and does it in a stylish, colorful way that sets this movie apart from the scores of others in the same category. And he utilizes Sid Haig well, in a way that no other director ever has. Thanks for introducing Pam Grier to the world, too. "},{"Title":"Dolls behind bars.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" New meat enters the big house, in the shape of Collier and she learns that it won't be an easy walk in the park. Grear, Alcott, Bodine, Harad and Ferina welcome her to the rough and tumble endurance of prison life and the importance of holding your own to stay alive. Be it, from your inmates or that of their sadistic prison warden named Miss Diestrich. Then there are two peddlers, Harry and Fred who play off the inmates to get what they want. Roger Corman sent out exploitation director Jack Hill to the Banana republic (Philippines) with very little money, but on-hand he had a group of stunning women to work with. Though, to Corman's surprise, the end result was nothing but phenomenal, since it did extremely well with moviegoers. Its been done before, but this old hat Women-In-Prison concept for Big Doll House became revolutionary by giving it an ounce of fresh treatment (or maybe it was just great timing) that simply appealed to the drive-in audience to ensure the genre would erupt again. Hill's film is quite watered-down for a WIP exploitation feature (compared to its European cousins), but there are enough nitty, gritty elements involving random drug abuse, sadistic torture, and sexual antics, pumping gunfights and wild cat fights in a very energetic pattern. Production-wise, it's very solid for a meagre budget with it drumming in with a saucy score (and also Pam Grier's tantalisingly, groovy title song) and workman-like camera-work that had a great eye to detail. The bang-up story mainly focuses on a group of well-rounded and strong willed, firebrands who are not easy pushovers. Where they're trying to keep their spirit, pride and dignity in tack. A nice dash of snappy humour is worked into the salty dialogues and fiery language. There are some silly aspects, but it does bust out surprises, spontaneous inventions and comic relief, thanks largely to the minor turn by the charismatic character actor Sid Haig. But it was the memorable Pam Grier's steamily, spruced performance that steals every frame. She was the full package and afterwards would go on to be a true Blaxploitation star. Although, the attractively biting Roberta Collins holds her own quite well and Judy Brown, Pat Woodell and Brooke Mills add to the unique, spicy ensemble. Kathryn Loder performance makes headway too, as the stern and lean prison warden. Director Jack Hill's hardened direction is extremely sturdy and he keeps a quick rapid throughout.An American WIP exploitation flick that keeps it rather tasteful, but still highly entertaining b-grade material with a well-fitted cast. "},{"Title":"Classic Women-In-Prison action from director Jack Hill.","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Big Doll House pretty much sets the template for the whole WIP genre, with the introduction of several new prisoners to a banana republic womens' jail where the head warder abuses trouble-makers for the amusement of the wicked governess. After experiencing the suffering first-hand, the (ridiculously attractive) inmates of one cell decide to make a break for freedom.Director Jack Hill's film treads a fine line between straight up exploitation and tongue in cheek fun it's nowhere near as harsh as the average European WIP flick, but not quite as camp as Hill's follow up, The Big Bird Cage, which emphasised the absurdity of the genre in a more playful manner. Hence, we get an assortment of relatively light torture scenes (including that WIP favourite, electrodes on the breasts) and some bloody violence (the sudden death of one central character is particularly harrowing), all of which is mixed in with such lighter nonsense as a mess hall food fight, a spot of mud-wrestling, and the exploits of a pair of randy male fruit-sellers who dream of scoring with the banged-up birds.With plenty of gratuitous nudity from the gorgeous gals (whose numbers include blaxploitation legend Pam Grier and Death Race 2000 babe Roberta Collins), another fun turn from Hill regular Sid Haig, and a surprisingly down-beat ending that sees all of the escapees either shot or recaptured, this is a very enjoyable slice of exploitation from one of the genre's most dependable film-makers (Hill also gave us the excellent offbeat black-comedy/horror Spider Baby, and Grier blaxploitation classics Coffy and Foxy Brown).7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Low-Budget Women-in-Prison Film","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After killing her rich husband a woman by the name of Collier (Judith Brown) is sentenced to 99 years at hard labor at a women's prison somewhere deep in the Philippine jungle. She is put in a cell with 5 other beautiful women who go by the names of Alcott (Roberta Collins), Bodine (Pat Woodell), Grear (Pam Greer), Harrad (Brooke Mills) and Ferina(Gina Stuart). While each of them have their own story to tell they all share one particular view which is that the head guard, Lucian (Kathryn Loder) is extremely sadistic and the attractive warden Miss Dietrich(Christiane Schmidtmer) is either incompetent or ambivalent to the torture and abuse within the prison. Yet although a recently assigned doctor named Dr. Phillips (Jack Davis) is trying to correct the problem the inmates decide to take matters into their own hands and attempt to escape. Now, rather than detailing all of the events that transpire and risk spoiling the movie for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this was an interesting low-budget Women-in-Prison film which covered most of the main aspects associated with movies of this type. It certainly had more than its share of gorgeous women. And while I certainly can't complain about that the fact is that the overall plot was a bit too by the numbers and lacked credibility. No doubt fans of this genre will find it enjoyable though and overall I rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Judy Brown was gorgeous","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" TITLE THE BIG DOLL HOUSE was release in theaters in the United States on January 1, 1971 and it will take you 101 minutes to watch this movie. The Big Doll House is a 1971 women in prison film starring Pam Grier, Judy Brown, Roberta Collins, Brooke Mills, and Pat Woodell. The film follows six female inmates throughout daily life in a gritty, unidentified supra-tropical prison. Later the same year the film Women in Cages featured a similar story and setting, much the same cast, and was shot in the same abandoned prison buildings. A non-sequel follow-up, titled The Big Bird Cage, was released in 1972.SUMMARY Collier (Brown) enters prison, having been found guilty of killing her husband. She is loaded in a bus and taken to a new part of the prison. I this prison the woman where orange jump suits. When they arrive at the prison s front gate woman prisoner hanging above the ground in a cage greets them. After the women get a walk through the place, they are placed on a table for a complete nude body search. Collier then goes to see the doctor where she bares all in front of the doctor. The Guard comes along and tells collier it's time to go. She is introduced to the pulchritudinous companions of her cell, in for crimes ranging from political insurgency to heroin addiction. The women trade tiffs, which leads to their torture by sadistic guard Lucian (Kathryn Loder). The torture ceremonies are viewed by an impassive cloaked figure. Later in the night, one of the inmates while Collier is sleeping starts a fire beside her bed. One of the girls thinks she is a spy. Therefore, Grier and her cell mates decide to break Collier down only to have Bodine come to her rescue. Later 2 guys named Fred and his friend show up in a truck loaded with vegetables and other sorts of supplies. Fred offers Grear some cigarettes and all she has to do to get them is let Fred touch her. Collier's cellmates Alcott and Bodine (Collins and Woodell) plan to escape. Collier and another cellmate Ferina (Gina Stuart) agree to go along. Assisting is their other cellmate Grear (Pam Grier); though there are doubts, Grear's heroin addict girlfriend Harrad (Brooke Mills) will be equipped to escape.QUESTIONS Who was the person in the chair while the girls were tortured? What were the girls fighting about in the fields? Why did the girls want to escape? Why did the girls get into a food fight? How did the guards stop the food fight? Who was snooping around the guard's office? MY THOUGHTS I thought this movie was great. It had action and drama right from the start and it kept you guessing as the movie went along. Pamela Grier role as Grear was good. The movie was able to show you some of here good looking body. Pat Woodell role is Bodine was good also. Roberta Collins was bad in her role as Alcott. However, the star of this movie to me was Judy Brown. With beautiful body and that, gorgeous red hair made her the star of the movie. Brown role as Collier was excellent and she the reason I give this movie 10 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"Get it up or I'll cut it off!","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So says one of the denizens of the big doll house to a man from the outside who has come to make deliveries but gets more than he bargained for....The Big Doll House is exploitation with a capital X, made in the peak period for such stuff by the redoubtable Jack Hill and starring future cult blaxploitation actress Pam Grier. Shot in the Phillipines, clearly on next-to-no-budget, this is good cheesy fun, women in prison with a lesbian/Nazi guard and a couple of fumbling good ol' hippie-boys (one of them played by cult actor Sid Haig, in an early performance back when he was thin, had hair and came off as an oily ladies' man) who help them out at the most opportune moment. The acting's pretty mediocre, though Grier is just awful here and you get the sense that this film and some of her other early work could have killed her career if not for other...uhh...assets. Hilarious shoot-out ending, awful stunts and effects, lots of bright red paint, I mean blood.... "},{"Title":"The groundbreaking Women in Prison film!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jack Hill has always been a master of turning such a controversial subject (especially at that time) into a fine film. The Big Doll House stars Judy Brown, who is taken to a prison on some remote island where she is accompanied by other jailbirds Pam Grier, Brooke Mills, and Roberta Collins. Grier and Collins are driving forces throughout the film and seem to double-handedly run the entire joint. While Mills plays everybody's favorite psycho junkie, making an art out of hallucinating. Sid Haig is the dominating warden who uses poisonous local snakes to torture the prisoners. The movie ends with Grier, Mills, and Collins dying and Brown being captured and taken back to prison. Definitely an acquired taste and compulsory for fans of old skool Women Torture and Revenge Tales! "},{"Title":"Camp","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Big Doll House, The (1971) ** (out of 4) Beautiful women, catfights, food fights, torture, lesbianism, mud wrestling and nudity are the highlights of this cult classic Women in Prison film from Jack Hill. There's always a slight bit of sleaze that makes this interesting but overall it's pretty dull without enough story and the dramatic moments don't work. Judy Brown and Pam Grier star.It should also be noted that I prefer the rougher women in prison films by the likes of Jess Franco. Franco started this genre with 99 Women but I prefer his darker WIP films like Barbed Wire Dolls, Women in Cell Block 9 and Sadomania. "},{"Title":"Switch off after 60 minutes...","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For some reason I was expecting more from this films. I don't know why.It began well enough with opening credits that stylishly zoom in and Pam Grier singing 99 years (which also featured in the film Jackie Brown).For the first hour this Corman produced Women in Prison film was a great slice of exploitation cinema. It was surprisingly well made, with good characters and above average acting. Pam Grier and Sid Haig standing out above the rest of the cast.Then after about an hour the film becomes repetitive and boring. The same things happening over and over again. Still its good while it lasts, maybe just turn it off when it starts too get boring.For a better Women in Prison film try maybe Ilsa She-wolf of the SS. "}]