[{"Title":"Why Are The Winds And The Waves So Restless?","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"141 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  On Sunday 7 December 1941, the Imperial Japanese Navy launched a surprise attack on the US Pacific fleet in its moorings at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.  At the time, no state of war existed between the two nations.  An ingenious pre-emptive strike, as the Japanese 'hawks' saw it, was condemned by the world as one of the greatest acts of treachery in modern history.Tora! Tora! Tora! meticulously traces the build-up to Pearl Harbor by examining the diplomatic, military and intelligence events and developments on both sides.  The film is unimpeachably even-handed, telling both sides' stories simultaneously, and interleaving the Japanese and American versions with intelligence and an almost total absence of jingoism.Japan's warmongers considered their country to be trapped by history and geography.  As the industrial nations surged forward in terms of prosperity and military might, Japan was in danger of being outstripped, having few natural resources of her own.  If Japan was to compete with the USA and USSR, she would have to 'reach out' for the raw materials available in southern Asia and the Pacific, but this would mean confronting the USA, the great maritime power in the Pacific.The film explains all this very well.  We learn that the Japanese have an age-old tradition of striking against their enemies without warning, and that air superiority is the new doctrine.  The brilliant Japanese planners such as Genda (played by Tatsuya Mihashi) have grasped the lessons of the European war and know the vital importance of naval air power.  By 1941, battleships have become a liability - slow, lumbering dinosaurs which invite attack and cannot defend themselves against aircraft.  The way forward is mobile air power, and that means aircraft carriers.  If the Japanese can catch the American carriers at Pearl Harbor and destroy them, then the war will be won before it has properly started.The Americans take a fateful decision to send out their carriers on reconnaissance missions.  This strips Pearl Harbor of protection, but paradoxically ensures that Japan cannot win the war - no matter how spectacular the success of the surprise attack, the mission will fail if the US aircraft carriers survive.Throughout the build-up, the Japanese navy chiefs such as Yamamoto (So Yamomura) have a snippet of classical Japanese poetry on their minds If all men are brothers, why are the winds and the waves so restless?  They take this to mean that it is the rule of nature for man to attack his fellow man.  By the end of the film, Yamamoto has abandoned this view and now believes that We have aroused a sleeping giant, and filled him with a terrible resolve.The film catalogues the accidents and mistakes which combined to make Pearl Harbor a worse disaster for the USA than it need have been.  American aircraft are bunched together in the middle of the airfield in order to reduce the risk of sabotage near the perimeter fence, but this helps the Japanese bombers to destroy them on the ground.  Radar equipment cannot be placed in the best locations to give early warning, and in any event the radar data are misinterpreted when they predict the attack.  Because the attack falls on a weekend, it is difficult for middle-ranking officers to contact military and political chiefs, and the contingency plans are inadequate.  Radio Honolulu broadcasts through the night to guide a fleet of B-17's to Hawaii, inadvertently acting as a navigation beacon for the Japanese warplanes.If the painstaking build-up to the attack is a little slow and ponderous, it is certainly epic in scale, and when the action erupts it comes as a mighty climax.  The tension is palpable as the Japanese planes take off from their carriers, black against the ominous dawn.  What follows is a breath-taking cinematic coup as Pearl Harbor is ravaged.Verdict - A historical account of almost documentary accuracy culminates in vivid action scenes.  A marvellous film.   "},{"Title":"One of the best WW2 movies ever.","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"93 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora! Tora! Tora! has long been a favorite of this WW2 buff. Considering I have had 34 years to study and learn about the war since the film first was shown, I still maintain it is almost unbeatable in terms of realism and historical accuracy. An added attraction for me has always been it's total lack of a love interest. Unlike the recent Pearl Harbor, T!T!T! is not complicated by any silly love stories. While by recent standards the movie may seem slow paced and plodding, the details of the events leading up to the attack is gratifying to see and actually educational. The attack action is thrilling, well paced, and in its use of models, actual planes and other equipment,is extremely realistic with few distracting anachronisms. Be aware that this is definitely not a movie to watch if you are in a hurry. "},{"Title":"If you really want to know what happened...","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"92 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" ...see this film. Whether you want to waste time seeing Brucheimer and Bay's self-indulgently long PEARL HARBOR with its totally extraneous fictional romance -- that's up to you. But whether you see it or not, the real history of the human stupidity on both sides of the Pacific that created the attack is clearly portrayed in TORA! TORA! TORA!The new DVD edition has insightful commentary by the director plus a documentary about the attack. This film is tensely paced and displays and excellent cast. The Jerry Goldsmith score is kept to a minimum but is very effective. The special FX for the attack are all the more impressive considering they were done before the advent of computer generated FX such as those in PEARL HARBOR -- and they equal those of PEARL HARBOR.If you want to know the real story, see this film and then also check out the companion stories in FROM HERE TO ETERNITY, DESTINATION TOKYO, and THIRTY SECONDS OVER TOKYO. "},{"Title":"A definite must for anyone who's curious about Pearl Harbor.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"79 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I will be completely honest with all of you, I saw this movie to prepare for the upcoming 2001 block buster, PEARL HARBOR. TORA! TORA! TORA! seemed the perfect choice. Recent movies these days depressed me, but thanks to TORA! (and Clint Eastwood 's HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER), my enjoyment in watching movies returned. TORA! is an absolutely excellent film packed with incredibly well done acting and emotion and an overall feeling that leaves you blown away. PEARL HARBOR has quite a bit to live up to after seeing this. The special effects produced in TORA! are completely out of this world (even after thirty years!). More credit goes to how well documented this story goes. The Americans and Japanese did a tremendously exceptional job of recreating the entire events leading up to and including the Pearl Harbor attack. Being a Canadian, I was confused a couple years ago when the local paper announced that the number two (of the top 100) event of the 1900's was the attack on Pearl Harbor. I completely understand now and quite frankly am amazed at how both sides felt throughout the entire ordeal.Simply put, TORA! TORA! TORA! deals with all the events, mistakes (both minor and MAJOR), people involved and attitudes leading up to and during the air raid on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. Though not shown, we even have the general feeling of the U.S. President and the Japanese Emperor. Nothing is missed in this movie. It is as close to the actual depiction of Pearl Harbor you can get.For 1970, the special effects are absolutely astonishing. Very little looks fake, and nothing looks over done (like many CGI effects do these days). When the first American battletanks are struck, the explosions are incredible. When the Zero crashes into the building, the explosion is eye catching. Everything is unbelievably excellent. The acting is also first rate, how the Americans handle the warnings of a Japanese attack (they're nuts) was supremely well laid out. How the Japanese carefully planned the attack on Pearl Harbor was frighteningly well thought out. Next credit must go to the music. Jerry Goldsmith has to be one of the greatest composers of all time. The suspense created on the morning of December 7 just before the attack is still hair chilling thirty years later. Nothing seems to be wrong with TORA! except the fact that it is a little too long. A couple times, I was hoping that the attack would just begin and get over with. My patience quickly subsided with that music score and with the Emperor's poem. Very little is wrong with TORA! TORA! TORA!. It is a definite must see for anyone curious about how war works, how mistakes are made and how people respond to such attacks. "},{"Title":"An underestimated epic","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"65 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I have not seen the movie _Pearl Harbor_; nor, for that matter, do I plan to. I do not personally care for films that warp an important historical event to suit a formulaic date-flick format (a certain travesty involving a big steamship comes immediately to mind). If I go to the movie theater to watch a historical account, then that's what I want to see. _Tora! Tora! Tora!_ is exactly that, and more; it very nearly puts you right in the middle of the conflagration.It continues to be a source of total wonder for me that _Tora! Tora! Tora!_, a movie made nearly thirty-two years ago, is so expertly presented.  The reason for this is twofold usage of lesser-known character actors to keep plot distraction to a minimum, and the usage of vintage working ships and aircraft to keep the realism to a maximum. These two elements merge together to produce what amounts to a cameraman in a time machine filming the actual events on site.Since this was a collaborative effort between both US and Japanese film studios, the numerous switches between scenes will give you a good look at the differences between directing (and acting) styles. I am constantly amazed at the boldness of the content for a film released in the US during the Vietnam War, and only 25 years after the Pearl Harbor attack itself; compared to the rather wooden Martin Balsam and Jason Robards, Takahiro Tamura's Lt. Commander Fuchida is replete with a charisma I would never have expected from The Enemy. The Japanese side of the tale is laid before you so well that one is sent into the minds of the people involved, a rarity for American war films. (Sometimes it goes a little bit over the edge -- Admiral Yamamoto's comment I know the Americans are a proud and just people is a mistranslation -- but the general mood is accurately conveyed overall.)And then there is the beautiful and sometimes chilling scenery. The attack scenes themselves are eye-popping and brazen enough -- an awesome effort given the technology of the period -- but my personal favorite scene is the Japanese lead strike force's departure from their aircraft carrier. Those of you who purchase the DVD version of the movie should crank up the volume at this point. This is a piece of film that most probably can never be shot again REAL aircraft flooring their REAL engines and taking flight from a REAL ship of war, against the backdrop of the early dawn, one after another, until the sky is alive with what looks like waves and waves of warplanes. Although the aircraft and ships used were modifed American stock, the flags, uniforms, and color schemes are all authentic... resulting in a spine-tingling spectacle of Japanese pilots plunging headlong into what was ultimately a disastrous mistake. They are depicted as human beings, as they should be.It is an astoundingly accurate presentation of a dark moment in history for both the US and Japan, free of pretense, pandering to the audience, big-bucks megastars, lovey-dovey sappiness, and computer-generated pixels. You don't *need* any of these things to create a fantastic movie; all you need is history, which we all know is stranger -- and scarier, and more engaging -- than fiction. _Tora! Tora! Tora_ should be in every movie fan's library. "},{"Title":"Excellent, if not one of the best documentary style movies of all time, as told from both sides, of the event that plunged the United States into the Second World War.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"59 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie reigns supreme over it's 2001 version Pearl Harbor which is really a fictional love story confined within a true conflict. Tora Tora Tora is based on actual events leading up to this avoidable tragedy, notably the bureaucratic bungling and complacency from the top down which allowed the Japanese attack to succeed.Throughout this well done production, the story in true chronological sequence shifts between the two opposing sides with full subtitles giving the role played by each leading actor.The viewer is given a clear concise unfolding of events with the part of the code-breakers importantly emphasized. The attack is quite breathtaking in parts with several scenes closely resembling or being actual footage taken.Ironically the breaking of the Japanese naval code by U.S. Intelligence gave the Americans every opportunity to correctly contemplate the next move of their adversary, but a desire for utmost secrecy by the Roosevelt Administration and the top brass of the Navy and Army restricted the transmission of clear and proper communications necessary for the Pearl Harbor commanders, Admiral Kimmel and General Short to make sound objective judgments regarding their respective commands.Both men were treated shabbily by their superiors in the aftermath of the attack, were relieved of their command, and for decades thereafter had to endure the shame and responsibility placed on them in allowing this occurrence to happen.This movie does a lot to exonerate them from their part in this terrible disaster.P.S. I had the great honor of meeting bugler Richard Fiske personally, (USS West Virginia) with a colleague of mine when we visited Pearl Harbor in March 1997, (plus autograph),and had our photo taken with him. It is one of my enduring photos of this great sailor who gave his time unselfishly as a volunteer survivor, at the base, to give two second generation Australians the respect of knowing that we met a man who belonged to a nation which contributed to the success of winning the Pacific War. "},{"Title":"Extremely Faithful","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"63 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I can review this from a different perspective my father was a Coast Artillery officer in the U. S. Army stationed at Fort Kamehameha, abutting Hickam Field, when the attack took place. He had his family with him, so my mother, my sister, and I also were involved. I was pre-kindergarten at the time, but have a good memory. Naturally, I've read extensively about the attack since.Speaking personally, the attack in the film sounded real, though our mother kept me and my sister inside for much of the attack (we had to go outside to get evacuated from our quarters).But that aside the film mirrors historic events closely. However, (possibly a minor spoiler or two follow) there were some little points that had been added for the audience's sake.The MAGIC machine, which was breaking the Japanese PURPLE cipher, did not have to be explained to either officer, but one did, so the audience would get the drift of what was happening. (The actual machine was the greatest cryptological feat of World War II, greater than Enigma, because it was developed from scratch by Frank Rowlett under the direction of William Friedmann.) The film was based in large part from the books of Professor Gordon W. Prenge, an historian who specialized in Pearl Harbor. Prenge interviewed many of the principals in the action, on both sides, and became friends with several.This is the best film on Pearl Harbor. I got tapes for my mother and sister, both of whom shared my reaction to it. "},{"Title":"Superbly done","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This film tells the story of the attack by the Japanese Navy on an unsuspecting Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. The film is balanced insofar as it's perspective, being told from both the Japanese and American sides. The storyline begins pretty much with the decision by the Japanese government that, unless negotiations with the United States were to take a decidedly different direction, there would be no choice but to go to war. It then follows the planning of the attack by Admiral Yamamoto and his staff. Concurrently, it shows that the negotiations between the two countries was not going well at all (from the Japanese standpoint). Depicted are, sadly, the absolutely dreadful decisions made by the US Commanders at Pearl Harbor, the ignoring of evidence that an attack was imminent, the lack of coordination in communications that resulted in huge delays in receiving crucial information and, lastly, ignoring the incoming Japanese raiders after they were spotted on American radar on their way in. The actual bombing and combat footage is very well done. The acting is superb by the entire stellar cast. Overall, if you want to know how a tragic event came to be, this film will explain it. It is historically mostly correct, although some artistic license was taken, for sure. Overall, an excellent production! "},{"Title":"How It All Began","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"37 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of my favorite war films. What makes it so great is that just like The Longest Day this film looks at the events that led up to and during one of the most momentous moments in the history of not only this country, but Japan as well. I also loved the acting in it. Martin Balsam and Jason Robards should have been nominated for their performances as Admiral Kimmel and General Short, respectively. Also, I wonder how much different it would have been if Akira Kurosawa had directed the Japanese scenes as he originally was supposed to. I also wonder if the fact that it dealt with one of the darker chapters in American history had something to to with its poor box office showing on this side of the Pacific (ironically, it was a box office smash in Japan). However, it is still a great film and I especially loved it at the end when Yamamoto made his famous comment I fear we have awakened a sleeping giant and filled him with terrible resolve. How right he was. "},{"Title":"A Date Which Will Live In Infamy","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The real story of Pearl Harbor may have begun in 1853 when a squadron of U.S. frigates under Matthew C. Perry forced open the isolationist Tokugawa shogunate that governed Japan to take a reality check and open trade with the outside world. In less than 100 years Japan became an industrial power, every bit as formidable as any western country and was able to attack the country that forced it open.Our Far eastern foreign policy from then until 1941 was simply trading concessions with both Asian powers, Japan and China. When they became rivals in Asia we and other countries had to choose up sides. Alternately we favored China and Japan, but in 1941 U.S. sympathies in Washington and in public opinion was favoring China. The island chain of Japan is notoriously lacking in natural resources. Even the United Kingdom which it is often compared to has deposits of coal and iron and that created the British steel industry. Japan has to import and in the age of imperialism, they became every bit as imperialistic as any of our western countries, maybe more so because their need was greater.Note during the film of Tora Tora Tora it is remarked that the U.S. Fleet in Hawaii was like a dagger pointed at Japan. When the island country of Hawaii was formally annexed to the United States and the Phillipines acquired after the Spanish American War at the end of the 19th century we became rivals in the Pacific to the Japanese. And imagine if the Japanese who were most anxious to annex Hawaii themselves had done so. The dagger would have been at our West Coast. Of course the poor Hawaiians had little to say about any of this.All that has to be factored into what you are seeing in Tora Tora Tora. That and more is what led up to the events that are meticulously recorded in documentary style. Unlike the later film Midway which spoiled a good account of the battle with a personal story, Tora Tora Tora does not waste any of the viewers time in that regard.The participants are there in all their flaws. Admiral Husband Kimmel who made the fortunate choice of sending out the aircraft carriers which was an act that may have eventually won the Pacific War for America is played by Martin Balsam. Nevertheless he took the fall for the attack as did Chief of Naval Operations Harold Stark played by Edward Andrews.One very luckless man was Army commander in Hawaii General Joseph Short played by Jason Robards, Jr. who was in real life in the Navy and at Pearl Harbor. Short made the fatal decision to put all the aircraft at Hickam field in the center of the field because he was afraid of saboteurs. The better to bomb them from the air.Three members of FDR's cabinet are portrayed, George MacReady as Secretary of State Cordell Hull, Joseph Cotten as Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, and Leon Ames as Frank Knox the Secretary of the Navy. Franklin Roosevelt being the wise leader he was and knowing that our eventual entry demanded bipartisan support chose a pair of Republicans in Stimson and Knox. Would that our current president had that kind of foresight.George MacReady who usually portrayed polished villains is a good guy here and has one of his best screen moments as the Japanese envoys are ushered into his office AFTER the attack has begun to issue Japanese diplomatic demands. Tora Tora Tora should be shown in schools as a great piece of well acted documentary film making if that's not a contradiction in terms. It won an Oscar for Special Effects which are out of date compared to the later Pearl Harbor movie, but still done well. Catch it if you can by all means. "}{"Title":"I fear we have only awakened a sleeping giant...","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I just finished reading a great book on the history of Japan in the Second World War, Rising Sun by John Toland, and decided to watch Tora! Tora! Tora! again.This is a great movie and immaculately accurate down to the last detail, such as how the Japanese trained for the attack on Pearl Harbor at Kagoshima City on Ryukyu Island. The book describes how the pilots in crews of three, zoomed down over the mountains behind the city, over the pier, and dropped torpedoes at a breakwater 300 yards away. The movie had all these details. Throughout, it was accurate even down to the exact wording of communications and quotes from the various people involved.I loved how the Japanese directed the Japanese parts and vice versa for the Americans. It really told both sides of the story.Technically as a film though, it has limitations. Some of the models used are kind of cheesy, but some are actually pretty good. But hey, it was 1970, this is before Star Wars even. And a lot of the acting is pretty wooden.If you're looking for great special effects, and not much substance, see Pearl Harbor. If you're interested in the story, the why, and figures involved in this historic event, definitely see Tora! Tora! Tora!.Better yet, read the book I referenced above - it won the Pulitzer Prize and you won't be able to put it down - and you will be spellbound by this movie knowing all the background and reasons for the Japanese attack, and all the details about the characters. "},{"Title":"More docu less drama, but quality mostest","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora Tora Tora is my favorite war movie, and objectively one of the best documentary-style accounts of an historical military event.   Told equally from the Japanese point of view (actually, more), it reflects a joint Japanese-American effort to stage the events leading up to Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor and the attack itself.  Martin Balsam plays Admiral Kimmel, supported by a good cast portraying the key U.S. figures, but closest to a central personality (there really is none) is Admiral Yamamoto (So Yamamura), the architect of the strike.  Tora contrasts his views on naval/air strategies with those of the Japanese Old Guard, and emphasizes his doubts about the notion of war with the U.S.From the American side, apart from Kimmel and U.S. Army General Short (Jason Robards), the principal characters are decoders Colonel Rufus Bratton (E.G. Marshall) and Lieutenant Commander Alvin Kramer (Wesley Addy) -- actually, in both cases, more so than Short.  Tora gets straight to the point -- no good love stories (From Here to Eternity) or inane ones (Pearl Harbor) get in the way.  The only mention of the subject comes when Kramer, as the ability to trust anyone is being questioned, is asked whether he trusts his wife, and states, as a matter of fact, I do.  Good, let's get down to business.Unlike in the plastic Pearl, in which oil is the 10-second explanation for the bombing, the Japanese are treated in depth.  The warlike spirit is shown, but Japanese are not all saber-rattling fanatics, and are willing to consider peaceful alternatives.  Aside from Yamamoto,  important figures are strategist Admiral Genda; naval task force leader Admiral Nagumo; and air strike leader Lt. Fuchida.  I won't bother to name other Japanese actors, but suffice it to say none is Toshiro Mifune; for whatever reason, many (including myself at one point--well, I was once his neighbor in Tokyo) seem convinced he is in Tora.Tora being chiefly a chronicle of military facts, there is no appearance from symbols of state President Roosevelt, though his advisors figure prominently, and Emperor Hirohito, and only a brief one of hawkish Prime Minister Tojo; his predecessor Prince Konoye, whose desire not to have war with America is eclipsed, is given more focus.  The issue of Roosevelt's advance knowledge was rudimentary in 1970, and is not the sort of thing the film sought to treat anyway.  Amen, read that last clause again, those who criticize unfairly some aspects of the movie.Kimmel is portrayed more sympathetically than Short, who comes across as somewhat brusque and brassy and makes a major strategical error by keeping U.S. planes together in the airfields to guard against sabotage in Hawaii by Japanese locals.  From the navy's viewpoint, problems were perceived, but a principal difficulty was simply that there were not enough ships to go around, aside from the problem of generally underdeveloped mechanisms of defense, such as radar.  However, the movie also shows, more subtly, that Kimmel was not up to the task.The earlier part of Tora focuses on piecemeal strategic points without completely tying them together.  However, there is much to cover, so it is difficult to provide contexts and explanations for everything.  What we do get is presentation of the most important strategic issues, and America's unpreparedness.  As the time of the attack approaches, Tora takes advantage of its better opportunity with events, as opposed to strategies the Japanese submarine, the radar warning, the telegram, other communications failures, bad luck with weather.  It clearly sets forth the near-term facts behind America's failure of prevention--just tell us what happened.  But ultimately, the biggest blunder is on the Japanese side, separate from the attack itself.  Admiral Yamamoto's and Admiral Halsey's contemplations fittingly wind down the dramatic recreation of the shock and surprise of the attack.There are beautiful scenes of Hawaii, too; indeed, Pearl edges out Tora only in sunsets.   The sea and blue sky, islands and mountains, Hawaiian music at military clubs.  The Japanese planes take off in dark early dawn, nice aura, then a striking rising sun precedes beautiful dawn settings and the attack.Sorry to be so narrative, but to do so is fitting in reviewing this very narrative movie.  There are no dash and elan, no good guys or bad guys, and in fact, no protagonists or antagonists.  Expressions of anger are not terribly intense and are fleeting, no intense passions are worked up.  The closest thing to a hero is Colonel Bratton, whose importunations to accept his warnings are legitimized only too late.Tora turns the trick for viewers with a more straightforward than sensationalistic approach who want to see a good, intelligent story; uncontrived people; an excellent extended battle staging yet no cheap special effects; no blood and gore; good flow.  I am a big fan of Lawrence of Arabia, and tho I ultimately see all its scenes as justified, I admit it had moments of drag, in both the first and second halfs.  Some people think Tora drags at times, but it never drags for me.  Besides, it is much shorter than Lawrence and many other epics.  Fair enough, some simply do not like this type of movie as much as I do.  But the attack on Pearl Harbor itself is one of the most dramatic events in military history and certainly U.S. history, and that helps carry the day.  Geopolitics, strategy, unpreparedness, codebreaking issues, miscommunication, before a war, then a sneak attack -- John Wayne not needed.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Solid History.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" In pure movie terms, this film is pretty light. As a historical drama it is almost perfect. Based on Gordon Prange's book of the same name, the film draws on Prange's 30 years of official USN research to draw some interesting and thought-provoking questions about the mistakes made by both sides in the lead up to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.For the history buffs it even raises some questions which are not part of most people's understanding of how and why it happened the way it did. For the general public it puts all the basic points of the attack into one neat, interesting package. Some characters have been combined and events changed slightly to aid production but nothing of any real significance is altered.The Japanese sequences were originally intended to be directed by the great Japanese director Akira Kurosawa but when the producers realised that those parts alone made up four hours of screen time, the trouble started and Kurosawa was replaced. The acting is solid but unremarkable, as one would expect from a film of this type.The battle sequences are, for the most part, beautifully done. The producers spent cubic dollars converting old trainers to look like Japanese fighter and attack aircraft and succeeded brilliantly. Only the real oficianados can tell them apart. The flying is fantastic and it looks brilliant against the Hawaiian scenery.About the only thing missing, and probably a salient reason for its lack of real commercial penetration, was the lack of a love angle.By contrast, it is amazing to me that Pearl Harbor, made some 30 years later, was so bad in comparison. Had the producers actually watched this film before making such a turkey, they might have actually learned something. Tora, Tora, Tora! is a film which could be shown to any history class with few concerns as to its authenticity. Pearl Harbor should never be shown again.Considering the amount of information which had to be conveyed in such a small amount of screen time, Tora, Tora, Tora! is remarkably successful. "},{"Title":"Excellent history film","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I'll begin my review of Tora! Tora! Tora! by quoting several negative lines from other reviews on here....1. It's just that it takes too long getting there. I've never before been in the position of wanting American ships to hurry up and sink; it meant the movie would be over that much faster.2. This movie had great actors, was shot on location for much of it and contained some very interesting history. However, it wasn't a great film, rather it was pretty flat for the first hour and a half.3. It went into too much detail.4. Tora! Tora! Tora! is three parts boring history and one part action movie.End of quotes.One of Hollywood's greatest problems in making historically accurate films is, many viewers have the attention span of a three-year-old. If they can't stomach an hour or two of history in a film I'd hate to see how they'd handle reading a book.Tora! Tora! Tora! is a masterpiece in film making. The events leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor are just as important as the attack itself. Without the former you can't have the latter. If you enjoy history and don't need events to happen right this instant, it's a must see. "},{"Title":"Codename Tiger! Tiger! Tiger!, the best recreation ever...","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Some of you younger movie-goers, may only know of Pearl Harbor.Forget it!If you want to have the actual story of what really happened on December 1941, then you have to go back to this movie made in 1970.Tora! Tora! Tora! is a vision from both sides of the coin, not just the American one.Pearl Harbor is more a love story in its context and has only one vision, the unilateral and unnecessary patriotic American one. This is not history as it should be told.Tora! Tora! Tora! was the codename given by the Japanese fleet to its carrier pilots to start the attack on Pearl Harbor.This is far less a shooting war movie, than an actual historic recreation of facts happening on a certain month, week, day and moment in 1941.Everything is told, from the bureaucracy involved (slow at that, as usual), to the actual military decisions on both sides and on the ground.The attack, when it comes, is a majestic recreation that, once watched side by side with the actual documentary footage available, makes you realize that were it in black & white, one could not distinguish its differences. That's how accurate it is!Expenses were not spared at all in doing this recreation. The aircraft used are all faithful reconstructions (a rarity!).All the actors involved (American and Japanese) have played their roles with outmost accuracy and sense of drama.The watcher is taken in and left wondering what next, even if he already knows the story. Not a moment passes in boredom.This is another fine movie I would recommend for schools and war museums.It is a movie for thinkers, not warmungers, and it is certainly not one for those who always love to wave flags around.In other words, this is history, told at its best.  "},{"Title":"Do you have confirmation?","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I haven't seen this movie is years. I actually have it on DVD and never watched it. But Fox played a few war movies on Veterens Day and I watched it again. First I love war movies. Not the soapy Pearl Harbor type movies, but a real nuts and bolts war movie. On seeing this movie for a second time a I noticed a lot of things I didn't see the first time. Little thing like the submarine trying to sneak into Pearl Harbor and how our ship saw it and blew it up. I never knew that happened. And the aftermath in which a call is made to the base commander and all he can say is ask for confirmation because these things happen all of the time. I wanted to smack him. It is incredible how a lot of middle men actually prevented word about the attack getting to the right person. Such as the guys who pick up a plane formation heading for Pearl Harbor and the men who received the message just brushing it off, and not conveying it to the correct person. Or how the Wesley Addy character had to run around DC trying to talk to anyone who would listen to no avail. Or the man who has direct access t the Commanders after getting concrete evidence and decides not to call the commander at Pearl Harbor but wants to run it by the President first. It is amazing how middlings actually held the fate of PearL Harbor in their hands and blew it. I also admire way they show the Japanese perspective. I love movies like that because it shows that the other side are soldiers like we are and are committed to their cause too, right or wrong. It humanizes them as it should. All Quiet in The Western Front was one of my favorite novels and movies because it was told through the eyes of a very young German recruit. I see how they are all psyched into going to war as they do here to young men and when they fight they see this is not what they signed up for. There was no side stories, thank you, because they ruin all war movies. This is a very good war movie. And it gave us a inside view of the steps leading to the Attack. I would recommend this to anyone who wants to see good movie about Pearl Harbor without an foolish love story or side stories. "},{"Title":"Excellent history lesson for a more mature viewer","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Interest in this film has obviously risen since the the release of the recent 'Pearl Harbour', and comparisions are unavoidable. While I'm not going enter into another round of 'Pearl Harbour' bashing (it is, after all a rather spectacular piece of rubbish!), it must be said that 'Tora Tora Tora!' is a far superior piece of film making. featuring battle scenes that would reappear in countless WWII war movies.Aimed at a mature and intelligent audience, Tora Tora Tora is the definitive account of America's entry into WWII, and does, to its credit, show the Japanese reasons for the assault. It's near, documentary style may not appeal to the modern 'MTV' style viewer, but keeps your interest throughout. A ominous tension builds slowly, prior to the assault that is well delivered.A excellent epic, from a generation of films that it is unlikely will ever be produced again. "},{"Title":"As a Professor of History...","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  It never ceases to amaze me that people know as little as they do about their nation's past, even when Hollywood mostly propagates myths.Tora does not mean kill in Japanese. It means Tiger (Prange, Gordon W.,At Dawn We Slept, New York Putnam, 1981.)This movie was one of the better dramatizations of the Pearl Harbor debacle, focusing more on the miscommunications and errors in judgment shown by the military leadership in Hawaii. Also covered is the pure luck the Japanese First Air Fleet had. Left out, mostly because it had not yet become publicly available, was the information that the White House, the State Department, and the upper echelons of the military kept from Admiral Kimmel and Lieutenant General Short. Both of these men were made scapegoats for failing to protect their commands from attack, while being deprived of the information they really needed to do so. (Stinnett, Robert B. Day of Deceit, New York Simon & Schuster, 2000.)Still, this is a vastly better movie than the recent farce made by Michael Bay. It was no more an accurate portrayal of Pearl Harbor than Ghostbusters was factual. "},{"Title":"No False Glory Here","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A fascinating film - and remarkably even-handed for a World War II epic. Pearl Harbour is shown as an American debacle, and a terrible Japanese mistake. Having read a number of books on the subject (Day of Infamy, At Dawn We Slept etc.) I believe this is the most accurate depiction of the events. There is an incredible tension in watching fallible human beings - not plastic heroes - cope with momentous events. In some ways it reminded me of 13 Days(2000), but without it's successful conclusion. Richard Fleischer has had a spotty career but this is one of his best, combining his documentary-realistic style (as in The Boston Strangler(1968), Compulsion(1959), 10 Rillington Place (1971))and his taste for spectacle (as in The Vikings (1958)). Fukasakus work I am not so familiar with, but it can be compared to sympathetic treatments of the Imperial Army by other Japanese directors- Ichikawa's Harp of Burma(1956) and Kobayashi's The Human Condition(1959). There are a number of British and American  war films that attempt to show the Japanese troops as more than Tojo and his band of bug-eyed monkeys (a quote from a John Wayne film), such as Lean's Bridge on the River Kwai(1957), John Boorman's Hell in the Pacific(1968), and Spielberg's Empire of the Sun(1987).Just as TTT was criticised for it's even-handed approach, so too were these films. Here in Australia, the Pacific War also causes much angry debate, mainly due to the Australian POW's who died in Japanese captivity, & the Japanese bombing of Darwin (our Pearl Harbour). I think TTT was unpopular at the time for another important reason. TTT was a film about an unprepared world power - the USA - being defeated by an underestimated and implacable Asian foe in a daring sneak attack. TTT was released 2 years after the Tet Offensive (1968) in the Vietman War, and must have seemed uncomfortably close to home. Hollywood in the late 1960'& early 1970's, shied away from films depicting the Vietnam War (too divisive, too downbeat, too controversial etc.), but were OK on films set in another time tackling similar themes and questions. Films that are obvious metaphors for Vietnam include Altman's MASH(1970)(Korean War as Vietnam War); Penn's Little Big Man(1970)(Washita River as My Lai, Little Big Horn as the Tet Offensive); Robert Wise'Sand Pebbles(1966)(1920's China as Vietnam); Ralph Nelson's Soldier Blue(1970)(Indian Wars as Vietnam) and even British films like Tony Richardson's The Charge of the Light Brigade(1968)(Crimean War as Vietnam). I guess people can only watch so much defeat, which is why Patton(1970) was welcomed. Even though it begins with an American catastrophe (Kasserine Pass), it ends in victory. "},{"Title":"Powerful! Dynamic! Realism! Tora! Tora! Tora!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  It takes three directors and almost two and a half hours to present one of if not the best film concerning the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor thus causing the U.S. to enter WWII. Taut, tense and unbelievable depiction of the dramatic attack on that fateful December morning in 1941. This movie leaves a lot to be desired as far as a strong story line goes; but the whole focal point is the Oscar winning special effects. An all-star ensemble cast features Jason Robards Jr, Martin Balsam, So Yamamura, Joseph Cotten, E.G. Marshall and James Whitmore. Forget the rest...this is really the best. "}{"Title":"How a war movie should be made...","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS Right from the off, this is one of the most realistic war movies ever made. Taking a neutral stance and showing both sides of the conflict is a masterstroke. Weaving both viewpoints seamlessly is also another great aspect of this film.The acting on both sides, Japanese and American is top rate. They just don't make them like Martin Balsam and Jason Robards any more - both give top performances.The non-CGI effects are amazing once the action gets underway - some of the stunt men look in genuine danger as they escape the flames and explosions.Forget 2001's Pearl Harbor which was a turkey by any stretch of the imagination - this is the definitive 7th December 1941 movie. "},{"Title":"Still the best and not challenged by Pearl Harbor","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I've been watching this film since I was ten years old and it had just come out. I was fascinated then, and not even a military history buff as I am now. but over the years, I've come to appreciate an effort well-done. On the scaled of this film, to have built full-scale mockups of Nagato and Akagi and huge models of Arizona, Nevada, West Virginia, and all the rest is stupendous work and it really shows in the finished film. My comment, based on having seen that turkey Pearl Harbor which from this point on I shall refer to as PHew, one can really understand the difference between full scale models and CGI for special effects. Sure CGI can give filmmakers incredible abilities to create anything they want and make it do everything, but it's so obvious that CGI is used, it's very transparent and forgettable. The blowing up of USS Arizona in TTT was far and away more stunning and realistic than a computer-generated one in PHew. Remember 'Titanic?' A real, full-scale ship is what did the trick and made it come to life. PHew was a waste of film and money, and an insult to the men and women show survived and died that December day. As for the few shots of 'John Finn' the intrepid lone machine gunner who shot down a Zero and damaged others at Kaneohe Bay NAS, the depiction is a bit off. Finn wasn't behind a sandbag revetment, and he wasn't bandaged up during the fight. How do I know? John Finn is my neighbor, here in East County San Diego and I've talked with this fascinating old veteran many times. Even at over 96 years of age, he's sharp and interesting to talk to. He too, prefers TTT to PHew. BIG surprise. This film also shows a cautious, reluctant Admiral Kimmel (Martin Balsam) and acerbic General Walter Short (Jason Robards) as being unable to save their commands in the weeks prior to the attack. They had tried to be prepared, but failed to take the right action, despite their correct intentions. Washington's diplomats, politicians and senior military are depicted as being complacent and not taking the threat of Japanese aggression in the Pacific seriously. This is partially true, and FDR is said in some accounts to have been holding back on critical information which could have warned of the impending attack. History is still debating this. But the truth is, Kimmel and Short were made the scapegoats for the attack. They didn't deserve that fate, and I see them as casualties, just as the more than 1,200 other men and women killed that day. Soh Yamamura, who portrayed Isoroku Yamamoto, does a credible job of handling the role of a man who was targeted by US forces during the war as the leading villain in the attack. Yet he wasn't totally in favor of such action. He was forced by the General staff, particularly Hideki Tojo, to hit the American fleet and keep the US out of Japanese aims in the Western Pacific. Yamamura's brooding scenes give the admiral emotional weight. BTW, did anyone notice not one of the P-40 fighters flown by Lt. Welsh or Lt. Taylor flew in the streets of Honolulu? And they didn't bring down the entire Japanese Naval Air Service? Funny thing, even though it's not as visually exciting as PHew, it's far better and more believable. My feelings about this film are this It's not perfect, but no one has ever done better since. Nine out of Ten. "},{"Title":"THE Pearl Harbor Movie","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This definitely beats PEARL HARBOR all to pieces. I remember when this movie first came out in Birmingham. It was advertised as a special event, you had to special order tickets for it. My mother and I went to see it on a Saturday afternoon, and, even though I knew what was coming, I was kept on the edge of my seat the whole time. Based on the books THE BROKEN SEAL and, if I'm not mistaken by a book of the same title as the movie, it tells the story of Pearl Harbor very well, from all the events leading up to the attack to the day of infamy itself. This is not historical fiction, this does not try to juice things up with a tear jerker love story. This is an unsentimental, meticulous look at actual events leading up to the attack as told from both the American and Japanese perspectives. Jerry Goldsmith's score to this movie is the most emotionally gripping I've ever heard. For soundtrack buffs, it's available on CD, on a double bill with the soundtrack to PATTON.I have seen several movies about the attack on Pearl Harbor. There is PEARL HARBOR (which is a piece of crap), IN HARM'S WAY, and FROM HERE TO ETERNITY. There is even a Pearl Harbor sequence in THE WINDS OF WAR. These latter three movies are good, in fact I have DVDs of IN HARM'S WAY and FROM HERE TO ETERNITY, as well as TORA TORA TORA. But this is by far the best of the lot and it gives you the straight scoop without any politically correct BS thrown in. One emerges from this film emotionally drained, as you feel the fury of watching our airplanes getting bombed while trying to take off. Your heart aches as you watch a lone American airplane in a dogfight with a whole squadron of Japanese fighter planes. An excellent film. 10 out of 10. I don't give that lightly, either. By the way, check out the cinematography as the Japanese planes take off from their aircraft carrier. It is absolutely beautiful watching the sun rise while those planes are taking off one by one. "},{"Title":"Near perfect in its attention to detail.","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" While not every detail is perfect, I really appreciate how the makers of some historical movies try very, very hard to get it right. In contrast, many war films (such as Midway) are shoddy when it comes to the details--such as using stock footage of planes or tanks which didn't even debut until well after the battle. And, very, very few war films try to explain the events leading up to it. This drives ex-history teachers like me nuts! However, Tora! Tora! Tora! is an amazing film because they tried so hard and the film feels so complete. Of course the filmmakers had to make a few adjustments--such as converting American T-6 airplanes to look a lot like Japanese planes and recreating Japanese ships because they'd all been lost during WWII. But they TRIED--and I appreciate that. And again and again, the film stresses details--details that might bore some viewers but make history nuts salivate!So why am I giving this movie a 10? After all, I almost never give such a score to a movie. In addition to the two huge pluses above, the movie excels because it does not burden itself with superfluous love stories (such as in The Battle of Britain) nor does it give way to sentiment. It is almost like an actual recreation of events as they unfolded-- brought to the big screen in epic fashion. All in all, probably the best war film of all time because of its attention to detail, scope and accuracy.Apparently, Roger Ebert HATED this film for the reasons I loved it. He hated the detail and wanted to have the characters fleshed out more-- like a typical Hollywood production. I didn't mind its documentary-like style and as a certifiable history nut, it's the sort of film I adore! "},{"Title":"One of the best WW2 movie","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Great Movie. All facts and 0 fiction. If someone wants to see a real ww2 movie, this is the one.Happy viewing. I had real interest in ww2 and this movie gave insight to many new things that were otherwise in my 'ignore' list. I wonder why this movie is having just 7.5 rating as I feel it should be 10/10. The only thing i didn't understand is as per movie they attack at 8AM on Sunday, however they are supposed to attack after 1PM(as per their instructions , they ask the ambassador to give the 14 page report at 1PM) . Either I didn't follow it fully or this is the sole mistake in the movie Anyway, a great movie. These kind of movies should be re-released so that newer generation can appreciate the movies taken during 70s "},{"Title":"An understated film that is better than the sum of its parts.","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Michael Bay ought to be digging a hole large enough to hide himself from embarrassment. Moreover, he should bring along a portable DVD player, and the Tora! Tora! Tora! video along into the dugout. The original version directed by Richard Fleischer puts Bay's remake on Pearl Harbour to shame. There are several obvious reasons to it.Historical accuracy is very important. And that is where Tora! succeeds. The film provides a factual, chronological account of the day of Infamy. The story follows faithfully to the events (from both American and Japanese perspectives) that unfolded in a straightforward (but sometimes boring) manner. Another major factor is the focus. Tora! does not dwell on distracting subplots, such as a love story, to move the film along. The slow pacing of the film in the first half needs improvement though.While none of the extensive cast gives a stellar display, the technical aspects of the film surely steal the show. With visual effects still in its infancy, the recreation of the actual attack on Pearl Harbour can be summarized in one word - 'Spectacular!'. Realistic (although less exciting than Michael Bay's version) and absorbing enough to make any viewer gaze in awe, and admire how filmmakers could achieve that much in the early 1970s. Tora! Tora! Tora! is an understated film that is better than the sum of its parts.SCORE 8.5/10 (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Documentary Of The Day That Changed The World Forever.","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" No one who was alive on that day will ever forget it. It was the day that brought the greatest progress in science and medicine the world has ever seen. Everything that can be said about this great film has been said by others in these comments, and I can only echo them.I will only add that the scenes of all the Japanese pilots, and other personnel, running out onto the flight deck during recovery operations as the planes were returning from their strike against Pearl Harbor shock me. That would never happen on an American Aircraft Carrier. It was a terrible hazard to both the personnel and the returning planes. The Japanese were very lax in discipline, safety precautions and damage control, which eventually brought about their defeat at Midway, and in the end, the war.During that war I had the great privilege of serving in the Merchant Marine at age sixteen, and in the U.S. Navy after becoming seventeen and returning home from my last trip, and I can say that having grown up during the great depression and WWll I have seen the American people at their very best, and I am so proud to have been a part of it all,however small my contribution was. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest war movies","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" TTT is a documentarish war film about the events that led to the attack of Pearl Harbor and of course the event itself. It is exceptional because it displays both sides of the conflict without moral-ism or patriotism. This alone shows that the movie wasn't made to make money, unlike the recent blockbuster Pearl Harbor.TTT isn't a typical war film, as the action doesn't kick in until later on. But when it does it takes your breath away. The actors all do a splendid job, especially Tamura (Fuchida) and Yamamura (Yamamato). Historically accurate, educating, and yet an entertaining movie - a must see. "},{"Title":"The Best 12/7/41 Movie","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" T!T!T! is IMO the best movie ever made about the Day of Infamy. At times slow, it manages to maintain a growing sense of impending doom and inevitability; even though we know what's going to happen, we (Americans anyway) keep hoping that SOMEONE! ANYONE! will wake up, smell the coffee and respond appropriately. That it never happened, that every piece of luck fell to the Japanese just as surely as it fell to the Americans 6 months later at Midway, sometimes seems unbelievable. It would never fly in a piece of fiction, but as another poster said, truth is always stranger than fiction. I won't bore anyone with the details of the attack and the almost documentary appearance of the battle, others have covers those well enough. I just wanted to add a small piece of personal history. In April 1969 I was assigned to CINCPACFLT (Commander in Chief, Pacific Fleet) at Pearl Harbor. My duty station was in the Fleet Motor Pool, located in a small crater directly behind HQ and about 2 miles from the Arizona Memorial. I was sweeping the compound when I heard what sounded like anti-aircraft fire to the south (toward the harbor.) Suddenly two zeros flew overhead, made a short dive towards me, then eased up completing their 180 degree turn back toward the south. The next thing I heard was machine gun fire. WTF! I thought, not realizing the last parts of the movie were being filmed. I think I started hearing the Twilight Zone theme song, lol. I looked over at my mate; my eyes must have been as big as saucers because he started laughing his arse off. When he could finally speak he told me they were making a movie about 12/7. For the rest of my life, whenever the Pearl Harbor attack comes up, I always tell them how I was there and barely escaped a zero strafing attack. They never believe me, but what the heck, I was and I did! (Well, my heart almost stopped, but that's another story.) "},{"Title":"The Definitive Version of the Pearl Harbor Attack!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora! Tora! Tora! is perhaps the best film ever made about the bombing of Pearl Harbor and the events leading up to it. The story is told from both the Japanese and American sides, so it makes for powerful film-making. The attack sequences were actually re-enacted during filming, further creating a sense of realism. Also, there is a great musical score by Jerry Goldsmith (who also composed the score for Patton, another war film released during 1970.). There is also breathtaking camera work, especially during the attack sequences. Another plus is the special effects (an Oscar triumph for L.B. Abbott and A.D. Flowers), enhancing the film further. Finally, there is a great cast of Martin Balsam, Soh Yamamura (as Yamamoto), Joseph Cotten, E.G. Marshall, James Whitmore, George Macready, and Jason Robards (who actually was involved in the Pearl Harbor bombing). Both sides form a coherent whole which continues to look impressive with each passing year. A huge cinematic achievement. "}{"Title":"A bit overlong in getting to the big battle...but worth the wait...","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Detailing the events leading up to the infamous Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, December 7, 1941--and telling the story from both the Japanese and American point of view--TORA! TORA! TORA! is most effective when it gets to the day of battle which begins with the Japanese pilots getting into their planes and culminates in the extremely realistic depiction of the actual bombing.The film is faulty in getting us to that point, as it weaves back and forth between Hawaii and Washington, depicting Japanese and American behind-the-scenes intrigue, and in an objective way telling the complete story of the mistakes, big and small on both sides, that led the U.S. into World War II. Whether there are inaccuracies in the telling, for dramatic purposes, I'm not sure--but it does seem to be even handed in its treatment of events.Although the cast is an impressive one, there are no single performances that stay in the mind. Instead, the viewer is aware of the vast scope of the story and the series of events that took place just before that fateful day--which is as it should be.The Japanese segments held more fascination for me than the American sequences, for some reason. The pacing of the first two-thirds of the story is on the slow side. Not until the last forty-five minutes does the film come to life with an absolute sense of realism in its display of the bombing raid both from the air and on the ground.Technically, the film is a superb example of '70s film-making. All of the battle scenes are extremely well done for maximum effect.Yamamoto's final words serve as a chilling reminder, the kind of remark that still holds true in today's world where the U.S. is fighting a war against terrorism which, hopefully, has aroused the sleeping giant (the U.S.) to the extent that we will eventually triumph over our enemies who want to kill us as we were the victors over Japan.As a history lesson, this is a very valuable film indeed. "},{"Title":"Epic action with good history.","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  You've got to love this kind of movie, trying their best to tell it like it was and showing exactly what happened on both sides leading up to the war. There's a little bit of bias towards the winners, but that's only to be expected i suppose, and the film does not suffer unduly because of it. Indeed the film is unstinting in it's battering of the American complacency and errors that helped make the attack the success it was for the Japanese, a refreshing thing to see compared to movies in this day and age.Highest praise has to go to the stuntmen in the airfield attack scenes, I just figured the rules governing how crazy a stunt could be must have been pretty lax back then, but it turns out they really were running for their lives as the stunts went way wrong. Frankly it looks all the better for it, you cant beat a bit of real action and danger for spicing up your movie. I gave it 8 out of 10, entertaining to watch and pretty accurate historically too. Far better than the schmaltzy, inaccurate and CGI heavy 'Pearl Harbor'.  "},{"Title":"Tora! Tora! Tora! Heaps better then crap movie Pearl Harbor","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Actually it is not correct to compare the two at all because Tora! Tora! Tora actually tries to tell a story with the focus on the real attack on Pearl Harbor. And the movie Pearl Harbor tells a story about how it is possible to spend lots of money on good actors and heaps of special effects and still manage to produce the worst piece of crap ever.Anyway, Tora! Tora! Tora! tells the story without any stupid parallel stories. It also describes the Japanese like human beings and not brain dead morons. I think the reason why Tora! Tora! Tora! is a good movie is that it was a cooperation between Japanese and Americans. Which possibly increase the accuracy of the movie with a couple of 100 percent.If you are looking for a movie with a historical and sane perspective of the attack of Pearl Harbor, Tora! Tora! Tora is a good choice! It also shows that it is possible to tell historical stories without taking sides!  "},{"Title":"Historically accurate depiction of events leading up to Pearl Harbor.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This motion picture, more than 30 years after its release has stood the historical test of time. At the time of release, many documents were unavailable to historians and scholars. With the relase of more of this information regarding the attack and the diplomatic dances leading up to it, the producers of Tora! Tora! Tora! did well. Very few things have changed over the last 30 years of addtional history regarding Pearl Harbor.The cast was first rate. I particulary enjoyed Edward Andrews as Harold Betty Stark (CNO). The phyisical resemblance between Andrews and the real Stark is astonishing. George McReady as Cordell Hull played the roler perfectly.Much of the dialgoue from various characters was lifted from American and Japanese accounts, adding a further air or realism.For this interested, the model of U.S.S. Nevada used in the move is now on permanent display aboard the U.S.S. Intrepid Air and Space Museum in New York City.In closing, I would rank this film as one of my all-time favorites for movies covering the war in the Pacifc. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  My father and I saw the Virginia premier of Tora! Tora! Tora!  We were there as a guest of my father's best friend (a Pearl Harbor survivor).  There were a lot of Pearl Harbor survivors at that premier.I remember the survivors talking about how accuratly the attack was presented.  They also talked about some of the inaccuracies (mostly uniforms and aircraft) but overall they thought it was great.  Many grown men cried as they remembered fallen comrads.I'm still impressed with the special effects.  Several postings have complained about how fake the backgrouds looked.  I've been to Pearl Harbor and the movie was actually filmed there.There have been comments about the lack of suffering shown.  Even if it had been filmed the studio would not have released it.  Combat footage from World War II is shown on the History Channel today couldn't been shown in the theaters or TV when I was growing up (the 50's).  It was considered too graphic for public consumption!FOX had to build the full-sized battleships that you saw in the movie.  They weren't computer generated images (CGI).  Actually, they only built one that stood in for all the other battleships.  There wouldn't be another massive shipboard set built along that scale until James Cameron's Titanic.The models of the ships (both U.S. and Japanese) built were also done on a large scale.They had to assemble a fleet of flying Japanese aircraft (they modified existing surplus U.S. Navy and Air Force trainers) and rent real B-17s and P-40s.  Those planes you see up there on the screen are real.  Many of those Japanse aircraft are still flying and can be seen at Air Shows across the nation.Whereever possible, the exact locations of the attack were used.  In at lease one case, a hanger that was scheduled for demolition was destroyed in the filming of the movie.It's much better than Pearl Harbor.  "},{"Title":"Opinions and a review of the film.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  If ever there should be a film made on the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Tora! Tora! Tora! would be it.I've always been of the opinion that films based on significant historical events should tell us the truth about what actually happened. Take the recent film Pearl Harbor (produced by none other than the king of corn/cheese, Jerry Bruckheimer) for instance; it shouldn't be called Pearl Harbor... it should be called Jerry's Dream of Pearl Harbor.The reviewTwo words sum up this film... extremely precise. Never have I watched a film that has so loyally captured the facts and emotions of a real life event.You can see that the filmmakers have put almost complete emphasis on bringing truth and clarity to the screen. The acting, on an overall, is stilted. The actors read their lines as if they have been instructed to speak the words as clearly as possible, and forego any finesse in delivering them. But is this a bad thing?  Not in my opinion. In the context of a film of this type, it is far better than listening to overzealous actors mumbling their lines so as to get the proper effect.The directing is good. Battle sequences are well executed and look good, given that the film was made in 1970. One must appreciate the amount of work that must have gone into those scenes. Furthermore, that strange Hawaiian feeling creeps into the film at certain points as well, which is a nice touch.The editting crew must also be given due credit. The film shows us what is happening at several crucial but disparate places simultaneously during the lead up to the attack. As such, the scenes revolve invariably from the Admiral's office to the General's office, to the Japanese embassy, to the decoding room, etc. This sets the film on an even tempo that allows the viewer to follow what is going on at a good pace. I do have one gripe about the editting, however. There were no captions to keep us informed on the exact chronology of happenings, except the well-known date of December 7 1941.As an outsider, I am not weighed down by national pride when I say that this a gem of a film that overwhelms the viewer with its sheer honesty. Patriotic Americans might find it hard to like it (but there are certain scenes that seem to be made to satisfy these viewers as well, like the American fighters planes that were not at the base when the attack occurred). "},{"Title":"The way most historical movies should be","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Forget that piece of garbage Pearl Harbor by Jerry Bruckheimer. This movie is better in every way. Its acting is better, its accuracy is better and it's attack scenes are better. Unlike Pearl Harbor, this needed no computer animation whatsoever. Tora! Tora! Tora! is an enjoyable movie even though the Americans seem helpless in the attack. The Japanese just keep bombing and bombing. The explosions in the attack are greatly constructed as are the death scenes of characters. One thing that I like the most about this movie is how it is shown from both point of views. After the attack read the subtitles of what is said in the very end and you will see what I mean by saying this movie is great. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I had never seen this movie until after I saw the extremely disappointing over hyped Pearl Harbor (2001).  SHAME ON ME!  This film is all that I was hoping Pearl Harbor would be.  There is no worthless love story, silly dramatics, or characters you don't care about.  It is what Pearl Harbor should have been, a movie about the attack on Pearl Harbor.  You can read my review on that piece of garbage.  Tora! Tora! Tora! did not let me down in any way.  It is historically accurate and done very well.  I highly recommend it for those who love history or have an interest in the Pearl Harbor invasion.  You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"The Definitive Pearl Harbor Attack History","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The release of the outrageous 2001 travesty Pearl Harbor makes me appreciate Tora! Tora! Tora! even more and prompts me to recommend it as the best dramatization of the events, on the island of Oahu and on the Pacific Ocean, of December 7, 1941.Critics have panned Tora! Tora! Tora! as an overblown spectacle. They are wrong. The immensity of the film is perfectly in keeping with the immensity of the logistics required for the attack and the immensity of the attack itself. The production values are high, the colors vivid and crisp, and the special effects, 30 years after the film's release, are still state of the art. There are scenes from the attack on Hickam Field whose realism and spectacle are astounding.The casting is wonderful, with Jason Robards and Martin Balsam playing the star-crossed General and Admiral who would have to play the patsies for the negligence of higher ups. There are few truly secondary roles in this film, for almost every element of the story is crucial to the progression of events. Thus, secondary roles like those of E.G. Marshall and Wesley Addy are riveting, because of the extraordinary situations in which their characters are placed.We are also given intimate access to the Japanese side during planning and preparation. Because this is a co-production between Americans and Japanese, the latter are portrayed without caricature, as people who believe in the cause which is inspiring this dastardly attack. I don't know any of the Japanese actors, beyond a few familiar faces, but they are every bit as engaging as the Americans.We know what is going to happen - that Pearl Harbor will be successfully attacked by the Japanese - but so skillful are the direction and the characterization, and so authentic is the historical reconstruction, that we are easily transported into the moment rather than being dangled above it, as if we we watching a documentary. Unlike Pearl Harbor, which insults every man and woman who served in World War II, Tora! Tora! Tora! in its powerful, unadorned way, pays them tribute. "},{"Title":"An excellent war movie","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Having recently seen the atrocious new movie Pearl Harbor (2001) I feel that I am now compelled to give this film its due.  What this movie lacks in special effects it makes up for in plot and detail.  This film shows both sides of the attack and puts little spin (as far as I can see) on the events that unfolded in 1941.  What makes this movie so great?  First, the Japanese speak Japanese, not English.  Second, the events that lead up to the attack are real (again, I am not a history major so I don't know everything that happened).  Third, real planes!!!  Many modern war movies decide to please the English-speaking audiences and all the dialogue that is needed is done in English rather than in the native tongue of the character.  Tora! Tora! Tora! uses both English and Japanese, adding another layer of realism to the film.  For all of you who can't read subtitles, learn to.  It might get a little tiresome, but after a while it becomes second nature.Unlike some war movies that use a famous battle as a backdrop, this film builds up to the battle with precision.  There is not false story woven into the plot to attract viewers, it is a truthful account of what happened.  This movie also gives justifications for what happened.  Pearl Harbor just throws out Yamamoto's quote about 'waking a sleeping giant,' but this movie gives the detail that this was because the Japanese ultimatum was handed in after the attack took place instead of before.  Done in the 70's, this movie used real planes and real stunts.  Modern movies tend to computerize many of the attacks and squadrons.  This movie uses real planes doing real things.  Does it really matter if the pilots are flying in front of a screen?  And, how many times do you need to see flaming fuselage rush at you?  A classic war movie, dated by many of today's standards, this film is excellent in showing the build-up and attack on Pearl Harbor.  If you want to see a movie about the attack, watch this movie, but be prepared to not see any fancy special effects.  It might look like a regular PBS documentary on what happened, but it is still good.  If you like to see what really happened - without Hollywood hype shoved in your face - then this is a movie to see.  I have heard many people mention that this is THE movie about Pearl Harbor, and I agree with them.  10/10 "}{"Title":"A realistic look at the events at Pearl Harbor, bringing the United States into WWII.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora! Tora! Tora! is a monumental accomplishment. Its special effects alone are certainly worth experiencing. It also makes an effort to tell both sides of the attack accurately using Japanese and American actors. What prevents this epic film from becoming a classic boils down to the quality of the acting. Not the Japanese actors but rather some big name American actors who seem to just be going through the motions. Bit players are even less convincing. Still, this is a story that everyone should see on film and care is taken to make it historically correct.   "},{"Title":"Enjoy the film","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The first time I saw TTT I was a twelve-year old at Lackland Air Force base in the early '70's. The film did well at the base theatre, but bombed at the box office elsewhere. Those of you my age and older will nod knowingly at what you are about to read. I offer no apology for what follows - this is simply the way it was.....When my fellows and I would play war, EVERY kid wanted to be the American GI's. We drew lots for those playing the Germans (we called them krauts) and argued the next day on whose turn came next. No one even deigned to play the Japanese (a word unknown to us). One boy said his father would beat him if that ever happened. Our fathers and uncles talked about Jap cars being junk and Jap tools breaking in half. Your older brother mentioned a boy getting jap-slapped in gym class. We complained about Jap toys not being as good as American-made ones. We even thought there was something wrong with their (the Japanese) eyesight because their eyes were shaped differently (we called them slanted). This was my generation, and it was more so for the previous one. That is why TTT did so poorly when it premiered across America. There were still a lot of hard feelings abounding (watching the film as a child, the audience around me roared every time a Japanese aeroplane was shot down). As I got older, I learned the inappropriateness of certain words, but thirty-five years ago, we saw history differently. Watch this film for what it is and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Pros and Cons","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A lot of great things about this movie. Realism, visual effects, the Japanese acting, fantastic. Tora! Tora! Tora! is well written and well paced - the editing is tight, if dizzying and confusing.Problem is, Fleischer's ham-fisted directing and some lousy post-production.Honestly, he's NOT a good director. Besides the great actors in this movie (Robinson, Robards, Balsam, etc.), all the other actors deliver flat, unconvincing, hackneyed performances. What excuse could you have for framing that cuts off people's heads, or leaves 2/3 of the top of the frame empty to no artistic purpose ? And ohhhh, those sound effects - besides being the same wall-to-wall clichs, the mix is so bad, whole lines of dialog spoken RIGHT into the camera disappear completely.Contrasted with the Japanese-directed segments, his weakness shows terribly.He wasn't one of Hollywood's great directors. How dare I slander the work of the man who brought us Million Dollar Mystery, Red Sonja, Conan the Destroyer, Amityville 3-D... ? Guess I'm a jerk. Point is, someone else should've directed Tora! Tora! Tora!, and it would truly be a classic. "},{"Title":"Decent, but missing something","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie had great actors, was shot on location for much of it and contained some very interesting history. However, it wasn't a great film, rather it was pretty flat for the first hour and a half. I think the length hurt without solid direction and the battle scene while very good was not enough to make this one a winner. Even the excellent Jason Robards didn't seem to have much of a chance to do anything here. I couldn't help but have the feeling it could have done a lot better with tightening up some of the history which came out somewhat confusing. For example, the time references on Dec. 7th were mixed up including a mistranslation of the Japanese language. Also, certain points of the story which could have been made to be very dramatic just sat there such as the anticipation of an attack on Nov. 30th that didn't happen. Ideas like these were just forgotten about leaving this viewer with an unsatisfied feeling as if somehow there was a cohesion that was lacking. The last 45 mins. with the battle scene was what really had an impact here. There, I got the whole review done without mentioning Pearl Harbor. Darn! No I didn't!!! "},{"Title":"A very good film but it could have been an excellent one","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A largely historically accurate account of the events leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor and the attack itself, this is a very good film but it could have been an excellent one. Made by Fox, it was an attempt to emulate the success of its previous epic World War II film The Longest Day but it is not on the same level. My major criticism of the film is that it is slowly paced. It is too long at 2 hours and 28 minutes, particularly since the attack does not begin in earnest until 1 hour and 50 minutes into the film.The first hour and a quarter of the film, give or take, is very effective as we are shown both the Japanese planning the attack and the Americans' lack of preparation for it. These scenes are filled with a great sense of tension, foreboding and a terrible inevitability. The American sequences are very well directed by Richard Fleischer - as I said in my review of Soylent Green, a master at maintaining tension - while the Japanese ones are handled equally well by Toshio Masuda and Kinji Fukasaku. After that, however, it becomes a bit of a drag until the planes actually arrive at Pearl Harbor. I didn't really feel that I needed to see multiple scenes of said planes or the Japanese fleet in the process of travelling to Hawaii. I don't think that they really added anything to the film, to be honest. The scenes of American mismanagement and bureaucracy prior to the attack were far more necessary to the plot but they were not done as well as the similar scenes in A Bridge Too Far. I liked the fact that the Japanese scenes, which comprise almost half the film, are actually performed in the relevant language as it gives the film a great sense of authenticity. I had never seen in a film wholly or partly in a non- European language before so that was interesting. Although there were too many flying scenes, they were nevertheless spectacular, as were the often deeply affecting battle scenes when the attack finally began.The best performance in the film is given by S Yamamura as Admiral Isokoru Yamamoto, the Commander-in-Chief of the Japanese Combined Fleet. He orders a preemptive strike on the US Pacific Fleet as he believes that destroying it represents the only serious prospect for victory. Even so, he does not share the optimism of senior Army figures and politicians who long for war with the United States. He is personally opposed to the war on the grounds that it would be disastrous for Japan. The Emperor Hirohito, who is not depicted in the film presumably because he was still alive and still reigning when it was made, has no desire for war either. However, they both find themselves on the losing side of the argument. Yamamura does an excellent job of depicting Yamamoto's conflict between his loyalty to his country and the realities of sound military strategy. Since I do not know a word of Japanese other than tora, I found that I paid more attention to his facial expressions than I usually do and they played a major role in conveying that conflict. At the end of the film, Yamamoto observes, I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve. There is no evidence to suggest that he ever actually said this but it is difficult to disagree with the sentiment.On the English speaking side, the best performance is given by Martin Balsam as Yamamoto's American counterpart Admiral Husband E. Kimmel. He is depicted in the film as a good man and a competent commander whose ability to perform was severely constrained by the incompetence of others and bureaucracy. Kimmel is under severe pressure for much of the film but manages to keep a level head throughout. Ten days after the attack, he was relieved of his command and demoted. He retired in disgrace in 1942. Played well by Jason Robards, General Walter Short is treated less sympathetically in that he is depicted as an obstinate and often short-sighted man. He is shown to be more concerned with the risk of sabotage than outside attack. In a plan that backfired drastically, he orders that the planes be positioned in the middle of airfields so that they would be safe from sabotage. Unfortunately, he might as well have painted giant bullseyes on them.The most sympathetic characters in the film are perhaps Colonel Rufus Bratton and Commander Alwyn Kramer, played by Balsam's 12 Angry Men co-star E.G. Marshall and Wesley Addy respectively. On the night of December 6, 1941, they make a valiant effort to alert the US authorities that an attack is imminent, having learned of it from decrypted Japanese messages. However, their warnings are not taken seriously until it is too late. The film also features great performances from Joseph Cotten as Henry L. Stimson, Eijiro Tono as Admiral Nagumo, James Whitmore as Admiral Halsey, Edward Andrews as Admiral Stark, Leon Ames as Frank Knox, Neville Brand as Lt. Kaminski and Takahiro Tamura as Mitsuo Fuchida, who led the attack. Fuchida is the only major character who was still alive when the film was made. After the war, he settled in the United States. I can't imagine that he went to see the film though.Overall, this is certainly a very enjoyable film but it never reaches the level that it should. It should have been edited more tightly as it is about half an hour too long. Still, it is the best film that I have seen on the subject of Pearl Harbor. "},{"Title":"Good Treatment of a Preventable Event","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I just watched this movie (3rd or 4th time) again last night, and I was shocked to read that it was made in 1970. The sophistication of the screenplay is such that I thought it was from the mid-eighties, at least. The multitude of human, social factors involved in the U.S. failure and the Japanese (partial) success is given due consideration in the movie, as scenes with numerous political and military figures on both sides characterize the forces involved that lead inevitably to the attack. The sceenplay is thorough, relentless and intelligent. To make-simple and accessible a very tangled situation with many cross-currents and short circuits is a testament to the skill of the producers of this movie. I was very impressed that the producers were able to somehow manage scenes with period-correct ships and aircraft. I did not know there were that many Zero's, Kate's and P-40B's airworthy back in 1970. I'm not sure how they did it. The scenes on the runway are some of the most thrilling I have ever seen in cinema. I need to say that I think more time should have been devoted to the sailors trapped below decks. I know there was a fleeting scene where-in someone yelled The hatch is jammed, but there should have been more, considering, perhaps especially, the travail of those trapped inside the U.S.S. Pennsylvania and the massive effort conducted to liberate them. An important movie, both historically and cinematically. "},{"Title":"Very Good Action Sequences and Special Effects","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This film leads up to and culminates in the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor which resulted in America entering World War 2. Although a bit long (144 minutes) it offers perspectives from a number of people who were either involved in the circumstances leading up to war or were personally affected by the decision. While historically correct for the most part I think it also bears mentioning that it also includes some opinions which have endured since this event that might not be as accurate as some people may believe. For example, many people have blamed Major General Walter C. Short (played by Jason Robards) for his decision to crowd the American airplanes together on the airfield which made them a very easy target for the Japanese dive-bombers. However, this decision was based on a logical assumption that sabotage from Japanese agents was a far greater threat than an actual surprise attack prior to a declaration of war. And while the movie presents his concern it also continues the unfair portrayal of incompetence which he had to endure until his untimely death 8 years later. He was eventually exonerated by the United States Senate in 1999. Be that as it may, this was an exciting film to watch with some very good action sequences and special effects. As a matter of fact it won the Academy Award that year for its special effects. That said, this movie should definitely interest those who enjoy films of this type. Above average. "},{"Title":"The Best War film in existence today!","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is the film that got me in to history. I'm a history nut now, especially about World War 2. This film sparked my interest in the subject of history and the Military particularly aviation(My dad is in the US Air Force). Now I know more about WW2 that some adults do. And everyone at school calls me the human dictionary. And this film is the start of it. Richard Fleischer really took it upon himself to review a movie that was 100% fact about Pearl Harbor. He perfectly showcased the Japanese precision of the attack and the elements that the United States was not aware of. The attack scene is excellent, especially for it's time. If it was done now, there's no doubt it would be 100% CGI. This was done before that business even existed. It's intense and spectacular to watch. A perfect grand finale for one of the greatest films in history! "},{"Title":"TKO against Pearl Habor","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is the true story of the events leading up to and including the attack on Pearl Habor. Two things stand out in this version as oppose to Michael Bay's version. It goes into a lot of the historical details leading up to the attack. And the action is done with real planes and look the better for it.I can't debate how accurate it is. There's certainly enough there that's heavily researched. The biggest risk is the heavy concentration on the Japanese side of the story. They account for half the screen time. And it's quite informative. These Japanese are not some Hollywood movie creations.Not only do the characters come off as real. So too does the action. Sure this is a lot of miniature models. That's to be expected for the era. However the crazy number of planes and the real action is truly jaw dropping. There are some stunts there that just can't be believed. I take this over any amount of CG that Michael Bay can come up with. This has some of the best of the old fashion big Hollywood war extravaganza. "},{"Title":"Torrific! Toriffic! Torrific! (And Realistic, Too!)","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" For someone who has studied the events that took place at Pearl Harbor in the December of 1941 in detail for years, and for someone whose great uncle partook and survived those events, the 1970 film 'Tora! Tora! Tora!' is literally like looking through a window into history itself. Dim-witted viewers may prefer Michael Bay's awfully written and poorly directed chick-flicked version of the story from 2001, which is a travesty and an insult to those who were there. I'm fine with that. If they want to watch Michael Bay's 'Pearl Harbor' while they breast feed their three year olds and release their pet pythons into the Everglades, I'm perfectly cool. But to those who prefer thoughtful films with realistic action, careful direction, and scenarios that make sense, comes an underrated masterpiece. That underrated masterpiece is 'Tora! Tora! Tora!'. Not only does it successfully tell the true story of Pearl Harbor in a documentary-style fashion while managing to keep the audience interested, but it also succeeds as a film where 'Pearl Harbor' does not. 'Tora! Tora! Tora!' has the most realistic battle sequences ever filmed, the greatest special effects in a war film, the greatest movie sets ever built (Which include an entire recreation of the Japanese Battleship Nagato, an entire section of the USS Arizona's stern, and the flight deck and bridge of the Carrier Akagi, meticulously accurate, although the bridge is on the starboard side rather than port as it was in real life), the greatest sound effects in a war film other than those of 'Platoon'... Need I go on?In short, it is a spectacular and realistic film that sticks fully to the facts, rather than speculation or fiction, or romantic nonsense like Bay's film does. It tells the TRUE STORY of Pearl Harbor... The story of the Japanese military leaders and admirals who carefully plotted the attack out, the generals, admirals and officials on the American side who failed to heed the warnings and allowed it to happen, to the courageous and determined Japanese airmen who carried it out, to the equally as courageous and determined American soldiers and sailors on the burning airfields and sinking ships who tried to repulse it.It does have some very minor inaccuracies, like the wing shapes and markings of the A6M Zeros, or the model of the B17s being flown by the American airmen coming in from the mainland, whom the Japanese were tragically mistaken for by the radar boys at Opana Point. It also shows sailors evacuating the USS Navada via rope ladders or simply jumping, which never happened. It also shows the destroyer USS Ward as a modern, post-1945 vessel, rather than the antiquated, WWI-era four-funneled destroyer she actually was. And, less noticeably, the Japanese Carrier Akagi's bridge is on the starboard side, rather than to port, as it was in real life. But this doesn't matter, since the film's film's portrayal of life aboard a Japanese Carrier, as well as the technical details involved, are still paramount. But, other than these few, minor glitches, everything else in 'Tora! Tora! Tora!' is at least 99% accurate, from the way the USS Arizona looked when she exploded, to the moment in which Adm. Husband Kimmel (played wonderfully by Martin Balsam), said It would have been merciful had it killed me, when a spent round of ammunition smashed through the window of his headquarters and scarred his jacket. No film has ever shown the suffering and terror experienced by those who were there better than this film, from the burning corpses strewn across the decks of the Nevada to the horrific sight of the Arizona being consumed in an explosion that killed more than a thousand men in an instant. When watching the film, you can almost smell the burning fuel and feel the concussion of the bomb-hits. You can feel the jubilation of Cmdr. Mitsuo Fuchida in his B5N High-Level Bomber, high above the jagged Hawaiian hills, when he sees the U.S. fleet totally asleep and waiting for his flight to sink it, and the dismay Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto must have felt when he found out that his primary targets, the U.S. carriers Enterprise and Lexington, were out on a training exercise and out of the range of his own fleet.'Tora! Tora! Tora!' is a realistic, terrifying, and fascinating film that every American should see, and a fine tribute to the brave few, on both sides, who were at Pearl Harbor on the morning of Dec. 7, 1941, the morning in which America's hopes for peace in the Pacific capsized like the USS Oklahoma. "}{"Title":"Fantastic adaptation","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Midway has nothing on this film. In my view, this was the best war movie I have ever seen in a long time. Albeit for a few others, but - tora, tora, tora, showed both sides of the coin with the Americans, and the Japanese at how a message was lost in the chain of paper flow for General Marshall to read too late.Roosevelt I think deliberately did this to spite the Japanese in bringing America into the war. Because of this, he halted all trade agreements from Japan, (Which was against the war rules act) and used preliminary means to stop the radar contact to go through as planned. This inevitably meant that the USA, and their government was to become the unwilling victim, by order of the president in secret, to hoist the troops into the war.Japan's emperor himself saw this coming, and wanted nothing to do with the war. Yet as with all joint chiefs, and war mongrels the heads of state were nothing more than pawns. Since roosevelt was already part of the banking cartels he knew how prosperous war can be. With confusing messages from each department, nothing was really established until the fateful day at pearl harbour.By rights, each department head was warned in some way or another, yet with all the surrealistic chains of command, nobody really knew what was happening. For me, this film had shown at how ignorance with the president showed his true colours. To make money at the expense of military men and women, to become the hand of the devil in order to sacrifice those few thousand men at pearl, along with the majestic ships that were docked there.I don't think war in any shape or form is human, but when a man who runs a country uses those around him like a pawn for his own gains, then he should have been the one to drop the two bombs in Hiroshima, and Nagasaki in person. Not by some unmoral decision to get bombers to do it, and fly back home. Roosevelt was a coward, he goaded Japan, even went as far as to make sure all orders were from General Marshall, and nobody else. But since he knew what the General's official routines were, again used someone for his pleasure.Tora Tora Tora, will live on as a great example at why even the Japanese generals, albeit a few of them were so opposed to attacking Pearl. Even the war. With the film midway all it was, was just a bunch of actors made to look good against a fake backdrop of many scenes in WWII. This movie however, was brilliantly made, with wonderful, although horrible acts of war. Explosions, flight scenes which takes my breath away, and the ocean scenes. Not a lot of music was played, which to me made a great impact.All in all, I have to give this film ten stars, for the cast, the action, a great story for both sides, and above all the implication at why war is so unnecessary. Even the emperor himself was opposed like I mentioned before. I highly recommend this to anyone over age 14. You will be surprised by its remarkable scenery, and grandiose scale. Richard Fleischer did a wonderful job of directing. "},{"Title":"America And Japan On A Collision Course December 7, 1941","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Americans never really understood how they were dragged into World War I during the period from 1914 to 1918; and the horrors that humanity went through in that period, in which thirteen million people lost their lives, made the United States, which, like the rest of the world, was to suffer further horrors in the Great Depression of the 1930s, wary of entering international conflicts that had nothing to do with them. Even the rumblings from Adolf Hitler in Germany meant nothing to the U.S.&#x97;for a while, anyway. When Japanese emperor Hirohito ordered a surprise attack on America's Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on December 7, 1941, however, America woke up to a new kind of reality, as the war was bought to their very doorstep. This was the story told with frightening accuracy, from both sides of the conflict, in the multi-national 1970 World War II epic TORA! TORA! TORA!Based on Gordon Prainge's book Tora! Tora! Tora! and Landislas Farago's book The Broken Seal, this well-mounted movie, which, at a cost of $25 million, was among the most expensive films made in Hollywood up to that time, focuses, on the way the Imperial Japanese navy prepared to do what its emperor was ordering of it, and the way the American military staff in Hawaii were trying to understand what they were up to. The truth of the matter is that America and Japan had both been at odds for some time over various issues regarding China and control of commerce in the Pacific at the time; both nations had been devastated by the Great Depression. Negotiations between the two countries were going on between the two for much of 1941; and if Japan could not get what it considered a fair deal from a country that was still largely considered isolationist and inferior in the eyes of the world, then it would take it all by force. As far as the American military was concerned, there was no indication that a sneak attack of any kind was imminent on them; and it was assumed diplomacy would work things out. It then came through a deciphering of secret Japanese communiques that an attack was under way; but by the time the deciphering was in the hands of the Pacific fleet staff, it was too late. Pearl Harbor was virtually destroyed in a matter of two hours; numerous battleships, including the Arizona, sank to the bottom; and almost 2,500 people were killed. It was the greatest single loss of life in any attack on the United States...until September 11, 2001, of course.It would have been tempting for 20th Century Fox, the studio that funded and distributed this film, to make it a jingoistic piece of propaganda and paint the United States as the victim (even the 2001 blockbuster PEARL HARBOR, a near-enough remake of TORA! TORA! TORA!, flirted with that); but, like on its 1962 classic THE LONGEST DAY, it avoided doing so. Instead, thanks to the participation of two prominent Japanese directors, along with veteran U.S. director Richard Fleischer (THE BOSTON STRANGLER; FANTASTIC VOYAGE), the film looks at the events leading up to December 7, 1941 from each side of the conflict, with the Japanese, including their revered Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto (Soh Yamamura), anxious to strike but knowing full well what it may mean for their empire in the end, and the Americans misreading Japanese intentions and disregarding the numerous warning signs until they are backed into a corner. The film gives equal credit to both sides, as befitting as accurate an account of history as Hollywood can muster.Featuring the Oscar-winning special effects work of L.B. Abbott, A.D. Flowers, and Art Cruickshank, TORA! TORA! TORA! also features solid actors like Jason Robards, Martin Balsam, E.G. Marshall, Joseph Cotten, E.G. Marshall, Richard Anderson, George Macready, James Whitmore, Wesley Addy, Leon Ames, and others rounding out a fine cast, along with Goldsmith's always dependable scoring genius, which here combines American and Oriental themes in a unique way. By avoiding the romantic sub-plots and the gung-ho theatrics of the Jerry Bruckheimer-produced and Michael Bay-directed PEARL HARBOR, TORA! TORA! TORA! makes itself stay truly memorable, and will certainly make the viewer wonder just how certain wars throughout history get started. In the case of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, which led to six months of victory for them in the Pacific before they were ambushed at Midway in June 1942, it was a combination of misreadings, misunderstandings, and (on the part of the Japanese) the nerves of riverboat gamblers that made history happen. And as TORA! TORA! TORA! makes abundantly clear, such is often the way history gets made. "},{"Title":"The real Pearl Harbor story","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora! Tora! Tora! is the Pearl Harbor story. The real story, not a fictionalized Hollywood romance which just happened to be taking place in Hawaii in 1941. No made up characters, plot lines or melodrama here. This is the real deal, the story of the men whose decisions and actions led to a date which will live in infamy. As such there aren't going to be much in the way of surprises. There's an inevitability to the film, everyone knows how the story ends. But the film still manages to be compelling, dramatic and entertaining. For a nearly two and a half hour long movie in which you know the ending from minute one that is no small feat.Tora! Tora! Tora! is in a way two different films, the Japanese one and the American one. The two movies within this one movie have different writers, directors, cinematographers and actors. This could have easily led to a very disjointed feel. But things come together rather smoothly. The two stories fit together remarkably well as they proceed along their parallel tracks, destined to come together in the skies above Hawaii on December 7. While there are a few recognizable faces in the cast there are no real stars, no characters who obviously stand out from all those around them. This is a case where the story is the star. The plot, not the performers, drives the film forward. Which is not to say the performances are not good, they certainly are. Each actor, American and Japanese, plays his historical part more than well enough to let you totally buy into the story. You see the decisions the true-life men made and realize how all the small decisions led inexorably to one of the most significant historical events of the modern age. On such small details can history turn. If there can be any complaint with the film it is that the buildup towards the day of the attack can be slow at times. There's an awful lot of historical information to get across and often the same information is shown twice, from both the American and Japanese perspective. But a somewhat slow pace is a small price to pay for the painstaking historical accuracy the film achieves. It would be hard for a documentary to tell the Pearl Harbor story any more truthfully or any better. And however long the film took to get to December 7 the final payoff is no doubt worth it. The film's conclusion, inevitable though it may be, is breathtaking. Action on a grand scale, a powerful ending to a thoroughly compelling film. "},{"Title":"USS Yorktown in TORA! TORA! TORA!","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I was aboard the USS Yorktown during the filming of this movie in late 1968. As I remember it we were heading for Pearl to assume our role as primary recovery ship for the Apollo 8 mission.The Zeros were loaded at either Long Beach or San Diego. A lot of irony in the fact that the ship that replaced USS Yorktown that was sunk at Midway was now being decked out as a Japanese carrier and carrying Japanese aircraft and was now being used to make a movie about Pearl Harbor. An aerial view of the ship in the movie shows the ship with an angled deck.....which there were none of in WW II. OOPS! Doubt many (if any) of the public really noticed or would really care. Have often wondered what was going through the minds of folks in Hawaii who survived Dec. 7, 1941 as they watched the recreation going on about them. I love this movie and was found it exciting to watch its creation. "},{"Title":"The men are eager because they do not know the taste of battle","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I am a big fan of War and Military movies. I think this film rates up in the top tier for accuracy, information, and education on the events that led up to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor that ultimately thrust the US in WWII.Be forewarned that film runs long at 144 minutes. But one can hardly fault that considering the wealth and breadth of material to be covered. I think it was insightful to show both the US and Japanese perspectives in the film. It helps one better understand the motives and strategies of both sides. The first half views more like a documentary. It's not until the last half that the action really gets going.I think all the actors did a fine job portraying their characters. I'm glad they forewent casting big name heartthrobs and instead opted for lower key character actors. I think it was also a good decision to have the Japanese speak in their own language for a more realistic depiction. However, if subtitles bore you, this probably isn't the film for you.It's interesting to note that this film was a flop when released in the US but was a huge success in Japan. This ties in with the fact that the US Navy office was inundated with complaints that they allowed US service persons to participate in the filming - they felt it glorified the Japanese aggression and showed the US as bumbling idiots that were unprepared. SIDENOTE Gotta love the Decoding machine and the officer's explanation of how it works the Japanese transmission goes in here, whirls around inside this box, then comes out the other side decoded. Hilarious! Not bad for a quasi-computer in the 1940's! "},{"Title":"Among the finest of World War 2 films.","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This focus of this film is on the morning of Sunday, December 7th, 1941, the Japanese invasion of Pearl Harbor.This movie is outstanding... just superb. You won't find better action footage in any WW II film and there's plenty of it too! We (Americans) clearly got our behinds tromped during the Pearl Harbor invasion but, because this is an American film, that facet of actuality is slightly played down, (micro victories by individuals are featured to counter our overall demise), as is Roosevelt's alleged desire to enter the war minimized, (my 90 year-old aunt asserts that FDR was Satan himself, I think mostly due to how our family members, during the conflict, were fruitlessly lost and suffered as POWs).In any event, the scenes herein shift between Washington D.C. political activities and those of the Pearl Harbor principals. Of course, the Japanese planning and action sequences are similarly featured.The film is shot in letterbox and runs 144 minutes in length. Excellent color saturation, with great casting (bulging with big period stars), top scenery, believable script, 70 mm cinematography, and awesome sets all contribute to the aggregate success of this exceptional film. It's all very realistic and not hokey in any sense. A lot of the footage, where the Japanese are speaking, is subtitled in English but it's well-done and not at all distracting. Compare it to the German subtitles in The Longest Day.I can't convey enough good comments about this movie. If you are even just a casual movie viewer of common genres, you'll probably much enjoy this well-made historical film, albeit some dramatic artistic license was tastefully invoked by the directors, Richard Fleischer, Kinji Fukasaku, and Toshio Masuda .I do recommend that you have the movie Midway, (a sort of historic Act II), ready at hand to watch following Tora! Tora! Tora! the former of which is a similarly fine film. "},{"Title":"What the movie Pearl Harbor should have been!","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" An excellent movie depicting the events leading up to and during the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Akin to the much later movie Hiroshima this film, while a war movie, concentrates mostly on the events leading up to the bombing. While we all know what actually happened on that fateful day, the events of this movie make for an interesting thriller of a race against time to decipher the impending event that will shape the course of history.Taking a look at both sides with the Japanese planning of the attack and the Americans hoping to figure out what they are up to; it is a masterpiece of historical movie making.For me the second best war movie made, being the runner up only to Alls Quiet on the Western Front. "},{"Title":"Must See WWII film","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I had seen this film 15 or 20 years ago and just recently watched it again with my 11 year old son who is big history buff. He loved it.If you are the kind of person who thinks that fast food is too slow you will probably think this film is too slow, but if you're interested in the history of WWII and the events surrounding Pearl Harbor this is a must see film.This film was not made to showcase any one actor's talents, but instead is an ensemble effort that with few exceptions accurately portrays the events leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor and the attack itself. So while the acting is definitely competent and believable, the real star is the story itself.Knowing the end result (Pearl Harbor is successfully attacked - I hope someone does not find this to be a spoiler!) you nonetheless find yourself hoping against hope that someone will be able to break through and actually warn Admiral Kimmel and/or General Short of the impending attack. Alas this does not happen.I have seen some harsh criticisms of this film as being boring and slow. All I can say is that if you are a thoughtful person with a little imagination you will not find this film boring and slow. "},{"Title":"excellent, factual recreation","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The story of the Day of Infamy as seen through the Japanese and American point of view. As in the Longest Day we see how the events on both sides unfolded and how this tragedy came to be. The acting-mostly by Hollywood veterans is low key and effective. The massive scenes of the Japanese preparing for the attack have a documentary like feel to them that give this film a lot of its credibility. There is no stupid romantic story or bad, inaccurate history like the miserable Pearl HarborThe raid on Pearl is probably one of the most convincing scenes of destruction ever filmed. The battleships, planes and other equipment rings true and it is obvious that the producers tried to get it right. There are a few anachronisms here and there, but not really too terrible. The miniatures of the ships of the US Fleet are models that are 50 feet long! A full half section of the Arizona was constructed as well as a two third scale replica of the Japanese carrier Akagi. Even though the planes are customized WWII era trainers, they are accurate replicas.The only real problem with the film is that some of the pre-invasion scenes run somewhat long, but in the light of this film's scope, they can be overlooked. All in all, this is the best film on the subject and is one worth owning. An unforgettable experience, especially for military and history buffs. "},{"Title":"One of the best war movies ever made.","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It is a very good movie, but only if you're a history buff. It gives details that show the events leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor, and gives a good attack scene. Best of all, there is no love plot such as there is in Pearl Harbor.It doesn't take sides, and it shows how inept democratic administrations are, namely FDR's. It shows how the American brass was full of politicians, and not soldiers, with the exception of one General Marshal.The Japanese, and American actors were well cast, and it showed the internal rivalries of fascist Japan. There is one thing funny though, it leaves out Admiral Halsey's statement, made after the attack, regarding the Japanese let's put it this way, it wouldn't have been politically correct! It is an all-in-all good movie, but you have to, as I said, like history. "}{"Title":"Wonderful drama focusing on the greatest disaster in the USA prior to 911.","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Wonderful drama. Starts with the events leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor that brought the United States into World War 2, then follows the events through the attack. It shows where both the Americans and Japanese made mistakes that could have ultimately affected the outcome. For the Americans, it was the incompetence of the line of command. For the Japanese, it was a willingness to sit back on their laruels once the attack had been a success, rather than continuing to pound the American bases into submission.This was a predecessor of Pearl Harbor, by decades. But it seems that this version is far more critical of the American military. Where Pearl Harbor seemed to focus on human drama at the expense of historical accuracy, Tora, Tora, Tora focuses on historical events, cultural differences, and honor. In the process, it captures the essence of the horror of war.No choice but to give this movie a 10.  "},{"Title":"Very Good History !","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora ! Tora! Tora! is about history made into a movie and for the most part it's accurate. In Japanese the word tora means tiger. It was the code words used by Lt/Comm. Fuchita upon finding the American fleet at anchor and beginning the attack on Hawaii which included the naval base at Pearl Harbor. As history, Tora is far better than Pearl Harbor which is pure fiction. There are some very good special effects in Pearl Harbor but that's about as close as it comes as to what really occurred on December 7th. From the costumes and sets Tora is right on the money. Very few mistakes can be found and some of the uniforms, insignia, and props were real period pieces. No Japanese battleship survived the war but in the opening credits of Tora that's a Japanese Navy battleship. They made a life size mock-up ! It's this attention to detail that makes Tora what it is.....a historical classic. Tora tells you what happened (from both the Japanese and American view point) and it lets the viewer find out and decide for themselves why it happened. If you want entertainment, see Pearl Harbor. If you want history....then Tora! Tora! Tora! is the movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  My father and I saw Tora! Tora! Tora! at the Virginia Premier at a showing for Pearl Harbor survivors. Needless to say there were a lot of comments about how realistic the movie was.There were also comments about what was wrong with the movie, most of which couldn't be helped. For example, the PBY aircraft that was being flown was a later version, but none of the aircraft of the type that were actually at Pearl Harbor survived to when the movie was being filmed.There were also some minor issues with uniforms but I can't remember all of that, except for the scene on the U.S.S. Ward where enlistedmen are on the bridge in working uniforms and not whites. I was told that was a definite error in the peace-time Navy.An earlier comment about how the aircraft carrier scenes were filmed. The production company rented the U.S.S. Yorktown and flew the aircraft off of it. The Yorktown was decommissioned about a year after the movie was filmed.If you look closely in the background, there is a destroyer with an American flag. Further behind the destroyer is a Russian trawler who came along for the ride.Most of the aircraft that are seen being destroyed on the ground are mock-ups built for the express purpose of being destroyed. That's why they look so real.The battleships U.S.S. Nevada and the U.S.S. Arizona are one in the same. It was a full sized model that was mounted on a barge. It was used as the U.S.S. Nevada for the initial attack and then for the run across the harbor.At the end of the filming, it was destroyed to similate the destruction of the U.S.S. Arizona.Another interesting point about the movie, the scene of the B-17 landing on 1 main wheel is real. The plane had a hydraulic failure during the filming and was forced to land on 1 main wheel. The plane was heavily damanged but was repaired and flew again, but not until after the movie was completed.  "},{"Title":"A must-see for anyone interested in WWII!","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I've not yet finished Tora Tora Tora, I have about 20 minutes left, but I was already impressed after the first 30 minutes. It's one of the best fact-based WWII movies. Unlike Michael Bay's Pearl Harbor, it looks and feels like something backed up with historical facts, from the first minute to the last. Instead of greasy love scenes with young Americans, you see both sides of the story from the beginning to the end. Most interestingly, the film doesn't try to judge the events - a rare thing to see in a war movie! -, it just explains and shows them all, and lets the audience do the rest. I think it's the most important reason I'd recommend it to people interested in history and WWII. A well-done historical movie - not a very hollywood-ish one, but feels like seeing history itself! "},{"Title":"An even-handed portrayal","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  What I liked most about this film is how it shows what was happening on both sides of the conflict in terms of the planning and execution.  As a work of historical dramatization, it is highly detailed and easy to follow.  I also liked that the dialogue was in the original languages of the folks involved in the conflict.What could've used some improvement was the pacing.  It seemed to drag a bit in places and, up until the attack on Pearl Harbor, was a bit dry in the dialogue.  I think if we were more involved in some of the characters, it might have made for a more exciting and engaging film overall.  However, they tried that in the movie Pearl Harbor and it failed miserably.  "},{"Title":"Gets Better with age","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora Tora Tora (hereafter refereed to as T3) is a mature, thinking man's film. It was somewhat of a commercial flop when it was released, and I'm not surprised. It's long, but that isn't a bad thing - the story is put into its rightful context, with interweaving stories about intelligence and diplomatic efforts prior to the attack. We shift back and forth, from Hawaii to Washington DC to the flagship Carrier Akagi. The Japanese portions are great - instead of rounding up Pat Morita and George Takai and any other Japanese-American actor to deliver stunted lines, you instead feel very much an insider to Admiral Yamamoto's thoughts.The details are fantastic - I especially like that they accurately painted the design on the fore of the Akagi's flight deck - something other films wouldn't have taken the the time to do. Also, they keep the interpersonal relations out of it (no one talks about being from from Brooklyn), which leads to alot less hokey dialogue, and the battle scenes are quite realistic - compare viewing The Longest Day with Saving Private Ryan, for example - the former is almost embarrassing in terms of perceived realism. Not so with T3.An excellent effort, and one of the few films I would actually show to students if I was teaching a history class. "},{"Title":"A vote for one of the best","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  After 30+ years, I don't think a better done or more accurate film has ever been done on the events leading up to and the attack on Pearl Harbor.  One of the outstanding war films of all times.  The special effects are still good even compared to today's technology. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is a definite classic. In many ways this is the superior version, compared to Pearl Harbour. This one shows both sides of the story and the truth about war the is no winner. only losers.This movie not only gave credit to the Americans, but also the Japanese as well. Pearl Harbour, however, concentrated on the gung-ho and glory of USA. In my opinion Pearl Harbour seemed more like a propoganda than a good movie.This film is more a documentary and is more accurately based than Pearl Harbour as well.This is definitely one of my very favourites. "},{"Title":"Hasn't yet been equaled","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is the gold standard by which all Pearl Harbor films are measured. It is mostly accurate from a historical point of view and provides an excellent look at what was going on in both the Japanese and US governments in the weeks leading up to the attack. One of the most striking aviation scenes in film history appears in Tora, Tora, Tora. As night ends, the Japanese aircraft begin taking off from their carriers north of Hawaii. The planes rush down the flight deck in the dark with flaming exhaust erupting from pipes alongside their engines. They rise into a sky that is just becoming tinged with dawn. It is one of the most magnificent moments in the film, as it must have been on that morning so long ago. Like The Longest Day, this film uses many big name Japanese and American actors to help the audience keep the actual historical figures straight in their minds. Tora, Tora, Tora, is so well done, it could be shown to school kids (if they studied history anymore) because of its clear look at both sides of the attack. It's truly outstanding. "},{"Title":"What happened to Robert McCall's artwork?","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  20th Century Fox hired renowned illustrator, Robert McCall to do several promotional paintings for Tora Tora Tora. All of the film's posters featured his work and the very rare making of book that was sold in first-run theatres showed several of his exciting Tora Tora Tora paintings.But when Fox released the DVD of TTT, all that appears on the box is a B-O-R-I-N-G photo of a plane taking off. What gives? It's not like Fox doesn't continue to use the original artwork from its other films (Bob Peak for Our Man Flint, for example). And we're talking Robert McCall here. This guy did the artwork for not only TTT, but 2001 and Ice Station Zebra. He did tons of story work for Saturday Evening Post and an amazing amount of artwork for our armed forces and for NASA as well as books with Asimov. The guy's a genius.But the dunderheads at Fox decided Great art for a great film? Who needs it? The art director who designed the TTT DVD should be taken out and forced to watch Manos, Hands of Fate 1,000 times.I only hope AmericanArtArchives.com does a tribute page to Mr. McCall very soon. "}{"Title":"The definitive Pearl Harbor movie . . .","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a unique and definitive account of Pearl Harbor.  It is a collaborative effort between Japanese film makers and American ones; Therefore making it truthful on both sides of the coin.What's better is that given this opportunity, neither team presented an idealistic or patriotic account.  As viewers we are presented with the flaws and strengths of each faction.I suppose some viewers would prefer to see the story told with valiant, prepared American commanders at the helm.  But historically, it simply wasn't so.  This movie exposes the flaws in our military defense at the time.  It is an ugly, uncomfortable look at our nation, but it is commendable that the American film crew showed warts and all.The Japanese crew also showed the struggle within the commanders of the attack.Now, the acting talent varies widely in this film.  The special effects, though amazing, would never compare to what we could produce today.... yet, this film still reigns as the definitive Pearl Harbor movie. "},{"Title":"Effective war dramatization","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite war pictures.  It is really the show of Martin Balsam, Jason Robards and the actor who plays Admiral Yamamoto.  Though it has a strong, star-studded supporting cast; the scenario centres around the relationship of these three characters in the famous historical event.  Oh, and the involvement of the intelligence code-breaking characters represented by E G Marshall and Wesley Addy is also involving.<Spoiler Warning>The reason this story comes alive I think is the way the scenes are given some human personality.  These include General Short muttering about the Wildlife Preservation Society, the flying school segment, and the navy officer who comments on a low-flying Japanese fighter that he's going to report it for safety violations.  The scene where a telegraph officer glares at an Asian-descended messenger boy is also very poignant.  They certainly knew how to tell stories back then!  All in all, an effective dramatization. "},{"Title":"DVD Presents TTT! As It Needs To Be Viewed","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Movies like TTT have just been waiting for DVD to come along.  The movie's epic scope and music can now be enjoyed on TV presentation, but even more significantly, you can listen to the history featurette and especially the director's commentary (it does take some fortitude to sit through this very long movie twice, but it is worth it).  You will learn that Akira Kurosawa was the original director of the Japanese scenes, and why he was fired (there are several really amusing/telling anecdotes here).  TTT stands up to the passage of time, because it so consistently presents itself as docudrama.  I recently rented The Guns of Navarone, on a nostalgia kick, and could barely sit through it, though I thought I remembered liking it when it first came out.  The special effects were terrible, the acting was overwrought, the big scene where the traitor is revealed (literally) now lacks punch, etc.  But TTT's action sequences are as good as anything you see today, and really better, because what you see on film REALLY HAPPENED (planes explode, shoot machine guns, etc.).  The even-handed moral tone is actually quite refreshing, portraying the Japanese military characters in a reasonably realistic and sympathetic manner.  The American characters appear quite flat (compare TTT to Thirteen Days, for instance), but you can't have everything.  Last but not least, this is a movie which you can sit down with your teen or even younger son and watch.  It's a history lesson which will provoke questions from the teens and force you to provide thoughtful explanations back.  "},{"Title":"Pure Pearl Harbor and NO CGI","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This 1970 movie is a must see. I saw Pearl Harbor (PH) today, May 25 2001 the opening day in Atlanta.( I wrote a review of it as well)However Tora, Tora, Tora(TTT) is different kind of film. It has no romance. It has no CGI computer animation. It does have super special effects, even by today's standards. In many ways it is much more dramatic than PH. PH is supposed to be a summer blockbuster, with stars and drama. TTT is straight forward action. Ironically it's cast is composed of far more stars! There are loads of of them but none are the star of the movie. In TTT the action leading up to and the actual event is the star. TTT follows the mistakes and errors that lead up to America being caught  by surprise on December 7th. In many ways TTT is much more dramatic and tension building than PH. Clearly Japanese Admiral Yamamotto's quote I fear all we have done is awaken a sleeping giant is more poinently presented in TTT. In TTT Yamamottos line is then followed by him saying  and all we have done is fill him with terrible resolve. This second line is excluded in PH for some reason.  Rent TTT, in the widescreen edition if you can. It is worth it.  "},{"Title":"the film soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The film score reaches a fever pitch halfway through the movie. It reaches it's fullest potential when RUFUS BRATTON is running around washington trying to warn people about the impending attack. Then there is a closeup to a desk calendar with DECEMBER 7 1941 written on it, from this point forward the music matches the building up for the final attack and matches the events in the movie. Prior to this the film score is slower as the events take shape...once the attack surfaces the film and it's score move at break neck speed. This in addition to PATTON and the PLANET OF THE APES are the finest scores by Goldsmith....but can anything match the fading trumpets in Patton? The soundtrack to TORA TORA TORA is a little pricey but once I get some spare change I may pick up a copy. "},{"Title":"Pearl Harbor becomes a feature film","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The film TORA TORA TORA is quite a achievement. No japanese aircraft survived the war so the aircraft used in the film were modified to be exact look-a-likes for WW2 japanese planes. (ie. the Zeros were remodified T6 Texans) There were other breathtaking things like mockups of the Battleship Yamato and U.S. battleships of the era. The film portrayed both sides of the conflict and their various perspectives. The Japanese were portrayed as human beings and not the slant eyed monsters from the days of JOHN WAYNE's WW2 movies. The film was a joint american/japanese production...which was unusual for it's time. There was a great deal of detail that went into this film, that previous productions like FROM HERE TO ETERNITY (both versions) lacked. TORA TORA TORA was also the last of the great aviation war epics (ie. THE BLUE MAX, BATTLE OF BRITAIN, etc.) produced by the big studios. (sorry, 1976's MIDWAY does not count!) Of note is the fact that JASON ROBARDS starred in this film....Jason Robards was a veteran of this very attack in real life. "},{"Title":"A Marvelous Depiction of the Attack on Pearl Harbor","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I do not wish to be redundant and re-state all the fine things other reviewers have said about this dramatic film, nor will I summarize the history of how WW II began for America, although with the dearth of history in U.S. public schools maybe I should. But they can read the other reviews. I want to add here that this was a fine film of a great and terrible event, and certain aspects stand out for me.The very professional Japanese Navy was depicted accurately and with deserved respect. The internal conflicts within it between carrier and battleship advocates was also shown, as was Jap. admiral Nagumo's lack of decisiveness and rigidity in not launching a second wave to knock out the U.S. dry docks and oil storage facilities on Oahu island. The responsibility for the surprise in Washington was left unclear (it still is to large degree), although the film does tend to the accumulation of bad luck hypothesis rather than a diabolical plot. The inclusion of FDR (not in the movie) would have been inappropriate it would have been a distracting impression and he was not directly involved in the operations  - unless you believe FDR was diabolically pulling all the strings behind the scenes!The battle scenes were quite good, but the USAAF did not just have P-40 fighters in Hawaii, the only fighter depicted in the movie. The planes used to depict Zero fighters looked nothing like the real Japanese fighters (I guess it couldn't be helped). The capsizing of the USS Oklahoma was not shown, nor were there any good full shots of US battleships; I suppose that too couldn't be helped, but it was vexing. The destruction of the USS Arizona was well done. These are of course minor complaints.  I also wish the cast was a little stronger, and characters like Yamamoto and US Adm Kimmel, whose career ended after the attack, were better drawn. The film covered so much territory that many characters seem to be superficial. But that too is a minor complaint. I saw this movie initially at a packed large theater in Times Square and there was great reaction and involvement by the audience. It's a heck of a movie, and I just wish that Midway was made in a similar style with Japanese characters portrayed by Japanese actors speaking Japanese, not American actors of Japanese descent speaking English!   "},{"Title":"Provides a fascinating Japanese perspective","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of very few war movies I've seen that depicts the Japanese as smart, disciplined military professionals -- indeed as anything other than stereotypical one-dimensional cannon fodder. As thousands of Pacific veterans can attest, they were serious, committed warriors, not cartoon characters.The World War Two generation in America regarded Pearl Harbor as a dastardly event, a sneak attack that was ethically the lowest of deeds. It contrasted sharply American ideal of fair play (a fatal liability in combat, an ugly truth that's seldom depicted or discussed in films and literature of and about the period) and fed the vehemence of the American  people's terrible resolve, as Yamamoto put it.  That Japanese, a race too many Americans regarded with fear and suspicion, had accomplished it, further fueled American fury and determination.But militarily the Japanese were doing what historically they do best striking without warning to catch the adversary off guard and, if possible, defeat him with one decisive masterstroke.  If you're from another country, or if you're an American able to put your cultural baggage aside for the duration of the film, you gain a grim appreciation of just what a tatical masterpiece Pearl Harbor was, and how quickly the Japanse realized their strategic failure.Watching this film, you also glimpse how forward-thinking the Japanese were in naval developments, grasping the potential of naval air power over battleships.  (It's little known that in 1941, Japan's navy, particularly their naval air force, excelled America's in quality and quantity.) Even more, you discover how constrained Yamamoto's opportunities were.  He was essentially reduced to doing the Army's bidding rather than projecting power as a true blue-water naval force should, and he knew full well that against the might of America, the best he could do was to buy Japan a little time.To watch the Japanese cast members portray their roles is to see a valuable window on the Japanese warrior ethos in particular and Japanese culture in general.  For the Japanese, Pearl Harbor was the largest diplomatic and military gamble ever undertaken.  Its enormity manifests in the Japanese Navy officer corps' tension and emotion in scenes of planning and executing the strike. This tremendous acting is easily lost in visual translation for many Westerners, but it's palpable for those more familiar with the Japanese. "},{"Title":"Contains One Of The Greatest Battle Scenes","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora! Tora! Tora! is not exactly a great film. Mediocre acting and script. However, it contains one of the greatest battle scenes ever shot on film, if not the greatest. It's a treat for war film lovers to watch. I still find the simulation of the Pearl Harbor attack to be a totally mesmerizing spectacle.This film is done before CGI, which the vastly inferior Pearl Harbor used ad nauseum. This fact makes this film much more amazing. (This film must cost 300 million to make nowadays!)The only bad battle scene in this movie is the bombing of Arizona, in which you can tell the ship is floating on a bath tub. But other than that, you'll be hard-pressed not to say, Wow! "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Epic","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  In absolutely every respect this movie is far superior to Pearl Harbor of a few years ago. Rather than using the pending Japanese attack as the backdrop for a fictional romance, Tora Tora Tora faithfully recounts the events leading up to December 7, 1941, and then offers a chilling portrayal of the attack itself. In spite of being over 30 years old, the effects used during the attack scenes are excellent, and create the feeling that one is right there as they happen. The performances are solid although unspectacular, which seems appropriate. Clearly the desire of Directors Richard Fleischer and Kinji Fukasaku was to let the events speak for themselves, and in this they succeeded. The movie is told from both the Japanese and American points of view, and one of the better aspects of it was that the scenes on board the Japanese fleet were shot using the Japanese language, rather than having the Japanese speaking English with Japanese accents. I felt that this added to the authenticity of the movie. The confusion, miscommunication and poor preparedness of the U.S. is truthfully recounted, as is the division between the military and political machinery over various issues the choice of Pearl Harbor as the base for the Pacific Fleet, and the decision to transfer navy resources from the Pacific to the Atlantic.There are a few scenes that drag. We spent an inordinate amount of time watching Japanese Zeros taking off from the deck of a Japanese carrier and it's somewhat difficult to establish the timeline of the movie, particularly in the first hour or so, but overall this must surely be the definitive movie version of the attack on Pearl Harbor. Everyone interested in the day that will live in infamy should watch this.9/10 "}{"Title":"A Powerful Production","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  While Patton was the superior WWII film to be released in 1970, Tora! Tora! Tora!, a meticulous recreation of the events leading up to, and the actual attack on Pearl Harbor, is a fine film in its own right and is one of the best WWII epics.  The cast, on both the Japanese and American sides is excellent, the score by Jerry Goldsmith is powerful, and the special effects by 1970 standards are quite competent.I have only one complaint though, and that revolves around the strange decision not to depict Franklin Roosevelt in this film. Many people have said that Tora suffered at the box office because it left audiences too depressed upon leaving.  This could easily have been rectified had the producers recreated FDR's Day Of Infamy speech to Congress and recreated the wild, enthusiastic cheers of a determined America declaring war and vowing revenge and total victory.  But Roosevelt is nowhere to be seen in this film, and I don't think there's a legitimate excuse for this.  "},{"Title":"A great docudrama  of which I never tire","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" What is presented are the facts - from both the American and Japanese perspectives - of what led up to the attack on Pearl Harbor and the attack itself. It doesn't attempt to add any fictional characters to the extent that this is possible or add steamy love scenes (2001's Pearl Harbor, I'm looking at you). The lesson here is never underestimate your enemy, and how easy that is to do when layers of bureaucracy are in the way, layers of bureaucracy that just can't believe that a nation of people that Americans then thought racially inferior would actually decimate Pearl Harbor to the degree that they did. Did you realize that in 1941 many Americans thought that Asians had poor eyesight because of the shapes of their eyes? I didn't learn that from the film, but it helps explain why so many prewar dramas were aimed at the Germans while the Japanese were practically ignored.Central to the plot is that U.S. Army Col. Bratton (E. G. Marshall) and U.S. Navy Lt. Commander Kramer (Wesley Addy) decipher the Japanese Purple Code and from the messages that they intercept, believe that attack is imminent. They pick the wrong week, but they have the right idea. As the warning goes up the chain of command so many things go wrong on the American side. Key generals or people reporting directly to the president are out riding horses or walking their dogs or doing what people do on weekends. Finally, Chief of Naval Operations Harold R. Stark (Edward Andrews) is notified and urged to call Hawaii, but no, he says he wishes to call the president first. He asks everyone to leave the room. After everyone leaves Stark is staring at the phone but it is not clear if he ever called anyone. Why??? Meanwhile, Admiral Kimmel (Martin Balsam) is quite afraid of attack in the months leading up to December 7, but his reaction is counterproductive. He orders all aircraft placed as close together as possible so they can be easily monitored for acts of espionage. That's fine, but it also makes it easy for the Japanese to destroy all of them with a few bombs.The morning of December 7th, two ordinary soldiers are ordered to be up bright and early to man the new Radar Center that is only operational from 4AM to 7AM. They spot the entire airborne Japanese contingency via their equipment, inform their superiors, but are told it is probably just a malfunction - go have breakfast! And on and on it goes. When the Japanese planes finally do appear over the top of the harbor everyone believes they are American planes until the bombs start dropping.I haven't mentioned much about the Japanese mistakes, but there were a couple of doozies. The first being that the Japanese - due to a slow typist - did not deliver their ultimatum to the Americans in Washington until AFTER the attack on Pearl Harbor began. The second mistake is mentioned in the final line of the film, delivered by General Yamamoto, whose idea it was to stage this attack in the first place. He mentions that many think that the Americans are soft, that they love only luxury, that they are not hard and war-like as the Japanese are but he mentions he fears We have only awakened a sleeping giant and filled him with a terrible resolve.Something never mentioned in the film that helps explain some of the inertia on the American side is the anti-war and isolationist sentiment that was prominent in America up to Pearl Harbor itself. WWI was looked back upon as a gigantic waste of time and lives, and America was just emerging from a decade long Depression. Perhaps if Harold Stark never made that phone call it was because he thought that the Japanese dropping a few harmless bombs on Hawaii might get Americans into the fighting frame of mind necessary to fight a two front war. I don't think from anything I've ever read that anybody right up to Roosevelt believed that the Harbor and its contents would be completely destroyed.If you've never seen it, please do. And realize it was meant to be as close to a documentary of what actually happened as possible. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A really enjoyable movie.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Forget the junk movie Pearl Harbor by Jerry Bruckheimer that everyone keeps comparing to this one. This movie is better in every way, historically speaking and cinematic. Its acting is better, its accuracy is better and it's attack scenes are better. Unlike Pearl Harbor, this needed no computer animation whatsoever. No second is wasted.Tora! Tora! Tora! is an enjoyable movie even though the Americans seem helpless in the attack. The Japanese just keep bombing and bombing. The explosions in the attack are greatly constructed as are the death scenes of characters. One thing that I like the most about this movie is how it is shown from both point of views. "},{"Title":"Epic history as it should be made","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora Tora Tora is one of the best war movies & historical dramas ever made. It has the ability to create an incredible tension, as events leading up to the attack unfold; which is all the more remarkable for a rather straightforward retelling of a historic event that everyone has at least a passing familiarity with. Tora is actually 2 movies in 1. The Japanese side, filmed in Japan using Japanese actors & crew, and the American side. Producer Elmo Williams & director Richard Fleischer then edited them together, showing the unfolding events as seen from both Japanese& American eyes. Reading the backstory of this production, I found out that 20th Century-Fox's Darryl Zanuck had been interested in this project back to the time he made The Longest Day, but several issues(including Zanuck's celebrated Cleopatra that nearly bankrupted the studio) kept it in project stage for years. Also, Japan's premier film director Akira Kurosawa (best known for The Seven Samurai) was originally engaged in writing & directing the Japanese portion. Considering Kurosawa's immense talent, it's odd that reportedly both Richard Zanuck (who took over running Fox from his father) and Elmo Williams were hugely disappointed with the rushes that were arriving from Japan. According to several credible sources, Kurosawa shot hours of footage, but Fox found they couldn't utilize any of it! Apparently Kurosawa was given large reign over writing the Japanese storyline, and took it off in directions Fox didn't like. Finally Kurosawa was fired, and they brought in a couple of journeymen directors to get the story in the can! One of the things which made for such realism was the Japanese built 2 life-size ship models/sets - of the carrier Akagi & the battleship Nagato (respectively, Nagumo's and Yamamoto's flagships) for filming key scenes. I've read where these 2 huge models became big tourist attractions while the Japanese sequences were being filmed. They were built right on a beach so that in the distance the ocean would be seen. I've been unable to find out definitively what happened to these giant sets, but I assume they were broken-up after filming was completed. I recall that in an issue of Sea Classics magazine after the movie's release it was reported that some of the large models of U.S. battleships used in the filming (in the 25-30 foot range) were being auctioned off. For the USS Arizona, they actually built a full-scale mock-up of the stern of the battleship, which was placed in battleship row not far from the Arizona Memorial.Tora also benefited from being made near enough in time to WWII that many old U.S. aircraft could be used in the film, and many old prop trainers were modified to serve as Japanese types. The special effects still hold up rather well, considering this was pre-CGI. I found many of the attack sequences (esp. those on the airbases) more convincing than the CGI used in 2001's Pearl Harbor! And, as far as story goes, there's simply no comparison. Tora! is realistic, and yet does manage to briefly show the exploits of the 2 real Army Air Force pilots who managed to get airborne and down some Japanese planes (Lts Welch and Taylor). There's no Ben Affleck & Josh Hartnett dogfighting among the battleships' masts or airfield hangers, or playing chicken with each other to lead Japanese planes to crashing into one another! Special credit must go to the ensemble character of the cast. Fox avoided making a spot the star picture, such as their own The Longest Day, and concentrated on character and story. Some quality old actors (such as George Macready, Joseph Cotton, and Leon Ames), secondary types such as Martin Balsam, Jason Robards, and James Whitmore; and stalwart character actors like E.G. Marshall, Wesley Addy, Frank Aletter, Richard Erdman, Richard Anderson, Neville Brand, and many more. While many of the actors bear no more than a passing resemblance to their real-life counterparts (such as Balsam to Adm. Kimmel), George Macready is very close to Secretary of State Cordell Hull, as are the Japanese actors who play opposite him as Ambassadors Nomura and Kurusu. One of the best-rendered and powerful scenes is where Hull receives the Japanese ambassadors just after he gets word of the Pearl Harbor attack. He gives them an icy dressing-down, then folds his hands and stares down at his desk as the Japanese depart. Another is the much-remembered scene at the end where Admiral Yamamoto points out to his assembled officers that the attack came 55 minutes BEFORE Japan's declaration was delivered in Washington, and tells them that he fears all they have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and filled him with a terrible resolve. The movie ends with a somber restating of the main theme, showing a troubled Yamamoto gazing out over the sea, then dissolves to the flaming, smoking wrecks at Pearl Harbor, as the end credits role.Composer Jerry Goldsmith, one of the true greats of Hollywood, must get much credit, as well. Goldsmith was the master of percussion (such as his unusual but effective Planet of the Apes score), and used percussion to create a Japanese-themed score that helps build tension. Such music follows intel officers E.G. Marshall and Wesley Addy as they try to get someone in Washington to believe an attack on Pearl Harbor is imminent. No where is Goldsmith's mastery of setting score to scene better displayed than the final scene before intermission, where Adm. Stark (Edward Andrews) is at his desk in Washington, hesitating about whether to phone Hawaii with warning of the attack or not. We hear his desk clock ticking louder and louder as he looks down at his desk calendar with the iconic Sunday, December 7, 1941 date, and Goldsmith adds strings, which joins with clock ticks, steadily rising to a crescendo. One of the last chances to warn the Navy in Hawaii is draining away. Dynamite filmmaking and film scoring! "},{"Title":"Tell those damn fools to stop shooting at us, we're Americans!","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A Veteran's Day tribute - the war in the Pacific. We tend to think of the Ben Affleck vehicle when we think of Pearl Harbor, but war is not about love stories. It is about death and destruction, and there is no greater story about such destruction than this one. It was a brilliant military move made in an atmosphere where no one could believe it was happening. It was great strategy among a comedy of errors. And, as Admiral Yamamoto predicted, I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve. Directed by Richard Fleisher, who gave us Soylent Green; and by multiple award winning Japanese director Kinji Fukasaku, this film is characterized by excellence in Special visual effects, art direction, editing, sound and cinematography. It is an excellent film all around. "},{"Title":"Interesting Film About That Fateful Day.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Interesting film details(from a joint American & Japanese perspective) the tragic decisions and missed opportunities that led Japanese forces to launch an unprovoked attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. This was a risky move, since many potential veterans in the audience may not care to see the Japanese POV(though to be fair, the reverse could be true). This film presents a balanced viewpoint, so I didn't detect any sort of bias, since this was presented by both an American and Japanese co-directors.Good cast includes Martin Balsam and James Whitmore, and the attack itself is impressively mounted and compelling. Not as emotionally moving as one would like, since it presents the events in a matter-of-fact-manner, but results still work in this worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"A True Gem","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This film accurately depicts the lead up to and attack on Pearl Harbor. The scale of the sets and intensity of the battle sequence stands well the test of time. Although the 2001 film Pearl Harbor had better visual effects the accuracy of Tora Tora Tora has no equal. The presentation of both sides of the battle adds to the depth of this film, allowing us to see both the Japanese motivations for the attack and American confidence that Pearl Harbor was beyond Japan's reach. Unlike many historical dramas that mix fictional characters into an actual event, this movie presents only real life persons giving a almost documentary feel within the film itself. Anyone who enjoys the World War II era will enjoy this film. It can be watched with younger audiences as well since the level of violence does not depict the level gore associated with many war films such as Saving Private Ryan, and Full Metal Jacket. "},{"Title":"Definitive retelling of the Pearl Harbor attack","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A great, epic-feeling film which carefully traces the build up to one of the most famous events in the history of war the surprise attack by the Japanese on the American naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Forget PEARL HARBOR, TORA! TORA! TORA! is the real deal, a definitive retelling which makes all other versions of the story completely obsolete.Be warned this is a real slow-burner of a film, with lots of politics and bureaucracy and stuffy guys in suits chatting together in rooms. It's worth persevering with, though, because the pay-off, when it happens in the final hour, is well worth the wait. You can see why this film was so expensive to make, because much of the attack is done for real, with real planes throughout and real stuff blowing up. Even the use of miniatures is unobtrusive when it does happen.To be fair, the cast don't have a great deal to work with it's one of those ensemble productions where there are a few too many characters and none of them have time to make much of an impact. So if you're a fan of Martin Balsam, Joseph Cotten et al, don't go into this expecting to see much of their work. In fact, the Japanese actors feel like they're the ones giving more naturalistic performances throughout as they get a chance to be more emotive.I especially like the way that the film slowly reveals a catalogue of errors on the part of the Americans, as the viewer gradually becomes aware that the attack wouldn't have been quite so unexpected had earlier signs and warnings been heeded. Altogether it's a great movie, one that rewards close attention with a fantastic pay-off. "},{"Title":"At Dawn We slept","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie has many great strengths. The photography and music are great, and the battle scenes are authentic. The fact that both sides cooperated in his making give it total historical accuracy. It does not take the truth and corrupt it , as the overblown Pearl Harbor does, inventing a romance and inflating the Dorie Miller story so that Cuba Gooding Jr. could have more to do. The actors look like military people, not like the ones in Pearl Harbor who probably never served, unlike Jason Robards, who plays Gen. Short and was a actually a Pearl Harbor survivor, and Neville Brand, who plays Lt. Kennedy, and was a highly decorated WW 2 combat soldier. The build-up to the attack is long, what might say too long, and absolutely accurate, but it does slow down the movie. Unlike Pearl Harbor the movie which focused on three main characters, Tora, Tora, Tora gives a bigger canvas but does not leave us with any memorable performances. So in many ways, its strengths could be also classified as weaknesses. If you want to see one movie to show you what the attack was like from both sides and from the planning to the culmination, this is your movie, however. "},{"Title":"Best & Most Accurate Portrayal of Events As They Happened","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is a fine film on many levels. First, the script tried very hard to go after historical accuracy. On every known level they succeeded. The film was produced with 2 separate units, one which showed the Japanese side, & the other the American Side.Besides this is a third side- the diplomatic side. While this side might drag for you action viewers, it accurately portrays the political intrigue going on with Japan leading up to the attack. This is not an easy side to show & there are those who think FDR ignored warning signs deliberately. When you watch this portion, you realize that even FDR is not that smart.The film does not waste it's time putting in any fake story, & actually creates some more interesting stories from the true accounts of the time leading up to the attack. While the special effects are 1970 vintage, the attack sequences are well done. So well in fact that stock footage from this film is also used in MIDWAY & some other films made later.A veteran cast of actors is solid in performances of real, well known historic characters. Some unknown actors do very well in supporting roles. The Japanese cast is outstanding.In honor of Pearl Harbor Day, this is the film to watch. It was a very popular film in Japan because it ends with them on top after the attack. Their audiences do not comprehend the terrible diplomatic mistake they made even today. "}{"Title":"Still the best about Pearl Harbor","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  While the acting was far from Oscar worthy and the plot slow at times Tora! Tora! Tora! remains the best account on film concerning the tragic events that occurred at Pearl Harbor.  The movie's strengths lie in its accuracy and use of real events.  For example it uses Yamamoto's actual line about awaking a sleeping giant instead inserting some fancy overly dramatic phrase.  Furthermore, the film is not judgemental about its characters and lets the viewer come to his or her own conclusion as to whom the blame should fall. For the time the film was made the special effects were good and the story was one that could not be forgotten.  Other accounts still pale in comparison and that is the final measure for me. "},{"Title":"Fantastic special effects for 1970 !","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I couldn't find many mistakes in aircraft types, appearances, etc. as there was in MIDWAY, another favorite of mine.  My BIG question is how did they make all those special and true-to-fact effects without the computer assistance available today?  The entire film was as if I was there without all the hollywood fake stuff you see in Pearl Harbor.  What a Classic !  I've seen it maybe 10 times and still enjoy it.I would LOVE to find a film documentary on How we filmed Tora! Tora! Tora!   Anybody know of any such thing? "},{"Title":"great battle","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I caught the last hour on tv, and I was very impressed with T3.  The widescreen panoramas would be quite something to see on the big screen.Others can critique the historical acuracies, but I thought it was appropriate to hear Japanese instead of English, which I gather was a studio anomaly at the time of release.Mostly, though, I'll point out that the special effects were FANTASTIC! Several sequences of planes getting destroyed as they attempted takeoff were amazingly real and suspenseful.  I can't fathom how these scenes were created 30 years ago.  "},{"Title":"Lame acting, but phenomenal special effects","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  In spite of employing some of the best actors in Hollywood, much of the acting in this movie is so bad it hurts to watch. Fifth-graders doing their first play in front of an audience could do better than some of the performances in this movie. That said, the special effects save the movie. It remains a powerful film, one that is historically accurate, while packing an emotional punch that cannot be denied.I can watch this movie almost 35 years after it was made and marvel at some of the effects. How did they DO some of those things? Some of the scenes of planes blowing up are so detailed that you really wonder if the producers didn't have some hidden stash of aircraft at a secret airfield. And the scenes of the Japanese planes taking off from the carriers....I simply don't know how they did it, but it looked as real as anything I can imagine (and I served 3 years on an aircraft carrier!) The special effects of Pearl Harbor (a much weaker, sappier movie) were no better.The movie itself is balanced and accurate in its portrayal of the event. The temptation to slide into the coulda, shoulda, woulda mode must have been almost irresistible, and at times it comes close to doing just that. But in the end, it's probably the best big picture war movie going. With some tighter directing, it could easily have been one of the best war movies of all-time, period. "},{"Title":"Beats The Heck Out of Pearl Harbor(2001)","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV and i gotta say that it was very well done. Even though its over thirty years old, I though it was a good movie.It was better than Pearl Harbor. That movie was just another History-Love film. Just like the Titanic and that why it failed at the box office. I really liked the Battle scence in this film. I just wanted to say if you need to teach your kids about The Bombing of Pearl Harbor, show them Tora! Tora! Tora... forget Pearl Harbor (2001).....its a romance, not a history film. "},{"Title":"Plain and simple","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I'll just keep this one plain and simple, THIS MOVIE KICKS THE CRAP OUT OF PEARL HARBOR!!! I love this movie, It has a great script for the time that it was written, It is an all around good movie. "},{"Title":"A meticulous,excellent depiction of December 7,1941","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora! Tora! Tora! is a meticulous,excellent depiction of December 7,1941.It is refreshing in that it depicts the story from both the American and Japanese sides.Solid performances especially from Martin Balsam,Jason Robards,E.G. Marshall and Soh Yamanura as Admiral Yamamoto. It is well directed by both Fleischer and the two Japanese directors.The special FX are excellent,especially for 1970,and Jerry Goldsmith's score is excellent also.I did like Pearl Harbor(2001),but this is better.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very realistic!!!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I bought this movie on DVD.  It's very long and even has an intermission.  The movie shows the planning of the attack through the eyes of the Japanese.  It also shows how nervous the American brass was during the days leadin up to the attack.  This movie was very educational.  There is so much about that attack that I did not know.  I still have many lingering questions.   I had no idea that the leader of that Japanese fleet was a HARVARD GRADUATE!!  No wonder he felt kind of bad about bombing Pearl Harbour.  The actual attack scenes were so realistic!!  I am certain that there were injuries.  Anyway, great movie but you must be prepared to sit through over two hours of it.  So, be in the correct mindset when you pop this DVD in.  I can't wait to listen to the DIRECTORS COMMENTARY. "},{"Title":"Superb! All Around a First-rate War Movie","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Superb Performances! Excellent Pace! All Around a First-rate War Movie. The director's use of good solid actors and not the Hollywood Star Types gives this movie a real realistic quality. The movement to follow all the events in Pearl Harbor, Japan, and Washington was skillful and keeps the viewers interest. A Great War Movie!  "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!!!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora!Tora!Tora!  Is one if the greatest World War II movies I have ever seen.  This movie actually shows both sides of the picture, the American side and the Japanese side.  You don't usually see that in the war movies. It also shows the mistakes of our military defiance. Almost all war movies don't show the flaws of the U.S.A.  To me the balance of both sides is well done.  Some of the characters over did it but it still it was great.  What I mean by overdoing it is that characters talk too much.  The special effects were very good espacially for being back in 1970.  Even though the effects we have now days are much more advanced and more realistic.  The scenes in the movie were absolutely marvelous.  In every scene the background looks real.  The battle scenes were not that great but yet,  the movie kept its focus and that's what I like about it.  I highly recommended it.  "}{"Title":"Excellent depiction","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora! Tora! Tora! is the true depiction of the attacks on Pearl Harbor, with no love story crap like the other Pearl Harbor.  It actually focuses on both the Japanese' side attack and how they planned it out to the American's side of things and how we recovered.  That is how it really happened.  Miss Pearl Harbor (2001) and go see this.Overall the movie is an excellent depiction and I highly recommend it. Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Looks better now than 32 years ago.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I paid to see this film in the theater in 1970 and was very disappointed. However, it actually looks good in comparison to last summer's Pearl Harbor. The movie is a docu-drama of the events and personalities leading up to the attack on December 7, 1941. The one historical element left out of the movie is the Japanese spy system that identified the targets. This attack was probably the most pivotal event in the twentieth century. I believe that the movie suffered from too many characters and too much attention to accuracy in detail. The film was released at a time when no war movie had a chance of success, the height of the Vietnam War.Of the movies made about Pearl Harbor this is the best with the possible exception of John Ford's 30 minute version released in 1942.   "},{"Title":"Excellent docu-drama","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is an excellent docu-drama showing the build up to the attack at Pearl Harbour from both American and Japanese sides. The attack itself is an amazing achievement - so realistic and totally deserving an Academy Award, especially in the days before computer generated effects. I sometimes watch this movie just to try and work out how they achieved their special effects.I found the events before the attack very tense and suspenseful. American military intelligence had cracked Japanese radio codes, and they were aware something was about to happen but didn't know where or when. They also had to convince their superiors of their suspicions.Surprisingly, this movie didn't do well when first released, and I often wonder why. I wonder if the docu-drama format, and lack of personal story-type snippets (like they used in The Longest Day) makes this movie a little dry for people who don't have an interest in what happened at Pearl Harbour or military history. I'm not sure, and this is just my speculation.Anyway, this movie is one of my personal favourites.  "},{"Title":"This was how they used to make them.....","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Some people have said, and with some justification, that Tora! Tora! Tora! is three parts boring history and one part action movie.  If the movie's only goal was to be a drama about the attack on Pearl Harbor then maybe they would be right, but this is primarily a documentary.  We see all the mistakes, from the seemed a good idea at the time to the truly monumental, that led up to the attack.  Reality doesn't conveniently fit our notions of plot and drama, but does let us see why events happened as they did.Matters aren't perfect, as I've heard the Japanese bombers were attacking from about 10,000 feet, not off the deck as portrayed, and some of the ship scenes are obviously models, but considering the film's effort to be factual it can be given a little leeway.Some scenes stick forever in my mind, such as Yamamoto's words at the end about what the attack may have accomplished, and somberly walking out on the deck of his massive battleship, knowing it will all be swept away in the battles to come.  That last scene was more powerful than all the action sequences before it, and I think playing Yamamoto was one of Toshiro Mifune's best roles.  This is also a film that probably couldn't be made today, for two reasons.  First is there simply aren't enough serviceable World War Two era aircraft to make the flying squadrons coming in for the attack.  (Yes, I know the Japanese planes were built from American trainers--but those trainers dated from about the same time period.) Today, as with the awful Pearl Harbor movie last summer, everything would be CGI effects.  But no matter how good the special effects are they can't really catch the feel of a real airplane doing the same thing.  It's amazing they were able to do this as late as 1970, and the closest movie I can think of for a similar effect of real aircraft flying in the scenes is The Blue Max.Secondly is the film makers of the time could make a historical movie and simply tell the story.  Today it seems the set designs are perfect and the special effects get louder and more explosive, but the key elements are warped.  Too often we get characters and plot points changed to fit conventional standards of political correctness or exaggerated ideas of how people were supposed to act and behave.  It's a real shame as movies like Tora are few and far between.  The only thing that could have made this one better is if Akira Kurosawa would have been able to direct the Japanese segments.  As it is I rank Tora up with one of the top five war movies.  "},{"Title":"I remember reading about this production as it was filmed","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  There was trouble with the japanese unit while filming. FOX let go the original director and made several casting choices yet i remember reading as this was being filmed, about some of the studio problems. the hjapanese film units shot fine footage and theirs was a great part in making this film unique from all other PERAL HARBOR films. Yet, unheard of is the behind the scenes problems making the movie. TORA TORA TORA was a lasting achievement for american Fleischer and the two studios and 4 directors who brought it to life. Of note are two japanese directors who filmed the japanese footage. "},{"Title":"Woah...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I just saw this one the other day. It was the first time since I was a kid and let me say once again, woah...Ok, back to the review.In my opinion, last year's multi-million dollar explosion-fest did not adequately document the build-up, the anticipation, the monumental screw-ups (on both sides), the desperate diplomacy and finally the catalysmic events that defined December 7, 1941. If you want to see the Bruckheimer/Bey version (reimagining?) of what happened, go rent Pearl Harbor. they've even thrown in a love triangle, for the benefit of those guys who love big explosions, but who's dates might not. You can see FDR pull himself up from his wheelchair, American pilots in the RAF, a highly imaginative account of Doolittle's raid on Tokyo...OK now, if you want to see what REALLY happened, or at least get some idea, rent Tora! Tora! Tora! It is the only film that attempts to objectively show both sides of the story, from the American and Japanese points of view. There is no evil music playing when the Japanese appear on screen. And remarkably, they only speak Japanese, which is translated with sub-titles. Actually, this is a very meticulous account of what happened on that fateful day. If you don't like documentary type films, go see Pearl Harbor. It's all here, from the band playing moments before the first Japanese wave struck, to the dramatic sinking of the Arizona. The climax of this film is the attack on Pearl Harbor but what really makes this effort shine is how the preceding events are portrayed. You can see the conflict between Japanese hawks, who want to go to war, and doves, who still seek a peaceful resolution. The film makers also did not feel the need to detract from the significance of the event (as Bey did) by ending the film on a jingoistic note by skipping 6 ahead to when Doolittle and company raided Tokyo. In doing so, Bey ignores several significant events related to the war (the capture of the Philippines, etc.) in order to give the film a Hollywood ending. Be forewarned, Tora! Tora! Tora! does not tell you what happened after Pearl Harbor. We are left with the words of Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto I fear we have aroused a sleeping giant, and stirred within it, a terrible resolve.For the benefit of those who slept through history class, we won the war.  "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie last night for the first time in 20 years. The last time I saw it, I was about 10. This is a great movie that tells both sides of the story of the attack on Pearl Harbor. Far better than any recent re-makes of this historic event. The movie keeps the viewer interested, bouncing back and forth between the Japanese and American sides leading up to the conflict. The attack footage was excellent! I was surprised at the intensity. If you are interested in movies that portray history with a dramatic flare -- this movie is one you can't miss! "},{"Title":"Historically Excellent!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  You will learn a lot about the attack of Pearl Harbor from this movie.  I love that they tell the story from both sides, it helps give more insight. However, most of the acting is very poor.  There are so many cameos and the actors really ham up there 30 seconds of screen time.  Even with this serious flaw, it is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Watching PEARL HARBOR makes me appreciate this gem all the more!","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I cannot add any finer comments and praise than are already listed here. TORA! TORA! TORA! remains one of the finest examples of the docudrama format, a meticulous and exact retelling that could serve as a history class' supplemental material.Would that the people behind PEARL HARBOR have been so careful.  Watching my video of TTT, I marvelled at how well the film has stood up over 31 years. PH, on the other hand, will be an unwatchable embaresment next year.  "},{"Title":"No melodrama here.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Very detailed movie of the buildup to the attack on Pearl Harbour in 1941. The film does not take sides or wave the flag of either country. Instead it just tells a story of mistakes and opportunities. The movie conveys all the actions from the top brass to the lower ranks with ease. Another similar movie to this is The Longest Day. One criticism is that the American actors seemed so staid compared to their Japanese counterparts.An interesting historical movie with no melodrama attached. "}{"Title":"Tora lover","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora Tora Tora was a wonderful, realistic docu-drama of Pearl Harbor. It  is a long movie but gets more engrossing as each minute passes. A superb film that will not let you stop watching. As I saw the previews to Pearl Harbor (2001) I thought they were re-releasing Tora Tora Tora, as the scenes looked so similar. "},{"Title":"historically authentic war film","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The events that led to the attack on Pearl Harbour in 1941. Film evenhandedly portrays the role of both Japanese and American figures before and during the battle. Extraordinary historical accuracy and detail, acting, script and special effects.  (Rating A) "},{"Title":"The most brilliant","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This must be one of the most spectacular motion pictures ever made. It was historically accurate, as well as entertaining. Very well made, and not at all like Hollywood spectacles.This simply is the best war movie ever made. And I am not ashamed to give it 10 points! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Brilliant!  Absolutely brilliant.  I have to agree with previous comments in that the special effects were amazing and even more so for it being 1970. Casting and direction was also top notch and the attention to detail was astounding.  Truly a sight to behold.  One of the best films ever made....probably.  An emphatic 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Sober Documentary Approach","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It is doubtless a good thing that Michael Bay was not around in 1970. If he had been, Tora! Tora! Tora! might have ended up as a bloated three- hour epic about a love-triangle involving Admiral Yamamoto, Admiral Kimmel and Tokyo Rose, with the attack on Pearl Harbor tacked on as an afterthought.Fortunately, he wasn't. The film we actually have takes a very different approach to that taken in Bay's Pearl Harbor. There are no fictional love stories, indeed virtually no fictional characters at all. Rather, the film documents the Japanese preparations for the attack and the efforts of the Americans to understand what the Japanese were planning. The title (meaning Tiger! Tiger! Tiger!) is the Japanese code-word used to indicate a successful attack.Although some well-known Hollywood names took part, including Martin Balsam, Joseph Cotten and Jason Robards, there are no real star parts; this is very much an ensemble cast. One thing that struck me was how little James Whitmore, who plays Admiral William F. Halsey, resembled Robert Mitchum, who played the same role in Midway from a few years later; neither actor, in fact, looked much like the real Halsey. Any actor playing a major wartime army commander such as Patton or Montgomery would no doubt be carefully made up to resemble the man he was playing, but naval commanders seem to have been much less well-known to the public than their military counterparts, so such realism was presumably thought unnecessary. In many ways the film does not address the most interesting question about the attack, namely the question of why the Japanese leadership decided to take such a reckless gamble in the first place. Emperor Hirohito never appears, and General Tojo only appears briefly. The Japanese part of the film concentrates upon Admiral Yamamoto and his predecessor Admiral Yoshida, both of whom opposed war with the United States. It is implied that some Japanese leaders considered the Americans to be a spiritually corrupt, cowardly nation who would be unwilling to carry on fighting once their Pacific Fleet had been destroyed. It is also implied that the Japanese suspected the Americans of plotting an aggressive war against their country, especially after the Pacific Fleet was moved to Pearl Harbor from its normal base in San Diego, and therefore began planning a pre-emptive strike of their own. The film, however, never comes down definitively in favour of either explanation, possibly because it was an American&#x96;Japanese co-production and the Japanese film-makers might have been unwilling to explore their country's responsibility for the war in too much detail.The film is more interesting when considering events from the American viewpoint. Contrary to popular opinion, the attack did not come as a complete surprise. The Americans suspected the possibility of a Japanese attack, having deciphered a key Japanese code which allowed them to read diplomatic communications. Remarkably, the Americans actually fired the first shots of the day when a U.S. destroyer sank a Japanese submarine trying to enter Pearl Harbor, but reports of this incident were not passed to senior commanders while more junior officers awaited official confirmation.The film, in fact, tries to rehabilitate the reputations of Admiral Husband Kimmel (I wonder if Mrs Kimmel ever used to refer to my husband Husband) and General Walter Short, the two officers who were made scapegoats for the disaster. The Americans certainly had enough information to anticipate the attack, but owing to a combination of incompetence and mischance this information was not passed to the two commanders on the ground until it was too late. Producer Darryl F. Zanuck described the film as taking a revisionist approach which showed what really happened on December 7, 1941.None of the many individuals depicted here emerge as really interesting characters; I suspect that this is more a film for the military or history buff than for the general viewer. As such, however, it works very well, and the action scenes showing the attack are extremely realistic; the aerial dogfight sequences will bear comparison with those in The Battle of Britain from the previous year. I greatly prefer the sober, documentary approach taken by Zanuck and director Richard Fleischer to Bay's overblown, turgid love-story. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent dramatisation, but still quite onesided","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The thing that stands out in this movie is the half hour long battle of Pearl harbour. This movie is a historical recreation of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour and it is incredibly close to the actual events. It more of a documentary done in the way of a film. The thing is that there are quite a few issues which are of historical significance in this film and that are explored. They are the relationship between the United States and Japan, the US unwillingness to go to war, and the arrogance of the United States into believing that nobody would even consider attacking them, and finally how the people at the top did not realise the extent of the threat while the people at the bottom could inevitably see it coming.The first time I saw this movie was in year 11 during Modern History. The thing that stuck out was the length of the attack on Pearl Harbour, and it was really cool. I remember this one sailor firing this huge machine gun at Japanese planes. Another scene is where a Japanese plane flies over a parade ground, and the reaction of the commander there is that it was some American fly-boy being funny - that is until it drops a bomb.The issue behind the events were in regard to dominance of the Pacific Rim. The Japanese wanted to establish a Pacific Empire, but the problem was that America considered the Pacific Ocean to be theirs, and there was no room for the two super powers to share. The Japanese were feeling pressured by the Americans with their war in China, especially since they ceased trading with them forcing them to either push the Americans out of the picture or to move into South-East Asia. They chose the second option but the Americans reacted very badly to that so they decided that they needed to move on the Americans.The thing that gets me is that throughout the movie we see the Americans as being the good guys and the Japanese as being the facists. What we do not see is the way that the Americans treated the Negroes, the Mexicans, or even the Indians. This was not a war of good against evil, but rather two superpowers fighting over something that they did not want to share. The Americans condemned Japan for its actions in China, yet no mention of the American's actions in their land against the Indians - first of all invading their territories and then displacing them into reserves and even assimilating them. The Negro issue regarding slavery had been sorted out, but they were still considered second class citizens. The American Secretary of Defense condemned the Japanese Ambassador for his nation's actions and made him look like a bad boy, but it is more like a bully forcing a weaker kid to admit that he is the bad person and that the bully is the good person. In my books, nobody is good or bad, but we are all as corrupt as everybody else.The next issue I will address is the belief that America would not be attacked, which I will combine with the difference between the generals and the people at Pearl Harbour. Constantly we are shown how nobody expects Japan to attack. The first event is when the planes in the airbase are grouped togeather to prevent sabotague, yet wise commanders realise that this is bad because an attack could wipe them all out - which it did. Another incident is when the planes are spotted on Radar, but they are ignored because they must be American planes. Nobody was expecting that Japan would make such a bold move, though evidence pointed out that it would happen. The Americans had cracked their codes and were receiving all of the messages. They knew that a fleet had moved out but did not act on it. They had even sunk a submarine just outside of Pearl Harbour, but considered it to be nothing, especially since there was no hard evidence. This couples with the unwillingness of the US to go to war that they would rather ignore the signs in hope that they would not be dragged into a bloody conflict.The one thing that slightly irritated me is that President Roosevelt is never shown (though neither is the Japanese Emperor). It is as if the president is some sort of god symbol who cannot be portrayed on screen. It is probably not that, but that they did not want to go to the effort of trying to find somebody who looks like Roosevelt. It also gives the impression of the generals running the show and that the president simply says yes or no on the really important decisions, but only receives the information that the general wants them to know.This is a good movie. It is historically accurate and as such is a great movie to watch to try and understand the events leading up to Pearl Harbour. It is decidedly pro-American but that is what one should expect when approaching an American movie. "},{"Title":"A blockbuster built around facts. They sure don't make 'em like these anymore.","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" My Take An accurate and honest account of the Day of Infamy appropriately-told on both sides of the story. Here's something they don't make anymore A big-budget blockbuster built around built around facts. Although mostly memorable for its enthralling recreation of the December 7th attack, TORA! TORA! TORA! is also the first feature that recreates the events which led to the date which will live infamy, shown on both American and Japanese perspectives. The cast is great, but is mostly overshadowed by the realistic attack sequence. It may be one of those films that the special-effects are more powerful than the story. There's really not much of a real story as it simply retells the events. The performances by Martin Balsam, Jason Robards Jr., Joseph Cotten, Soh Yamamura, James Whitmore and E.G.Marshall are somewhat wasted to simply nobody roles of military officers. The score by Jerry Goldsmith is terrific. And so is the direction by Richard Fleischer, and two other Japanese directors. The film drags a bit due to a lot of explanation of the events, but when it comes to the really exciting and compelling moments, it portrays the scenes with wonderful creativity. Flawed, but somewhat entertaining. Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"War in its entire brutality","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  There are many good and brutal films about wars, specially about the terrible WWII, but few are as real and breath-taking as Tora! Tora! Tora. First, the name of the film (WWII Japanese code for attack)shows a lot of what is to come. The battle scenes are amazingly well done and sometimes we feel like we were watching a documentary or something like it. I would certainly recommend your total attention to the air battle scenes. But Tora! Tora! Tora! is not battles only. Actually it takes something like 95 minutes for the battles parts to start. Before this, we have all those heavy moments that came before the first bullet was shot. The story takes us from Japanese to American lands in order to show the two faces of the coin. I'm sure it's just a personal opinion, but Tora! Tora! Tora! shows a kind of preoccupation of not attacking American or Japanese government, but in showing what really happened back in the early 40's.My rate 10/10    "},{"Title":"Documentary-Like Movie About December 7, 1941","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora! Tora! Tora! is a good account of the Pearl Harbor attack on December 7, 1941.  Hiring terrific actors and not stars makes it a better movie.  It is great to see recognizable faces on the screen get their chance to portray these important people (big and small) of American history.  The movie runs like a documentary.The only criticism I have are the clothes and the hairdos of the women actors; they look like they are living in 1970 not 1941.  Everything else looks original, for instance, the men's appearances and the vehicles.  Why did the producers spend so much money getting authentic 1940's vehicles and forget all about the women's appearances?  The women's appearances were a bad distraction from the story.  The movie did not deserve to be nominated for an Academy Award for best picture because of this error; however, the story is well told.   "},{"Title":"A Good Film","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first appeared on the big screen in 1970.  I also happened to see part of the movie being made as I was in the Navy at the time and served aboard the USS Finch (DER-328) which played the part of the USS Ward (DD-139); the destroyer which fired upon and sank the midget submarine before the attack.As with all movies that are made from true events, this movie had its share of errors. For example, the movie showed the battleship California being abandoned before the Arizona had blown up.  In actuality, the California wasn't abandoned until around 900 a.m. which was well after the Arizona had blown up (it was the burning oil from the Arizona which forced the evacuation of the California). Also, the movie showed the bomb which destroyed the Arizona crashing into its stern, when in reality, it forward.  Another error, was when the acting captain of the USS Nevada said he would beach the ship over there.  In reality, it was Adm. Furlong who ordered him to stay clear of the channel for fear of the ship sinking and bottling up the fleet.  One more error appeared toward the beginning of the movie when Adm. James Richardson was telling Adm. Kimmel in an Amphibian seaplane that he felt uneasy about the fleet being at Pearl Harbor, citing what happened at Taranto and was then relieved by President Roosevelt.  Actually, Richardson was more concerned with having to supply the fleet with supplies stretching back 3,000 miles than he was with the possibility of an attack. I felt that the American director didn't do that good of a job in certain scenes as the acting seemed amateurish, but overall, it was a good movie.  I just wish that the technology we have today was available back in 1969 when this movie was being filmed.  "}{"Title":"History comes alive","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I knew the Japanese use diplomatic deception and military stealth to attack Pearl Harbor, but I had no idea how badly our intelligence screwed up. We intercepted communiques between Japan and her ships, but made mistakes translating. An Army general (Jason Robards) grouped his planes together so that if one was attacked, a chain reaction would destroy the entire fleet. We had senior officers who ignored warnings of the impending attacks. In one scene, a lieutenant barks at his captain, You want confirmation, Captain? Take a look. There's your confirmation!I also learned that many senior officers in the Japanese Navy lamented bringing the US into the war. Many thought that they attacked Pearl Harbor, they would have to attack San Francisco, cross the mainland, and eventually hit Washington.This is a particularly long movie. It's almost two-and-a-half hours, and drags on in spots. But the battle scenes are very well directed, and the special effects were surprisingly good for 1970. And the fact that the story is told from both the Japanese and American points of view make the history come alive. (Be prepared to do a little reading. At least a third of the dialogue is in Japanese.)Don't waste your time and money with Disney's version of Pearl Harbor. If you want to know what really happened on the morning of December 7, 1941, rent Tora! Tora! Tora! It may be hard to find, but it's worth the effort.Note on the title Tora! Tora! Tora! was the Japanese code to commence the attack on Pearl Harbor.Ratings note Tora! Tora! Tora! was originally rated G, but by today's standards, it would probably be PG or PG13 for bloodless war violence. "},{"Title":"Don't watch Pearl Harbor, watch this instead","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is probably the best historically accurate movie about the attack on Pearl Harbor there is.  There's no BS love plot, no uninteresting character development that has so plagued the recent Hollywood release.  Everything about this movie is accurately based on events in history, but that doesn't make this a boring movie.  The events that are shown prior to the attack is very well done, and keeps the audience interested in what was going on on both sides.  The attack itself was the most enjoyable part of the film. Gone are the fake looking destroyer turrets and historically flawed aircraft (which are fake CGI crap BTW) paint schemes in Pearl Harbor.  All ships and planes used in TTT are authentic.Do yourself a favor folks and watch this film.  "},{"Title":"Uh, is this the kind of WWII movie Spielberg was so down on?","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the most expensive films ever made ($25 mil in 1970 dollars), Tora, Tora, Tora crisply tells of the dawn attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese. Both sides handle their own filming, with Richard Fleischer directing the US segments and Kinji Fukasaku and Toshio Masuda directing the Japanese (Akira Kurosawa was originally slated for this job). The first half is a tense build up showing the Japanese resolve and the lax standards of the US Army and Navy stationed at Pearl. The second half features one of the most awesome battle creations ever committed to film with Rising Sun dive bombers and fighters devastating airfields and Battleship Row (a true, white-knuckle spectacle). The destruction of the Pearl base seems so complete that it's sobering to see the closing scenes where a few Japanese commanders are not so sure that they did a thorough enough job to stay on top of the US militarily. Great, if sparse Jerry Goldsmith score; tight, often black writing by Larry Forrester, Ryuzo Kikushima, Hideo Oguni; special effects by L. B. Abbott and A.D. Flowers (the film won deserved Oscars for Visual Effects); cast includes an impressive list of character actors, including Jason Robards who was actually at Pearl Harbor on December 7th.   "},{"Title":"Best depiction of a battle","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Awesome spectacle, This must be seen on a big wide screen by any and all W.W.II or action buffs. The drama leading up to the Bombing of Pearl Harbor is presented in explicit if not exciting near documentary detail. However once the intermission ends and the launching of the bomber planes from the Japanese Carriers begins the suspense and excitement really build and the climactic bombing is perhaps the best depiction of a historical battle ever. The special effects and cinematography are breathtaking even by today's standards.   "},{"Title":"Torpor! Torpor! Torpor!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Very accurate, very evenhanded, very businesslike -- and for most of its considerable running time, very dull. It's chockablock with some of the most stilted expository dialogue I've ever heard -- every line seems to be trying to cram five pages of history book into one sentence. Consequently the emotions and character development are sold woefully short, and the actors are too busy spewing condensed historical essentials to get any emotional truth going. The device of identifying historical figures with on-screen I.D.s is efficient but distracting, and a little smug; it's as if the filmmakers were saying, Look how docudrama-precise we're being. About an hour and 45 minutes into this marathon -- which, incidentally, nearly bankrupted Twentieth Century-Fox, along with its other overproduced epic of that year, Hello, Dolly! -- the attack begins, and there's some exciting war footage. Also, the DVD sound is excellent. It's almost worth renting, and beginning after intermission. "},{"Title":" Not Just an Event in a History Book!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"                  Every time I see this picture, I relive the horrible event that took place on Sunday, Dec 7, 1941 and the way in which people reacted to the news over the RADIO (no TV's in those days)  It was the same way America heard about 9/11, but people were able to actually view this HORROR!  This film is one of the best true stories of what actually did happen and how America was unprepared for the attack.  This was not history for me and my family which makes it hurt every time I visit the site of Pearl Harbor on Veteran's Day!   Martin Balsam (Admiral Husband E. Himmel),Psycho,'60, learned well in advance that Japan had plans to attack America, not knowing the exact position. Jason Roberts,(Lt. General Walter C. Short),F.D.R. The Last Year,'80(TV) was very ill informed and was not capable to utilize his great ability to assist in stopping the blood shed! There was too much Red Tape and America did not really want to get involved with Japan, as well as fighting with Nazi Germany!  Joseph Cotton,(Sec. of War, Henry L. Stimson),Niagara,'53 and E. G. Marshall)(Lt.Colonel Rufus G. Bratton),Town Without Pity,'62 gave  great supporting roles.  Some of the airplane fighting between Japan and America was not very realistic.  The Japanese Air Force was short on fuel for their planes, and they were just able to drop their bombs and if they ran out of fuel, they flew their planes into the ships and buildings in order to accomplish their mission. The Japanese Aircraft Carrier was able to get them as close as they could, but fuel was a problem for the Navy & Air Force at the time.  As early as 1937, the Japanese Nation invaded China, where they did horrible crimes against the People of China, The Rape of Nanking was remembered in the War Crimes Court after the War.  This is a very good film about WAR, and I hope and pray that WAR among people and Nations will come to an END!  Unfortunately, Harry S. Truman, President of the U.S. had to drop the A Bomb on Japan and caused more death and destruction!   It is a shame that both nations had to suffer because of lack of communication and understanding! We will always need the United Nations! "},{"Title":"Honest, Interesting and Intriguing.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora! Tora! Tora! is one of those films that is almost a masterpiece, but not quite. It is well-made and it is definitely interesting as American and Japanese film-makers collaborated to tell what really happened at Pearl Harbor. The events leading up to the attack are given lots and lots of background while the attack itself is pretty impressive considering this film was made in 1970. In all there may be a little too much information as the film is slow-moving in some areas as the big-name cast sometimes distracts from the actual message the directors wanted to convey. Overall the film is a near miss. The split between the American viewpoint and the Japanese viewpoint makes for some innovative film-making but too many times the film has more of a voyeuristic feel than the feel of watching a motion picture. In other words, there is just too much reality sometimes as the most boring of sequences are prevalent throughout and this makes the film way too long. Tora! Tora! Tora! is a good film, but it could have been so much more. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Essential","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A dramatization of the Japanese attack on the US naval base at Pearl Harbor and the series of American blunders that allowed it to happen.The Japanese side was initially to be directed by Akira Kurosawa, who worked on script development and pre-production for two years. But after two weeks of shooting, he was replaced by Toshio Masuda and Kinji Fukasaku, who directed the Japanese sections. What would have been different? Roger Ebert felt that Tora! Tora! Tora! was one of the deadest, dullest blockbusters ever made and suffered from not having some characters to identify with. In addition, he criticized the film for poor acting and special effects in his 1970 review. Vincent Canby, reviewer for The New York Times, was similarly unimpressed, noting the film was nothing less than a $25-million irrelevancy. Now, I can see where Ebert and Canby are coming from. Indeed, it is long, and has no main character. From the point of view that movies are entertainment, this is not a good movie. But I think the film has somehow transcended that. I first saw it in school as a way to be introduced to Pearl Harbor and World War II. Did I fully comprehend what I saw? No. And is it 100% accurate? Probably not. But it still makes a great teaching aid and offers many jumping-off points. "},{"Title":"Air raid..., Pearl Harbor. This is no drill.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I've had this film on my radar for quite some time but just got around to watching it today. One of my hesitations which turned out to be completely unnecessary was a common complaint I have with war films - they often throw in some romantic element completely unnecessary for the historical record to receive it's proper treatment. Case in point, 2001's Pearl Harbor which also concerned itself with the Japanese attack that ignited our engagement in World War II. With Tora! Tora! Tora! I was impressed with the near documentary story telling style, offering an inside look at both the Japanese and American approaches to an impending conflict.I recently happened to catch the original full version of the 1943 documentary December 7th, commissioned by President Franklin Roosevelt to help explain what happened before, during and after the attack on Pearl Harbor. A good deal of what's shown in that film provided key elements in the subject movie being discussed, with particular emphasis on the number of Japanese living on the Hawaiian Islands. One of the military leaders mentions it here, I think it was Lt. Colonel Bratton (E.G. Marshal) but if not, please excuse. The reason I bring it up is because the film incorporates quite clearly any number of Japanese characters in civilian roles, particularly in military offices as well as domestic help, including General Bratton's own houseboy. The fear of local Japanese sabotage was always quite clearly in mind by the powers that be.The movie offered a couple of surprises, the primary one being that no stock footage of the actual Pearl Harbor attack was used in the production. I thought that might have been an element. Another surprise was that even though the President was mentioned a number of times, there was no actor employed to portray Roosevelt. I thought that was kind of interesting, particularly since FDR almost immediately convened Congress to declare war at the time. But then again, the movie was depicting the day of and not the aftermath.As far as the actual battle scenes, the recreations for the film are simply staggering in an era before CGI and mesmerizing special effects. They aptly convey the horror of war and the chilling resolve of the Japanese kamikaze pilots to inflict a mortal blow to America. Though it wasn't specifically mentioned in the picture, the actual attack lasted just ten minutes shy of two hours, and delivered a devastating blow to America's naval capacity in the Pacific. What it led to was Japanese Admiral Yamamoto's (So Yamamura) prescient observation that the Japanese Empire had awakened a sleeping giant. The march of history was about to be changed for the next seventy years. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie portrays the attack on Pearl Harbor and other early actions of World War II from the Japanese perspective. It shows that not all of the military wanted to attack America, yet they obeyed their orders and carried out the attacks. Thanks to a diplomatic snafu in delivering an ultimatum that would have made the attack acceptable under world rules the returning Japs are ebullient. They think they have won an overwhelming victory against the USA only to find out they are considered to have conducted a surprise sneak attack and are the great bad guys. The fact that all the carriers were out on maneuvers actually spells the end of the war, admittedly several years in the future. A very well done show. "}{"Title":"Marvelous special effects!","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This very impressive multi-budget recreation of the WW2 Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor actually looks better in its 20th Century Fox DVD version than it did in first release cinemas. The actual attack is just as spectacular, but the poorly directed pre-attack scenes now look quite professional, whereas in cinemas all the instant information dialogue of the movie's first half (stiffly delivered across the 70mm screen), failed to make any impact. Fan spotters, however, are still going to be disappointed. Joseph Cotton has a minuscule role, while both Jason Robards and James Whitmore have only a mite more footage. Fortunately, Martin Balsam turns in his usual capable job as Kimmel, but the real star of the American segment, apportioned by actual lines and amount of footage, is probably Wesley Addy. Nevertheless, for those who like spectacular scenes of destruction on a grand scale, the movie will be a godsend. It's odd to see an anti-Japanese movie co-produced by a Japanese film company, but that's what we have here. What we do not have however, are all the anti-American scenes seen in the movie's theatrical version in which reports of the imminent attack by USA spotters are ignored by the stupid officers in Honolulu. Some of these scenes are still in the DVD film, but not all of them. Half the staff at base command should have been arrested and court-martialed, but as far as I'm aware, they were not! "},{"Title":"Excellent film about the truth behind Pearl Harbour","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is a somewhat unusual film as it plays out like a documentary populated by actors but for anyone wanting to understand why PH happened this is superior to any documentary you will find, and probably as accurate as available information in 1970.There has been relatively recent debate about the degree of complicity of the Emperor and the true meaning behind his Winds/Waves message which suggests he supported the attack but it was in US interests to support Hirohito as a means of gaining a peaceful surrender by not prosecuting him as a war criminal.The acting and production on the Japanese side is first rate but somewhat wooden on the American side, but overall technical production and execution are quite amazing given there was no CGI in those days.The failure of the Japanese to knock out the US carriers ultimately means that the attack was a failure made more so by the decision to not send in the third attack wave intended to destroy the port infrastructure but Japanese command was concerned they might be counterattacked by the US carriers and would be caught in a vulnerable position. Despite the extensive damage inflicted on the US battleship fleet this was ultimately largely irrelevant.For anyone interested in the origins, execution and aftermath of the PH attack this is a great starting point. There is a wealth of information on the internet, both truthful and fanciful for anyone wanting to learn more but this movie provides a better grounding than any documentary I have seen. As for that appalling so-called PH of a few years ago, what a disgrace in respect of the nearly 3,000 Americans who lost their lives that day. "},{"Title":"what is that behind the actor","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" In one scene before the attack the Japanese officers are on the deck of a ship debating the need for six aircraft carriers over the recommended three. If you look over the shoulder of one officer as he speaks in the sky, you will see a huge object seemingly falling towards earth. It looks like it is hidden in the clouds as it falls. Does anyone have any insight as to what this might be? Based on the path it is taking it looks like a meteor. Of course I do not know where this scene was actually filmed so I am not exactly sure what I am looking at. I have searched for an answer but to this point I have not found one. I really enjoy this film particularly because of the historical accuracy. Of course there are many inaccuracies too. It is too bad that the Navy didn't see fit to give Dorie Miller the Medal of Honor. He truly performed beyond the call of duty that day. So back to the original question. Does anyone know what that object in the sky is? "},{"Title":"Acknowledging retrospective.","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I wouldn't argue that this movie is exactly historically accurate, because it is, after all, a movie, and because even at a 2 hr 30 min. playlength there's a lot of things that it cannot or will not include. But for a good essay on this specific historical event, no movie (that I've seen, anyway) does better justice to Pearl Harbor. It really is both an American and Japanese coming to terms with a very important historical event, with both of them taking the time to acknowledge just how much they messed up. Pearl Harbor was one of those events both stunningly planned and disturbingly coincidental. A different move in any different direction could have created a massively different outcome. In a way, that retrospect makes Tora! Tora! Tora! a little too knowing, as any time a decision is made by a character on-screen, the connotation is that that decision was directly causal to a specific outcome as to what happened, whereas other outcomes that decision caused are not explored because they no longer have the significance of what-could-have-been but only what-actually-did.This is the type of movie where every penny of a big Hollywood budget went on screen for good effect. The actual attack is both stunningly detailed and entertainingly spectacular, but even the inclusion of real stunt people so close to the explosions and actions makes a very realistic effect and helps give emotional scale to the attacks. The madness and confusion in such a well-coordinated and planned out action is a beauty to behold in and of itself.This is a fantastic movie and a pretty good essay revealing the workings and design of a now infamous event. Sure, it's not without its over-simplifications (the cryptography lab, for instance, is laughably small for the type of work they were doing), and as always any specialist will probably find nitpicks, but for the casual viewer it's much better than anything else I've seen out there. I mean, From Here to Eternity is a great movie but one does not learn a whole lot about the actual operations of the attack (because that's not its focus), and Pearl Harbor is stylisticly pleasant to look at but is maudlin and ridiculous (mostly because I think Bay was aiming for a sort of Titanic-esquire love story to give it more seriousness, and failed miserably). Tora! Tora! Tora! is by far the best Pearl Harbor movie out there.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Oh, no, no, this can't be right; they must mean the Philippines!","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I was up late last night watching this great film, so i didn't make it part of my Memorial Day Tribute, but it is one that should be viewed by all, nonetheless.We tend to think of the Ben Affleck vehicle when we think of Pearl Harbor, but war is not about love stories. It is about death and destruction, and there is no greater story about such destruction than this one.It was a brilliant military move made in an atmosphere where no one could believe it was happening. It was great strategy among a comedy of errors. And, as Admiral Yamamoto predicted, I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve. Directed by Richard Fleisher, who gave us Soylent Green; and by multiple award winning Japanese director Kinji Fukasaku, this film is characterized by excellence in Special visual effects, art direction, editing, sound and cinematography. It is an excellent film all around. "},{"Title":"Japanese Naval Code","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is not a comment on the movie but on the review from an Australian reviewer.The Japanese codes decrypted by Magic were not Naval codes as the writer supposes but diplomatic codes. They made no references to naval manuevers but were sent to Japanese Embassies and Consuls world wide.Kimmel and Hubbard were sent the same messages that were sent to Panama, the Phillipines, and other ships and stations.Secrecy of Japanese diplomatic codes was exceptionally poor. Japanese codes outlining their minimum demands at the Washington Naval Conference were de-crypted regularly by Herbert O Yardley and his associate David Friedman. Yardley made a mistake of publishing his exploits in a book called The American Black Room and became a persona non grata in Washington and was sent off to Canada to contemplate his stupidity. His associate. Friedman, went on to be the premier code breaker in the wartime and and counter-espionage work of the US War Department.It is no wonder that FDRoosevelt is the subject of so many conspiracy theorists who don't know WW II history. "},{"Title":"This film would not get made today.","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Sad, but true.Right now, as I write this, we are living in an unprecedented age of technical wizardry regarding the exposition of motion pictures. But the material given to the masses is just plain poor.Four days from now my nation, the United States of America, will once again ponder briefly that December 7th some sixty-years ago, when my parents and their parents were witness to the times that shook this nation to its very foundation, and was met with the traditional strategy of war conceived and execute by Imperial Japan's military elite.Why some of the big names in film reviews have given this film a pass is beyond me. It truly is. Those people, Americans even, seem to miss the point; the event portrayed in this film IS the drama that takes place. So what exactly happened? Let's start with the historical material.Japan's expansionism to create is Economic Prosperity Sphere by trying to thrust its jingoism on East Asia as a whole, has brought the eyes of the world upon it. It's military adventures into Korea and China have seen some of the most horrid atrocities perpetrated by soldiers on common citizens since Ghengis Kahn. I remember hearing an interview with a former Japanese soldier who was in China during Japan's occupation of the coast. He tells of how he and his comrades bayoneted a screaming baby, and tossed it on a fire and laughed. It made me sick. The sexual enslavement of Korean women, the wanton brutalization of a people by a foreign power has nary been equaled since the age of the Roman Empire.But, for all this, the United States did not go to war with Japan. Nations go to war only when their interests are threatened. So it was that Japan saw US sanctions (largely an oil embargo against Japan) as retribution for their actions in China, which is exactly what that sanction was all about. The solution, seek out a new source of oil in the South East Pacific.Ah, but the American fleet is stationed at Hawaii, and can deploy to the Philippines at a moment's notice. In fact, said fleet is seen as a dagger (or samurai sword) pointed straight at Japan. Solution; execute what the Pentagon would call in Cold War parlance as the pre- emptive-first-strike-initiative; i.e. attack the forces at Hawaii, specifically take out the carriers to deny naval aviation assets, then seize the oil in the south east pacific, and fortify so that when the American's rebuild their carrier forces you'll be ready for them.This plan, of course, hinges all upon sinking (or putting out of commission) the US Navy carrier task forces. It was not to be, and the Japanese lost by winning the first battle of Pacific Theatre. Or rather, not wining it as they had hoped and needed to win.The drama we see unfold in the film is the drama of international relations. It's the story of how tiny cogs in a giant clockwork are relevant on all levels. One could call the exposition in this film The Application of the 'Butterfly Effect' in the Second World War, for we see how small seemingly insignificant actions taken and not taken by various actors resound throughout the film, and tally to the ultimate and final climax.Cinematically this film is outstanding. Not a singly shot is wasted. Some of the SFX may look a little poor here and there, but beyond some minor split screen work and a few models for the Japanese Navy, everything else IS REAL. The stunt work in this film is insane. It is outrageously stunning to see stunt men get close to pyrotechnics the way these guys did. Or to see stunt pilot fly a few feet off the ground as they strafe some target.I missed the film in the theatre, but saw it every time it hit the airwaves; specifically on December 7th, usually on KTVU Channel 2 in the San Francisco Bay Area.The acting is outstanding. Not overstated, but dramatic where needed. The actors hit their marks superbly. I think Jason Robarts flubs a line with the STIVIL population instead of the civil population, but you hardly notice it. In fact, maybe he meant to say that... sort of him channeling a real human speech flaw from the former Army chief at Hawaii. There are many a familiar face in this drama, and some not so familiar, but who would become well known.This is not a guy film. I mean, it is, but only in the sense that it's men who are leading and taking part in the action. This is a time of men, and how their decisions and actions will effect the world for the next one-hundred years (possibly longer). Even so, I would be hard pressed to find a single woman, make that fully mature (emotionally, physically, psychologically) woman who doesn't find this film fascinating on all levels.Through all the destruction and diplomatic intercourse, you have to ask yourself, were you General George Marshal or Chief of the Army Tojo, would you have done any different in their shoes? If you were Admiral Yamamoto, would you have defied Tojo, appealed to the Emporer, or done your duty? How important is it to you that your people survive and/or win out over another people? Because that's what this film ultimately asks the audience.Is war worth it?That's something only you can answer for yourself.Tora Tora Tora makes no pretense about answering such a weighty question, but shows the short comings and long term effects of decisions that makes a certain day forever live in infamy. "},{"Title":"Who's war is it, anyway?","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  1970 changed war movies, that is a given.  The five major films released that year, MASH, Catch-22, Patton, Kelly's Heroes, and Tora! Tora! Tora!all represent a microcosm of the war movie industry in general.  MASH obviously went on to inspire Robert Altman's fizzling career and an equally empty-headed TV show.  Catch-22 is more concerned with insanity, but hasn't inspired as many follow-ups.  Kelly's Heroes is obviously in tune with Three Kings and many more recent movies while Patton is a grandiose precursor to Saving Private Ryan.  Both are less-than-liberal patriotic attempts of denouncing war.  As for Tora! Tora! Tora!, the Discovery and History channels have descended from it.  Descended being the key word.Tora! Tora! Tora! resembles The Longest Day in that it is about an event and not about people.  There is no suspense, no character development, no plot twists or plot holes.  Anyone with a history book can follow along and stay two steps ahead of the story.Nonetheless, Tora! remains Hollywood's best attempt at being impartial without being stupid like We Were Soldiers.  You can see many cases where Michael Bay tried duplicating or enhancing many shots, all to lesser effect.  CGI is a poor substitute to the extensive model work here, it is far more convincing and realistic.  The camera is wonderfully manipulated to take full advantage of all the powers and shortcomings of the production, but do not create the same atmosphere as Patton.Enough of the pyrotechnics, Jerry Goldsmith creates an interesting parallel score.  Traditional oriental music with the Japanese, more Western style with the Americans.  He even adds some militaristic pomp for the Hamburg Pact signing.  The editing is tremendously subpar, though.  The ambition that Fox put into this is remarkable given the time of release.  No wonder it bombed...it condones war under certain circumstances.Overall, between Tora! Tora! Tora! and the History Channel, I choose the former.  3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A classic film, albeit tarnished with Hollywood's ulterior theatrics","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" All of Hollywood's peacock act in shining the feathers of America to make the country appear so smartly red, white, and blue amidst the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor will never erase the fact that on December 7, 1941, the Japanese Empire kicked the red, white, and blue crap out of the United States.One of the better war films, actually. Good suspense music and mostly good performances, especially by Jason Robards as 'General Short', make this film one not to be missed, particularly for aficionados of the genre. About the only two flaws in the movie were the film-makers' insistence to show that Japan 'also' made mistakes concerning the attack; and the way the story centered around 'Admiral Kimmel' (Martin Balsam), apparently to show what a wonderfully competent guy he was. In reality, Kimmel made several key errors in the weeks prior to the unfolding of the attack and was deservedly relieved of his command and stripped of his rank as he faded into obscurity.A solid film despite Hollywood's typical white-wash tactics. "},{"Title":"Superb, accurate depiction of the attack that brought the US and Japan into WW2","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Superb, accurate depiction of the attack that brought the US and Japan into WW2.7 December, 1941, a day that will live in infamy... This movie tells the story of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the attack that made WW2 a truly global war, and changed the tide of the war for Britain and its allies. We don't just see the attack itself but also ongoing diplomatic efforts of Japan and the US before the attack, the planning and preparation by the Japanese, the attempts by the US to forespell such an attack, the blunders by the US in warning their forces in Hawaii, the ill-preparedness of the local forces and the blunders in communication on the day. And, of course, we see the attack itself.Thus, a very complete account of what lead to the attack, and the attack itself.Incredibly well made, especially for its time. No CGI, so the producers had to use actual ships and planes or, at least, very realistic mock-ups thereof. The scale of the action scenes is immense and the scenes very realistic.Historically accurate too in terms of the events that took place behind the scenes.Quite balanced too - certainly not the usual one-sided good versus evil, but one nation versus another. One of the greatest war movies ever made. "}{"Title":"Deliberately Slow And Very Subdued","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I have heard much and quite controversial points of opinion about this movie, that is a clear precursor to a grand, albeit long one, named Pearl Harbor. What Pearl Harbor has galore, Tora misses or does not have at all. One thing that strikes immediately is a very slow tempo of this 1970's version. In fact, this is way too slow, and this leads to a drag and then to a boredom. Another obvious moment that stands out is a deliberate detached, withdrawn, subdued and hushed attitude to all the procedure. It seems that we witness some cold, steady spectacle of death, but with no real compassion or misery. The whole attack scene is shown with all sheer reality, brutal honesty and shocking detail, but still it is done so that we feel not much but some detachment off the suffering. As if we see the whole war through a thick pane of glass. One huge drawback is a relatively weak performance by almost all the actors, and it often hurts and leaves a gaping Why on our lips. What else can we say? Watch this as a real curio and a example of later Pearl Harbor kitsch to come, with all its prolonged battle scenes and hammy love line, and also watch this as a curious instance of a decent but still underdeveloped movie with a great potential but missed details here and there. Sad, it could have been a better film. "},{"Title":"i fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" this film basically is about the days leading up to and including the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor.it's very well written.with good acting performances all around.there's some great aerial acrobatic sequences in the film as well. and there are some very exciting moments in the film,as well.the actual event depicted in the film did take place obviously and the there is a little blurb as the movie begins saying that the movie is historically accurate,which must mean beyond just the event itself.anyway,i thought it was well done overall.i'd certainly recommend it.for me,Tora! Tora! Tora! is a well deserved solid 8/10 "},{"Title":"Recycled moments in Pearl Harbor (2002)","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora Tora Tora, for 1970 is an amazing war movie. The final attach scene with the Japanese hitting Pearl Harbor is breathtaking. While most of the movie is spent finding out the Who and the How, Tora Tora Tora, like most war movies never really talks about the Why. We know why America finally entered World War 2 with the attack on Pearl Harbor, but the movie begins with Japanese conquest of the Pacific already in motion. We are not introduced with their intentions as oppose to America's. The first half of the movie is spent getting to know everyone. Kind of like the first 3 hours of War and Peace, the movie takes a while to pick up. Although it is somewhat entertaining, the movie doesn't become a true war movie until the very end. There are many moments where in Tora Tora Tora that are showcased in the 2002 War / Drama Pearl Harbor. Goes to show you, there is not such thing as stealing in Hollywood, only borrowing. "},{"Title":"Pearl Harbor Gets Bombed, Again","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" By now Pearl Harbor has been assaulted so many times on film that historians have lost count. Images fabricated for the movies have been presented on the news as the real thing. Documentaries cheerfully masquerade reenactments of the attack as original footage, and a score of famous actors have participated in the defense.Tora! Tora! Tora! aims for honesty and verisimilitude at the expense of drama, which is perhaps a noble goal. The producers intentionally left out the big-name stars and fictional characters and subplots of From Here to Eternity, instead focusing on the real historical figures Japanese Admirals Yamamoto and Nagumo, and various American generals and so on. Their names pop up on screen in case you're not already familiar with them. Like a lot of epic war films of the time, it's not about the characters.And that would be tolerable if the movie wasn't so execrably boring for the first half. You find yourself eagerly anticipating the destruction of the American fleet just so that you can see something happen. The interminable build-up to the Day of Infamy divides its time between both sides in Hawaii and Washington an endless parade of gray-haired officers and politicians discuss plans and strategies, while the Japanese train and prepare for the attack. The Japanese segments are better, the characters more sympathetic, and the script more nuanced, with a gradual build-up of tension abetted by Jerry Goldsmith's understated score.It's not every movie that gets you rooting for the wrong team through sheer incompetence. While it's not a bad movie, the only reason to watch it is for the airplanes and the spectacularly staged climax. Pearl Harbor might have been an infamous defeat for the USA, but it was a rousing success for the Empire of Japan -- unfortunately, it's the latter feeling that comes across the clearest. "},{"Title":"A beautiful delve into the treacheries of human hope","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora! Tora! Tora! is by all means a true human drama, capturing the intense realism of a Dada painting to the rasping voice of Ella Fitzgerald caressing our souls into the flavors of sweet jazz. It is in fact, the experience of America combined into one film. Inspired by Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises, Tora! Tora! Tora! is an exploration of what drives our desires and what encourages our fears. Most passionate love falls victim to the scrutinies of mediocrite, poverty is the flavor of all loss, meaning is evaporated in the waves of bodies, and in the end only one glimmer of hope shines in the eyes of a single child. The symbolism is so ripe with thought that one can only compare it to the symbols of 'On the Waterfront' or '8 1/2.' Particularly strong symbols include the devastating motif of the ceiling fans, and the overbearing recurrence of clocks. It is a magnificent combination of all that should be film. The climactic bull fight scene can only be compared to the climactic scenes of 'The Big Country' or 'Bridge on the River Kwai.' And not even Emily Bronte in the height of her career could have written with such poignant tragedy as we see in the last scene of the star crossed lovers of Tora! Tora! Tora! It is truly a film to be rivaled, and not many should step up to challenge this film of an even greater grandeur scale. No film should look to Tora! Tora! Tora! without reverence and a genuine thankfulness that we are alive enough to see a film such as this. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Impressive Pyrotechnics- What About The Humanity?","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Michael Bay's film of last year has been detrimentally compared to this film. Yes, there might be no improbable romances in Tora! Tora! Tora! but the depiction  of the attack is far superior in Pearl Harbor. Pearl Harbor showed that people died horribly in the attack or suffered terrible injuries. The attack in Tora! Tora! Tora! is just a lot of exploding ships and the scenes at Wheeler Field where P-40s are destroyed as they attempt to take off just seems to aim at sensationalism. I wonder if, in the scene where the P-40 blows up and its propellor goes bouncing across the runway, the propellor was rigged to come flying off while the engine was racing in order to create a more sensational effect. There is a very brief scene where sailors are shown trapped below decks in a sinking battleship but they are quickly rescued and sailors with their clothes on fire are rapidly doused. I'm not saying the film should have been gory but it should have shown what a terrible event Pearl Harbor was. The run up to the attack is a very staid history lesson about the diplomatic exchanges that were taking place between Washington and Tokyo. When the attack does begin there is some tension but the treatment of the attack is somewhat flippant. Geisha girls are seen waving and calling to the pilots of the Nakajima B5N2 Kates as they engage in practice torpedo runs and a Japanese angler grumbles about Navy pilots attracting geisha girls but frightening the fish. Other instances of flippance are the scene where the formations of Japanese aircraft form round a Boeing Stearman from a flying school, where an Aichi D3A1 Val flies over two US Navy officers and one of them threatens to report the pilot for safety violation and then it releases its bomb and when the B-17 pilot comments what kind of air traffic control is this when he flies into a formation of Mitsubishi A6M2 Zeroes. A publicity brochure for the film says that the producers sought to cast actors who strongly resembled the historic figures they portrayed but only the actors playing ambassadors Nomura and Kurusu bear a really close likeness to the people they are portraying (though there is an uncredited actor in the scene in the Berlin Chancellry who is absolutely spot on for Ribbentrop). Martin Balsam is not really like Admiral Kimmel (though having said that, Colm Feore who plays him in Pearl Harbor isn't that like him either. And he's also about 20 years too young) and the Japanese actor playing Tojo has too much hair. The real Tojo looked a bit like an oriental version of Alf Garnett. I think this film aimed at making entertainment out of a terrible event and, as I said, it disregards the terrible loss of life. After one time it was shown on BBC television in the early 1980s a woman wrote into the  Sunday Post newspaper and said the film would not be a pleasant experience for the relatives of those who lost there lives. It's an event which still reduces old people to tears and Michael Bay's film is a tribute which shows Pearl harbor and war in general as a terrible experience.  "},{"Title":"Well made but lacks any real human element","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Tora! Tora! Tora! is well made but lacks any real human element. This prevents it from being a really good film as opposed to just an average war flick. On the positive side, this is one of the most painstakingly researched war films of the era. It comes across as being possibly the most accurate out of any. Every character and action here really did happen, and the character descriptions at the bottom of the screen (something done first by The Longest Day) helps with the understanding. Its very well directed and a good film to watch if you're doing a school project on the topic.What it lacks unfortunately is any human element. I was never able to get caught up or find any excitement for the majority of the film. The characters are all from textbooks and underdeveloped (with the possible exception of Jason Robards). The cast is superb and tries their best with a lot of uninteresting characters. For scholars this will be fascinating. For the average movie goer, it will be dull.The film only really comes to life during the final attack. This is when we get the full understanding of exactly why this was a day that lived on in infamy. Its one of the most impressive and tense sequences of a battle ever and manages to be so without any bloodshed presented on screen. Overall, Tora! Tora! Tora! is flawed as a film if not as a history lesson. Its still much better than the abyssal Pearl Harbor. (6/10) "},{"Title":"History lesson approach to the retelling of the Pearl Harbor attack; stone wall and bare-boned, but almost always cinematic enough to hold water.","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I'm inclined to say that Attack! Attack! Attack! is too imbalanced-a war film to be anything above mostly interesting at best and a tad plodding at worst; its first 60 minutes of dialogue and general recounting of events leading up to one of the more important, more infamous, events of the 20th Century does eventually give way to wall to wall second unit material as the deadly 1941 attack on the American Navy at Pearl Harbour plays out. The attack itself on Pearl Harbour as a historical footnote has, in the past, made for odd transition from real life to cinema screen. One could feasibly argue that the team behind Attack! Attack! Attack! had little alternative but to depict the overall narrative of will they/won't they, as trouble brew in Europe and tensions between The States and Japan seemingly intensify, as they did how else does one construct the tale behind (and then the consequent attack of) said Naval port? One approach is to first and foremost make a character drama in the mould of From Here to Eternity or Pearl Harbor, before having the attack proper play out in the final act; other films (albeit I know them exclusively through name and reputation) deal with it through respective lens' of comedy and moral dilemma in 1941 and The Final Countdown.It is with this in mind that I identify the difficult means by which to depict the underpinning narrative of the Pearl Harbour ambush, Attack! Attack! Attack! coming to form a sort of docu-drama without the docu.; a film apparently sticking so true to how these true-to-life American and Japanese military dignitaries acted that a shorter project having the actual personnel in front of the camera giving us their accounts would've been more interesting. I see the film's hypothesis as one that details War not as a state of Hell and madness, but as one exclusively of madness - doing so through its retelling of the terrible misjudgements that were made in order to induce this state. Characters react to information without the conviction required to actually do something about it; they anticipating the terror, but do not ever seem to have everyone reading from the same page, whereas the half-hearted and inherently vain mind-sets of either side are encapsulated in the Japanese's ultimate mistake to have the gall to go through with this kamikaze operation, but not being brave enough to go the whole distance and finish the enemy off when you've come this far anyway.The film's immediate beginning is loud and dramatic, a crash over the soundtrack as the title flies towards us with a sort of whooshing noise &#x96; eventually giving way to two Japanese aircrafts whirling around in the air near to one of their own Naval bases, thus instilling that sense of surprise or being caught off guard in lieu the nature of what will go on to be depicted. Indeed, for all of that during its sudden opening, it is worth pointing out just how calm the film is actually for the most part; there are men, in offices, speaking and relaying exposition. Enforcing varied difference between the two sides are the often static Japanese, who stand around robotically donning plain clothing. By comparison, the Americans are up and all over the place with a great deal of camera movement reinforcing the overlying atmosphere of nervousness and uncertainty as they fear the apocalyptic unknown may be coming.But the film has a balanced agenda throughout in its depiction of both the Americans and the Japanese, something that never feels more concurrent than during its opening sequence a conversation involving a Japanese admiral and how his policies clash with that of potential European allies The Nazis, not to mention the internal problems between the Navy and Army in which they disagree on the potential of going to war. It is here the Japanese are depicted as wary or threatened or even scared. They take note of the Americans moving their huge Navy fleet to the remote Pacific outpost of Hawaii, and react. Recall, if you will, that this is at a time when Hawaii was not yet an American state, so for the Japanese to observe the Americans manoeuvre this firepower to, what I think, was just a collection of neutral tropical islands in the middle of the ocean, you can get an understanding of where they were coming from.If pacing is the issue, director Richard Fleischer does his best to try and make it otherwise with the very early introduction of a top secret decoding room wherein Japanese messages are tapped. On the wall beside it sits an exclusive list of those permitted entry while as the film wears on, and the attack nears, only then do the various people on that list begin to have their tales depicted. That is to say as each personnel, whose presence in the room that will ultimately bring about the realisation the Japanese air force are about to induce the very reason The Second World War shifted in its overall dynamic, gradually appears for their depiction, we sense the rushing through the ranks of those on screen surging as the historical deadline approaches and these people charged with foiling it can't quite nail their task. To the extent of the film being a burning, brooding drama of unavoidable tragedy, it works and I find it hard to speak overtly negatively of it because I was mostly absorbed in spite of the run time and in spite of knowing the ending. "},{"Title":"RUFUS BRATTON is George S. Patton under a surname.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  There is more to this attack than meets the eye. RUFUS BRATTON is a false name used by George S. Patton. Rufus is indictive of someone no one listens to or calls a dog. It was his humorous slang terminology. During the sequence he is running around trying to warn people is this symbolic of something....why is he so frantic? these people were supposed to be at work on Sunday december 7th. Did these people get paid off to let the attack go ahead thinking we were going to win? Were they paid off by the german american bund and other secretive groups in this country to keep quiet? Inquiring minds want to know. What is aboard the rusting hulk of the ARIZONA that the navy won't raise her....or were there many women in her crew? You figure it out.  "},{"Title":"I don't want just a history lesson, I want a movie too","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" (44%) If you want a history lesson on the attack of Peal harbour then watch this movie as this whole film is made up almost entirely of bit-by-bit recreations of the events leading up to it without any sort of character development or indeed anything to get in the way of its lecture. There's a good two hours of this movie in which not a great deal happens besides the Japanese preparing for the attack and the Americans wondering if or when it could happen, it does and we get the films highlight in some much needed action and then it ends. It is decently made with a big budget behind it and the attack itself is well done but it all looks as if the makers got wrapped up in the facts and forgot about making an entertaining movie that people would actually enjoy to watch as well as learn something from. "}{"Title":"confusing movie","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Tora!Tora!Tora!,was a very odd movie. I thought It looked a little fake because of some of the backgrounds. Some of the actors,thebrass as they're called,seemed like they didn't care about what was happening to the soldiers since It wasn't them. Is this how It really was? The special effects were real good from far away but when It was next to somebody It looked really fake. Some of the backgrounds seemed like it was really a piece of paper on the back. Some of the battle scenes were hard to believe. For example when something exploded next to a person they didn't run or scream they walked away. How real is that?    "},{"Title":"Think Before You Attack.","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" There aren't any big stars in this movie but many fine and reliable actors. It's competently directed. A monumental amount of money was spent on it. It's as historically accurate as the limits of commercial film making allowed. It's about an event of great magnitude. The director considers it one of his best films.So why does it fall short of expectations? Maybe because the expectations are too high, given the effort that went into the production. After all is said and done, it's an attempt to recreate the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and make a movie out of it. It's not the attack itself.We all realize that great care and lots of dough were lavished on the sets but they look cheesy nevertheless. The models are identifiably models. And historical errors abound, due to simple carelessness. The bombers and torpedo planes can pass, but the AT-6 Texan trainers do not look or fly like Zeros. (This is one instance in which CGI would have been a genuine help if used -- properly, not in the zany way of Pearl Harbor.)There's nothing wrong with most of the performances. The tension associated with the raid is forcefully conveyed. And there is one scene, in which the commander of the Japanese Air Group wordlessly shakes Fuchida's hand and Fuchida pauses for a moment, then smiles glowingly before mounting his airplane, that is thrilling. In small parts, Richard Anderson is a little too obvious, and poor Neville Brand is unbelievable as anything more than a flabby ex-actor. Jason Robards, by the way, who plays General Short, was a third-class radioman in the Navy at Pearl Harbor during the attack and actually copied the transmitted message, Air Raid Pearl Harbor. This is no drill. Soh Yamamura, as Admiral Yamamoto, is given a great line at the end of the film. I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve. The line is so good, so portentous, so apt, that I've seen it attributed to Yamamoto as a direct quote, when in fact it was written expressly for the movie. It may become one of those factoids that, having been invented for fiction, are passed on as fact. The thumbs up and thumbs down gestures after gladiator brawls are in the same factoidal territory, having been invented on the spot for a silent film.It's not a bad movie, not poorly done, and it's light years ahead of Pearl Harbor. But there are enough errors of judgment in the direction, and a few in the script, to render it disappointing. Richard Fleischer actually believed that if you captured a P-40 careering out of control from five different angles and exploding spectacularly, scattering debris everywhere, the viewer would not realize it was the same incident being filmed from different angles and so could be used repeatedly. The viewer realizes and even feels a little cheated and condescended to. "},{"Title":"Bombs Away!","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" When Tora! Tora! Tora! premiered in late 1970, the critics went on a bomb-and-strafe mission. The movie was deemed an expensive dud, a costly waste of effort and money. Old-fashioned classical narratives were not in vogue during the Counterculture era in Hollywood. Indeed, when viewed within the historical context of the late '60s, Tora! Tora! Tora! does seem a throwback to a much earlier style of war-film. All that's missing is a rousing Max Steiner musical score to punctuate the action.The veteran director, Richard Fleischer, does try to make the film seem hip and anti-authoritarian. He exposes a laundry-list containing one diplomatic blunder after another, all of them leading up to a failure by America's power-structure to prevent the inevitable surprise air-attack &#x96; the movie's big set-piece. As a result, generals, admirals, cabinet-officers &#x96;- the entire elite &#x96;- are made to appear as incompetent as those in Dr. Strangelove. Tora! Tora! Tora! has that smug, cynical what-if-this-had-happened-instead-of-that appeal that can often cripple a historical film, especially one that purports to expose the Real Truth behind America's day of infamy. In this movie, the Japanese fare much better. The actors impersonating Yamamoto and company don't play their parts completely straight. While they may pose as disciplined, dedicated, and spirited warriors, they're never fanatical, never too stiff, and always quick with a joke. Still, the clever competence of the Japanese makes their American counterparts resemble Keystone Kops in army drag. Even Fleisher's direction is bested by his Oriental opposite-numbers, Fukasaku and Masuda. (According to Fleischer's autobiography, Akira Kurosawa was originally hired to helm the Japanese scenes. He proved such a tyrannical boss on the set, however, that the producers let him go after only two days of shooting. This might explain the loose, relaxed attitude of the Japanese actors.) And then there's the surprise raid itself. Certainly, it's an impressive staging. But to what purpose? Why did Richard Zanuck find it necessary to back this film and almost take Daddy's Fox Studios into bankruptcy? Besides, when compared to John Ford's documentary, The Battle of Midway (1942) -- a movie that's an act of bravery in itself -- Tora! Tora! Tora! is an emotional blank. It piles on its points of irony effectively; yet in the end, it conveys all the excitement of a burial detail &#x96; with just as much panache. "},{"Title":"BORING War Movie!!!!!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought that Tora! Tora! Tora! had too many characters. Even though they were very good actors and it had very good special effects. For example, when the bomb exploded and all those other sounds that went along with it. It just sounded so real. I just thought it was too much though! And it focused too much on the war. It went into too much detail. The backgrounds seemed pretty real though and so did the battle. But they did mess up in one part where the bomb exploded and the guy just kept on doing his own thing. It seemed like he didn't even feel it even though it was so close. Thats the only thing I actually liked in this movie. But I honestly think that Pearl Harbor is soo much better. The reason I thought Pearl Harbor was better is because at least that one didn't focus soo much on the war. It actually had a love story involved, which actually made it more interesting. And better to watch! "},{"Title":"Few people realize that tora means kill in Japanese","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  No doubt a lot of fiction went on here, but many of the events rang true. The Nips had a good plan, however if the U.S. big wigs not had their heads inserted so firmly into their own rectums much of the carnage could have been avoided. A big help to the invaders was indifferent, timid officers and those who merely refused to believe an attack would come. This was a very good look at one of the most talked about battles in history and an even better glimpse into the idiotic military mindset and why one should avoid conscription, or worse, foolishly volunteering during a moment of patriotic fervor. "},{"Title":"A Case Of The Slows","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" By sticking three exclamation points in the title, the producers of Tora! Tora! Tora! seemed to acknowledge in advance that their product needed pumping up. Boy, does it ever. Ingmar Bergman didn't make movies as static as this.Here's a Tora! Tora! Tora! drinking game you can play. Take a slug of beer every time someone in the film opens or closes a door. Take another when someone puts a piece of paper in an attach case, or picks up a phone. If an American says something about deciphering the Japanese diplomatic code, or a Japanese guy says something relatively mundane in a screaming voice, have another. Just don't drive after, or your car will look like that PBY that got caught on the runway at Hickam Field.Tora! Tora! Tora! is a Japanese-American co-production about the attack on Pearl Harbor, according to this film something of a co-production itself. The Americans were bull-headed about keeping an embargo against Japan, moving its fleet from San Diego to Hawaii in response to Japanese aggression in China. As one Japanese officer says, That fleet is a knife leveled at Japan's throat, meaning the only thing to do about it is to bomb the U.S. Navy into scrap metal by means of a surprise attack.Tora! Tora! Tora! emphasizes the courage of the Japanese forces, the idiocy of the American leaders, and the disappointment of not catching the Americans even more by surprise i.e. with their carriers in the harbor as well. Not surprisingly, the film was a big hit in one country and sank like the Arizona in the other.The film even goes out of its way to excuse the sneaky nature of the Japanese attack, suggesting a slow typist at the Japanese embassy kept the U.S. from getting a declaration of war (as Admiral Yamamoto later puts it) minutes before the attack began. In fact, the message being typed was just breaking off negotiations; Japan waited until late December before formally declaring war, as if it still needed saying. But in keeping with the script's no-fault agenda, this is obfuscated in favor of comments by Yamamoto about having awoken a sleeping giant that never in fact took place.Give the Japanese some credit They are a lot easier to watch in this movie. Both sections of the double narrative suffer from repetitive, awkward exposition scenes (No wonder you decided to call it Operation Magic! codebreaker E.G. Marshall says, with all the subtlety of Rick Moranis' Dark Helmet turning to the camera and asking Everyone got that! in Spaceballs), but at least the two Japanese directors, Kinji Fukasaku and Toshio Masuda, give you more interesting backdrops and some impressive martial pageantry to break up the tedium and help you stay interested until the fighting breaks out 90 minutes in. On the American side, Richard Fleischer shoots people walking in and out of rooms.Neville Brand and James Whitmore are the only standouts on the American side, while the Japanese cast led by Soh Yamamura (Yamamato) and Takahiro Tamura (Fushida, leader of the first assault wave) get across what little energy the film has until we get to the attacks themselves. These are impressively staged both from the air and water, and you feel a sense of helplessness and power that eyewitness accounts of the attack, however eloquent, never quite convey. It's just that it takes too long getting there. I've never before been in the position of wanting American ships to hurry up and sink; it meant the movie would be over that much faster. "},{"Title":"Bore! Bore! Bore!","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The events leading up to and including December 7, 1941, the day Japan attacked the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii (not then a state, but sometimes referred to as one). The Japanese won that battle, but lost World War II. Today, we're much better off as friends. This film has an interesting premise in that the story is told from both the American and Japanese perspectives. From my perspective, the foreign (Japan) portions are more interesting, but the whole thing is still a colossal bore. Things pick up for the actual attack, which may have been the reason Tora! Tora! Tora! won an Academy Award for special effects. If you consider the half after Intermission as a separate film, it does score better; a Japanese edit may also be an improvement.**** Tora! Tora! Tora! (9/23/70) Richard Fleischer ~ Jason Robards, Martin Balsam, Joseph Cotten, E.G. Marshall "},{"Title":"Exclamation Points Were Misleading","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This World War II movie was disappointing to me for one big reason it's very boring. It takes one hour and 46 minutes before any of the action starts - and this is a war movie! That is too long to wait.When the action scenes do arrive, they are excellent, some of the most realistic scenes you ever hope for, and especially for a film that is now almost 40 years old. But even those scenes can get tiresome when they are past 10 straight minutes of it.I liked the novel approach of showing the war from both sides, but unless you are a serious student of WWII, this movie - with the exception of the last 40 minutes - is going to be like a gun shooting blanks. The title, with all the exclamation points is misleading, making the potential viewer think he or she is going to watch an exciting movie. No, it's just the opposite. Yawn! Yawn! Yawn! "}]