[{"Title":"Where's the F-word when you need it?","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's great to see Pussycat in widescreen at last.  Streisand and Siegel make a good team and the movie is still pretty racy, even by today's standards, although it would have been racier still if some bluenose hadn't removed one of Barbra's more notorious expletives from the soundtrack.  Fans of the original well remember the scene in which she tells a bunch of hooligans that are harassing her and Siegel to F---- off!  Amazingly, this line has now been dropped from the DVD version so that the two scenes that come next make little sense, including her follow-up line, people are so touchy these days, you have to watch every word.  The cropped VHS tape may have looked terrible but at least it did retain the line with the F-word, probably the first time it was ever uttered by a big female star in a major motion picture.  (Of course, now screenwriters have over-used it to such an extent that you suspect they wouldn't be able to get along without it if it were ever banned from use.)  Some aspects of the film would probably be politically incorrect today, such as certain homophobic slurs the hooker screams at the writer, and it's pretty hard to imagine this relationship lasting too much longer after the fadeout.  Still the stars are compulsively watchable.  "},{"Title":"great movie--Shame on Columbia for editing DVD","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many classic scenes, Bombs Away, TV in the aquarium, Barbra's hands and heart placed just .....hovever, when the DVD company from hell released it on DVD, they censored a word that renders an entire scene meaningless.It was an historic word also, the first time a star had eversaid it in a major film. F***!! The only time anyone hasever censored Barbra to this day! Still a great comedy!Sexy, funny and way ahead of its time! One of Bab's best! George's too!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film runs out of steam in the second half.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Owl and the Pussycat is an uneven but generally enjoyable mix of comedy and romance, with a few dramatic undertones. There are some genuine laughs and some touching moments, but the movie's loudness occasionally goes over-the-line. Streisand is alternately appealing and annoying, sometimes both in the same scene. Segal is very enjoyable in his everyman role, and he makes the picture worth watching, although it does run out of steam in the second half. "},{"Title":"A hoot of a comedy!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Owl And The Pussycat is a fine example of great comic pairing. Barbra and George Segal work very well together. Very well indeed. It is a loud comedy though, not a slapstick one. So if you're looking for slapstick, watch What's Up,Doc? or For Pete's Sake. If you are looking for a comedy that is a more heartfelt, with more depth to the charatcers and emotion, then The Owl And The Pussycat is for you. I say it is a loud comedy mostly because of Barbra's character Doris. Doris can be pretty loud. But what's funny about it is that half the time she doesn't even mean to be; it's just her nature. This nature, took George Segal's character Felix quite by surprise,and it is very amusing to see him try to adjust to it. What's so interesting to watch is that although Doris shows herself in the beginning to be loud, self-assertive and bold, she later shows herself to be vulnerable and sweet.  Where as George Segal's character Felix, showing himself to have a nose up in the air, I'm too intellectual for you attitude in the beginning, later shows that although he wants success in his life, not at the expense of pretense. With himself, or what he genuinely wants. I say pretense because Felix's thinking was that he would marry an intellectual such as he thought himself to be, and live this proper life. Doris, although loud, and believes she is a legend in her own mind, is genuine and real. Felix is very much attracted to her for this reason. It's a quality that she has that he sees that he wants to be more like himself. But what is so amusing is that Doris feels that after meeting and getting to know Felix, that she needs to become more like him! More intellectual. What's truly so charming about this movie is how it shows the facades that we can portray and the masks that we can wear are truly just that; facades and masks. How no matter how confident we can look on the outside, how smart we may appear, that it can be a totally different story once you start actually getting to know someone. What's most charming of all,(actually wonderful),is that by the film's end they both decide to drop these facades, take off the masks, and start fresh. But...all along from the beginning of this movie til it's end, until they get to this level, it can be quite hysterical. A great comedy with heart. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"BEST OF 1970 #10- a romantic comedy done right","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  TEN BEST OF 1970#10- The Owl and the PussycatHerbert Ross' The Owl and the Pussycat is a prime of example of how to do a Battle of the Sexes romantic comedy right. Most modern romantic comedies are either drowning in their syrupy sentimentality (Serendipity)or in crude hatred of one and/or both sexes (Tomcats, Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood). The film stars Barbra Streisand as Doris, a part-time hooker/actress who doesn't go anywhere without her TV. George Segal plays Felix Sherman, a would-be writer whose life consists of writer's block and rejection slips. One fateful evening, Felix complains to the landlord about the constant noise coming from Doris' apartment. He goes to bed and is awakened by a loud knock. It's Doris, who was evicted from her apartment and has several bones to pick with Felix. It's the beginning of a battle that lasts for most of the film's 97 minute running time.What makes The Owl and the Pussycat such a standout film is the care that went into the production. Buck Henry has successfully transplanted Bill Manhoff's play from L.A. to New York and the film is better for it. New York is a much livelier town than L.A. and the city itself becomes a character that the others bounce off from. Herbert Ross proves he can handle comedy as well as he can handle musicals and choreography. His direction doesn't overwhelm the script and acting but compliments it in a way most people write off.On paper, I suppose the Barbra Streisand-George Segal pairing doesn't look promising. But when you see the film, you will not think of more perfect casting. Streisand and Segal have good chemistry together and it makes some of the later events of the film more believable. Streisand has a gift for delivering brisk, snappy dialogue. Segal has a gift for being able to make his characters instantly likable. The score is by Blood, Sweat and Tears. Made in between their second and third albums, the score doesn't feel like a time-filler throwaway. Dick Halligan's music fits the film like a well worn glove. I cannot imagine the movie without the music. It does like all good scores do, enhance the movie without giving it away. There is a mix-up in regards to the lyrics (credited to BS&T, but David Clayton-Thomas has said they were given to BS&T before the music was composed), but still, as sung by DC-T, the songs have a wonderful quality to them.All people who even want to attempt a romantic comedy should watch The Owl and the Pussycat. It shows how to make a movie like this without resorting to misogyny, chauvinism or drippy sentiment.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I also read the play.  Streisand and Segal have great on-screen chemistry. This film will keep you laughing non-stop.  Barbara Streisand's performance of the character being neurotic is excellent. George Segal's character is equally good in his response to her behavior. If you like this, it is one you may want to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Barbra goes Mod! An old-fashioned comedy 'modernized'...","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" George Segal plays an uptight New York City book-clerk who hopes to be a writer but can't get anything published; after calling the landlord one night on prostitute-neighbor Barbra Streisand, he finds her on his doorstep. She tells him she's a model and an actress--her third time on TV is in front of the elevator security camera! The two lovable losers banter back and forth before falling into uncertain love, and you could say the film is either nicely devoid of major plot devices or is an exceptionally thin romantic comedy. Streisand, her Brooklynese so thick she sometimes lapses into Cockney, wears tacky, hilarious hooker-outfits, but her shrillness isn't modulated (at least not in the first act) and she can sometimes be grating. The sex-talk is dated now, and the picture looks like a relic from the late-'60s, yet it's a funny film about opposites. Although far too soft in its final scenes, this directorial debut from former-choreographer Herbert Ross changes speeds enough to keep things bubbling, even though his bumpy rhythm may put some viewers off. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Funny...not memorable, but funny","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Undeniably high energy if not always side-splitting. Barbra Streisand is a dim-witted hooker who insinuates herself into the life of uptight would-be writer George Segal. It starts out on a high, if somewhat screeching, note, evens out and ends. A filmed play only partially opened up by director Herbert Ross & expertly acted by Striesand and Segal. They have great chemistry. Unfortunately for the audience, they're also wildly unlikeable. It's hard to even care if they end up together. Still, the script, by Buck Henry (based on Bill Manhoff 's racy play), is full of snappy one-liners, the supporting cast is good (Robert Klein plays Segal's wise-cracking, but infinitely patient friend)and the cinematography by Harry Stradling is terrific. "},{"Title":"This film has enough laughs for 10 motion pictures combined","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the most hilarious films ever made, THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT has more laughs than ten of today's so-called comedies combined. Even though a few set changes and a couple of new supporting characters are added to open up the storyline, director Herbert Ross and writer Buck Henry manage to keep the same spirit of the original one-act, two-character play intact. There's a lot of verbal warfare in Henry's screenplay, and he seems to have a gift for penning wickedly funny dialogue. Some viewers could argue that THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT is little more than two characters insulting each other for 95 minutes, but - when those insults are so rigorously funny - who cares? In the female lead, Barbra Streisand gives a refreshingly unsentimental performance as Doris, the semi-illiterate hooker who (for once) does not have a heart of gold. George Segal was primarily known as a dramatic actor before he was cast as Felix, the snotty book clerk/writer-wannabe. His performance is so convincing that he has been known as an expert comic ever since. The chemistry between Streisand and Segal ignites from the beginning, and it stays aflame throughout their relationship's many ups and downs. Robert Klien has a funny supporting role - and plays it expertly - but THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT remains a showcase for the chemistry between Streisand and Segal. I think well-respected film critic Pauline Kael said it best when she wrote, Were Tracy and Hepburn ever this good. . . maybe, but they were never better. High praise indeed! "},{"Title":"Loud, abrasive, crude and edited but still funny","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Comedy/drama taking place in NYC about meek, mild Felix (George Segal) ending up stuck with loud, obnoxious prostitute Doris (Barbra Streisand). Naturally they hate each other and naturally fall in love.This movie is VERY loud (basically because Streisand yells nonstop), the humor is pretty caustic (Streisand thinks Segal is gay and throws quite a few homophobic jokes at him) and is pretty risqué--it was edited from an R rating but there's still plenty of swearing and sexual sequences. Still it is fun. Segal and Streisand work well together--the script is full of one liners that they throw at each other full tilt. And it might seem strange that Streisand could convincingly play a prostitute--but she actually looks very attractive here and pulls it off (she played another one in Nuts in 1987).This isn't perfect however. It seems a little bit too long and some of their arguing gets repetitive. Also there is annoying edit when Streisand says the word f***. I'm guessing it was cut to get a PG rating but it renders one scene incomprehensible and I DID hear it in the video version released in the 1980s. What's the story? Also there's a very ugly scene at the end where Segal humiliates Streisand in Central Park. Segal also shot some nude scenes which never made it into the final print.Still this is worth catching. I wouldn't let the kids see it though. This is pretty strong for a PG film. "}{"Title":"A laugh riot","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A lot of people criticize this film for not being funnier. If it was, I probably would have suffered cardiac arrest. Barbra Streisand and George Segal are hilarious.Seldome have I seen two great actors paired in a funny movie that really clicks.Barbra is doing this film soon after winning an Academy Award for Best Actress in her first film (Funny Girl). She is a riot as a prostitute that absolutely drives Felix (Segal) nuts! It has to be added that this is the first major film in which a major actress says f*ck. (I hear this has been cut from all but the VHS version.) Segal chose to go the comedy route, rather than drama, for which he is equally qualified (Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?). He starred with Jane Fonda in the original Fun With Dick and Jane. Here he is a perfect match for Doris (Streisand) as an uptight writer.I am not stretching the truth even the slightest bit to say that these two will crack you up. "},{"Title":"Nice and Funny and Most Entertaining 1970's Piece","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie years ago and then watched it again the other evening. I really enjoyed it. A fun comedy with Streisand and Seagal a great team. She actually looked pretty for once in her life. Her figure was lovely and the one reviewer on this board who said she was fleshy should rethink his or her terminology. She looked fine. They are a mismatched pair who become a match by the film's end. She plays a hooker with theatrical ambitions and he wants to be a writer. They both have facades and veneers that melt by the movie's end. Very enjoyable and I also liked the character of Eleanor, her look was right out of the 1970's. Audiences will enjoy the wardrobe Barbra wears and she displays a marvelous talent for comedy. I was amazed at how pretty and sweet she appeared in some scenes. A fun movie. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Very Funny.","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not much actually happens in this romantic comedy. George Segal is a self-styled intellectual author who doesn't write well. He ekes out a living as a clerk in Doubleday's Book Store in New York. When he espies neighbor Barbra Streisand making love and accepting some cash in exchange, he calls the building superintendent. The super throws Streisand out and she invades -- that's the word -- invades Segal's shabby digs. She's a vulgar, would-be actress, model, and occasional girl for hire.She raises such a fuss in Segal's apartment that the super throws both of them out. Segal takes her to the apartment of a friend, Robert Klein, but their loud arguments and queer garb (don't ask) arouse and disturb Klein and he leaves the apartment. Segal winds up in the lethal embrace of the raptorous Streisand.They separate unamicably for a few weeks but the encounter has taught each of them something and they have another date at the apartment of Segal's rich fiancée, a pianist. She and her family happen to be in Boston, where the fiancée is giving a performance with the Boston Symphony. In the sybaritic apartment, Streisand produces some marijuana which the bookish Segal smokes on a dare and they end up in the bath tub together. The apartment doesn't remain empty of others for long.It's really a familiar story of two nutty, idiosyncratic, mismatched New Yorkers, each of whom teaches the other to overcome pretensions. But it's so slickly done, adapted by Buck Henry from somebody's play, that it succeeds in a wild and uneven fashion.I think it might help a viewer to be at least a little familiar with the geographic and chronological milieu. I mean -- this is New York City in the late 1960s. Times Square is filled with porno shops and sleazy clothing outlets and beggars. And there is the conflict of subcultures -- the bourgeois on the one hand (Segal) and the iconoclastic on the other (Streisand). The use of grass was a daring enterprise for the middle class.But you don't really need to have been there to enjoy the gags. They come thick and fast, both verbal and physical. I'll give an example. During their separation, Segal is passing a dirty movie theater in Times Square (this was pre-video tape) and notices that the movie playing -- the pornographic Cycle Sluts -- stars Streisand. Writhing with disgust and curiosity, Segal buys a ticket and as he's passing through the lobby, an attendant asks, Raincoat? Segal I don't have a raincoat. Attendant You want to RENT one? I don't particularly like Barbra Streisand's personality. She has an ego the size of Greenland. But she's phenomenal in this comic role and looks utterly pinchable too, despite that prominent proboscis. Segal is even better as the put-upon author who's work has been turned down by every publisher in New York. His role is the more difficult because he's basically the straight man, but he does wonders with it. Watch his expression when he's stoned and naked in the tub with Streisand and they hear the doors open and close as his fiancée and her family arrive unexpectedly. His face turns crimson. You're about to meet Miss Weyderhaus, he says with a mischievous smile, as if they were two kids about to be discovered playing hookey from the third grade.The movie collapses on itself in the last ten minutes or so, trying to turn serious, but only managing to achieve off-putting. They may wind up married but I wouldn't bet on its lasting. "},{"Title":"THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT (Herbert Ross, 1970) ***","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is another film I had missed out on a number of times on Cable TV in the past. It's considered something of a censorship milestone with the treatment of taboo subjects such as prostitution, homosexuality and pornography &#150; not to mention the proliferation of bad language throughout (unfortunately, the DVD is said to contain the slightly edited PG-rated version, which cuts some brief nudity involving female lead Barbra Streisand and her use of the f-word in one scene)! With this in mind, one has to consider the development which the comedy genre underwent during this time from the mildly risqué sophisticated antics of the Doris Day/Rock Hudson films of the early 1960s to the cynical anxiety-ridden variety that started emanating towards the tail-end of the decade &#150; with which the likes of Jack Lemmon, George Segal (the male lead of this film) and, in particular, Woody Allen (since he was his own writer and mostly directed himself as well) are forever associated.THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT is also notable for giving the current female singing sensation &#150; Barbra Streisand &#150; her first non-musical role; in fact, it led to other wacky comedy vehicles foremost among them WHAT'S UP, DOC? (1972; Peter Bogdanovich's updating of the Howard Hawks classic BRINGING UP BABY 1938) and FOR PETE'S SAKE (1974; whose trailer, included on the Columbia R2 DVD of the film under review, makes it seem like a good deal of fun). Thanks largely to his role in the film, Segal went on to do his fair share of sex comedies up till the early 1980s &#150; with the most successful among them being A TOUCH OF CLASS (1973), which I should be acquiring shortly.Anyway, to get to the main item the film can be seen as a modern variation on the perennial Pygmalion theme &#150; with Segal as intellectual but, at the same time, neurotic and Streisand the uncouth yet liberated woman. There's no plot to speak of &#150; instead, we follow the two stars on a logical pattern of location-hopping around New York throughout which their relationship blossoms from his apartment when she's evicted because of his snitching (which leads to both of them being given the gate by the landlord), to them shacking up at the flat of Segal's pal (who drives them out because of their constant bickering), then going their separate ways till they meet again (after he has learned about her movie experience &#150; a hilarious scene &#150; and a 'colleague' of hers has gone to see him at his workplace) and go out together (where they're harassed by a band of thrill-seekers), after which they find themselves at the house of Segal's fiancée (a scene with an unexpectedly ironic punchline), to finally deciding to be completely honest with one another (beginning with their real names).In this respect, the film emerges to be overly talky (betraying its stage origins) but there is a reasonable amount of invention and wit in the undeniable comedy highlights Segal dressing up as Death to scare the hiccupping Streisand; Segal using an aquarium as a TV set &#150; with him delivering an impromptu news flash &#150; to humor the insomniac Streisand (her addiction to TV is illustrated by a surprising reference to the Lionel Atwill/Lon Chaney Jr. horror pic MAN MADE MONSTER 1941); the couple's argument over the sun spat morning line in the opening paragraph of a book by aspiring novelist Segal; Streisand's account of the sordid activities her clients invariably came up with (prompting Segal to describe her as a sexual Disneyland), etc. The film's soundtrack is highlighted by several songs from jazz/rock band Blood, Sweat & Tears. "},{"Title":"This film is a wonderful comedy.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Barbra Streisand and George Segal combine there comedic talents to make one of the finest comedies of all time. This film is a combination of good acting, good directing, and is an all-around good movie. It is very much Simonesque (to invent a term) in its aptitude and subtle comedy. The way to tell a superb comedy, is if after the the film, you are left with a feeling of nostalgia. This is definitely one of those films. "},{"Title":"Mostly Annoying","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Why is it that comedy filmmakers seem to think that the way to make a man fall in love is to torment him so unmercifully that he's ready to commit murder? Does this kind of thing actually happen in real life? This is a remake of The Divorce of Lady X (which I also found more annoying than funny) with some 70s pop culture add-ins, like miniskirts, marijuana smoking, self-analysis and, most surprisingly, Barbra Streisand's potty mouth, and without the beauty of Merle Oberon to provide at least some reason for watching.Barbra is ultra-abrasive throughout, with a maturity level slightly below that of the average three-year-old, so self-absorbed that it genuinely never occurs to her that other people in the world might have needs, or even feelings. Certainly my idea of the perfect mate! I did watch it all the way to its non-comedic let it all hang out - tell it like it is ending, although I don't really know why. The thing I liked best about it was that it was finally over. "},{"Title":"There are reviews here by people who are clueless","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First of all, this film was not hated by critics. It was adored by critics, and it was a huge hit.Second, it is not a rip-off of anything else. It isn't derivative of anything else. It was a book. Then it was a play, starring Diana Sands and Alan Alda. Then it became this movie, with some significant changes, the main one being the elimination of the interracial pairing that had existed in the play.Third, George Segal has been working in comedies for his entire career. Fourth, this is a seriocomedy, with easily as much pathos as comedy. The comedy is broad and rapid-fire, and the pathos is very intense. There are moments of intense pain along with some really hearty laughs. Fifth, this is a time capsule. New York was a violent, dirty, impoverished, scary place in 1970, and never did people on the fringes struggle more. This is a time where you could be thrown out of your apartment in the middle of the night for making too much noise, before ATMs and when people had recordings of vicious dogs next to their front doors to deter all-too-common burglars. This is a time of a seedy 42nd Street, where you could go to one of 40 porn houses and watch full- length dirty movies all night, surrounded by drunks and bums and perverts. This is a movie of a place and time that doesn't exist any more, and these were the people who tried not to lose themselves while trying to make their dreary lives a little more than the reality they were trapped in.When people take themselves and this site too seriously, and run off at the mouth about movies they don't understand in language that is imprecise and improperly used, it makes me annoyed.Watch this film. It is unlike others. You will find things to love in it. "},{"Title":"Way better than I remembered it","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a fantastic movie.I used to think it was too loud, abrasive and most certainly claustrophobic....and at that time it really turned me off. Well, it is all those things...but, it is brilliantly acted by both Segal and Streisand. I don't think I have seen Streisand more natural or convincing than in this role....and in my opinion she's extremely sexy.Originally I faulted George Segal for being so annoying (as Felix)...now, I applaud him for acting the part.There are some hysterically funny lines and situations in this movie.Enjoy "},{"Title":"One Loud Hooker Plus One Insecure Writer Equals a Match Made Only in the Movies","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After three big-budget Broadway-based period musicals in a row, Barbra Streisand obviously made a conscious career decision to convey a more contemporary image on screen. She succeeds in spades in this often hilarious 1970 comedy adapted by Buck Henry from a hit Bill Manhoff play and directed by Herbert Ross. Streisand plays Doris, a loud-mouthed fetish hooker who claims to be a model and an actress. She gets thrown out of her apartment when her neighbor, a nebbish bookstore clerk and aspiring writer named Felix Sherman, reports her clandestine activities to the landlord. This causes a confrontation in which she is convinced he's gay and seduces him. Another fight ensues causing them to get kicked out of his apartment. The rest of the film is mostly their bickering as they travel from one apartment to the next and carry out their improbable, Pygmalion-like opposites-attract romance.In the same year he made two greatly underrated films, the mature Loving and the manic Where's Poppa?, George Segal makes Felix a lovably insecure schlub and provides great chemistry with Streisand in her first non-singing role. They have a great scene in the bathtub where both are completely stoned as his fiancée and her parents walk in, and he has a funny scene where he pretends to be the TV to help Doris get to sleep. For Streisand's part, she wears a hysterically tacky negligee, dances in a go-go cage, appears in a soft-porn flick called Cycle Sluts (we only hear the riotous audio - Where are you putting THAT?) and says the F word (unfortunately cut out of the DVD version though it's obvious when she says it). It's not her best screen performance, but it's one of her funniest. Henry's sharp dialogue and Ross' quick pacing help considerably in making this an enjoyably vulgar romantic comedy. The 2001 DVD had no extras other than three trailers, none for this movie. "},{"Title":"Why isn't this film more popular?","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm shocked!  The American film-goer loves a good romantic comedy and this one's perfect.  George Segal and Barbara Streisand shine together in this Odd Couple meets Bringing Up Baby production.  Belly-laugh funny throughout, this film succeeds in convincing the viewer to root for this couple to find love, instead of the fame and fortune they think they want. I give it a ten in spite of the lame soundtrack provided by Blood, Sweat and Tears.  Fortunately, the music plays a completely insignificant role.  If you like romantic comedy, you'll love this sleeper.  Enjoy. "}{"Title":"I want to see 'Cycle sluts'!","Date":"11 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Reason numero uno for me try this one is Barbra Streisand, and even more so since she was supposed to go topless (in my version I did not catch her topless - and I think I was paying attention well enough). And there were no other reasons, really. This sort of romantic comedy does not appeal to me particularly, but 'The owl and the pussycat' really wasn't bad, at all. It was suggested that 'Pretty woman', a film that used to like but now would not soon choose to watch again, could have been based on this, but that seems a stretch to me.The story here is a stretch, too, but I suppose it's fun enough and has some decent and more serious issues in there, as well. Barbra does a very good job, as does George Sagal, but them ending up together seems a bit unrealistic.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dropping their pretensions","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Between George Segal's midnight typing and Barbra Streisand's at all hours gentleman callers the two of them succeed in both getting thrown out of their apartments the same night. With nowhere to go they crash in on Segal's friend Robert Klein who is also entertaining. Segal and Streisand spend the next 24 hours together and these mismatched people lower their pretensions and find maybe they have more in common than they realize.There's no real plot to The Owl And The Pussycat. In fact the additional characters are a creation strictly for the film version. It was a two character play when it ran on Broadway and starred Alan Alda and Diana Sands in the Segal and Streisand parts. Segal is busy trying to write the great American novel. Streisand says she's just hooking to pay the rent when she's short, she's really a model and an actress. Until that faithful night all they knew about each other was his typewriter clacking all night and the various sounds of lust being fulfilled.The two leads seem to work well together, their comic timing and reactions to each other are perfect. I'm not sure how the future will work for these two, but it would be interesting to speculate.A must for fans of both these players. "},{"Title":"Man was it 1970! Filthy but funny stuff!","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Babs plays a scatterbrained ditsy but hugely likable prostitute and George Segal plays a grouchy reserved writer whose apartment she invades.The biggest shock here this movie is absolutely filthy! Be curious to read the Parents Guide on this one. Kids maybe wouldn't get a lot of it, like I didn't watching Grease when I was young, because its mainly sexual references. The whole thing takes place I'm one or two rooms, and excursions outside are unconvincing attempts to disguise the fact that its based on a play. So, its claustrophobic, like all stage adaptations, but really lifted by the chemistry of the Odd Couple characters, and the terrific charm and energy of Barbara Streisand.She reminds me of this one specific friend I knew during uni, so I found the character quite adorable and well rendered. I like how people like this get written off by everyone as stupid but they're often cleverer than the people dismissing them. The other appeal here is the witty dialogue and how gorgeous she is in these ridiculously revealing outfits.8/10 "},{"Title":"First half great. Second half not so much","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Owl and the Pussycat is a relatively unknown chapter in the careers of both Barbra Streisand and George Segal. Nevertheless, the talent was definitely there director Herbert Ross would eventually direct successes like The Goodbye Girl and writer Buck Henry had contributed to The Graduate. The first half of The Owl and the Pussycat has these talents on full display and yet, somehow, the second half is a boring and disjointed mess.Felix is a wannabe writer who comes home on a rainy night to discover that his book will not be published. He shows his frustration by calling his super and telling him the woman across from him takes money for sex. This gets her thrown out, but not before she finds out it was Felix who told on her. She, Doris, knocks on his door at 3 in the morning, demanding answers. He tries to scare her away by playing his recording of a barking German Shepherd, but she enters and hilarity ensues. Their antics get them thrown out of his apartment too&#x85;and out of a friend's, so they're forced to wander while pondering their relationship and life in general.If that last sentence sounds lame and vague, that's because it is. There's a precise moment when the film's second half starts. It's the morning after they spend the night at Felix's friend's place. It's literally a night and day difference between the film's halves. Somehow you just sense the fun's over. After the great first half, I was astounded by the lack of laughs. It defies belief. It's almost like another director/writer team took over. Yes, it's obvious something's being explored life, their relationship, his engagement to an emotionally stuck up woman (who's of course nothing like Doris), what have you, but it just feels so aimless and downright boring. It's the first thing I think of when remembering The Owl and the Pussycat first half great, second half boring.But what a great first half. There really is no story being told at that point, just the owlish Felix and wildcat Doris playing off one another. Hilarious moments abound. From Felix attempting to help Doris with her hiccups, to him reading her a bedtime story about the sun spitting morning into the main character's face which results in Doris ranting about how that metaphor doesn't make sense. It just goes on and on and it's great. It also helps that Segal and Streisand play wonderfully off one another. I've read stories about how Streisand and Walter Matthau didn't get along in Hello Dolly! Thankfully, no such troubles here. In the end, if you just want some great comedy (let's face it, who doesn't?), then watch the first half and greatly temper your expectations for the second half. "},{"Title":"What's a diva to do after three big screen musicals?","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Louis B. Mayer once said after seeing Greta Garbo leading a conga line that it Washington as shocking as seeing your grandmother drunk. He may have had a fatal heart attack had he been around to watch Barbra Streisand go from leading lady in three big screen movie musicals to playing an obvious hooker in a foul mouthed romantic comedy he would have burnt before offering to Joan Crawford. Of course, Streisand, affectionately known as Babs, had seen the writing on the box office receipts of other recent musicals, preferring to save her singing voice for the recording studio rather than the movies. Instead of breaking into song on some moving vehicle in every film, she won box office approval by playing wacky independent women with more intelligence than the leading male character believed her to have.The grand dame of modern gay icons. Babs is a bit shocking as she makes the assumption that her nebbish neighbor (George Segal) is gay, something she throws in his face with great relish and venom. Of course, it's only a matter of time before she learns the truth, parading around in lacy and racy pajamas, certainly not meant to sleep in. It seems out of character for her very flamboyant character to be so verbally hateful towards gay men, especially one she has no proof to back her claim. For most of the movie, Streisand is a bit of a harpy, but manages to instill a level of humor that makes her at least somewhat tolerable. She's particularly funny in a scene where you only hear her voice acting out a porno.The lack of major supporting players makes it a bit tough on Streisand and Segal to hold all the attention. Their chemistry is iffy at best, although the final confrontation between the two on Central Park locations brings out a lot more vulnerability in each of the characters. Still, the obvious stage origins of the set up detract from the wide screen and makes it truly feel dated. "},{"Title":"Excellent acting which made me believe in this comical romance","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Barbara Streisand plays a prostitute named Doris, who moves in with George Segal's character, Felix (but he claims his name is Fred by the end of the movie.) This movie is an interesting mix of 60's romance, comedy, and psychological study. The dialog is witty and I found the characters believable. The chemistry between Streisand and Segal is what makes this movie, and I liked the way the sex scenes were shot, almost as if we were watching reality TV instead of a film. Nevertheless, the characters develop as the film progresses, until one has the feeling at the end that Streisand's character has softened, and Segal's has matured. I found Streisand's character to be irritating at first, and more and more likable as the movie progresses. This movie illustrates how opposites attract, and then how in a love relationship each partner becomes more like the other as they become a couple. Although the pace of scenes may be a little slow for a modern audience, the quality of the dialog definitely makes up for it. I still felt the film was relevant even watching the video 35 years after I first saw the movie in a theater. "},{"Title":"The REAL Barbra?","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film holds up suprisingly well.  This is Barbra at her Brooklyn WAILING, gum snapping, street-smart yet vulnerable and likable best. It's hard to imagine the liberal and oh so politically correct Barbra Streisand of today spewing such words as fag and queer; but somehow we forgive her.  Her Doris Wilgis Washington Wadsworth character is a true classic. Many reviewers thought Doris might have been a glimpse of the real Barbra Streisand that the world had not seen yet. The film was Barbra's first forrah into contemporary film making following her tremendous success with the musicals Funny Girl, Hello Dolly, and On A Clear Day.  For its time, this was a very risque` movie; even garnering an R rating.  Buck Henry's script moves swiftly and the supporting cast is excellent. Rent this one! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The surprisingly perfect pairing of Streisand and Segal makes this situation comedy a real treat.  Laughs abound in this story of an undereducated prostitute (Streisand)  and a meek, snobbish writer (Segal) who end up spending the night together as room mates after his snitching gets her evicted from her apartment.  Although some may find this film too static, viewers who love witty dialogue and bitingly funny one liners will find that this film has enough laughs for ten movies!My score  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just let it slide","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think the didactic point of the movie was that one should not pretend to anything better. We have two 20 somethings who gave their best shot and lost. One is a hack writer who cannot write lyrical prose with sound metaphors. The other is an aspiring actress, who has sled into prostitution after failing to secure a career in the media. I suppose Fred will always be a bookstore clerk, and Doris will be the happy homemaker. I enjoyed the comedic lines, and the awkward situations. When I was younger, I could not understand why I felt sad at the end of this movie. Now that I have reached middle age, I understand the meta message. You are just a menial and that is all you are ever going to be. I know that one can lose the zest for life if he is pushed to fulfill ambition. But isn't it better to give it your best shot? Perhaps this is a familiar story of people in the arts. There are so many also-rans. Then again, this movie came to the screen in 1970 as perhaps a portent of diminished expectations for the middle class. Perhaps the skeleton suit of Felix/Fred is the personification of death for a way of life. Hollywood seems to delight in such metaphors. Even the scissor scene of the belt of Felix's bathrobe represents the loss of power for a country that does not need the creative power of its men. Perhaps that may be why Barbara Streisand at some level excites some animosity in more traditional conservative parts of the country as her role in this movie seems to bring a denouement to the Promethean dreams of another era. All that aside I find her delightful and wonderful in this film, and I am sure she does not like her role as a Saturnalian crone. We can only do what we are paid to do. Doris understands that all too well. "},{"Title":"Frantic Pace","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This remains as one of the few films that united George Segal and Barabara Streisand. It is a fun effort. The late sequences of this film have a frantic pace.This is the kind of film you sit back and enjoy. There is not a lot of analysis, just plain fun. You can enjoy it any old afternoon when you have some time. Streisand doesn't even get political in this film which is extremely rare.This film is played for laughs & accomplishes them. There is a chemistry between Babs & Segal that makes it a shame they didn't do more films paired up. They work better than Redford did with Babs. "}{"Title":"Oodles of Charm","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This comedy is more charming than funny. It almost dispenses with plot and presents two charming, offbeat characters, wonderfully played by the leads. Critics detested it. Stanley Kaufmann wrote If computers ever turn out romantic comedies, the results will look like this. I am more forgiving. There are so many movies full of walking, talking cliches and cartoons, that when I find flesh-and-blood characters, I appreciate it.This movie is not memorable, not riveting, but it contains human warmth, which is often lacking. It's a sort of remake of The Odd Couple, but far less heavy to digest. And there is a certain touch of intellect which may please some.   "},{"Title":"King Leer","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've just found this on DVD and it's still as great as it was when I saw it on the big screen. If the roll-on-the-floor laughs tend to be concentrated in the first half the second half has mored depth as the two highly diverse lead characters recognize and slowly respond to qualities in each other that were dormant and may well have gone unidentified and unacknowledged without the meet-cute that set the whole thing in motion. I've never been an out-and-out Streisand fan finding her work uneven but when she IS good - The Way We Were, On A Clear Day You Can See Forever - she's very, very good and this is one of those times. Segal too, arguably best known for more dramatic roles, proves he can handle comedy with the best of them. Overall an excellent movie. "}]