[{"Title":"Very good introduction to the insane world of Monty Python","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Produced in 1971 on a shoestring budget with the aim of breaking the Python team in the States (which eventually happened when the TV series began running on PBS), this film consists of classic moments from the first two series of Monty Python's Flying Circus, lovingly reprised, and in some cases improved upon. The 'Vocational Guidance Counsellor' sketch with Michael Palin's chartered accountant who wants to be a lion tamer is certainly better than the TV version, as is the bank robber in a lingerie shop sketch, which is performed here in such a dry, straight-faced, understated way, it makes me laugh every time. There are lots of other classics to enjoy - the dirty fork, Hell's Grannies, the Upper Class Twit of the Year show, Blackmail, camp square-bashing, the Killer Cars...if you can look past the obviously low budget (the sound mix makes some scenes sound as if they were recorded in a cake tin), you'll find one of the most tirelessly inventive sketch comedies of all time. And remember, it's NOT pining, it's passed on! "},{"Title":"Pure Python Madness","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  And Now For Something Completely Different is a showcase of the kind of comedy that defines Monty Python's Flying Circus.  The BBC comedy classic has a huge following worldwide, owing to its unique use of surreal humor.  This movie is a collection of some of the Pythons' best from their first two seasons, including classics like The Lumberjack Song and The Dead Parrot Sketch.  One of the best factors of Monty Python was the eye-catching animations of Terry Gilliam.  This movie is rich with his art, which includes the wacky B-movie spoof The Killer Cars.  This is a movie all Python fans should see, and one Python neophytes should use as an introduction. "},{"Title":"supremely silly skits","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Monty Python used this collection of sketches from their first and second TV series (re-packaged and staged again) to break into the American market.  A gamble, but a successful one.  All the greats are here &#150; Parrot Sketch, Dirty Fork, Hell's Grannies, Fresh Fruit Self Defence, Marriage Guidance &#150; and more besides.  The animated links, specially created for the movie, are funny and well put-together and new versions of Killer Cars and the story of the Spot are excellent.  In many cases the film versions of the sketches outshine those in the TV series and are more memorable, particularly those which first appeared in series 1.This is a very good introduction to the team and a strong reminder of their early work for the BBC.  "},{"Title":"Yes, some are quite silly, but they know they are! Superb animations!","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Do we really have to grade this among the other Pythons films, as best, worst or anything? Personally I don't feel like to. It's surely not my best, but its got some fine characteristics. It's pure early Pythons.Actually it's no film, it's a non-stop trip of absurd humour, featuring shorts, lots of animations, silly commentary, politically incorrect, 100% English jokes, some of which are REALLY silly - the difference here is that we have a commentary within the film which blames of the film which really has taken a wrong turn and has become quite silly. Self parody, originality and sarcasm. And embarrassment, of course!About the animations Python animations (made by the masterman Terry Gilliam) are awesome. No insult here, I really enjoyed the film, even the silliest bits, but the animations are so good that they're the best in this one, as far as I am concerned. So the animations are mixed and edited within managing to create a genuine Python style. Those not familiar with Pythons, I recommend to start over with LIFE OF BRYAN or HOLY GRAIL. Actually its quite 'difficult' humour but give it a try if you like something different!  "},{"Title":"Strictly for Python neophytes","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  To most hardcore Python fans, this film will be irrellevant, as they probably have every single sketch on DVD already, and this is essentially a greatest hits album.So I am going to direct this review at those who have never heard of Python before.The film opens with a sketch called How not to be seen, during which the narrator shoots several people in cold blood, blows people up, and then finally breaks down into hysterical laughter when he bombs a children's hospital.This sketch is hillariously, gut bustingly funny. Why? That is the great mystery of Python. Is it the impeccable timing, the wonderful acting, or the peerless gags? Could be. But I think it is more the brilliant sense of anarchy and loony logic that makes them so brilliant. It was, after all, those people's own bloody fault they were shot; they could be seen!Beyond this, there are the sketches that are so well known they have become cliches the Dead Parrot sketch (Listen mate, this parrot is dead! It's a stiff! Bereft of life it rests in peace; if you hadn't nailed it to the perch it would be pushing up the daisies! This is an ex-parrot!) the Lumberjack Song (I chop down trees, I wear high heels suspenders and a bra!/I wish I'd been a girlie, just like my dear Mama!), the Dirty Fork sketch (A dirty, ugly smelly piece of cultlery!!) and so on.There is still no substitute for watching the show. Indeed many of their best sketches aren't on here; the Cheese sketch, the Adventure Holiday sketch, and my personal favourite, the Eric the Fish sketch  (Why should I be TARRED with the epithet loony simply because I have a pet 'alibut?). Still this is a fairly safe introduction to their unique (That's putting it mildly) brand of humour.  "},{"Title":"Contractual Obligation","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This film really didn't need to be made - but at the time, after two excellent TV series, the Pythons were under pressure to produce a big-screen version for wider distribution.Thus a number of sketches from the first two series were rewritten, tightened up, and re-enacted, entirely on film. The actual new material is probably around 2% of the script, and I hold the view that many of the sketches were inferior to their TV versions, and much of the better series 1 and 2 stuff (Spanish Inquisition, Silly Walks etc.) didn't even make it to ANFSCD for some reason. It's interesting to watch the differences in production and compare this material to how it was originally done, and the new devices for linking one sketch to the next keep you on your toes.But ultimately if you want to watch early python sketches, the TV versions are more rewarding. "},{"Title":"This is the best Python film for novices","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Although I like Monty Python and the Holy Grail better, this is still a wonderful film and it is the best one to show the uninitiated. Showing a normal person the Holy Grail is sort of like giving a first-time drinker a fifth of vodka! Too much, too quickly! Many of these rookies MIGHT run away in terror or suffer massive headaches when they see the Holy Grail. Instead, this film is intended for American audiences unfamiliar with the Pythons. Many of their best skits from the TV show are reproduced with better production values as well as easier to understand accents. You can really tell that they are trying to be understandable to the average American.Now all this does NOT mean the film is normal by any stretch of the imagination! It features such classics as the Parrot Sketch, the Marriage Counselor, and my personal favorite, the couple who go to the fancy restaurant and have a piece of dirty silverware. I'm sure to the uninitiated, these skits DON'T sound funny--well watch them and see for yourself. If they make your brain hurt or the desire to flee sets in, turn off the TV briefly, take a few deep breaths and resume watching. "},{"Title":"well, you know Monty Python...","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Containing various skits from the first two years of their famous wacky show, And Now for Something Completely Different was Monty Python's Flying Circus' first movie. Everyone knows the Dead Parrot, the Lumberjack Song, and such things. They must have just cracked up writing this stuff.If absolutely nothing else, this movie (or their show) reminds us what humor should entail. If you've never seen any of Monty Python's work, this should explain it all to you, although you ought to be prepared to die laughing.So remember, always use Crelm toothpaste! "},{"Title":"An introduction to Britain's famous comedy team.","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Being Monty Python's first film that had a theatrical release, it's something completely different. And Now for Something Completely Different is the best of Python's gags from their TV show, Monty Python's Flying Circus, a fine introduction to their humor. Some of their famous skits are here, including The Lumberjack Song, the dead parrot, Twit of the Year, and the World's Deadliest Joke. Wacky short animations connect the skits together. And in this film, you'll also learn the importance of not being seen.Grade 8/10 Rating PG (crude humor, innuendo, sensuality, nudity, language, violence) "},{"Title":"Dynamic team of comedy geniuses!","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Their first film 'And Now for Something Completely Different' was intended to introduce the group and their humour to the American market. It was nothing but their best and most silliest skits from their first two seasons of their British TV sketch show Monty Python's Flying Circus from BBC television. By that there's no real systematic narrative here, unlike in their later efforts in 'The Holy Grail' and 'Life of Brian'. It's made up of a selection of individual skits, which were mostly hilarious, even though two or three fall short, but it moves along swiftly that you get caught up in the comically cheeky and downright nonsensical humour that had me mostly in stitches. There appealing ludicrousness bellows stupidity, but its done in a straight face, which makes it more the merrier. A lot of it makes fun at its own expense, but also mocks that of political correctness and Americanism. They were so clever in the way structured it and it stills stands up rather well today. But a quick warning their humour is an acquired taste that's for sure.Some of these ambitious skits and segments are real ball, ranging from the lumberjack song, The dead parrot, The upper class twit of the year, Killer cars, Blackmail, Hungarian in the cigarette shop, the lion tamer and so much more. My favourite of the lot would be the Mountaineer expedition sign up. Going on throughout the film is Terry Gilliam's stunning and ultimately inventive cartoons which catch the eye and imagination. The animation is that of high standards and adds a whole new dimension to the silliness! You could see this eye for detail when he directed such flicks like 'Brazil' and 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'. The boys involved John Cleese, Terry Jones, Eric Idle, Graham Chapman, Michael Palin and Terry Gilliam are nothing but entertaining in whatever they decide to come up with, by giving us a real good laugh.This landmark comedy team is always a delight to behold. A must see for any fan, though I doubt they haven't seen it already. "}{"Title":"Meet The Monty Python's Troupe","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Released in 1971, this first feature presentation by the zany Monty Python's troupe is very much like a greatest hits album where we have these very funny guys from the UK showcasing some of their most hilariously popular sketches and bizarre animated segments from their long-running TV series of the late 1960s.For anyone who enjoys outrageously odd comedy, this film's compilation is really a fine introduction to Monty Python's peculiar and unique brand of humour.Filled with all sorts of surreal slapstick and supreme silliness, this film includes such unforgettable, comic gems as - The World's Deadliest Joke, Upper-Class Twit Of The Year, Hells Grannies, Dead Parrot, and Nudge-Nudge-Wink-Wink, to name but a few.For some guaranteed giggles and outright laughs, you can always rely on the Monty Python's gang to deliver the goods..... Check it out! "},{"Title":"A different mix of Norweigian Blue.","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Talking to a friend recently about Comedy TV shows/movies that they had either never seen or heard of before,I was surprised to find out that she had never seen any footage of a Comedy group called Monty Python.Deciding to go for a Python DVD that would hopefully act as a good intro to their work,I was pleased to discover,that a boxset had been brought out,which along with containing the Python's most well know titles, (the classic Holy Grail,and Life of Brian-which I still need to see!) also contained two movies of the Python's that I have hardly heard ever get mentioned.The outline of the filmDesigned as a film to introduce Monty Python to the US,the movie features re-staged and re-filmed sketches from the first two seasons of Monty Python's Flying Circus,with a loose,over lapping theme of a character appearing in the end of one sketch and then in the beginning of the next,and also a breaking of the sketches into pieces,by having an announcer appear on the screen every 15-20 minutes to say And now for something completely different.View on the filmJoining with the Python's for their big screen debut (which despite being aimed for America,ended up making more money at the UK box office than at the US box office!),director Ian MacNaughton smartly uses the film's small $80,000 budget (from Playboy magazine) to burst the sketches out of there original studio confines,with one of the movies best sketches about a deadly joke being used against the German's in WW II (?) being given a brilliant fresh feel thanks to MacNaughton giving the scene and misty look and also fully displaying the vast location.Despite the group surprisingly not using the widescreen format to feature a number of background or side gags that could be picked up on repeat viewings,the Python's impressively keep away from making the sketches ever feel old & recycled,by using the overlapping character's as a way to include a wonderfully new,absurd element into each of the sketches,that leads to viewer being excited about what direction the next sketch will go in,the moment they hear the words And now for something completely different.. "},{"Title":"I'm a lumberjack, and I'm O.K....","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" This was the Pythons' first attempt at a movie - made when the series was still in production - and, while in no way comparable to later classics such as 'Holy Grail' and 'Life Of Brian', its good fun, and a lot better than many of the films-based-on-T.V. sitcoms made around at that time.Playboy club boss Victor Lownes put up the money, thinking the film had the potential to be a cult hit in the U.S.A. But it was not. For one thing, it was badly promoted ( John Cleese remembers seeing a strange poster of a grinning snake with a hat on. Just the sort of thing calculated to set box-office tills ringing, of course ) and anyway the Americans were hardly likely to go and see a film based on a show which ( at that point ) they had not seen.'And Now' is an anthology of sketches from the first two 'Monty Python' series. Unlike 'The Best Of Benny Hill' ( which reused original television material ) these were remakes. They included 'Crunchy Frog', 'Upper Class Twit Of The Year Show', 'Marriage Guidance Councillor', 'The Lumberjack Song', 'Sir George Head', 'Hungarian Phrase Book' 'Blackmail', 'Self-Defence Class', 'Nudge Nudge' and 'Hell's Grannies'.Some of the items benefited from the move to film, such as 'Funniest Joke In The World', while others fell flat, most notably 'The Parrot Sketch'. Michael Palin was to have reprised his role as the disgusting 'Ken Shabby', but Lownes insisted that the sequence be dropped.Terry Jones' Nude Organist is seen for the first time, he went on to become a regular feature of the series.The Pythons came to regard the film as an embarrassment as it was basically a rehash of old material, but it was successful in establishing that Python humour could work on the big screen. When they made 'Holy Grail' three years later, they were much more confidant and self-assured.In the days before the availability of Python on video and D.V.D. this film was the only reminder of the group's genius. Now its somewhat redundant, but still worth viewing.Funniest moment - tough one, this. I'll go for Palin's rendition of 'The Lumberjack Song' mainly because I love the shocked looks on the faces of the mounties as the full meaning of the lyrics hits home. Oh, and Connie Booth is sexy too! One complaint though - how on Earth did they manage to leave out the 'Ministry Of Silly Walks'? "},{"Title":"And Now...10 seconds of nudity!!","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  It's.....Monty Pythons Flying Circus. And how good a circus it was. None of those annoying clowns here. Just damn good sketches, jokes, joke documentaries and spoof gameshows are what we are talking about. This, the Python's first movie, is a collection of their best sketches from series 1 (and two, I think?) made into a movie for more people to laugh at. It's all a bit silly, but, no one likes a good laugh more than I do.....except my wife.....and a few of her friends. Oh, yes and the midget around the corner. Come to think of it, everyone likes a laugh more than I do. The best Highlights of the movie have to be The mountaineering expedtion sketch, the 'How to defend yourself against fresh fruit sketch' and 'How Not To Be Seen!' The sketches they should have included are Spot The Loony and Mr Gumby's Brain consultaion with the supposed surgery. But as it stands, its funny. A bit silly, but funny. And Now For Something Completely Different a man with three buttocks! "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  OK, so it's not technically a movie, it's just a collection of the best sketches from Monty Pythons Flying Circus series's 1 and 2.But the fact of the matter is it's so damn funny.It contains all the great sketches, including the infamous Dead Parrot Sketch, (This parrot is deceased, it is no more. It ceases to be.) the great art of hiding sketch as well as many others.In no way does it compare to the feature films, but this is Python at their best. And when have you ever watched Flying Circus and not laughed?The only thing that this film lacks is the Spanish Inquisition. Why they weren't included is beyond me, but of course no-one expects them.Marks out of 10 - an 8. Rib achingly funny.  "},{"Title":"And Now for Something Completely Different","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" This was the first feature length Python movie, an anthology movie that was made up of well known sketches that the crew had done on their TV show, Monty Python's Flying Circus (the first two series). Apparently the main goal of this movie was to break the boys into America, introduce the States to their cult British humour. The film is made up of a variety of famous sketches that had previously been seen on TV but re-shot without an audience and, apparently, with a lower budget. Knowing this actually surprised me because I've always thought this film (and the sketches) looked pretty glossy in a way, the smooth transitions, the more cinematic approach and in some aspects bigger better locations. I don't recall the original series too much as I haven't seen it since I was a kid but I always thought the series looked way more shabby than this.Its actually amazing to read that some sketches or effects couldn't be recreated for this film because the budget was so low! This makes me wanna go back and watch the TV show to see the differences. Anyway, despite those revelations I've always liked this compilation of classic Python material and seen it as (almost) the definitive versions of the sketches, although that's probably because I grew up with this movie rather than the TV show (will somebody please fondle my buttocks!).Watching this today as an adult many things have obviously changed, firstly, I actually understand all the gags now, all the little cheeky lines and quips are loud and clear. Its amusing to watch and remember back in the day when I didn't understand certain scenes or dialog. They totally flew over my head and I only enjoyed them mainly because I knew it was silly and because my dad was laughing. Its also quite shocking and hilarious at how offensive this movie actually is in places, its things like this that, back in the day, were virtually normal, maybe slightly taboo, but generally accepted in comedy. Watching now and its incredible! obviously you'd never get away with it. I'm pretty sure the camp soldiers on drill would be lambasted these days, also certain lines are clearly racist...'did you see who moved in next door?', 'oh yes, black as the ace of spades', 'Oh well, there goes the neighbourhood', blimey!Its also funny to mention as early sketch which starts out with the narration...'In 1970 the British Empire lay in ruins, foreign nationals frequented the streets, many of them Hungarians'. Now is it me or, apart from the fact its Hungarians, the date of course and the sarcasm, this silly statement has actually come true! just replace Hungarians with Polish, Romanian and Bulgarian. Anyway, aside from the awkward, yet admittedly funny, offensive bits, there are of course all the main humdingers that we all know and love. The all time classic dead Parrot sketch with Cleese and Palin, 'nudge nudge, wink wink' with Idle and Jones, the lumberjack song with Palin, how to defend yourself against a man armed with a banana etc...Next to that you of course have the slightly longer skits that form small stories and offered a glimpse into the brilliant future of Python movies that had yet to be made. I actually preferred these at times as they felt more complete, obviously, like tiny comic strips with little tiny story arcs. In this movie the best of which are easily the 'Upper Class Twit of the Year' competition and the 'killer joke', which I reckon could of been made into an entire movie.But wait! who could forget about those off the wall and quite often gruesome little animations from Gilliam. These were a real highlight for Monty Python, I especially liked them as a kid for obvious reasons. The whole concept just added a completely new layer to the proceedings, the teams surreal comedy could be expanded and more risky with the use of adult cartoons, they looked cheap and tacky, but at the same time so very well created. The almost shabby, bare bones, crude methods used for these little animated moments feel very much like a precursor to 'South Park' if you ask me, it definitely seems that way, but the fact that some of the cartoon animations (and the style) have become just as big as the live action sketches goes to prove how fantastic they were. Everybody knows a Monty Python cartoon image when they see one. All in all, even though this film could be looked upon as not entirely classic Python seeing as they remade everything from the original series for the cinema, and to some people that might cheapen or water down their act, the film has managed a cult following. Although, I must say, with all the various incarnations of their famous sketches, they can start to feel tiresome on occasion, I have often found one specific version of a sketch to be the best with many others missing a beat. Anyway being the first Python movie this naturally holds a special place in most fans hearts and its still an excellent spicy little ride. Application forms for lion tamer are available to all those with the proper qualifications only, thank you.8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Fun...But Don't Expect The Spanish Inquisition","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" It's an adjustment seeing classic bits of television comedy being repurposed for the cinema. The first-ever film by TV's Monty Python troupe offers an enjoyable, if rather restrained, showcase of reshot series excerpts.What And Now For Something Completely Different lacks in originality, it makes up for in zaniness and wit. Meet a group of elderly ladies who terrorize city streets We like pulling the heads off sheep...and tea cakes.Thrill to a fight to the death for the title Upper-Class Twit of the Year He doesn't know when he's beaten...He doesn't know when he's winning, either. He has no sort of sensory apparatus known to man.Learn why British film directors don't like being called Eddie Baby, Angel Drawers, or Frank, even if President Nixon has a hedgehog by that name.It's also a chance to see the stars of Monty Python's Flying Circus with longer hair and shaggier sideburns, except for Terry Gilliam who makes just a couple of token appearances while sticking to animation. John Cleese steals much of the show with his delicious overacting, yet Eric Idle makes the strongest impression as everything from a randy marriage counselor to one of Hell's Grannies. Meanwhile, Terry Jones squints, Michael Palin smirks, and Graham Chapman disapproves of everything. None are as sensational as they would become, but all make impressions.For all that it has going for it, And Now connects only about half the time. Gilliam's animation seems slower and more ponderous here than it did on television, and the one-joke nature of his cartoons gets exposed in a way they didn't as television interstitials. A kind of pokiness cuts into the live-action material as well, like bits involving mice that squeal on key when hit with a hammer and men with tape recorders up their noses. Each of these may be only a minute or so, but they feel much longer.Several of Python's best-loved sketches don't appear here, like the Ministry of Silly Walks, the Spanish Inquisition, and the Crunchy Frog. The best-known sketch that does appear, the Dead Parrot, is actually a little dead itself for some reason. Director Ian MacNaughton was Python's usual director for television, and if anything shoots things in an even flatter manner here than he did for the BBC. Perhaps it's because television was Python's medium, for the way it offered a kind of subversive platform for their entertainments.Other sketches do shine. The Funniest Joke in the World is a great laugh unless you're German, in which case view with caution. Even better is the Milkman sketch, which demonstrates the pitfall of falling for the wrong woman.Overall, And Now makes for a fine Python primer, a starter course as another reviewer suggests. It's not a landmark film, or even that major a milestone by Python standards, but it delivers some laughs along with a sense of what these guys were about. "},{"Title":"Not their best film but still really funny","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" 'And Now for Something Completely Different' is basically just a large episode of Monty Python's Flying Circus but this is certainly not a bad thing. Despite the film's lack of plot and confusing format it is still really funny. Of course, because there are so many sketches then there will be some that you won't like, but there will be ones that you will love (the mountaineering sketch is my personal favourite). This can mean that people may grow tired of the film before it ends and - as is always the case with Monty Python - some people will absolutely love it and some people will hate it. Terry Gilliam's animation sequences are also really funny and bizarre. All of the cast perform really well here and have all got their personal best sketch performances in here i.e. Eric Idle's 'nudge-nudge, wink-wink' sketch. This is the first of Monty Python's films and it is not their best but it is still really funny. If you are a fan of Monty Python then you will love this film. "},{"Title":"And now for something completely hilarious","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Series of sketches compiled from the Flying Circus series showcases some of the most memorable Python gags and characterisations, an ideal introduction to the comedy styling of Britain's foremost comedy half-dozen (Cleese, Palin, Idle, Jones, Chapman and Gilliam).Among the side-splitters are the famous Lumberjack ruminations of the local pet shop owner, trying to avoid the dead parrot complaint from a dissatisfied customer, Terry Jones playing three blind mice with real specimens to the horror of his lounge bar audience, and one of my favourites, the dark art of defence in the face of a banana-wielding assailant (what about a pointed stick?).If you're pressed for time and haven't the opportunity to absorb several hours of the Flying Circus TV series, then this compilation of sketches could be just the antidote to cure your otherwise humourless afternoon. There's no esoteric socio-political references to inhibit the humour and while it might suffer from datedness in some aspects, viewed in its temporal context, this remains ground-breaking sketch comedy. "},{"Title":"Very funny and random film.","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Monty Pythons And Now For Something Completely Different is a hilarious movie filled with completely random sketches,especially the animated bits,which I also find to be some of the funniest bits.I find the Monty Python crew to be some of the funniest people on earth,especially John Cleese,Graham Chapman and Michael Palin.My favourite parts are,the worlds funniest joke,the dirty fork scene,the killer cars and the lumberjack song.I find the Holy Grail and Life Of Brian better though,but Monty Python never let me down.The Monty python crew,Graham Chapman,Eric Idle,Michael Palin,John Cleese,Terry Jones and Terry Gilliam provide use with one random sketch after another in their first feature film based on sketches and characters from Monty Pythons Flying Circus. "}{"Title":"Mash up of classic sketches","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" The film itself contains some well written pieces, however it is more like a preview or 'mix tape' of some Monty Python sketches. I feel that the acting (though good),comparatively lacked the energy and feeling of spontaneity given in the original versions of the sketches which were performed on T.V. There were also small changes to the dialogue of the sketches that (though maybe just because I've seen the original sketches so many times), did not fit as well. The whole movie didn't tie together as well as the T.V episodes did. I can remember watching the movie in 2003 when I was seven or eight, it was my first introduction to Monty Python and I found it hilarious, but since watching their other work I have come to see this movie as a lower-quality version. Since this movie is simply strung together classic sketches of Monty Python, I recommend simply watching the episodes or their other movies instead. This was probably their worst work. "},{"Title":"Excellent Monty Python film","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" And Now For Something Completely Different was the first of the films released by Monty Python.Most people only consider Holy Grail, Life Of Brian and Meaning Of Life(those are the only ones in the box set).But they should add this one as well.Yes it is basically skits from the series somewhat remade and combined into a feature film, but it is also a collection of some of the best skits from Monty Python flying circus.We have the dead parrot sketch, the lumberjack song, the old lady gang and many other classics! I find Monty Python's Flying Circus to have great skits, but also it's fair share of mediocre skits.This film does a great job of taking all the good ones.It is also combined with Terry Gilliam's brilliant animations.Even though you may have already seen it before, any Python fan should check this film out! They should also start considering it as a film in the series! "},{"Title":"And now for something without canned laughter","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Apart from the fact that it's great introduction to works of the famous British comedy sketch group for a newbee, I want to stress that it lacks canned laughter and even this fact deserves ten out of ten vote. Many famous sketches are there (Parrot sketch is included) some of them are shortened, some of them a little bit different, but it's the best way to introduce a new comer to Monty Python's flying Circus. To hardcore Python fans the movie can have somewhat less value, but worth watching nonetheless. Sketches here have different from TV show links between each other, some accents are stressed in a different way somehow.Summary 10/10 for lack of canned laughter. "},{"Title":"A Ragbag of Brilliant Sketches.","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Monty Python's And Now for Something Completely Different (1971) isn't really a film. It is actually a ninety-minute sketch show that has a ragbag of some of the greatest skits ever performed, Python or otherwise. Many of the classic's are there (yes, the dead parrot make's a welcome appearance) including the wonderful Self Defence Against Fresh Fruit (John Clees on fine form) which is followed by the very funny spoof of BBC documentaries's in Hell's Grannies. A personal favourite is Expedition to Mt. Kilimanjaro that has Cleese interviewing Eric Idle about taking him on a expedition to mount Kilimanjaro. This was my first encounter with Monty Python, and I'm glad it won't be my last. "},{"Title":"Wide Screen Python","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" This wide screen version of Monty Python's early sketches, animation and bodily sounds is a DVD delight. The humour is very much intact in better lit interiors and more expansive, textured and colorful exteriors than the TV series. I and my teenage son (we're Minneapolis Lutherans) watched it together. His delight last night, matched mine some 37 years ago. For him, it had the kind of appeal that Mad Magazine had for me a half century ago. Go Gilliam -- subversive silliness has younger champions in the land of lakes and corn.Terry Jone's bare-assed organist continues to alert me to the dangers of naturism while still prompting me to shout Bravo! when ever the character appears. The Upper Class Twit sketch is among the funniest and best performed sketch to have ever been lensed. "},{"Title":"They still are a reference to young comedians nowadays, worldwide.","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Here we have a sketch-film by Monty Python that really is something different! Python are for sure one of the greatest comedian-groups ever, and I'm not talking just about English humor. They still are a reference to young comedians nowadays, worldwide. Here in Portugal, for instance, they influenced many comedians, and they're a clear source to the humor of the best Portuguese comedians at the moment, Gato Fedorento (their name can be translated to something like Stinking Cat).And now (let's talk) for something completely different the film! It's a sketch-film done with some sketches of the first years of Monty Python's Flying Circus series. So we can say it's not really a film but a compilation of sketches, since there's no plot or fix characters. Nevertheless it's made up with the typical non-sense humor by Python, mixing hilarious silly jokes with some that make fun out of social and/or political matters. It's just Monty Python on their great and silly way of making fun! There're a great number of very funny sketches, others are not so hilarious but they are very good doing political sarcasm (like that one, now old-fashioned, about the American attempts to stop the international communism, during the Cold-War. They compare the American policies to the world to a teeth-past! But if we think well, it's probably not so old-fashion like that&#133;).It's the traditional but always funny humor of those crazy minds called Monty Python! "},{"Title":"Fine anthology--first-hand humorist studies of a surrealist inspiration","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" These small studies usually contain the humor and its own critique. The selection here is good and deserved to be much more famous. But I guess the fame is limited by the plausible dimensions of Python's audience.And Now For Something Completely Different is The Pythons' first film. It is as good as you could expect. Fanciful, lively surrealist inspiration. Some things are pushed as far as possible, yet there is a strong feel that the intelligent control is never really or completely lost.Some of the jokes are absurdly well delivered.More inventively conceived fun than sex--comedy--anyway,this isn't Benny Hill! "},{"Title":"A fine Monty Python compilation.","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" For their first motion picture, the Pythons decided to make a compilation of some of their best skits from their first two years on BBC instead of an original film (those would come later).And Now For Something Completely Different, named after John Cleese's famous catchphrase, is a film consisting of higher quality versions of some of their famous early skits. You'll see Expedition to Mt. Kilimanjaro, Nudge Nudge, The Funniest Joke In The World and some absolute classics such as Dead Parrot, The Lumberjack Song and Restaurant Sketch. My favorite is Blackmail, where Eric Idle plays a host of a show that threatens to ruin people's marriages and lives unless they pay him off.There also some great Terry Gilliam animations as well in ANFSCD. Good ones include The Killer Cars, Rampage Of The Cancerous Spot and The Cannibal Baby.Yes, there are some weak skits here and I found the film a bit tougher to get used to as it doesn't have the T.V. trappings I usually see, but it remains an outstanding compilation for those who want to get into Monty Python's brand of sketch comedy. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Basically its the Best of Flying Circus","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" With this movie, all python fans will no exactly what they are getting, it basically all the best sketches from the Flying Circus series, re-filmed and arranged into a anthology of comedy genius.Nearly all of the favourites are included, and of course the whole Python Gang is here; making this a real treat for every fan of the series.The thing with Python comedy is the originality of the gags and the characters, but sadly they do have limited appeal for the new generation; such is the sheer lunacy and diversity of the humour.I give it 8/10 Nudge, Nudge, Wink, Wink; Say No More! "},{"Title":"They really were something completely different...","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Before moving on to cinema, the Monty Python were known for their witty, anarchic, politically incorrect sketches which aired on the BBC as part of the show Monty Python's Flying Circus. The sextet's feature debut, And Now for Something Completely Different, is a selection of unseen material, thanks to which the Python's irreverent humor became known to the whole world.Throughout the episodes, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin stage a series of surreal, hilarious and embarrassing situations. These skits have no links whatsoever between them, with the exception of Gilliam's animated sequences, which precede certain segments, and the occasional appearance of Cleese's host, speaking the titular line.The fact that it's not a proper movie, but a succession of unrelated jokes, unlike their following films, is a partial disappointment. In addition, not all the gags are equally funny. But some of them are really exceptional, the undeniable proof that the Python set the foundations for modern comedy, still not surpassed (The Office is quite close, though). The unmissable bits are The Dead Parrot, The Dirty Fork, The World's Funniest Joke and The Lumberjack Song (ace, even if it can't beat the peerless Always Look on the Bright Side of Life). Those segments will cheer you up like few other movies have managed to (unless it's another Python feature, of course). In fact, perhaps, when the closing credits start rolling, you might be able to actually see John Cleese announce your return to realityAnd now for something completely different... "}{"Title":"If you like daft, you will love this....","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" For someone who had never watched more than 5 minutes of Monty Python before I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, it had me laughing 95% of the way through.If I'm honest the parrot scene what I had heard so much about didn't crack me up half as much as the others 'mad grannies' 'guide to hiding' 'the giant cat' etc , this maybe because it was supposed to be viewed without the hype and gets you like the other scenes with its randomness.If you love things like harry enfield, fast show, monkey dust etc then you will love this film as its like a godfather to them all.I'd totally recommend as a worth see...7/10. "},{"Title":"Very funny if you haven't seen the TV show","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" The Monty Python-groups's first movie is a mere medley of the favorite sketches from the Flying Circus TV-show. That's why how much you'll enjoy this movie depends if you have seen these shows. If you haven't, you'll be in for a delight. The Pythons have a wonderful talent of mixing different kinds of comedy, from witty word-play to physical slapstick-comedy to my personal favorite, totally offbeat and crazy humour. The sketches also usually break the regular pattern of comedy sketches, there are no punchlines or acted jokes and normal sketches can end on a cartoon link to the next sketch or to an announcer saying the movie's title; And now for something completely different.If you have seen old MPFC episodes before, there's little more to offer you. There's none of new material, and as the most important thing in the Python comedy is the element of surprise (and fear and almost fanatical devotion to the Pope and...). Old sketches are merely linked together in a new way and made with a slightly higher budget. For example this time in the Dead Parrot sketch they are using an actual stuffed parrot. For fans the greatest point of interest is probably the much cleaned and remastered animations, as well as some new during the closing credits, from the twisted mind of Terry Gilliam.**** (8/10)Best Sketches I have two favorite sketches, one from the verbal humour dept. and one from the offbeat dept. The Nudge-nudge sketch may resemble the work of other sketch comedians, but the pure wit of Eric Idle leaves them all behind. As for the offbeat-humour, the documentary describing a part of London in fear of a gang called Hell's Grannies is ace! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best films I have ever seen! It takes old Flying Circus routines and modernizes them for the big screen and America. E.g. instead of saying Robin Day's got a hedgehog called Frank they say President Nixon's got a hedgehog called Frank.   I think that that was a good decision from the Pythonites. It contains such classics as The Lumberjack Song, A Dead Parrot, and How not to be seen. Sometimes you just want to get up with Michael Palin and sing I'm a lumberjack and I'm okay, I sleep all night and I work all day and blow up people behind bushes, as well. Definitely a must-see, And Now For Something Completely Different is a true classic. "},{"Title":"Ah the genius of Monty Python","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  I'm very sad when people don't GET Monty Python, and I believe that the measley 7.2 rating this great movie got is a reflection of this, that's such a tragedy.  Everybody who has a good sense of humor must rent this movie, because it is a film classic.  The only catch is, you have to be in the right mood where totally random things are funny.  Hey--you can't be in a goofy mood and GET a drama, like American History X, for example.  So get in a goofy mood, watch this movie, go buy a parrot, and I only have one more thing to say--and now for something completely different. "},{"Title":"Amusing Python sketch compilation","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Admittedly, this is not the best Monty Python film. It's basically just a collection of sketches from the TV show done on the big screen. And it's worth seeing if you're a diehard Python fan. But it's a funny movie if you go in expecting that. For a real tasty of Python on the big screen, check out Holy Grail and Meaning of Life. "},{"Title":"A hilarious compilation tape.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  For me compilation tapes don't really work, but because each sketch included in this has been acted out again and edited it works really well. This is one of my favourite films. Although many great Python sketches were left out, the ones that were left in were truly some of the Pythons best work. It's a hilarious film thats full of really intelligent humour. "},{"Title":"**","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  A straight reworking of the best loved sketches from the TV series.The sketches are not as fresh as the originals and feel almost forced and as a consequence lose a lot of the energy that made them so refreshing.The film served little purpose other than to introduce the team's humour to an American audience. "},{"Title":"First Steps","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" I don't know why I didn't get more out of this. Several isolated times a stern and sober British Army officer is interpolated and announces to the viewers that this isn't worth watching because it's silly -- just silly. I ruefully found myself often agreeing.I don't suppose there's any point in trying to outline a plot because there is none. It's a series of sketches evidently gotten from their TV show. I first heard the dead parrot sketch on the radio and thought it was hilarious. Now, seeing it on the screen, it seems to have lost much of its voltage. Nor did I find it so amusing when a despondent man leaves a building, stops to think for a moment, and a huge iron weight falls on him and he splats under it.It's possible that this particular material is already familiar, so that watching the film is like hearing a joke for the second or third time. It's also likely that it doesn't seem so fresh or amusing because some of it is dated. The movie was put together in 1971, when much of Western society was in turmoil -- race riots in the streets, an unpopular war in a country no one could identify on a blank map, gays screaming out of the closet, widespread sexual indulgence, bloodshed in Northern Ireland, pop tunes encouraging revolution, that sort of thing. But it's all gone or at least abated today. So the Granny gangs don't resonate the way they did at the time. At the same time, the upper-class twit sketch still gets laughs. I mean, hunting live rabbits that are staked out and spread-eagled on the ground! Trying to commit suicide by shooting one's self -- and missing. I'm laughing now, just rerunning it in my mind.Each of their four features were to improve monotonically, with The Meaning of Life nearing perfection of the style. That last one is mature. Well, mature for Monty Python. And it's both engaging and carries a covert theme of the utmost seriousness. The Granny Gangs are long gone, but questions about the meaning of life, or the absence of meaning, still plague us. "},{"Title":"More of the same&#x85; so, color me satisfied!","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" This is a collection of many of the best and most loved sketches from the Flying Circus, redone on a (slightly!) bigger budget, and with a film crew instead of on sets. That of course means the camera-work is more loose and with proper, attractive cinematography, the editing more crisp, and the production value increases noticeably(better FX, sound quality, etc.). The parts tend to be played by the same members and extras(the lovely Carol Cleveland included), and much of the animation is reused. Things are put in a different order to keep things fresh, and some of the segues are changed, as well. Timing is at times less sharp than the original version, but they certainly put the same passion and effort into it. The Dead Parrot, Say no more man, the importance of not being seen and many others. This is like a reel of the greatest of the episodes, coming in at slightly less than 90 minutes. Of course there are slow points, and there is, indeed, no new material here. And yes, if you are unfamiliar with them, I'd try to watch the show before this. There is a lot of bloody, violent, disturbing content, a little sexuality and brief topless female nudity in this. I recommend it to long-time fans. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It is something completely different, isn't it?","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" While I slightly prefer Life of Brian and Holy Grail, this is still a wonderful Monty Python film. It is basically a recycling of some of the funniest of their BBC TV sketches, but that is not a bad thing at all. Why? Because these sketches are actually hilarious, especially the dead parrot sketch, the Upper Class Twit of the year race, the Dirty Fork sketch and the Lumberjack song. The script is sparkling and witty, with so many quotable and laugh-out-loud funny moments, the film looks presentable, the direction is great and the music is fine. And I loved the acting too, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin are wonderful as they always are with their impeccable comic timing and their characters are cleverly incorporated and memorable. Overall, wonderful and quite unique, a must if you love Monty Python. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Best of Monty Python","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" The best and not the best sketches from the Monty Python's Flying Circus strung together. The film contains most of the favorite sketches from the show done over on actual locations and not in a studio with some new (and old) animation to link them. Its a grand old time for those who love the show and the sketches, and the perfect primer for those wanting to know what all of the fuss is about. Odds are that if the film makes you laugh, you'll like Python and its brand of off kilter humor. Is it the best of the films? no. Nor is it really the best showcase for some of the sketches. Part of the problem is that the arrangement of the sketches isn't ideal. They don't really flow as neatly into each other as on the show. The other problem is direction of the sketches isn't ideal. Frankly the director didn't understand much of the humor and what was tight sketch comedy on the TV show is much too loose here. Still, despite its flaws the film will make you laugh. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Say No More!!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was my first introduction to the insanely hilarious world of Monty Python, and an excellent intro it was too! One really good point is that you get to see so many different characters and hilarious situations with the collection-type format. A few of my favourites are the Blackmail game show, nudge nudge wink wink, the mountain climbing thing in the office, the Twit of the Year competition and too many others! Fabulous! "},{"Title":"Monty Python 101","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Certainly this is an excellent introduction to Monty Python.In matter of fact, I think it was because of this film that I happened to develop an interest in Monty Python. However, I will admit that the tamer renditions in the film weren't exactly as funny as the originals, although I do like that International Chinese Communist Conspiracy rendering therein....  "},{"Title":"Landmark Comedy Compilation That Has Dated Badly","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" To criticize AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIFFERENT on the grounds of obsolescence would seem an heretical thing to do. Monty Python had such a profound influence on the development of British comedy in the late Sixties and Seventies that their place in history is perpetually assured. And yet looking at the film nearly forty-five years later, it has to be said that much of the humor is puerile, the kind of thing that might be expected in a student production performed at the end of the spring semester. Some of the sketches go on far too long, while the more surreal moments - such as the opening sequence, involving a series of people trying not to be seen and getting blown up - are highly reminiscent of THE GOON SHOW, the groundbreaking radio program of the Fifties that provide much of Python's antecedents.Nonetheless, for those that grew up with Python on television, film and the theater (as well as those fortunate enough to attend their series of concerts last year), AND NOW ... contains several immortal moments, such as the Parrot sketch, the upper-class twit of the year and the Lumberjack song. It's also interesting to reflect on what happened to the performers Michael Palin, the singer in the last-named of these sketches, would eventually go on to become an established television documentary presenter and all-round celebrity appearing on innumerable tribute programs; while John Cleese would end up carving out a career as a film actor and (latterly) an autobiographer.Some of the sketches could now be considered both sexist and racist; there are at least two occasions where viewers are encouraged to look at half-naked women and ogle them in a spirit more reminiscent of THE BENNY HILL SHOW than Monty Python. There is also one moment of dialog - obviously meant parodically - where Eric Idle talks about not wanting to live next door to those kind of people i.e. African-Caribbeans. Nonetheless, we should bear in mind that AND NOW ... is very much a product of its time; in the early Seventies such attitudes were still considered permissible (the ITV sitcom LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR had the white protagonist continually insulting his African-Caribbean neighbor). The location filming (such as it is) conjured up a now-vanished world of inner London, with traffic-free streets and a predominantly white population.Definitely worth a look, but don't expect anything too humorous, especially if viewers are unfamiliar with the Pythons. "},{"Title":"Something different, indeed","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" *** MAJOR SPOILER ALERT *** A man walks into the office of a guidance counselor, and takes a seat. The counselor advises the man that he has looked over his aptitude tests and has concluded that the best position suited to him would be as an accountant. But I am an accountant, the man says, I have been one for the past 20 years. I want something exciting that will let me live. He reports that his current job is desperately dull and boring, to which the counselor informs him that his tests reveal that he is dull and boring. The job he wants lion tamer. This despite the fact he has no training and seems to have mistaken lions for aardvarks.He does have a proper hat though.The counselor informs us that This is what accountancy does to people. That's the grand anarchic spirit of Monty Python.Grab a normal scenario and whip it into something so over-exaggerated and silly that we almost have to laugh at the concept.I think the British are experts at this.There's a drollery to their delivery that allows a scene like that to work.Week after week, this was what made the best parts of The Monty Python troup's TV show Monty Python's Flying Circus work.They adopted a sort-of shotgun approach to their sketches, firing every idea at us no matter how ridiculous and hoping that one of them would make us laugh.The laugh ratio on the show was about 40%.Some sketched worked but many did not.Their first feature film And Now for Something Completely Different culls their best sketches into a kind of Best of collection.These sketches are not just replays from the show, but actually reenactments, on film without an audience.The laugh ratio in the film is about 70/30.Many of their ideas work if you're willing to stretch your imagination.The troup, which is comprised of six players - Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Michael Palin - work exhaustively throughout this film to play more than 100 different characters, are so willing to make us laugh that they will come up with nearly anything.That would explain an opening scene featuring a man who claims to have a tape recorder up his nose.He presses one nostril and the tape plays La Marseillaise.He presses the other nostril and he can rewind the tape.Even stranger is the follow-up act featuring the man's brother who suffers from the same affliction, this time the song plays in stereo.Far from classic comedy, but you get the idea.My favorite is a sketch called Hell's Grannies, which involves a news report dealing with a roving gang of little old ladies who beat young men over the head with their pocket books.We see them in their flowered hats, swinging their purses and roaring around on their motorcycles while wrapped in shawls.One nervous citizen in a leather jacket and a Jolly Roger helmet informs us that It's not even safe to go out to the shops anymore.The news reporter lets us know that their domain is a world in which the surgical stocking is king.Only slightly worse are a roving gang of baby snatchers, grown men in diapers who snatch adults from in front of grocery stores.One of the best creative touches in the film is the way in which the sketches are linked together.One sketch leads into the next in a way this oddly fitting.For example the scene with the accountant ends with a fairy waving his magic wand and giving the accountant something more exciting.That makes him the host of the game show that is the next sketch.It is called Blackmail a sadistic game show in which privately obtained films of adultery are shown, and the person on the film has to call in with a cash offer so the show will stop running the film.All of this is very subjective and no one laughs at exactly the same thing.That's pretty much what makes Monty Python work.Either you are in on the joke or you're looking for laughter elsewhere.Either the sight of an armed bank robber committing his crime only the discover that he has walked into a lingerie shop is funny to you or it isn't.For me, I laughed most of the time, the rest I was left scratching my head. Maybe that was the point. "},{"Title":"And Now for Something Completely Different","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Most people think that Holy Grail was the first, followed by Life of Brian and Meaning of Life, but, technically, this was the first film from the Monty Python. It is basically a full-length version of the TV sketch show Flying Circus, recycling all the best and well-known sketches into a film. Starring Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Michael Palin and Carol Cleveland, all in various roles, with Fawlty Towers' (and Cleese's wife at the time) Connie Booth as Best Girl. The sketches included in the film are How Not to Be Seen, The Statue (of Michael Angelo's David), Hell's Grannies, The Funniest Joke in the World, Killer Cars, Blackmail (the game-show), and finishing with Upper Class Twit of the Year. All the sketches I saw on The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches, Lumberjack Song (number 48), Nudge Nudge (number 31) and Dead Parrot (number 2). I was disappointed it didn't include The Ministry of Silly Walks (number 15) and The Spanish Inquisition (number 12), I didn't get all the gags, and I much preferred Holy Grail and Life of Brian with their plots, but for the animations and some of the above sketches, this is certainly worth watching. John Cleese was number 14 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, John Cleese was number 14 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, Eric Idle was number 21, and Cleese number 2 on The Comedians' Comedian, Nudge nudge, wink wink was number 11, and And now for something completely different number 5 on 50 Greatest Comedy Catchphrases, and Monty Python's Flying Circus was number 5 on The 100 Greatest TV Shows. Very good! "},{"Title":"My hovercraft is full of eels","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" The phrase And Now for Something Completely Different originated with the British television personality Christopher Trace, who as presenter of the children's programme Blue Peter used it to link items on differing topics. It was taken up by other TV programmes and became a catchphrase on Monty Python's Flying Circus, so much so that it was used as the title when the Pythons made their first film in 1971. Rather bizarrely, the film was produced by Victor Lownes, of Playboy fame, who saw it as the ideal way to introduce Americans to the mysteries of the Python cult.Unlike the other three Python films (Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Monty Python's Life of Brian and The Meaning of Life), this one does not contain any original material. It consists of sketches taken from the first two series of the TV show, linked by some of Terry Gilliam's surreal animation sequences. The sketches were not taken direct from the television version but were specially remade for the film; some of them were slightly rewritten. I remember getting into a heated debate with a school friend, now a distinguished Professor of History at Oxford, about whether the famous Dead Parrot Sketch contains the lines It has rung down the curtain and joined the choir eternal; it turned out that I had seen the film version, which does contains these lines, and he had seen the television one, which doesn't.Although, as the Not the Nine O'clock News team once pointed out, Britain is still ostensibly a Python-worshipping country, Pythonesque humour is an acquired taste, and attempting to explain its appeal to anyone who is not a Python-worshipper is a forlorn hope. (I have tried, and failed miserably, with my wife). This is probably a generational thing; I belong to that generation which came of age in the seventies and which prided itself on its ability to repeat Python sketches verbatim, but even in that period there was a large part of the older generation which reacted to the show in much the same way as Graham Chapman's colonel. This is getting silly. And a bit suspect, I think. As for anyone born since 1980, and many people born since 1970, I suspect that they may regard the show with the same bafflement that my generation reserved for old radio shows like ITMA. (Did people really use to laugh at that?) Even as a practising Pythonist I have to admit that not all the sketches in And Now For Something Completely Different are hilarious; Musical Mice, for example, does not seem nearly so funny today as it probably once did, and some of the animation segments now look a bit dated. There is not much to link the various sketches together, so film does not flow in the same way as The Holy Grail or Life of Brian, both of which consisted of a series of linked sketches which together formed a coherent narrative. Nevertheless, much of the material here is brilliantly funny. My particular favourites include- Dirty Hungarian Phrasebook (In which John Cleese's Hungarian gentlemen is misled by an inaccurate phrasebook into repeating phrases like Please will you fondle my buttocks or My hovercraft is full of eels in the belief that he is asking something innocuous like Where is the railway station?) Hell's Grannies (A takeoff of the rather earnest tone of British television documentaries of the period).The Funniest Joke in the World (Or how our boys won the war by telling lethally funny jokes to the Germans).Dead Parrot (In which Cleese tries to persuade a sceptical Michael Palin that the parrot he has just purchased is dead, is a stiff, is no more, has ceased to be and has shuffled off this mortal coil. Perhaps the Pythons' best-known sketch).Vocational Guidance Counsellor (Or the sketch which did for the accountancy profession what the Black Death did for mediaeval Europe)Blackmail! Upper Class Twit of the Year . When I first saw this, I assumed that the Upper Class Twits were purely fictitious; it was only when I was invited by my then girlfriend to accompany her to a meeting of the Kensington and Chelsea Young Conservatives that I realised that the Pythons' satire was, if anything, rather understated.Like a number of other reviewers, I noticed that some of my favourite sketches (The Spanish Inquisition, The Australian Philosophers, Ministry of Silly Walks, etc.) were omitted from the film, although some of those that other reviewers were hoping to see, such as the exploding penguin, appeared in the third or fourth series of the programme and hence had not been written when this film was made. Nevertheless, I think that the Pythons were right to limit the amount of material and hence the length of the film to 90 minutes. The Monty Python format was originally designed for thirty-minute programmes, and would probably have become tedious if it had been dragged out to two hours or more. (This is what happens with The Meaning of Life, which starts to drag towards the end). And Now For Something Completely Different is not the Pythons' greatest film- that must be Life of Brian- but it still contains plenty to laugh at. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Peaks Outnumber the Flats","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" The six-member comedy group Monty Python had not yet achieved international fame when And Now for Something Completely Different was released. It would be four years until Monty Python and the Holy Grail accomplished that. And Now for Something Completely Different is essentially a greatest hits collection from the first half of their television show. A number of the vignettes are outrageously hilarious. A few are merely puzzling. Alas, a number of them are unfunny. That is the part that surprised me.The marriage counseling and bikini scenes, among others, seem to rely exclusively on being risqu. In real life, some men freeze and stare at pretty women. Many do utterly stupid things. We all know that. Why are we supposed to automatically laugh when we see it? That type of humor wore off when I was 15. Without some other aspect to the joke, I become uncomfortable. Perhaps that style was funnier in 1971. Humor is subjective and undergoes mild changes with the times.Happily, And Now for Something Completely Different is more oasis than desert. A number of parts are great enough to garner hard laughter from people of all ages. The Pythons choose one of their funniest to open the film. It takes the form of a public service message on How Not to be Seen. The scene's device takes goofy to a whole new level. It is written with the essence of British humor as the joke is gradually blown up to amazing proportions.In fact, the parts of the movie that work are based on either developing a situation to total absurdity or portraying circumstances so zany only the Pythons could dream them up. The most notable instance is when a restaurant patron makes an innocent request and receives far more than he wants. The film contains the Dead Parrot sketch, possibly their most famous, and the immortal Lumberjack Song. Among the good scenes, I am partial to the Kilimanjaro expedition and The People Falling out of High Buildings.Graham Chapman shows up as the straight man and reprises his famous role as the colonel who thinks everything is too silly. Generally, John Cleese has the most demonstrative roles, Eric Idle remains proper throughout the chaos, Michael Palin plays the most outrageous roles, including the Lumberjack; and Terry Jones excels with the most reserved characters. Terry Gilliam creates the cartoons. Each Python had discovered their strength by that time.And Now for Something Completely Different lacks some sketches that I hoped to see such as the Spanish Inquisition, Ministry of Silly Walks, and the exploding penguin. In any case, it is a mix of great and awful with the funny times outnumbering the poor ones. I rated the great scenes as a ten, the good ones as a six and the stupid parts a one. Therefore, And Now for Something Completely Different rates a 6.4 out of ten, which I round up to seven because it opens and closes well. "},{"Title":"pretty good for me","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" I have only gotten in part in on Monty Python's Flying Circus, so this was good terrain for me to get through, kind of like getting one of those compilation records of the Beatles that they put out in mass droves when fans just didn't get enough from the actual albums themselves. Nothing apparently is 'original' to the movie itself, in other words no segments were made especially for the film (aside from the animations possibly, though even that I can't be totally sure of). But one of the good things about seeing the film at this point is that I got to have a lot of laughs with the sketches I'd already seen and liked (some of them, like the Parrot sketch- albeit classic in a kind of vaudevillian way- aren't necessarily my favorites). I really enjoyed the ones too I hadn't seen, like the Marriage Guidance Counselor sketch where Michael Palin is in one of his funniest bits to date. Other classics I really do love, especially on repeat viewings, are the Lumberjack song, with it's always expectable joke funnier than the first, Killer Cars, Man with Tape Recorder Up His Nose, Expedition to Mount Kilmanjaro, and especially the Self Defence Class (maybe my favorite, albeit it might've worked a little better on the show). Flasher too. Sure, it might be a little disconcerting to see some sketches that didn't make it in, or that there are some in there that shouldn't be. It's also a little lackluster- at least in comparison to the later Python films- due to Ian McNaughton being a TV director and more used to the point-and-shoot style of TV as opposed to the camera almost being in on the joke too with Holy Grail and Meaning of Life. But it certainly wasn't a waste of time either. A- "},{"Title":"Funny, but not the greatest Python film.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Ah, the first Monty Python movie... but actually it is false advertisement to call this a movie, because this is actually just the funniest (well not all of them) sketches from the Monty Python's Flying circus. There is not real red line or even attempted plot between the jokes, they just follow each other in random order.As the series and other Python movies And Now for Something Completely Different is a mix between live action and animated scenes, which of I liked the live action better, tough the animated parts do have their own charm and they do cause a whew giggles, but in all they are partly in just to add some more lenght.Main actors are John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Michael Palin, Terry Gilliam and Carol Cleveland. They all act in various different parts, so it would be hard to start listing them all. All of them are good and funny actors, who deliver their punch lines in correct places. Most memorable sketches are The upper class twit of the year, Worlds deadliest joke and The importance of staying hidden.What else to say? Well nothing much. If you liked Monty Python or British comedy, you will find this funny as well. Not the best Python movie, but still pretty funny. "}{"Title":"Inspired Lunacy Of the Highest (or is it Lowest) Order!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIFFERENT.  *** John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Michael Palin.  Raucous collection of skits and absurd humor by the master clowns of mocking mirth, Monty Python, from their iconoclastic television series that includes many hysterically funny moments especially The Twit of the Year bit.  Inspired lunacy. "},{"Title":"Actually quite funny","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Rather than see it as an introduction to the Python, I saw this just to see the only other Python film that was PG in the US. I had seen Monty Python And The Holy Grail, which wasn't as funny (A killer rabbit? Policemen arresting knights? A knight killing innocent people for no reason? IS NOT FUNNY! --small giggle--). I actually laughed more at this than at Holy Grail, possibly because it wasn't just one thing with a few things different--it was almost always completely different!Having seen 1.03 episodes of the show, I must say that though they seem to have a longer time with the sketches because it wasn't restrained to about 5 minutes (The Deadliest Joke In The World had more content that I would have liked to see in this), this had more sketches and was much funnier. Their best movie (even though lots are saying that they could have done better). Rating 4/6 (for being rrreeeaaalllyyy weird) "},{"Title":"This is great stuff","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Monty Python's second best movie.  It's not a feature length story, but a bunch of sketches.  Funniest things I've seen this side of Holy Grail. Other people say that the sketches are boring.  Well, they're just plain wrong.  From the dramatic recreation of Pearl Harbor to Hell's Grannies this is well worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Pure Comedy","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This, is very hardcore Python, and it may not appeal to casual fans, but to fans of the Monty Python team, this is unmissable. Most people reading this will have already have seen the film, and to people who havent seen it yet, i say only one thing - go out and watch it now. OK, some of the scenes may not be the funniest that Python have ever done, but stick with it. With clips like the famous parrot sketch, etc this truly is a work of pure genius. "},{"Title":"Generally a success.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  And Now For Something Completely Different is an entertaining, if very uneven, compilation film, moving along so quickly and including so many different sketches that it's hard to reject it as a whole, even when you dislike some parts. Brilliant episodes (Dead Parrot, Mountaineering Sketch, Upper-class Twit-Of-The-Year Competition)alternate with bummers (The World's Deadliest Joke, Marriage Councelor) and with mildly funny parts (The accountant that wants to become a lion tamer), but the film generally maintains that surrealistic, subversive Python flavor that their fans seek. "},{"Title":"This is pure fun.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe this isn't the best Monty Pyton has done, but there are some of the finest Flying Circus in between. I mean, The joke that is so funny, that you die laughing, and how to stay camouflaged are really funny. If you do like Monty Pyton this is a must.  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Highlights the funnier sketches. The Marriage Counselor skit with Eric Idle just cracks me up as does the Clean Fork and Mountain Expedition. Just great stuff. If you like this you will definitely like Parrot Sketch Not Included, very funny too with lesser known (but just as funny) skits.  "},{"Title":"Stagnant","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" This is disappointing.I recall eagerly watching these skits on TeeVee. The shows were live, and the comedy edgy. These guys had gas and were ready to take risks. Energy.This is a relatively overproduced version of some of those skits, interlaced with many of Terry Gilliam's comic animations.Well, I think Gilliam has a hard time finding a niche that fits mine. Not a one of his bits was amusing to me then or now. The idea behind the python humor generally is the ability to take one small comic twist (mean grannies, dead parrot) and elaborate with unbounded silliness, often into a different context. Added is the fold that they know they are being silly and actively acknowledge it while turning up the dial. There is added into this movie version, for instance, a military narrator who comments on the silly factor.Gilliam's approach is more a matter of visual oddity rather than silliness. He attempts visual puns via twisted realities, shaped by his animation technology. This worked for South Park because they were able to weave comic narrative on the cutouts. Gilliam &#x97; here and in his later movies &#x97; relies on the odd visual first. All else is secondary.The real Pythonistas are dull here. There is no other way to say it. Skits that in the show are effective (Nudge nudge, Dead parrot, Lumberjack) were so because they had an edge. Here, they are stale leftovers.The only really good bit was something invented for the film, taking advantage of the larger palette the Upper Class Twit of the Year contest. You can see that this has the energy of a new birth on it, not rote reperformance.Missing from this collection is their classic bit where someone goes to the argument department.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Surreal sketch compilation","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" The first of the four MONTY PYTHON movies is simply a compilation of popular sketches from the first series of the TV show MONTY PYTHON'S FLYING CIRCUS. All of the most famous sketches are here, from the lumberjack song to the dead parrot sequence, and they're all handled with aplomb.While the series has clearly dated in the forty years since release, I found AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COMPLETELY to have plenty to offer to modern viewers. First, there's the influx of surreal humour that would make the likes of Salvador Dali and Luis Bunuel proud; secondly, there's a sense of madcap energy coming from the performers, each of them hard at work playing multiple roles throughout, and third, it just happens to be very funny.Of the entire film, my favourite sketch is the last, the 'Upper Class Twit of the Year' competition, but that's merely the cherry on a hugely tasty cake. There's a definite predominance of successful over unsuccessful gags here, making this a real riot and a perfect introduction to the concept for newcomers. "},{"Title":"Funny best of Monty Python","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" This is a movie distillation of the best Monty Python sketches from series 1 and 2. It's mostly intended for the American audience to introduce them to the popular British TV show. The troop is Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, and Michael Palin. They form one of the most important group of performer/writers ever.They remade the sketches for the big screen and it looks the better for it. Some of them are more hilarious than others. It's uneven in its nature, but a great highlight of the TV show. The TV show can be a rough dig for each precious gem. So it's great that they gathered up the best gems here. And it's an important piece as the first Monty Python movie. "}{"Title":"How very British","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" While the Americans have a habit of taking movies and turning them into TV series, the Brits do it the other way round - we have a large number of cinema movies which have been spun off TV series.The Python crew's first outing onto the big screen is an unassuming affair - it takes a number of sketches from the series, most of which had been seen (and those which hadn't soon would be), and reproduces them on film as opposed to videotape. In that respect, they are of considerably better image quality than the video standard of the time and, of course, they don't have a laugh track.And they are all good sketches, well reproduced here, and an excellent reminder of what made Python successful in the first place. "},{"Title":"Hysterical, classic","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This movie practically rivals Holy Grail for funniest movie of all time. Besides the dirty fork sketch and Gilliam's not-always-great animation, every part of the movie is a true masterpiece. A great introduction to Python.  "},{"Title":"Not their best work","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this has many of their classic bits and a few less well known ones.  But there are better recordings of most of them.Take the parrot sketch; in the movie, it is done very dry and proper, not the insane tirade it became in its live version.For the sketches, I would get live performances.  All the Pythons really seem to be energized by performing in front of an audience.  (I heartily recommend the Secret Policeman's Other Ball.) "},{"Title":"If you liked the Flying Circus...","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Monty Python's first theatrical picture is actually more of the same that one would have seen on their Flying Circus TV show.  The film offers many of their best sketches from the show including the famous Dead Parrot routine and The Lumberjack Song. If you are a fan of the show, as I am, you should get a kick out of the movie. "},{"Title":"It was my first Python experience","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  It's a great first experience for those who haven't seen the show.  I think they really pulled something off with their best skits in one place with the thing still tied together in one bug thing.  It's like a long rambling story that goes nowhere except to a punchline that leads into the next skit. Great fun with a hilarious first skit. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous Bizarrely Brilliant Comic Genius","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  And Now For Something Completely Different is the best of the Monty Python films (not by much though). It is the most ridiculous and bizarrely brilliant comic genius. It is a collection of sketches from the 1st and 2nd series of Flying Circus. It includes sketches like 'How to Defend Yourself Against an Attacker Armed with a Piece of Fruit', 'The Cnl and his Dancing Teeth', 'The Dead Parrot Sketch' and 'The Lumberjack Song'. Kwaliti!  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This movie reprised some of the 1st and 2nd season sketches very clearly. I loved the film. But what happened to the It's Man? "},{"Title":"A sort of Best Of Early Python you could say..","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" To be honest with you, I am not the biggest Monty Python fan. Although I did like 'Meaning of Life' and this film, I can only take so much of them, I mean, the whole cult behind them is baffling to me.Not too sure why I started this review with a rant, but oh well. This film is just a collection of Python skits made famous on their television show, bumpered with lots of animated bits (by Terry Gilliam of course).Did I like it? I confess, I laughed a lot during this. There's a lot un-pc joking in this, so be warned. Many groups, like homosexuals, women, fine diners, and, oh the horror, accountants aren't spared. Their most famous sketch, the dead parrot one, is here, but there's a lot more funnier ones on this. Like the well hidden people skit, the bit with the policeman and the person who got his jacket stolen, and of course, John Cleese's delivery of the title line.A good Python overview if you're not familiar with the series, (like a best of you might say). (Hmm, I already said that) "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This film could have been a lot better than they let it turn out. I know it's supposed to be Monty Python's best sketches from their first two seasons of television work, but it has ultimately a couple of good ones and a lot of boring ones. I recommend watching their feature films and disregarding this unless you are a true Python fan. "},{"Title":"For Devoted Fans Only","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it's the film format or the lack of an audience, but the sketches just aren't lively and funny here.  There are a few great moments, and it is interesting to see them film in actual locations (e.g., a real pet shop for the parrot sketch).  But overall I recommend sticking with the TV versions.  "}{"Title":"some bits work better, some don't","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Some of the sketches in this work better for Python than they did on TV. For example the How To Defend Yourself Against Fresh Fruit and Nudge Nudge sketches seem to work better on film.  But a lot of the classic bits don't work as well as they did the first time the group performed them on Monty Python's Flying Circus.  The Dead Parrot sketch, for one, is not nearly as funny.  But you do get to see Graham Chapman doing some extremely funny stuff in the Upperclass Twit of the Year sketch. "},{"Title":"And now for something extremely familiar","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Although this film is only a retread of the most famous skits from the first and second season of the famed TV-series you got no choice than to go along with it and enjoy. There is not much new here and if the Pythons are completely unknown to you you will probably find it hysterical.The choice to not alter too many lines from the original skits is a smart choice. It would ruin the whole idea to have some of the jokes rewritten to appeal to a wider audience. The Pythons have always had the attitude that either you get them or you don't.Both Carol Cleveland and the former Mrs. Cleese, Connie Booth make appearances as in the TV-series and Terry Gilliam's animation is only slightly remodeled from the originals. So what can you say? Was it a bad idea to reproduce the skits - maybe. But to see the Pythons in full swing is always a pleasure so who cares? Maybe there will be a new Python reunion movie, minus the late Graham Chapman of course and that would probably be a lot worse. It is better to remember them when they were in top form and here they certainly are. "},{"Title":"And now for something that sucks!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  The guy from Chicago had it right. This movie is pretty lame. I just watched it from start to end, and found maybe 10 percent of it funny at best. Perhaps it's just me, but much of the Monty Python style of humor just doesn't seem to age well. I felt pretty much the same way about The Meaning of Life and said so there as well. In fact, I found most of this movie so boring I can't even muster the energy to write a nice, scathing review, because about the only thing memorable about it were the shots of good looking girls dressed in short skirts. Other than that, yawn.  "},{"Title":"Not so good!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  This is not a good Monty Python movie. The sketches are mostly terrible and are sex-fixated. If you are not a major Python-fan you better miss this one. Look at the Live at Hollywood Bowl movie instead. "},{"Title":"Where is This Completely Different Thing?","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" All this movie is is an updated version of the TV series but it can't be as bad as Meaning Of Life or Spamalot. The Lumberjack song is overrated and can be seen 3 different times THREE DIFFERENT TIMES one is in the original TV series the other is in Live At The Hollywood Bowl and it always starts the same I didn't want to be (context changes then) I want to be a lumberjack. If you ask me And Now For Something Completely Different is slow yep slow. It's not that I don't mind slow movies it's just if they're about to a) go somewhere with it or b) set up the characters more but these reasons can't be it because it's a sketch movie. To add a bonus here the jokes are unfunny. If you've seen only either movie or TV Series watch one and not the other. "},{"Title":"Something not very completely different","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" Quite indeed, that fabulous gang of Monty Python made four long movies this one being the first one. The movie was also an attempt to make an impact at the American audiences, but had very little effect. Sketches were taken from first and second season episodes of the Monty Python's Flying Circus and acted a-new. Second season sketches were still unseen in Britain and some of them appeared for the first time in this movie.For a fan of Monty Python this film does not offer anything new, just a bit different view on the subject. Sketches in the film are no way better nor worse than those appearing in the show. If you're a great fan of the Pythons, you'll still find this movie a decent addition to your bookshelf, between your Frank Sinatra and Demis Roussos albums.Just to estimate this film without any pressure from the Spanish Inquisition, I shall give only 5/10. The film still manages to give some good laughs as anything a monty does, but the rest of the Python films are significantly better. "},{"Title":"Not Really a Movie","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  As has been pointed out, this is not a movie but a collection of skits done by the Monty Python troupe on their TV series.  This makes it tough for me to rate it and comment on it as a movie but vanity prevents me from do so anyway.Don't get me wrong, the stuff was and still is great.  It includes some of my favorites  the Twit of the Year, the Re-enactment of Pearl Harbor, the Milkman Trap, the Flasher.  If this had been done 20 or 30 years later, Monty Python would have put their TV episodes out on video tape or DVD.  Heck, that has probably happened but who knew back in 1971?Completely Different does have more of Terry Gilliam's on-the-cheap animation.  And true to its title, the segues are ingenious. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of a great group","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  Why can't we just admit this movie sucks? Enough of lame excuses such as ok, I know this is not their best movie, but... No buts. The original TV sketches have aged better. My humble advice is, stick to the Grail and LIfe of Brian and pretend they never did any other film -and then you can call them Best Comedy Group. "},{"Title":"This is humor?","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSWith the exception of the opening scene and the classic dead parrot skit (both of those were pretty funny and clever, especially the dead parrot scene), this film doesn't really deliver any laughs.  Monty Python and the Holy Grail is a lot funnier than this.  I'm sorry but I guess I'm not British enough to see the humor.The animated skits were downright stupid and pointless (with the exception of the human-eating baby carriage...that was funny) and the regular skits were just, well, pointless.  I just cannot understand how someone could find this funny.  I never split my side laughing my head off nor was I rolling on the ground in hilarious fits of laughter with tears coming from my eyes.  I just lay on the couch, scratching my head and thinking to myself, Do people really think this stuff is funny?2.75 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Horribly Unfunny, Banal, Trite And Cheesy","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" I know how many people will start hating me, but this is a question of taste. Humor is a very subjective thing and what is funny for one individual, will sound awful for any other. This is definitely true about this 1971 Monty Python sketch collection. I watched it very attentively, very positively minded. Well, not a single smile. I love good jokes, good humor, good parodies. Here, we see a horrible mish-mash of unfunny films and very gross attempts of being really great. British humor is strange. But it can be really cool. Take Benny Hill, or Mister Bean. They are funny. They are silly. But still, hilarious. Here, the whole film is so English, it is not funny or sarcastic at all. It is just plainly clumsy, sluggish, boorish, boring, untasty, vapid, stale, slow, dry, stupid and simply terrible. Just terrible. I watched it in utter amazement. My answer is that this is the most overrated piece of junk that by some twisted twist of whimsy has become a classic. Of what? Of silliness? Yes. Do not watch it. This is Not good at all. Never will be. "}{"Title":"Really bad...","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":" First off I loved Life of Brian and Holy Grail and so my wife and I decided to rent this one. Wow was I glad I have a monthly plan and didn't waste $3.99 for it. This was horrible. I read some of the comments others left thinking I wouldn't be the only one and was amazed to find only one comment saying that this movie wasn't any good. I knew it was just a bunch of sketches so it wasn't that that disappointed me. The show just outright stank. The jokes were terrible, the silliness was to silly. My younger brothers make better home sketches than 90% of these. I will admit i chuckled a little at the two sighted mountineer skit but that was it. I am one viewer who won't turn off the movie until it is done just in case there might be something good but i had to force myself not to turn this one off. (It probably would have been better if I did. So in short if you have seen Life of Brian and Holy Grail my advice to you would be leave it at that. You have seen the greatness of this group of comidiens don't ruin it with this show. "},{"Title":"I Laughed","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy","Review":"  I`ve read some of the comments on these pages and I`m slightly surprised as to what people were expecting from AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIFFERENT . I guess some people are more familiar with the atypical movies THE HOLY GRAIL  and THE LIFE OF BRIAN rather than the ground breaking comedy sketch show . I do admit the BBC show is a somewhat accquired taste but here we have some of the show`s funniest sketches brought to life . Favourites of mine are Squad camp it up - Don`t come that Brigadier bit with me , I know where you`ve been two three Hells grannies Good job I didn`t mention the dirty knife Nudge nudge wink wink He`s pining for the fjords   "}]