[{"Title":"A Very Accurate Look Back","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"68 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I was a teenager when this movie came out.  I've not seen it in years and found it on a bargain DVD the other night.  While the matter of whether or not this is great film-making may be up for debate, there is no doubt in my mind that this is one of the most accurate records on film of what is was to be a hippie (or a freak) in the early 70's.  If all you know about this is from watching That 70's Show, this movie should be an eye-opener.  I just have to make a few comments about some of the other reviews here.  The musical performances were not polished and professional, however, in 1971, we weren't looking for that.  We loved to sit around with other freaks and sing songs together.  We liked that better than listening to the radio.  We didn't play CDs at our parties, we sang for each other.  Some of us had bad voices, but we didn't care.  It wasn't karaoke, we wrote our own songs.  This movie portrays what it was all about.  The drama scenes were excellent.  I was doing that kind of improv in my Jr. High Drama class.  We did those kind of skits at summer camp.  This again, was very common back in the day.  I remember the redneck as well.  I grew up in a western town and part of being a freak was that you got a lot of harassment from the rednecks.  They'd gang up on you and try to cut your hair.  This was really not an uncommon thing.  This movie showed some contradiction of violence and the peace movement.  Most of us had all of that inside of us at the time.  We were influenced by Gandhi and Bruce Lee.  We listened to Joan Baez and Black Sabbath.  This movie hit home with so many of us because it's two main characters (Billy & Jean) were the two sides of our own psyche trying to make sense of the world around us.  While the acting talent may be in question, I found the characters to be very real and many reminded me of people I grew up with.  If this movie was to be remade, I doubt they could find an actor to deliver such authenticity.  For anyone interested in knowing what the world was really like in 1971, this film will take you there. "},{"Title":"An underappreciated masterwork","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"56 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  It is true that Tom Laughlin does not look like an Indian, half-breed or otherwise.  It is true that some of the scenes, particularly the scenes improvised by the committee, are unnecessary (though extremely funny) and the film itself is too long.  It is true that the martial arts scenes in this film are few and far between.  HoweverThe film is not a martial arts film and it deals more with the spirit of being an Indian, a true American, than it is about the looks of one.Often dismissed as a cheesy karate movie, BILLY JACK is in fact an excellent study of conflicting idealogies, of violence as a quick but by no means correct solution, and of the different varieties of love.  Though it is much too long a film, the sheer enthusiasm and love for the children that Jean (Dolores Taylor) expresses gets the viewer involved on an emotional level. While we cannot justify Billy Jack's (Tom Laughlin) actions, we know he is doing it out of love for Jean.  We feel the rage he feels towards Bernard, a character that is suprisingly deftly acted.  At the start of the film, we sympathize with him; by the time he has raped Jean we, like Billy, want to rip him a couple of new orifices.  His well-deserved death is quick and pathetic, like the shooting of the dog.Billy Jack himself is an American icon, the true definition of a hero, presented in such a way that the audience questions their own ideas about heroism.The characters are well-drawn, the cinematography breath-taking, the improvised scenes much funnier than anything to hit SNL in a long time.  So why is it that this film, the most financially-successful independent film to EVER exist, is so often dismissed as nothing more than a bad karate movie?  Because of bad marketing, for one thing; the other is the way it's often described A half-breed indian Vietnam Vet played by a white guy protects a 'hippie' school from bigotry.  Much like the Freedom School that Billy seeks to protect, the film itself is marred by such bigotry and misconceptions. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  A movie I think almost everyone should see. Billy Jack epitomizes the senselessness of blind hatred and bigotry, and, it was one of the best B movies ever made. I myself, went to a type of freedom school when I was a kid, and the song, One Tin Soldier almost became our school anthem. I love this movie and always will, but a word of warning, the younger generation wont find any star-wars special effect's, it was produced on a rather small budget, and anyone can find a filming flaw, in any movie, but if you take it at face value, and just enjoy the John Wayne cleaning up the town(only moved into the 1970's instead of the 1870's) and the message it convey's. then I think you will like this film. "},{"Title":"Not so ridiculous","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Granted, I'll admit that this movie, or many movies of the same period, are not going to win an Oscar or anything.  It wasn't intended to be a box office runaway, or a cash cow.  It was meant to make a statement.  I was fairly young by the time this came out, but even by then, I'd found many things in my own life that I'd identify with in this movie.  First, I'm half Cherokee, and went through the whole biased, racist, halfbreed garbage myself, and still do on a rare occasion.  Secondly, I'm a martial artist, albeit of a much different style than the Hapkido studied by Tom Laughlin and the character of Billy Jack.  Thirdly, I'm what would be termed a hippie.  This movie made a very powerful statement about what racism, as far as pertains to Native Americans, was and can still be like in this country today.  It made a statement about the hippie movement, which 99.99% of its detractors have no idea what its about, or why we did it and continue to do it.  So you can tell there's a stuntman that takes Tom's place in the park. Big deal.  MANY movies, especially of that era, have similar problems with the suspension of disbelief.  The thing you have to remember is that this is a MOVIE.  Yes, its supposed to give the surrealism of watching something in real life, but we know its a movie.  Enjoy the story for the sake of the story.  Don't nit pick each and every little detail and flaw.  Ever seen those movies with the cars driving down a wet road at night, and you can see the reflection of the car headlights, and the trails they leave on the lens of the camera?  Of course you have.  This is something that will distract the nit picker but won't mean much of anything to someone trying to enjoy the story.  Besides, nobody's perfect.  You've got to be who you are, what you are, and all that is revolved around what turns you on, not in a sexual sense, but turned on as in makes you tick.  So what if Fox was the original bankroller of the film?  They obviously didn't KEEP bankrolling it. The quality is terrible, by today's standards, yes.  In 1971 though, the quality was actually very good by comparison.  The acting was, as someone said, very natural.  You weren't thinking of looking at actors trying to be someone else, you had the sense of these people being exactly who they were supposed to be in most cases.  Again, not Oscar material, but it flowed smoothly enough, I think, that overall, the effect was successful.  There's so much more I could say, but I'll get off the soapbox now and hush.  The lesson is its a film, enjoy it for what it is.  If you think you can do better, don't talk, do.  Then you can rattle on about what is so ridiculous and what isn't.   "},{"Title":"Judge it against other films from the time","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I seldom read other reviewer's comments before I add my own two cents' worth, but I did for this one..don't know why. Anyway, it seems that this film is being judged against the films of today instead of with others from the early 70's. Much of what made the film a blockbuster then seems so dated now. Judged against other films of the day, Billy Jack was BIG and Billy Jack was IMPORTANT. The acting in this film is not great, but most of the cast is made up of relative unknowns. The story, as I said, is definitely passe (by today's standards). But Billy Jack was a social consciousness film, designed to put forward the cause of pacifism. The Vietnam war was still raging in 1971 and the antiwar juggernaut was steamrolling. This film, while not strictly an anti-war film, advocates peace, love and all that other hippie stuff. Oh, yeah...HIPPIES. When's the last time you saw a real, honest-to-God Hippie? The film is pretty much full of hippies. They espoused peace and love and sharing, a message that just wouldn't cut it today. But mixed in with the peace movement is the beginnings of the growing need to reconnect with one's ancestry. Billy Jack is an Indian. No, they don't call them Native Americans in this film, they call them Indians. Everything has changed in 30 years and that's why it's not fair to judge this film by today's standards. This film is very violent, has nudity in it and would certainly be rated R today. Billy Jack's martial arts sequences are actually realistic, with no one flying 20 feet through the air, turning a dozen back flips and then kicking 13 people in a quarter of a second. Somehow, it wound up with a PG rating. It's a 30+ year old film but one that deserves to be judged fairly, so judge it against other films of the time. I think you'll find it can stand on its own. "},{"Title":"Opening Champ","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Without a doubt the BEST opening sequence in movie history (with the possible exception of Barbed Wire; spectacularly beautiful, tremendous aerial shots, and subject matter...whew! And from a non-Hollywood operation, no less!!! Hurrah! The horses seem almost moving on script. And the pure rawness and glory of nature is at its most striking. And, lastly, and far from least, the incredible song by Coven (who says one-hit wonders leave little legacy). The song perfectly frames the powerful/powerless relationship that is central to the movie, and the simple truth that spiritual power will always, ultimately, trump the material. A raw film it is, and that is its glory. "},{"Title":"late 60s fun and social consciousness","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This movie takes me back to 1969 (when it was first started) Also note the high school football schedule for 1969 on the ice cream shop door with the school name marked out to preserve its anonymity). You really had to live through these days to appreciate the fact that some people really did think and act like the actors in this film.While all hippies were certainly NOT non-violent, this film earnestly tries to present an enlightened message to an adult audience that at that time was not the most socially aware in the world. =)And yes, people really did say things like Damn hippies! They oughtta get their hair cut! they're ruining the country!! The New Left movement which really became influential around 1972 and years following was the hippie fringe in 69.This movie is simply a lot of fun. To insist it be more than that is unrealistic. It was independently produced by a guy (Laughlin) who believed in his message, wrote it and called all the shots himself. Its really not bad taken in that context. The little blonde girl singing the anti-war song is Tom and Delores' real life daughter Theresa. The comedy troupes used to appear on shows like the Smothers Brothers and were considered way out. =) (amazing how cynical we've become isn't it??) While most of America in those days was more like the townspeople than the school people, it is still very very entertaining to see those days played out again. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Well, Billy Jack was not at all what I had expected. I had heard of the movie and thought it was some kind of kung fu cult movie, but really didn't know what to expect. The movie blew me away! OK, so the acting can be a little cheesy at times, but how many movies from that era are not cheesy in some way? At any rate, Billy Jack is a true American hero. What I love about the movie is that it is focused on very important subject matter, but portrays it in such an unconventional and unique way. Billy Jack is a character of all characters. His mannerisms are hysterical. He shows such intense frustration when he knows he's going to have to kick someone's butt, and that makes his character what it is. He's an ex-green beret and he can surely kick some serious bad guy butt if he has to, but he is also a man with a big heart and his life's mission is to protect the native Americans and hippies who are either too weak or too peaceful to fight for themselves. And he loves Jean, loves her with all his heart and knows that he is the only one who can protect her and protect what is important to her. His character is portrayed in such a way that you can see the internal struggle in his eyes and hear it in his voice when he is faced with a situation where some biggot butts need kickin'. Billy Jack is a true classic and a movie that will stick with me for the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"A VERY important film to the products of the 60/70s.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Seeing this film back in '71 when it first came out did very much to change my attitudes and commentaries.  Only in the old days would a movie like this create such a great change in a persons psyche. I'm very glad I discovered this film when I did and even though the production and acting qualities are pretty 'low' this movie definitely is a 'must see' for everyone. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Cult Movie","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The half-breed Billy Jack (Tom Laughlin) lives in an Indian reservation protecting the Indians, the stallions and the students of the Freedom School, a peaceful art school run by Jean Roberts (Delores Taylor) and where the students can choose their own destiny. When the teenage daughter of the corrupt Deputy Mike (Ken Tobey), Barbara (Julie Webb), is retrieved by Sheriff Cole (Clark Howat), she tells that she is pregnant and her father beats her up. Sheriff Cole and the local doctor (Victor Izay) ask Jean if she can lodge Barbara, she welcomes the traumatized teenager. But her father, together with the corrupt and powerful Mr. Stuart Posner (Bert Freed) and his coward son Bernard Posner (David Roya), initiate a campaign to damage the school reputation and humiliate the students while Billy Jack fight to control his temper against the bigotry and violence of the locals. But when he discovers what Bernard did to Jean, he has to use violence to defeat evil.Billy Jack is one of those unforgettable cult-movies that belongs to my adolescence. I do not recall when I saw this movie for the first or last times, but I still love it. Billy Jack may be dated in 2013 but the Utopian non-violence, non-bigotry and non-racial segregation messages of the Freedom School are still beautiful. Unfortunately in the end peace is vanquished by violence. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Billy Jack "}{"Title":"Good movie with strong messages for its time.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Generation Xters will not have a chance at understanding this to the magnitude planned. Keeping things in proper perspective requires consideration of the time frame of this movie. In the real world we were still in country/Nam and getting very fed up with the associated atrocities both there and here. The differences between liberals and conservatives were at an all-time-high. This movie definitely leans to the left on many issues but only really to point out how important it is to not lose our humanity. It was really about a man who, disillusioned by what he saw his own country do overseas, came home to find the same thing. The fighting scenes were excellent for their time. The use of a hard style of martial arts was different and very impressive. Tom's execution of moves were both well done and in most cases reasonably realistic (maybe a few too many karate chops). The acting was anywhere between good to just adequate,,, which in some cases gave it a more realistic feel (less hollywoodlike). "},{"Title":"the message that I seen in this movie","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" When this movie came out I was barley in my teens, but I remember the power of the message in that movie. Having just bought the DVD of it, I see the power of that message is still there.The message to me is as thus, Violence does not solve everything and should be used ONLY as a last resort if ever. the school's admin if you will was pure pacifism, he on the other hand, had to fight for everything in his life, so naturally that's how he responded. It did however remind me of an era that has long since come to pass and the young of today do not or maybe never will understand. And that is the true problem. without understanding the problems that made change occur, we are just as liable to have to relive them. I sincerely hope that movies that were this gritty then are able to be kept around as a mirror into the minds and mindsets of that time and the struggles as we all became more human. "},{"Title":"a 70's classic","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Billy Jack had a little of everything, and a lot of exaggerated stereotypes to make it easy to take sides. It also doled out a lot of thought-provoking ideas - almost like hippie propaganda. But it was a great action movie with a lead character you had to respect, not just because he could kick everyone's butt as he defended the weak from the evil, corrupt townies, but because he seemed sincere in his spiritual Indian way of life. The fight scene in the town square is a classic and it also contains one of the greatest movie lines I ever heard. It's listed in the quotes for this movie. It's where the deputy says he will kill the girl he's holding. And then, when Billy points his rifle at him, he asks, 'you mean you'd kill her, just like that? Then Billy says, no, you will. And then I'll kill you, just like that. I enjoyed the action, the improv comedy skits, the music, and the story. The bad guys were easy to hate and the good guys were easy to love. I never get tired of watching it. "},{"Title":"A Vietnam War era twist on the theme of heroic sacrifice.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Ok, this is not one of the greatest films ever made, but is not meant to be. More than anything else, I feel this film was meant to be a statement against the intrusions of the white man in  the Native American culture and way of life, specifically relocation and assimilation. The center of the film is actually an Alternative School where misfit kids of the era, hippies (of all colors)keep a daily struggle trying to keep government interference from taking away what they have worked so hard for. The spirit of those kids, and their desire for peace is embodied in the film's hero, Billy Jack who, despite appearing white, is a perfectly believable Native American hero. Perhaps the writers of this film sought to potray a contrast as though Billy Jack defends the school through sacrifice through his Native heritage, finally falls victim to the very bitterness and resentment that the school is threatened by which is perpetuated by the normal everyday middle class whites (in the film) This is a fascinating conflict that Tom McLaughlin challenges the audience with quite brilliantly.A very interesting aspect of this film that at times you find yourself drawn up in the side of Billy Jack and especially the children that he protects.There is a moving scene in which a little girl directly quotes Hitler to a City Council to make a point which appears so simple but is seen as so above the heads of the Council that they become enraged at this poor little girl which Billy Jack watches over almost omnipresent.  "},{"Title":"A great movie for it's time...","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I attended this movie when it was first released and though times have changed, some of the movies elements are still being copied in films today. You have to take into account that back then we called the police Fuzz and long hair and bell bottoms were the dress of the period. Karate movies were popular but few and far between and the awful Bruce Lee knock offs were too much to stomach with all that bad dubbing. Enter an American who could take his foot and hit the town's leading redneck upside his face with it, Dance with rattlesnakes and save the hippie commune on a bad day. During the Ice cream parlor scene when Billy Jack's Jeep came into view, The theater crowd went into a frenzy. Though the movie was meant to be a sort of propaganda film for the peace movement, it gave mixed signals due to the violent nature of the main character.  "},{"Title":"A timeless social commentary","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies ever captured on film, and your life will be better for watching it. It is more than a story, it is a moral fable, a priceless social allegory. Furthermore, it is a spectacularly accurate time-capsule of the period in which it was set, and as someone who grew up in the 70's I can assure you that the acting is supremely accurate. The cast delivers an emotionally powerful, spot-on depiction of human attitudes and behaviors in the time and place in which it is set.The slightly muddled feeling that sometimes accompanies the interactions between characters in this movie isn't accidental, it is REALISM. Real people don't always know exactly what to say or how to behave under strain and duress. When people's souls are in turmoil, they seldom behave with the deft, precise, calloused mannerisms that modern Hollywood has accustomed us to viewing. Such was 1970's America near the end of the Viet Nam war.It amazes me to read all the comments posted here on this board, even those posted by fans of the film, who completely missed certain key points about the plot line and the motivations of the characters. Allow me to clarify several points of confusion that keep getting raised over and over 1) Sheriff Cole is an ELECTED OFFICIAL with a long personal history in the town and many close friends among the locals. He has little or no real authority. This is due to the fact that the senior Posner is a wealthy, well-connected landowner with a long payroll who shares many mutual friends with Sheriff Cole. It is Posner who calls most of the real shots in the town, legal and otherwise, and if you think this is overly Hollywood or far-fetched, you've never lived in a small, isolated mid-western town (two words Rotary Club). Sheriff Cole appears helpless precisely because he mostly is. He is making the best of a bad situation, and he is trying to keep peace between friends and neighbors who he has no real power over, and can't arrest without making enemies or losing his job.2) The Freedom School is NOT A REAL SCHOOL. Jean herself explains this in the voice-over narrative, in the first 30 minutes of the movie- go back and watch it again, and pay attention. The Freedom School is a halfway house, a haven for runaways, orphans, and any disturbed or abused or hurting kid who shows up on the doorstep looking for help. The kids aren't necessarily hippies- they represent all manner of different religions, races and cultures. The teachers are really counselors and social workers. The kids stay as long as they want to or need to, and leave when they're ready, no questions asked. All they are required to do while they are there is stay clean (drug-free), and be creative. It is a therapeutic environment designed to help kids with problems. At the time, in the early 70's, the idea of helping disturbed runaways was unpopular and somewhat novel- the conservative view of society was that these kids just needed a little sense beaten into them, that the solution to their problems was more abuse.3) Billy Jack's violent actions aren't SUPPOSED to make any sense. Billy Jack is an older, wiser, more-experienced, but still vulnerable and disturbed embodiment of the kids at the Freedom school. Billy himself has no bigger picture, no grand agenda which he is using violence as a tool to push forward, no larger view of the world other than total bewilderment over man's inhumanity to man. All he knows is that he sees injustice and hatred and hurt in the world, and it infuriates him to the breaking point, when he acts out his anger in bursts of physical violence. The fact that he is an ex-Green Beret with martial arts training is completely incidental. It simply serves to make his passionate outbursts of rage more dangerous than most people's; at the end of the day however, Billy Jack himself knows that violence doesn't change anything, that it often does more harm than good, and that he cannot solve the problems of the world through violence or by any other means. Billy Jack knows that the human condition is insurmountable, that life requires mental toughness, that we will make mistakes all our lives and have to live with the consequences.This movie is a work of art, a towering statement about the beauty and the triumph of the human spirit in the midst of the wretchedness and the suffering of the human condition. If you have any emotions at all, the sadness and senseless tragedy of the ending will bring tears to your eyes. I urge everyone to watch it at least once. When you're finished, watch it again and keep peeling away the hidden layers of meaning and symbolism. "},{"Title":"I love it every time I see it!","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  From the first time I saw Billy Jack at my local theater as a teen ager, to the many late night showings I have seen since, I love Billy Jack more and more. The conflicts between Jean and Billy are so real. For two people at such opposite ends of the spectrum to love each other so much is just awesome! The sub plots are interwoven with one another and each one has a definite conclusion. In today's society, Jean's pacifism is sorely missed. Definitely a movie worth seeing over and over! "},{"Title":"billy jack teaches a lesson","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" billy jack teaches as i see it that everyone must get along with each other. we may not want what some people want in life, but as long as no one gets hurt or is led to any kind of ruin from their lifestyle live and let live. the one who lambasted this movie must think that a movie is only good in today's technological making of movies. lose the hate that is pent up inside you. the Indian way of life does teach us that there is a higher being than ourselves i.e. the great spirit(GOD). the Indian way of life is more pure than the white ways and clings onto the traditions of a more pure way of life. the Indian way of life also teaches that family and friendship is sacred. the Indian way of life leads the male child to become a man and to endure. billy jack was also in the military and served for his country. we need to do as the russians do and make it law that every male is to serve in the military for a two year minimum. maybe then we as a country could learn to work together for the good of our country in the civilian world. "},{"Title":"this film is a dated but heroic depiction of real hero in times of need, a true sacrificer","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film as a 14-yr old just getting into martial arts training. I had already been a big Bruce Lee fan and respected the ideals that he stood for. The same is true for Billy Jack, the character and the film. Righteousness, honesty, honour, fellowship, brotherhood, elder guidance, environmentalism and respect for nature, godliness, good vs. evil.Even though the film's portrayal of these themes was dated and perhaps unrealistically idealistic, it spoke of truth and sacrifice and one man's devotion to these ideals. billly jack is a hero. sometimes evil needs to be stamped out and billy did this with his feet. He always gave fair warning of consequences and a way out but inevitably they chose to side with evil and not good. the most compelling part of this movie was the love he shared  "},{"Title":"This movie just makes me go berserk","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" First, I just want to mention that I used to like Billy Jack. Then something strange happened....I grew up. Where should I start. Maybe with the main reason that I used to be a fan, the martial arts action. Never mind that taken through a hindsight perspective, the action is quite limited. Also Tom Laughlin has no martial arts training at all (unknown to me during my ignorance at the time) and all of his karate scenes were performed by a Asian karate master stunt double. Also, I believe that one of the main reasons that no major studio would touch this, was Laughlin's insistence that Delores Taylor (his wife)play the female lead. Not only was she far from attractive, she was devoid of any acting ability whatsoever. If anyone doubts this, please name a non-Billy Jack film that she has appeared in. I must also mention the complete hypocrisy of the whole hippie, non-violence premise of the film. You see Billy Jack preaches pacifism and non-violence, while busting heads. I guess violence is only justifiable when it is considered righteous liberal rage. Let this one tin soldier ride away. "}{"Title":"70's Counterculture Schlock","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I don't know what made me think of Billy Jack and look it up on IMDb. Maybe in old age I'm looking back with fondness on the things of my youth that I despised. It's been forty years since I saw Billy Jack, so be kind if I get a detail or two wrong.A girl dragged me to see Billy Jack in a second-run theater. It'd been around the block once. (The movie, not the girl, who'd been around the block several times.) I think my female friend sensed that I was a little too conservative and judgmental and this was a movie I *needed* to see. In the end she was disappointed it had no discernible salutary effect on me other than to harden my stance against idiotic peace-and-love schlock.Billy Jack fights violence by beating up people. Not exactly what Mr. Gandhi and Dr. King had in mind. We cheer for Billy (or Jack) while he lands crushing martial arts blows to (if memory serves) Republicans, rednecks, law enforcement officers, greedy land speculators, the anti-child lobby, and people who like their cars. Mr. Jack loves children, but probably not in an icky way, and is full of woo-woo mysticism which, as I recall, was often in those days linked to the use of pharmaceuticals. The Man, of course, is always trying to keep him down.One previous review said the movie leans to the left. This movie leans to the left like the sun leans to hot. This movie is so socialist that by comparison it makes Obama's preacher look like Rick Santorum.If pretentiousness and smug piety count against a movie at all (and they should, even making allowances for a film from the counterculture years), this is one of the worst ever. As I think about it, I'd kind of like to see it again, just for laughs.To those who love Billy Jack and its message of peace, love, and harmony If this review angers you, please don't beat me up. To misquote the song Peace on earth/Is all I say. "},{"Title":"A cult film with attitude","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Before the smug heroics of Steven Segal's characters there was Billy Jack, the original self proclaimed savior with an attitude. If you like to see self-righteous jerks stylishly beating up even bigger jerks then this is your movie. Each fight scene is setup explicitly for Jack to do an affected restraint merely as a taunt before dispensing his own brand of justice. The spoiled, morally depraved Bernard seems to exist only for the purpose of angering the audience and thus justifying his punishments at the hands and feet of Jack.Ostensibly about taking a stand against a corrupt authority and abusive bigots 'Billy Jack' is mostly a guilty pleasure for pacifists who feel they've been pushed around long enough. Jack's own claims of trying to be less violent seem hollow as he relishes every punishment he dishes out. He functions as the darker id or alter ego of the peace-love generation.If not taken nearly as seriously as it wants to be 'Billy Jack' can be enjoyed for it's low budget earnestness, in spite of its somewhat conflicted messages. "},{"Title":"Birth of the hippie dippie occupy movement","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Billy Jack is not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it's down there. Not right down there, but left down there. All Whites are cruel villains, especially Posner and his cowardly rapist son. Oddly enough, the cops are portrayed more sympathetically than I expected. But, overall this small Western town is more bigoted than George Wallace's Alabama. I suppose Laughlin had to film it somewhere and an Indian reservation had to suffice. There are negroes in the movie, but none got any speaking roles, and there was a nod to wifey who'd worked for King. Rah rah. Go team. There is some chop-sockey action especially the scene in the park, but Billy Jack relies on a menacing presence to get the job done. This is presumably to portray White people as timid, cringing milksops who are afraid of death. Yeah, tell that to the Christian martyrs in Stalin's Russia. One Tin Soldier is the theme song brayed out before the end credits by some jackass as a bunch of hippies give the black power salute and paves the way for the sequel; The Trial Of Billy Jack 3 years later. It did well at the box office grossing 65 mil while costing a paltry 800 grand, and was carried up from one star by the dialogue which incorporated street theater, something that can still attract TV cameras. As an indy film it's worth studying, but remember Anti-racist is anti- White and anti-White is the message which bludgeons the viewer throughout. Billy Jack is a half breed racist who'd do well to get in touch with his White side. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time as it had a message that has continued to inspire me over the years! In my opinion, you haven't lived until you've seen this movie. We've traveled to all the places where this movie was filmed in Arizona and New Mexico and it has been wonderful. I can see why the movie was filmed in the places it was as there is a real sacredness there and you can feel it. The book is amazing too and you really need to read it to fully understand the movie. The hardship and all they went through just too make the movie was incredible. If Tom Laughlin wasn't so determined, this movie would never have been made. The theme song will always be one of my favorite songs too, and I always associate it with the movie. The 70's were great and this movie depicts that era. "},{"Title":"A true hero steps in to save the day","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film as quite inspirational since Tom Laughlin's character made it ok for whites in general who really feel for Native people to go out and literally defend them the way that Billy Jack.  However, I'm very surprised that after reading another review on this film from someone else that they didn't even mention the way that Billy Jack was defending the Indians from the other white oppressors.  That other review only mentioned that he was stopped the slaughter of the horses and that he saved that desert school from being shut down; but no mention of the more important point to the movie.Well......... anyways............ all in all a good film but unfortunately it just had no jump or strong plot to it.  This is why I gave it a 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Time has not been kind to this movie.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I recall seeing this movie at the theater. At the time I was a teenager ripe for the anti-establishment theme (and thrilled with the cool  violence in the movie). I thought it was the greatest movie ever made. On re-viewing it recently, I couldn't believe how stupid I was. This movie is so bad it is laughable. You can almost feel the characters straining to get their point across. The plot is simplistic and the acting is. Of course, things have changed in nearly 30 years. My taste in movies is one of them. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This was an excellent movie. It had an excellent storyline to make a great point. It balanced out the action, the comedy, and the drama perfectly. The characters were created very well to show unique and realistic personalities. The acting was great and really made each character really come to life. The music in the movie was very well picked and fit in perfect with the movie. The ending of the movie showed disaster but also showed significant change from the beginning and it shows what the point of the movie was and what the characters are trying to tell you. It keeps your attention from beginning to end and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One Tin Soldier rides away...Thank God!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack is not completely without some merit. If the story had focused more on Billy's Indian heritage they could have had a classic action pic. But the story, such as it is, is so contrived that the film veers toward becoming a camp classic. The character of Billy Jack is still popular today and a remake with Keanu Reeves (Keanu Reeves? whoa!)is supposedly in the works. Bad Idea. This movie seems like its a product of the times. The movie features a special school where kids are free to sing songs, paint pictures and write poetry in order to express their individualism and creativity ad nauseum. None of this sits well with the townsfolk (or viewer) and a town council meeting is called that apparently was completely improvised. As scary as this might seem, this was actually one of the movie's better parts. Tom Laughlin handles the martial arts scenes very well. Delores Taylor is quite good as the school's teacher and the woman Billy obviously loves for her mind. The movie is filled with crystal clear bad guys and good guys and was made in time when idealologies between generations were vastly different. While its striking how far to the right America has moved since 1971, one could argue that there wasn't much more room on the left. Billy Jack isn't boring but could have been much better. The opening shows wild horses being rounded up and treated in an unpleasant, mean way. In order to show people being mean to horses the actors had to actually be mean to the horses who obviously had no stunt doubles. This is most uncool.   "},{"Title":"Everything you hated about 1970 rolled into a ball","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I was a high school sophomore when this movie came out. It was one of the iconic movies of the period, but I managed to miss it until 2013 when I caught it on cable TV. All I knew about its content was what I learned from the Paul Simon SNL parody Billy Paul which ran a few years after the film's release. I had the impression that it was a sort of violent revenge film along the lines of Death Wish.Instead, it's a 2-hour reminder of how truly awful the hippie era was, full of pretension, naiveté, new-ageism, and horrid folk songs that make you want to pull a Belushi with the guitar player. The plot itself takes about 60 minutes to unravel; the rest is filler, featuring music or improvised comedy by the 60s troupe The Committee (including Howard Hesseman under a stage name). The clichés flow freely, and the characters are all cardboard cutouts, but at least things are livened up by a few good fight scenes featuring the pacifist Billy Jack. It's the kind of movie you'd expect when a husband/wife team writes a script, then give themselves the starring roles and the director's chair. With any luck, this film will cure any nostalgia you may still have for the late 60s/early 70s. "},{"Title":"Peace and love and martial arts","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack, eponymously titled for the lead character, is an entertaining movie, but without much substance -- that is what you get when you have caricatures -- a peace-loving, basically American Indian Freedom School versus the conservative redneck bad guys.Billy Jack is played by Tom Laughlin, who does not look much like a half Indian.  Also, altho he has martial arts fluidity against the villains, he is quite rigid in posture, the white man that he is.  Like his split background, I thought his acting performance was uneven -- at times good, at times wooden.  Let me comment that he was not impressive in the final scene, which was not moving to me.  Jean Roberts (Delores Taylor), sort of Billy's love interest, runs the Freedom School.  She is the passionate figure of the movie, but certainly only platonically.One curiousity is what the director is trying to do with the character of Sheriff Cole, a compromising personality, but who overall seems to be presented favorably.  A good man rather than bad like the rest of the town, he is unable and unwilling to mount an effective resistance to the bad guys tho he serves as a go-between, helps Billy and the Freedom Schoolers behind the scenes, and yes, once, rescues Billy, by, sort of, standing up against the beaters.  Like Billy, he is totally outnumbered by pretty much an entirely bad white community, like the prosecutor in the Mississippi civil rights murder cases trying to convince the jury.  But I say, his is a refreshing role to me, because he is, well, the most normal person.So, American Indians have been mistreated?  We all know that, but what does this movie tell us about it, the background, the problem as it exists today (OK, 30 years ago), the solution?  So we have peace-loving hippies and Indians, whining, whining, directed at the bad guys, nothing else.  So?What was the Freedom School all about?  Well, it opposes the establishment.  We know.  But what does it do, what do you learn, what do you accomplish, what are you prepared for?  Well, we hear diatribes, but where are we going?  Maybe inherently nowhere.Thus, Billy Jack mainly functions for its superficial visual (and audio) images, spirit of the '60s.  But the storyline still captures the viewer.  There are the abusive bad guys, we are worked up against them, the guy in the white hat (sort of) comes to the rescue.  And if we don't totally understand what the Freedom School is all about, we at least know some of its political stances, and something of its style, even if the way the movie presents them is silly.This all adds up to an annoying sanctimoniousness that serves as a turnoff.  Tho the conservative characters are stereotyped, they are developed better than the Freedom Schoolers, who are poorly acted, cheesy, and certainly not compelling.The true irony of Billy Jack is that the pacifist Freedom School contradicts what made people go see the movie.  How many went, or would go, to see it, and how many went to see the fight scenes?  Anyway, the score is quite good.      "}{"Title":"This movie makes Public Access Television look appealing.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  What good things can I say about this movie. At least I didn't pay the rental fee; someone else did and that's bad enough. This movie is film making at its absolute worst. The acting is terrible and the script is about as well thought out as an 8th Grade research paper. The picture quality is horrid not to mention you can't hear some of the dialogue in potentially key scenes. This film looks like a 8mm home movie of a hippie commune in Oregon. I don't know how this movie got any financing whatsoever let alone the revenue it brought in. Just let me some up this movie in one word. . . DUMB!!!!! "},{"Title":"This Movie Changed My Life","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" There is not much more that I can say about this film that hasn't already been said, so far as the plot and overall production is concerned, so this will be more of a personal observation.I saw this movie during its original run in my local movie theater and it made a huge impression on me as a young teenager. I grew up in a place that was very much like the one in Billy Jack, where the small-mindedness of the townspeople was acute, and serious hatred and violence was directed at anyone who did not conform. This movie instilled in me a life-long desire to fight against injustice by standing up for the underdog. It also left me with a serious dislike of The Man in general and those people in authority who act in an arbitrary manner, while carrying prejudice and hate in their hearts.Watching this movie later as an adult, I am well aware that this film is essentially a B-movie and that the acting is very amateurish in places, but for me personally, that only adds to the enduring charm. The most valuable aspects of this film should never be overlooked and that lies in the messages that this movie imparts, among them, the duality of human beings and the psychologically confusing nature of mankind, demonstrated most vividly in the personal conflicts embodied in the character of Billy Jack. Thank you Billy Jack for being a great role model who stood for something I still believe in The importance of taking care of, standing up for, and defending those less fortunate than you are. "},{"Title":"Rest In Peace...","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" As a kid, I marveled at the martial arts on display in BILLY JACK- although, even back then, I realized that that wasn't Tom Laughlin doing the kicking up there on screen. What I marvel at these days is the fact that the late Tom Laughlin managed to get a message movie of this caliber up on The Big Screen at all; there weren't a lot of movies, even back then, that came close to reflecting the Harsh Reality of the times. What BILLY JACK did was rub our noses in our own hypocrisy. Laughlin made us take a nice, long (and uncomfortable) look at ourselves as we really are- to this day. (Unfortunately, the more things change, the more they stay the same...) I used to take great comfort in the fact that Tom Laughlin was still Out There, somewhere; it meant a lot to me personally; and, although he's gone, now, his movies remain and that's not a bad legacy at all. "},{"Title":"Hate your neighbor &#x85; cheat your friend","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The movie's theme song One Tin Soldier was covered by Coven from the original 1970 tune by Original Caste. In it, the valley people covet supposed riches of the mountain kingdom. The latter wish to share, but the valley people, wanting it all, attack and slay their neighbors. But they find no riches. One tin soldier rides away, the legend of Billy Jack.Billy Jack (Tom McLaughlin) martial arts expert and ex-Green Beret, is a half-breed who has authority to uphold the law on an Indian reservation in Arizona or New Mexico. Billy Jack's girl is a strong- willed woman, a pacifist, Jean Roberts (Delores Taylor, his wife in real life) who runs the Freedom School. This progressive reservation school for troubled young folks welcomes all youth regardless of ethnicity; it is a rainbow. There are three main rules (1) no drugs, (2) everyone must pull his/her own weight, and (3) a student must create something, like a painting about his/her heritage, weaving a blanket, creating a film, etc. One may surmise that the Indian reservation and school represent the mountain people of the song.In contrast to the school is the nearby town outside the reservation. The folks who live and work there are hostile to the reservation school as they cannot relate to its unorthodox teaching methods. As they consider the kids to be outcasts, they make no attempt to hide their various prejudices. In reality the deck is stacked all of the virtues belong to the school population with the exception of one or two oddballs. By contrast, all of the negative qualities are possessed by the narrow-minded townsfolk nearly without exception. They do not like long-haired weirdos. Chief among the town-folk are the Posners, businessman father and purposeless son. The former, Stuart Posner (Bert Freed), is plain rotten; the latter, Bernard (David Roya), is a disdainful rich kid. At the beginning Stuart Posner thinks there is nothing wrong about illegally rounding up wild mustangs on Indian land and slaughtering them for profit. Although Bernard initially seems to stand up to his father, he later shows his vile side as he degenerates into murder, rape, and even near-pedophilia. Although Sheriff Cole (Clark Howat) is decent enough, his deputy Mike (Ken Tobey) is a snake. One may surmise that the town represents the valley people of the song.As pacifist Jean tells Billy, he needs to control his violent temper. In turn, Billy feels he needs to use violence to get justice for his people. An example relates to a group of Freedom School teens who take the school bus to town for shopping. At an ice cream store they suffer an intolerable injustice that goes beyond the owner not serving them. By the way, if a store-owner wants to make money, why does he not sell to everybody? This attitude has always seemed self-defeating. Anyway Billy Jack throws the biggest bully (Dinosaur) through a plate glass window. Pow! The store owner merely stands by and watches. After that someone tampers with Billy's jeep. Then Billy Jack is outnumbered 12 to one in fight with some townsmen. In the course of the film, tensions will escalate until the inevitable conclusion of the struggle between the townsfolk and the school (Billy Jack). Although Tom McLaughlin is heavy-handed, his screen presence is huge. Reserved and athletic, he represents the ideal Caucasian-Indian hero tough, unshakable, and aware of his Indian roots. He is at ease whether on horseback or motorcycle. Delores Taylor, slender and with long hair, but also sad-eyed and plain-faced, is appropriate as the school administrator. Although her acting is uneven, she is a central figure of the story in many ways. For it is she who began the school and both encourages and relates to the young people. It is she who helps Billy Jack come to his senses at the end. The independent film could have used experienced editing, especially for the school skits, and the script could have been tighter. The singing and guitar-playing are sometimes difficult to take. And it is understandable that Stan Rice, the actor who plays the Indian Martin, has no other silver screen credits. The movie running time is too long, and some of the dialogue and attitudes are outlandish. For instance, at the board meeting the young girl credits the law and order quote to Adolf Hitler. Thus the inferred message is that anyone who supports upholding our laws extols that dictator. Despite amateurish acting, the film does display a charm of its own. White-booted Susan Foster (Cindy/Up Yours) is very attractive. Always beautiful are southwestern USA shots. The Paiute Wovoka friendship dance is colorful, while the Shoshone Indian snake ceremony is most unusual. The Billy Jack story line does maintain interest and the theme song is well done.By the way, note the yellow-colored Dr. Pepper poster advertisement on the ice cream store door when Billy Jack enters. It illustrates the upcoming school football schedule for 1969, the year when filming began. Billy Jack was released in 1971 and again in 1973. A movie costing under a million dollars to create grossed many times that number. This popular cult film even resulted in two sequels; its predecessor was Born Losers (1967). "},{"Title":"One Tin Soldier Rides Away","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" One of the great iconic movies of the 70s Billy Jack came out right at the beginning of the decade and resonated powerfully with audiences, especially the young. Tom Laughlin who originated the Billy Jack character in The Born Losers was so powerful in the part that audiences wouldn't see him as anything else afterward. An interesting victim of his own success.It all starts with young Julie Webb coming home after running away from her brutal father Deputy Sheriff Kenneth Tobey. She's now pregnant as a result of too much free love in the hippie culture of the times. When Tobey proves to be as brutal as before, Webb takes refuge at a school on the Indian reservation run by Delores Taylor.The reservation and its protector Billy Jack is where we are introduced to the title character. Bert Freed who is the local kingpin in the area has organized a hunt of mustangs on the reservation for some quick money from dog food companies. Never mind that A he's trespassing and B that the mustangs are protected by law, he's above the law. Freed's played some truly rotten specimens in his career, but in Billy Jack he's at his worst.And the third villain of the film is David Roya who is Freed's son and a real branch off the rotten tree. As Freed constantly puts his son down, Roya goes in for some depravity that even Freed might squirm with.Billy Jack in protecting his people and there way of life and others unable to protect themselves emerges as an old fashioned straight up hero in an increasingly complex world where the bad guys sometimes aren't recognized for what they are. Not in this film though, evil is plainly labeled.Taylor's school is some kind of progressive education dream. Today she'd be a charter school and probably find willing backers. At that time though she's worried that if Laughlin goes overboard the resulting backlash will hurt her school. She sacrifices a lot for that ideal.Billy Jack the movie is firmly rooted in the times it was made, but it still has an enormous appeal for today's audiences. "},{"Title":"Jack up the volume and enjoy some HIGH  kicks..JUST LIKE THAT..","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I doubt anyone born in the 80's and 90's could appreciate this message movie made in 1969 and released 2 years later..when Billy Jack came out, I had already been to war in Vietnam..and I didn't understand the Hippie movement or the peace movement and it took quite some time for me to come to grips with the other opinions that began to pervade American culture..I eventually realized that for a lot of US or American involvement in other countries' affairs has been going on for longer than anyone can remember..most of our wars are unnecessary..with that said..Billy Jack had studio financing problems..and Jean was not the first one cast to play that part..however..a lot of people complain that it looks cheap or amateurish..you have to realize..$800,000 doesn't go very far..and still made $65 million at the box office and $ 32 million in rentals..but back to Billy Jack..a guy who would much rather just live his life in peace..but the bigots just won't live and let live..and he is faced with a few situations where his training takes over..instinct..self preservation..he does his best to no avail..there are some classic scenes and memorable dialogue..one which has been quoted..when the deputy holds a gun to the girl's head and Billy levels his Winchester at the deputy..you mean you'd kill her, just like that? Billy replies..Youll kill her..then Ill kill you..just like that....anyone who lived through that time will see similarities to events around them growing up as depicted in the movie..anyone looking for a CGI special effects..30 explosions per half hour will not find them here..but what they do find here will be thought-provoking and sincere..the characters are NOT stereotypes..I have known folks JUST LIKE THESE ..and hopefully you'll enjoy this minor classic..JUST LIKE THAT.. "},{"Title":"The Second Billy Jack Epic!","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Writer & director Tom Laughlin's contemporary melodrama Billy Jack qualifies as a flawed but provocative film. The cult history of this epic and its success at the box office don't prepare us for what we wind up. Initially, Billy Jack looked like a Charles Bronson revenge movie without Bronson. Here's a brave, resourceful fellow who is half-white and half-Native American. He lives on a reservation, and he practices a bizarre form of martial arts called hapkido. Billy Jack saves a herd of horses from being massacred and manufactured into dog food. He is courting the defiant but plain-Jane looking Jean Roberts (Delores Taylor) who operates a 'Freedom School' on the reservation. The abused daughter of a local lawman takes refuge in the school. Meantime, the chief villain's degenerate son rapes Roberts, and an angry Billy Jack goes after them. The skits that the school practices could have been left on the editing room floor. Basically, despite an occasion close-quarters combat scene, Billy Jack is both crude but entertaining nonsense. "},{"Title":"Ratings seem age based","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I've given this a low rating for one good reason I did what someone else suggested I do and that's not compare Billy Jack to films of today but compare it to the films of 1971. Gosh... lessee... OK, compare it to Fiddler on the Roof, A Clockwork Orange, The French Connection, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Should I go on? Those of you who were 14-21 back in 1971 need to face a simple fact and that is Billy Jack was a low-budget message film that managed to resonate with your age group. My sons stumbled on me watching this today and one remarked the acting and dialog are terrible. They are majoring in media in college and know the difference between good and bad film-making.I was 9 when Billy Jack came out and the whole hippie thing was already becoming nostalgia by the time I was old enough to have been a part. Consequently, the movie felt more like watching old clichés come to life than anything either nostalgic or inspiring.That said, the movie isn't really a train wreck. I thought it was worth watching to see the sketches done by Howard Hesseman (Johnny Fever from WKRP) and his friends from the Committee. The hold-up scene felt like who's on first? collided with the Monty Python crew. "},{"Title":"Moral superiority ruins what could have been a great movie","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" For a proud 'Okie from Muskogie' like me, this movie took some understanding. I concede that it has a special, time transcending message and it should be seen in that light. Seen in the hippie context, this is definitely a dated movie, but the message of peace, mutual respect for different people is as relevant today world as it was back in the 70s. I won't deny that many elements in the movie put me off. For a start I am tired of seeing solid, conservative folks painted with the 'bigoted redneck' brush and the free living, hash smoking, loose morals, no rules crowd playing the cool card. It's just too hard to swallow and just too glibly done. But place this in the same bracket of Easy rider and it starts making sense. It's one thing to frown at people who dress, live differently and another thing entirely when disapproval crosses the line and turns to burning hatred and that is what those townspeople stood for. Hatred! Coming to characters, Billy's is beautifully etched. As a big admirer of American Indian culture and heritage, this is one of the most satisfying Injun roles I have seen. I loved him and had I been Injun (I actually am Asian Indian) a poster of Billy Jack would have adorned my living room.The movie makers achieve perfection with the female roles. All the women really excelled in their pacifist roles. They were so convincing, their inner strength coming through and almost, though not quite, overshadowing their physical beauty. Unfortunately the same cannot be said for the men playing the pacifist roles. It's a tragedy what they did to that nice Injun boy Martin. The girls completely emasculated him. Very rarely do pacifist men shine whether in reel or real life. It doesn't matter which era you live in, if a man cannot or does not want to defend his women against danger, he has no business chaperoning them. And that spiel he gave Barbara in the stable about wanting her to sleep with him for love rather than for the excitement was a little too much to digest. Bernard the villain of the piece was dealt a poor hand. In the first scene, he gives the impression of that rare inner strength which movie rednecks uniformly lack. He openly defies his rotten father and refuses to shoot the helpless mustangs. But after that first shot, in scene after scene he descends lower and lower on the humanity ladder until he is finally killed like a dog. In complete contradiction to scene one he is totally comfortable shooting a crippled Martin and has no problem taking orders from his father either, later on in the movie. Even after the attempted and successful rape scenes, it still is difficult to hate him because he is not convincing as a baddie. What were they thinking?!? It's like the makers started out giving him an angle that would let him throw in his lot with the goodies in the end but half way through they changed their minds. The way his role panned out made the first scene a waste of time. Barbara's father, the Sheriff's deputy had the rottenest deal in the movie. How, according to the pacifists, was he expected to react to his daughter announcing that she got knocked up by different people of several races and has no clue who the father of her child is? Was he supposed to pat her on the back and say Now Now or send her to bed without supper? Granted that he was corrupt and weak but any normal parent may have done the same, especially with the insolent manner she announces it. So she runs away from her father and the pacifist group help hide her. I don't care what your political leanings are but promiscuity especially in a minor cannot be condoned. And when he gets shot in the gun fight, the girl doesn't turn a hair. One cannot help feeling irritated with Barbara who defies her father for no good reason other than to cause him pain and anger. A rebel without a cause.Sheriff Cole was awesome in the Atticus Finch like role. He reminded strongly of John Wayne. Delores Taylor was very convincing in parts but recedes into a teary eyed nag in the end. And there is a little too much of in-your&#x96;face moral superiority from the pacifist brigade for this movie to work today. And I have heard of hunters but it seems really odd that anyone would herd animals into a corral and shoot them for 6¢ a pound. That would fetch roughly $40 for an adult horse. Bernard's dad is surely too rich to be taking all that trouble for collecting dog meat? So this scene just made no sense to me. And as some one remarked in a review, they really were rotten to the horses during the shooting.To summarise, this movie scores high from Injun pride, beautiful scenery, original music scores and raw natural acting from the cast but the social message gets blurred somewhat halfway through. "},{"Title":"Billy Jack and other musings.","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Having come of age in this time; I remember this movie fondly. I think it's very representative of the times. I saw it at a drive-in movie. Geez; I miss those passion pits. Lol!!! We were actually naive enough to think we could change things. HA!!! Then came the Watergate scandal, the seemingly never ending Vietnam war dragged on and on, despite protest after protest; and public opinion against it. The system really is rigged against us; and unfortunately it ain't gonna change. I'm just glad I'm now on the downhill slide. God Bless and good luck young people; you're going to need it. Pardon me; just ramblings from an old fart; who is sick and tired of the political crap and hatred today. Peace to all. "}{"Title":"One Tin Soldier","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Tom Laughlin returns as director and star of this second film appearance of Billy Jack, former Green Beret and Martial Arts Master who must combat bigotry and violence in his town. Dolores Taylor plays Jean, who runs the freedom school for orphaned or underprivileged children that is targeted by some residents, who mock and threaten them, causing Billy to go berserk defending them. Billy is also targeted because the bigots call him half-breed Indian and so on. When both Jean and the school are attacked by the worst of the lot, events threaten to spiral out of control... Rousing film with Billy being a modern day John Wayne(despite claims of political bias) Villains may be quite one-dimensional, but film has its heart in the right place, and its message really hits home, especially with the song One Tin Soldier. "},{"Title":"controversial, frictional, but attention-maintaining","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" In this movie people branded different are abused and treated like animals, almost literally. Additionally, to add salt to the sore, the townspeople are, at best, apathetic and non-cooperative; even the people who don't physically abuse the branded people are just as uncaring. When such a situation exists, what is supposed to happen? A cold but caring man comes along to defend the abused people. But in a country where peace is supposed to exist, is this supposed to happen? When I first saw this movie, my thoughts were frictional, and even yet when I think about this movie, my thoughts are still frictional. Billy Jack fights fire with fire, and as the movie progresses I'm glad to see the harassed people become defended, and I feel no mercy for the mean-spirited people of the average-sized town in modern Arizona. But, again, because this movie is controversial, my thoughts will always be frictional. As a college student during the late 60's and early 70's (I graduated from college in 1970,) I saw the rise of the hippie culture become very punctuating and prominent, and I didn't always agree with it, but I feel that no people should be treated, again, like animals. But still, as I think about it the situation, I reach no resolution. Laying the controversy aside, modern Arizona was beautiful to me, Tom Laughlin and Delores Taylor put themselves passionately into their roles, Bert Freed was an excellent villain, and Kenneth Tobey was the meanest and most unfair lawman that could be found; yes, I was impressed with the cast. Despite the irresolvable situation with which it dealt, I do not regret having seen the movie. "},{"Title":"Classic from its era.","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is a classic movie from the end of the 60's love and peace philosophy era. The Billy Jack character lives on even today. This is a 'must see' to understand the Macho meets hippie cosmic reality let's change the world dribble we still hear to this day. Tom Laughlin maxed his career with the Bill Jack movies, mostly because the Billy Jack character overshadowed even his personal life. The is a B grade movie in line with the blaxploitation films from the same time period. Although i am not sure who is being exploited in the Billy Jack series -- take your pick from ex green berets, American Indians, hippies, cowboys, rednecks, rich white guys, you name it this movie has a stereotype for it. But somehow it all works to make a fun movie with great characters.CJ "},{"Title":"supremely '60s story","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" In the late '60s and early '70s, the American Indian Movement, combined with the releases of Arthur Penn's Little Big Man and Tom Laughlin's Billy Jack drew people's attention to the plight of the indigenous peoples of the United States. In the latter movie, Laughlin plays a half-Cherokee Vietnam vet. In his inner circle, some hippies are trying to start their own school, but the rich white people in the area do everything possible to intimidate them. The bad-ass Billy Jack, who has a few hapkido skills, is forced to take charge.Admittedly, this isn't any kind of masterpiece. The plot - peace-loving flower children and Indians vs racist thugs - is a little hokey, and the movie has a mildly amateurish look to it. One might call it an Indian blaxploitation flick. But the importance is that it called attention to how the Indians were living, along with representing how the counterculture wanted to view itself. I didn't live through the era, so I'll probably never be able to get the full experience that the movie is supposed to elicit. But I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Billy Jack rednecks versus hippies, with hapkido to help them  P","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This film is about an alternative/hippy commune and its conflicts with local rednecks who are oppressing them. The people of the commune all stand up for their rights, but the main hero on their side is a part Native American, part White American, ex-military man who is an expert at unarmed combat (specifically the martial art of hapkido - which I reckon is one of the most effective arts because it has such a wide range of kinds of techniques).When I first watched this film, I was surprised to discover that Billy Jack was not a redneck, but was the part Native American friend of the hippies.  O "},{"Title":"Billy Jack","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" First, I like the movie because my dad, when he was much younger, looked exceptionally like Tom Laughlin. He too was part Native American, as am I.The content of the movie is as valid now as when it was made almost 40 years ago. People that are different, regardless of hippie, or whatever, are looked at with suspicion,suppressed, ridiculed. The Native American in many cases is treated barely better today than they were when this movie was made. I think an excellent example of what this movie tried to teach are in the words of the theme song, 'One Tin Soldier' and by an excerpt from the movie itself.Jean You just can't keep making your own laws. There's got to be one set of laws fair for everyone, including you. Billy Jack That's fine. When that set of laws is applied to everyone, then I'll turn the other cheek too. Jean There's got to be a better way to change those people. Billy Jack CHANGE those people? You worked with King, didn't you? Jean Yes! Billy Jack Where is he? Jean Dead. Billy Jack And where's Bob and Jack Kennedy? Jean Dead. Billy Jack Not dead, their brains blown out! Because YOUR people wouldn't even put the same controls on their guns as they do on their dogs, their bicycles, their cats, and their automobiles. This was a time of turmoil, seeking... and if you did not live through this era, you have no real idea what it was like, for books simply cannot tell you. This movie gives a very realistic view and is still valid today for each and every one of us. "},{"Title":"Memorable and Moving","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films that has stayed in my memory over the decades.When I saw it in 1971, the Vietnam was was dominating the headlines and those who were in their early twenties were very aware that young men (and women) of a similar age were caught up in a war that seemed senseless and endless. Billy Jack is a gripping film that I suspect now shows its age. Like other commentators I would agree it should be seen in the context of the time when it was made and compared to the production values of those times. Now it is perhaps a piece of social history but nonetheless well worth seeing if you have missed it. The martial arts sequences do not dominate the film but add most effectively to its drama. They stand as a metaphor for those who were against the values that had allowed such a destructive war to occur. Perhaps it is that bit that makes this film transcend its time - for many of the same motives have led to the senseless war in Iraq. "},{"Title":"Everything right with Born Losers is wrong here...","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" As great as the first Billy Jack movie, Born Losers, was, this movie is the antithesis. Here's whyScript not co-written by Elizabeth James, who actually wrote most of Born Losers.Elizabeth James not the female lead, and instead we get why nepotism is bad, Laughlin's wife as the lead.Billy Jack vs everyone in the whole town as a stereotyped bigot, rather than vs a motorcycle gang terrorizing the townspeople who were not Billy Jack haters.Billy Jack spends too much time contemplating philosophy and rubbing his forehead rather than busting ass like he did in the first one.Lame ending vs a great ending. Damn Billy Jack shoulda got away to the hills after laying waste to the bigots (but no cop killings).As I said, he killed a cop who was doing his job. And Laughlin managed to kill a great character after such a great debut. "},{"Title":" I had sex with so many guys at the party, I really don't know who the father is. ","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" During the 1960's, many fed-up Americans had had enough of the government. Thus, the grassroots movement of social rebellion took hold and that included Hollywood. Anti-heroes became the rage and thus inspired this surprising hit called  Billy Jack.  Written and directed by (Tom Laughlin), this film created such a following it became a cult-Classic. The story is that of a ex-Marine named Billy Jack (Tom Laughlin), who holds a Black Belt in Karate, is Half-Indian who returns home to his reservation to save the wild mustang horses from being slaughtered for dog meat. In addition, he becomes a watchful guardian for the Indian students attending the newly established school. With the social power and the wimpy Sheriff residing in Mr. Posner pocket, he and his son take it for granted they run the town. Were it not for their protector, they would indeed have their way. Thus a confrontation is inevitable, between The School's director Jean Roberts, (Delores Taylor), Billy Jack, Sheriff Cole (Clark Howat) Mr. Posner and his son Benard Posner (David Roya). The movie is beautifully set in Santa Fe, New Mexico, well directed and with the incredible Martial Arts scenes, well staged. All in all, the combined features makes for setting in which rebellion becomes the watch word for the next generation. **** "},{"Title":"a double standard of an action movie that makes for equally entertaining and frustrating viewing","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Oh, the early 1970's, a time when people still wanted, in song, to Give Peace a Chance, and those stuff-shirt older folks just didn't understand to let the kids be left alone to their peace and love and artistic expression. This disconnect between the times is put forward in Billy Jack, a movie where it's really, ultimately, an exploitation movie in sheep's clothing. The filmmakers- writer/director/producer/star/shaman Tom Laughlan and his co-writer/star Delores Taylor- probably firmly believe the social issues they're putting right up on the screen, about a freedom school where kids or anyone can come to be free from the tyranny of everyday life and have free love, free expression, free music, free whatever, which of course doesn't suit well with the cowboy-types in town who wants the school run down. Not if Bill Jack, an ex-Green Beret from Vietnam who is also a half-breed Indian, has anything to say about it.The film is competently directed, usually, and some of the scenes at the freedom school run by Jean (Taylor) make for some fun viewing (albeit one scene is a complete rip-off of Cheech & Chong's comedy skit of Pedro & Man), and I suppose at the end of it all the message is meant to be inspiring in the sense of 'don't fight'. But Laughlan goes about it in a kind of 'too-much' and not satisfying way really. We're given the sides of 'good' and 'evil' as being absolute without a shred of gray area. Billy Jack comes close to an exception though not really and by default of his military/karate training. And what is meant to be a story of US against THEM just comes off silly and pretentious when it tries to take itself seriously. Only a few scenes, like when the freedom-students do a 'fake' mugging demonstration in the park, seem to have some actual invention and sense of intentional humor.And yet I can forgive a lot of the flaws in the film- the poor or lackluster performances, the self-aggrandizing screenplay, the stupid Indian-supernatural stuff with the snake- for those scenes where Laughlan comes alive as Billy Jack. It's those scenes where Jack just appears out of nowhere (because, as we're told, his Indian supernatural stuff lets him know when there's trouble), very calmly and coolly lays down how he feels about the situation like at the ice cream parlor, and lays the smackdown in a matter of moments (no slow-motion, take note modern martial arts movies), it's thrilling. It's as if there's a tough 80's action movie, or at least a super bad-ass superhero, caught in the midst of a dated late 60's leftover meant to show how much the Man gets hippies and freedom lovers down. Indeed Billy Jack was previously in a more well-suited vehicle with The Born Losers. How much Billy Jack goes to Washington fares I can't say.Billy Jack is a relic from a bygone era that is fascinating, but flawed and too full of itself to follow past a certain point, despite some decent acting by a couple of the players, and full of some intense moments of exploitation-movie violence and real laughs. Watching the Car Wash for example, is classic. So check out the choice clips on youtube, but as for the rest of the movie proceed with caution. "}{"Title":"Oh how I ENVY the people who saw this in the 70's","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Billy Jack left a very bit impression on me. Me, being born in 1990, have not seen any segregation problems in my school, restraunts, ice cream shops, or drinking fountains. So, what this movie did to me is 1)it showed some Native American's way's of life. Now, me being part Native American, it was very interesting. And 2) this movie shows how one man believes in his culture and his people so much, he is willing to fight for it, be arrested for it, and even by dying for it. Now, this movie definitely would have been more of an effect if I saw this in the 70's. It probably would've been my favorite movie. So, to some this movie all up, this has got to be on of the most effective and powerful movies I've ever seen! I highly recommend it for anybody. "},{"Title":"Where can I find it?","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I love this movie, but can't seem to find it anywhere. Also, there are apparently more Billy Jack movies out there. I saw one today that I've never heard of before. It involves a bunch of bikers who like to rape young girls and then scare them into not testifying. I'm sure you can guess the outcome. In my opinion, Billy Jack is one of the best movies of all time. I'm sure many will agree. I haven't seen it in years, but can still pretty much recite the words line for line. Does anyone know where I can find these movies? If anyone does, please answer this or e-mail me with the subject line Billy Jack. I've looked it up online, but all I keep finding is reviews. Nowhere does it say I can order the movie, or tell me where I can. "},{"Title":"If you have to go out you might as well make it count for something!","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Too talky at times with a number of far-out Native American occult-like rituals with the star Billy Jack, Tom Loughlin, involved in some kind of weird snake dance where he's repeatedly bitten by a deadly diamond back rattlesnake and survives only because of his faith in the great Indian Spirit. The movie Blly Jack really get's down to business when Billy early in the film puts away his pacifism and takes off his boots and socks and socks the bad guys with a few well placed kicks, together with a strong whiff of his foot perspiration odor, sending them running for their lives.Billy a decorated Vietnam War veteran has had it with civilization and lives by himself on a New Mexican Indian Reservation Peace-loving Billy's life is always disturbed by the local ranchers and townspeople who constantly break the agreement between the local Indian tribes and the US government of not trespassing on Indian land. Billy is also secretly in love with Jean Roberts, Delores Taylor, the founder and administrator of the local Freedom School for runaway youths and unwanted adults All this is a thorn in the side of local big shot rancher and political power broker Mr. Stuart Posner, Ben Freed,The trouble starts for Jean's beleaguered Freedom School when Barbara, Julie Webb, the sixteen year-old daughter of deputy Sheriff Mike, Kenneth Tobey, is beaten up and kicked out of the house by her outraged father. This happens when deputy sheriff Mike finds that Barbara spent the summer in a hippie commune in San Francisco and got knocked up by at least a dozen smelly pot smoking longhairs. Taken into the school and after being cleaned up Barbara is then taught the fine points in what life is really all about and most of all after becoming a member of the school's acting troupe Barbara finally finds the family she always wished for but never had. Mike together with Mr. Posner want to get Barbara back in the fold just to show up Jean's' school and prevent future Barbara's and many of the young men in and around town from joining the Freedom School that has some of the coolest and grooviest looking chicks this side of the Rockies in it. It's Mr. Posner's young and trouble-making son Bernard, David Roya, who really get's thing going downhill with him having the hots for Barbara and at the same time having it in for her peaceful and sensitive young Indian boyfriend Martin, Stan Rice. Martin is so respectful of Barbara that he keeps himself from having any sexual relationship with her, even though Barbara is always trying to get the meek and very shy Martin to go to bed with her, until their wedding night.The jealous and resentful Barnard is always making trouble for the local Indians together with his drinking buddy friends but it's only Billy who's able to keep him and his fellow sh*t-kickers in line. Bernard goes a bit too far when he attacks and brutally rapes Jean when she sunbathing nude by the lake and even worse, if he could be any worse that he already is, tracks down a crippled Martin. Bernard shoots the life-long pacifist dead with four bullets in his skull leaving his bullet-ridden floating in the river.Billy Jack finding out about Barnard despicable actions goes on a rampage and finds the lowlife creep in a cheap motel-room getting it on with an underage 13 year-old girl! Taking a bullet from this now exposed child-molester Billy whacks the sicko right across the throat killing him. I for one was hoping that Bernard would finds himself, like Barbara did, by joining the Freedom School and learning what it's like to be a kind decent and loving human being. I had a bit of sympathy for Bernard earlier in the movie when he couldn't bring himself to shoot a number of wild horses at the insistence of his ultra-macho and domineering father Mr. Posner. It's sad that Bernard became the most hated person in the film later on where anything bad that happened to him wasn't quite good enough.Billy Jack not through with his work to clean up the town, after dispatching that lowlife pedophile Bearnard, later has it out with deputy Mike putting a bullet between his eyes. Mike's daughter Barbara, who was with Billy at the time, not as much as blinked her eyes in shock which showed how much, or how little, she thought of her dad. Surrounded by the towns police force and the entire New Mexican National Guard Billy plans to go out blazing with both ends burning but is talked out of it by a sobbing Jean. Jean tells the confused and wounded, from being shot in the ribs by Bernard, Indian half-breed that him being alive will do a lot more for her and the children of the Freedom School then ending up dead. Jean then tearfully admits to Billy that she was also in love with him. With Billy getting an air-tight guarantee in writing that the Freedom School, with Jean running it, won't be closed down by the US Government all that's left in the movie is for the unforgettably emotional ending Billy Jack being taken into custody with the entire town giving him he heads, or fists, up to the music of the films heart-lifting theme song One Tin Soldier. "},{"Title":"Billy Jack","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I had seen this movie when I was eleven. It was fantastic to me then. A man who supports all of the weird and different children and people out there in the world who have no one really to protect them. When the law even has a hatred towards hippies and Indians, there is no where to turn to for help. Except, Billy Jack. I recently purchased the DVD and watched it again as a 45 year old. Well, you can say yes, it is an old film, low budget, bad acting, and stiff characters, and bad fake looking blood. Why did anyone ever think bright red paint can look like blood, I will never figure out. But, if you follow along, you will be on the school's side and hope everyone comes out alive and well. Just a great 70's feel for memory lane. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece, a must see film.","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is a touching and moving film. I was chocked with emotion Tom Laughlin wrote and directed this film under the name, T.J. Frank and was a producer under the name, Mary Rose Solti. He also wrote it. It was based on a real life story. This is a must see for anyone. Back in 1971 I saw it in the theater and it changed my life. It was a huge smash hit and started a whole new type of screen hero. As an actor, Tom Laughlin is a natural. I wish he would have done more films and wish that he would act more today. There is a rumor that Paramount is going to film a re-make of, 'Billy Jack' starring Keanu Reeves. "},{"Title":"Billy Jack takes on the establishment and brings back Native-American pride in this seminal cult classic!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack (1971) four years have passed since Billy Jack was last seenbeating up sleazy bikers and saving a girl from a life of drudgery.  Despite the passage of time, the world is still the same and society hasn't changed. Billy Jack tries to be faithful to his non-violent teachings but he quicklylearns that it's going to take a bit of violence to combat violence.  His life  partner disagrees with him.  Now he's a protectorate/guru of the Freedom School, a place were youngster can participate in alternative education.  But will his latest actions put the school and his life in jeopardy?Billy Jack was the second film of the four film series.  This one is not asviolent as the first  film but it's still has it's moments.  Sadly it's not edited  very well and it tends to drag in several parts.  If there were more buttkicking and less pontificating this one would have been awesome.  Still it'sworth watching just for the Ice Cream Parlor scene.  An all time classic. Tom Laughlin should sue Stephen Segal for stealing his character andmaking a career out of imitating him.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Good 70's movie, but PG rating is misleading.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I bought this movie at Best Buy and brought it home to watch with my two  sons (age 16 & 10).  I thought with a PG rating it would be appropriate for both.  I was looking forward to showing them a little of the 70's counter culture as well as some martial arts action.  Imagine my surprise when during the course of the movie there were two completely nude females shown and a fairly graphic rape scene. I thought ratings have become more lenient in the last 25 years, but was very surprised at this PG rating.  Considering the content mentioned above, I would certainly expect at least a PG-13 (or maybe even an R) rating for this movie. Don't be misled by the PG rating.  This is NOT APPROPRIATE for young "},{"Title":"cheesy but important","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"      Billy Jack was one of the first important indie films.  The thing that comes through in this movie that rarely comes through in most others is the movie's sincerity and earnestness.  Generally the acting is terrible but the message comes through loud and clear.  The people making this movie obviously deeply care about it and that comes through in every scene.      The love story between Billy Jack and Jean is done very authentically and as one would expect since Tom Laughlin and Delores Taylor were and are still married to each other.  Billy Jack had to also be one of the first movies to have karate but with the karate master *not* be Asian.  The scene where Billy kicks the tar out of the cowboys and toughs is still thrilling to watch and well choreographed.       Billy Jack is still worth watching if only because the liberal/pacifists in the movie are so funny to listen to today.  I've enjoyed it every time I've seen it.    "},{"Title":"When I Think of the Critics Ignoring Billy Jack...","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" ...I just go *berserk!*This film was truly a monster hit in the early 1970s and a huge component of the Angry Vigilante genre which has altered the course of cinema forever (remember back when heroes actually didn't *need* a personal reason to do the right thing?  They had this thing called ethics and morality, whatever those are, and wanted to do the right thing because -- get this! -- it was the right thing...).  Since the 1970s, people just can't seem to buy into the idea of somebody fighting for right against wrong just because it's right to do so.  You have to have their mom/dad/wife/kid brother/partner/pedicurist gunned down first, then they must cradle their dying loved one and throw back their head and yell NOOOOO! and then they will go out and fight evil because Now It's Personal.Billy Jack may have been a part of this wave of personalized vigilantism, indeed one of its founders, but he was one of the first and best.  You know in your guts that Billy's gonna defend the Freedom School -- and you and me, too.  So watch this movie, and reflect upon the paradox of a world in which you must sometimes fight for peace... "},{"Title":"The most influential film of the 70's.","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack was one of the first films to approach $100 million at the box office and one of the most successful indie films of all time. Without Billy Jack there is no Terminator 2. There is no ending for An Officer And A Gentleman or any number of other films. (There are basically two types of endings for almost all modern Hollywood films - the Billy Jack ending or the Rocky ending.) Dated? I guess so. And yet not nearly as dated as a John Hughes film or any other movie from the 80's including the entire Simpson Bruckheimer catalogue. Amateurish? Perhaps. And still more polished than any film directed by Kevin Smith or Ed Burns. Unique and original, Billy Jack was every bit as influential as that other low budget American classic Easy Rider.      "}{"Title":"A truly under-rated and over-bashed classic!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  In the words of the late, great actor Carroll O'Connor, A critic can say what he wants. Most of them are dumbbells. They don't understand art. They can't create it. They don't know what it is when they see it . ..It never ceases to amaze me how many people without an ounce of talent feel that they are qualified to rip apart the hard work of those who have been blessed with performing talent and creative talent. A few of the critics who have written in the user comments here are pretty astounding, too -- the ones who completely missed the points of the movie Billy Jack, one who knowingly states that this was the first Billy Jack film and one who somes up the movie in one word . . . Dumb! A beautiful statement from an individual who spells the word sum s-o-m-e. Sure, Billy Jack is dated, painfully liberal-minded and obviously independently-made, at not much cost. But, the film's issues are just as valid today as they were thirty years ago. The story is interesting, the characters are believable and portrayed *more* than well enough. This movie has been unjustifiably trashed through the years. It is truly an under-rated and over-bashed classic.I have seen this movie so many times, I know every word of dialogue by heart, and I have for years. When the movie first came out, I paid to see it in a local theater at least 8 - 10 times, each time with a different friend or a different combination of friends. When it hit television, I watched it a couple of more times. After the home video age was well upon us, I recorded TBS's mercilessly chopped-to-shreds version of it and watched that several times. A couple of years ago, when Billy Jack Enterprises made the newly-restored video version available, I just HAD to purchase one, I've seen *that* at least a dozen times. I love this movie every bit as much now, as a middle-aged man, as I did as an impressionable teenager. . . if not more.  "},{"Title":"When meaning outweighed hollywood.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The point to the movie was, at least to me, So what is it getting us? Billy Jack is about a world that desperately doesn't want to need Billy Jack anymore. The relationship with him being indian in the movie is that, contrary to what some of you might think. Indians are still treated like that today, and this movie was made 30 years ago. The action is bad because this was the first us made movie that featured a martial art as the heroes main weapon, and us cinematography and choreography really didn't know what to do. "},{"Title":"Iconic Classic","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Viet Nam combat veteran Billy Jack acts as tribal policeman on the Indian reservation where he studies ancient customs and watches over the progressive school for wayward youngsters set up by teacher Jean Roberts. The Freedom School is feared and hated by the old-fashioned denizens of the neighboring town and their leading citizen, rancher Stuart Posner, engages in an escalating conflict to remove the troublemakers.  This leads Billy to use his Green Beret martial arts skills in defense of the bullied students and the Indians who are the victims of racial prejudice.  Posner's troubled son, Bernard, ultimately commits rape and murder and Billy Jack kills him in revenge before boarding himself up in a church against the authorities arriving to arrest him.  But his love for the teacher Jean and her school causes him to give himself up instead of seeking a warrior's death.         Jeez this movie attracts a lot of flack!  But don't listen to the naysayers.  It is a classic in every sense of the word.  Billy Jack was one of the original screen anti-heroes, as well as an iconic action figure many times duplicated.  Chuck Norris' character in his first starring feature, Breaker! Breaker! was a direct inspiration, and no doubt there would be no Rambo films without the trailblazing of this contemporary western.  It was one of the first movies to introduce martial arts to American audiences, even before the appearance of Bruce Lee.           Filmed on a shoestring budget with veteran actors sprucing up the mostly undiscovered cast, Tom Laughlin's writing-directing-acting pinnacle presents characters who seem like real people in real situations.  As in any production yes, there are flaws, but there is no better example of seat-of-your-pants filmmaking than this. It's a movie where everything seemed to come together, and the result is greatness, and greatness with staying power. There are few of us of a certain generation who have not seen Billy Jack and few of us who didn't love it.         Need I say it?  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.  And get one of the newer transfers.  I still have the first pre-recorded tape released in the early 80's by Warner Brothers, who hated the film's popularity even as they raked in money on it, and released it with flaws intact that could have easily been edited out (like boom mikes visible in camera shots).  The movie deserves better and lately that's exactly what it's been getting, along with some long-delayed respect.     "},{"Title":"Good idea.....might have been poorly executed.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The idea of a native american action hero is a great concept. However, the Billy Jack movies are more about Laughlin's religious beliefs than about action adventure. This film was a huge hit, why I don't know. Rather than tell a story about action adventure this film goes off tangents like street theatre, and hippie singing. Billy Jack is outdated in the sense that it portrays outdated 1970's era social values (ie. the hippie movement). Tom Laughlin could have made a slew of these movies but with BILLY JACK GOES TO WASHINGTON, it became evident he had lost a sense of what sells. Despite it's flaws the film works as a independent film. The idea of a minority action hero still might work today. "},{"Title":"This film will change your religion and make you think twice before bathing regularly.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" If you want to do anything more than live on an Indian Reservation and drink fire water for the rest of your life after watching this film then you have no soul. Also, this film should not be placed in a DVD player unless the viewing party has consumed no less than three bottles of Cutty Sark Whiskey (yes that is the spelling on the bottle) and two handles of Raspberry flavored McCormick's vodka (Takaa will also do quite well). I am very sad that I am incapable of giving THE GREATEST WARRIOR SINCE ACHILLES (Billy Jack and his mad ninja green berret skillz) a higher rating than a 10. This film deserves no less than a rating of 10 million points.If you hate this movie you hate life and you hate yourself. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Overly preachy but with some good thriller elements","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" BILLY JACK is the quintessential '70s film detailing the hippie movement and depicting their struggles against small-town narrow mindedness and bigotry in the American south. Tom Laughlin, who directs as well as stars as the eponymous hero (he's playing the character in the second of five films here, although the last remains unreleased), is in many ways an early version of Rambo in FIRST BLOOD, a highly skilled loner who just wants to be left alone. Unfortunately, as in FIRST BLOOD, the corrupt authorities have other ideas, and that's where the film comes in.I'm no fan of political polemics in films. I believe they have their place, and that place is not being thrust down your throat in a piece of entertainment. Sadly, a lot of the running time of this overlong film is spent in depicting the hippie movement in a positive light, which in essence means lots of preaching, lots of happy-clappy nonsense and plenty of amateur theatre. BILLY JACK is in reality a didactic film that aims to educate its audience rather than entertain, which is a shame, as all of the subtext stuff is rather dull. Remove all of the 'messages' and you'd have an hour-long film.Still, the thriller aspects are well-handled even if they're overshadowed by the rest of the film, and it's fun to see a hero using martial arts before Bruce Lee hit the scene in ENTER THE DRAGON. There are the standard elements of many a '70s thriller, including rape scenes, humiliation, ass-kicking, car chases and a siege that doesn't disappointment. Laughlin is excellent in the titular role and his supporting cast, especially the Native Americans, are very good too, but it's just hard to get worked up about a film so intent on spreading the message that it loses focus of what it's all about. "},{"Title":"You Had To Be There- Not Aging Well","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" When TCM ran this recently what really showed the most was the shoe string budget of American International Pictures when this movie was made. The print looked terrible -much worse than when I saw it in the theater. Political Correctness people will freak out watching this because if this were remade today it would make Native Americans have something in common with Patriots - both would have deflated balls.This was a hero worship effort by the star and script writer Laughlin. The story looks a little thread bare looking back and without today's special effects comes off flat. Tom Laughlin was what this movie was centered on, may he rest in peace.The message of this movie has gotten lost somewhere in time. Sometimes the good old days belong in the good old days. This is true here. Drag Movie Funny Car Summer which was released at the same time holds up better than this semi-classic. "},{"Title":"Storyline problems continued.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Okay, here we go. In this film Billy gets bitten by a rattlesnake a half dozen times and lives. He kicks the bad rich dude upside his head, makes the rich dude's kid drive a fancy Corvette into a lake, later killing him and two LEOs and goes to jail for it. He is driven off in a squad car with people standing along both sides of the road holding their arms up in the power salute while we hear the band Coven sing One Tin Soldier, which is really catchy. We are still informed that Billy is an ex-Green Beret. I also liked this movie as Billy was a very charismatic character. However many things are left unexplained. Why is Billy now in Arizona, not California? Whatever happened to Vickie from The Born Losers? How does Billy figure out that Jean was raped by Benard? Why did Delores Taylor strip naked in the film? Was that really needed? Stay tuned, the best is yet to come. (Continued on The Trial of Billy Jack.) "},{"Title":"the second Billy Jack film","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" this second film id the Billy Jack series of films is much more of a social commentary than the first one.like the first one,this one too deals with injustice,but on a bit larger scale.this this time,racism nd culture clash are the big issues here.Billy Jack again reluctantly gets involved,and this time circumstances make it personal for him.for me,this film certainly had an important message and some real depth to it.back in 1971,i'm sure it must have been very important and had a very big impact or at least it should have.some people may find it a bit preachy and heavy handed today(and maybe it is)but if you can get around that,there's a lot to like about the film.there are some great songs for one thing.and the film really makes you think.for me,Billy Jack is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great film, nothing superfluous and well spoken.","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I watched this imagining that it would be rubbish, but good rubbish. I guess it is, there?s an unstoppable hero who gets shot and doesn't flinch an 11 innocent who is of course perfectly wonderful and the usual.However it is also good, very good, in and of itself. It says some interesting things and has a very clear understanding of its points and says them clearly and interestingly.Most of all it seems to be a very honest form of story telling and together with a 70's look and style it fore fills on all its promises.There is no fat in this film either, and I like it. There is nothing superfluous no unimportant lines, or a line that isn?t exactly what?s needed oddly, no shots, no surplus plot connections or action sequences. It has been trimmed right down to the story to perfection.A very interesting, entertaining and surprisingly talented film.'Damn you're pacifism' "}{"Title":"The Dolemite of the Native Americans","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Tom Laughlin's Billy Jack is a cult character as equal as the Black Action superstar known as Dolemite. Both characters represent a time period in America and a culture of a people that are in the minority. Half the movie is not about Billy Jack but about the early 70's and the generation that began to take shape. Much of the movie is spent on the stage with the 'improv' and theater shows. Although Tom Laughlin is the big draw, the moments involving the youth are as timeless as the wardrobe and the references to the Nixon administration. A great cult classic, the movie is entertaining although at times, there are moments that remind you that you are watching a movie and not a big budget Hollywood movie. Billy Jack was the freedom fighter of the 1970's that fought for the good in the common man and the hope that rested in the hearts of the youth. "},{"Title":"A time capsule from the 1960s that we might wish to forget","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie 30 years ago in the movies on the big screen, before multi-plex theatres. It seemed larger than life and obviously righteous. Now, as a mature man, I question the whole idea of a Billy Jack as a hero, anti-hero or anything. He seems self-destructive in retrospect to the point that the events of the movie could never have happened in the first place. Having said that, while I enjoyed the movie from an entertainment standpoint, I knew the movie suffered from many structural flaws, not the least of which was the lack of an ominous villian. No Darth Vador or Liberty Valence here. Instead, a father and son who illegally shoot horses in the Indian Reservation that Billy Jack policed, for dog food .06 lband an abusive father who happens to be a Deputy Sheriff Kenneth Tobywho is a minion of Mr. Horsemeat, with a pregnant 15 year old daughter that Billy Jack has given refuge to will have to surfice. Just think of how many action features fail because of a weak villain lacking in pathos. Anyone recall the Return of the Seven? Lorca was the villain and who cares?I did say I liked this movie and I did and I still do, but while I applauded the characters for their principles and the courage of their convictions 30 years ago, today I see it as a confused but entertaining time capsule that summed up the 1960s in its own way. Today I enjoy the movie more for its spectacle value than its ideology, but I do recall that I believed in some of what I saw when it was first released though what exactly that might be would be a guess at this point. It was fun telling my wife who is 15 years my Junior that,before their was Dirty Harry or Steven Seagal there was Billy Jack to which she just nodded with the same confused look I must have felt when I watched the film again after 30 years. 3 STARS, certainly worth watching, but once should do it for most.   "},{"Title":"Very dated but interesting","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  A Freedom School (where children or all races are given a progressive education and learn how to deal with issues nonviolently) in Arizona is constantly under attack by a bigoted, conservative group of people from a town nearby.  The school is protected by Billy Jack--a ex-Green Beret half breed.  The school preaches tolerance and peace--naturally Billy protects the school by beating people up! This film was a huge hit when it was released (or rereleased) back in 1973.  Time has not been kind.  The message here seems to be peace can only by achieved by violence.  That's a frightening thought and (as Leonard Maltin points out) the constant talk about peace in the movie gets ridiculous considering how violent the film is (there are beatings, shootings, child abuse, rape, etc).**WARNING--POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD**The best parts of the film show the students at the Freedom School interacting and how they deal with certain topics and issues.  The issues and talk is all very 70s but interesting.  Their acting seems natural and unforced--they talk and act like real kids.  Also Delores Taylor (as the head of the school) gives out a very good performance--especially moving is when she talks about how she felt after she's been raped.  Also the film has a great opening (and closing) song One Tin Soldier.The big problem with this film is Tom Laughlin as Billy Jack.  He's handsome but he's short (he's always shown on a horse so we won't realize), he's obviously no halfbreed and his acting is really REALLY bad.So, message aside, this is an interesting film.  Worth a look. "},{"Title":"A true American independent classic film","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  What is it with these comments and especially the Leonard Maltin summaries with every Billy Jack film?  No, it wasn't Hamlet or The Godfather, but it wasn't trying to be.  It was trying to be entertaining and send a message at a time when that was very important to young Americans, and an opportunity for a filmmaker to present his viewpoint and make a little money to boot. Why is it that people find a need to make comments that deride the work of others when they really have no idea who or what they're commenting about?Tom Laughlin & Delores Taylor deserve every filmgoer's and especially every filmmaker's respect.  In a time when Hollywood couples where singing D-I-V-O-R-C-E daily, this couple has been married longer than most new filmmakers have been alive.  They were not part of the Hollywood system, and that's what has dogged them for the whole of their careers.Billy Jack was a long-time vision of Laughlin's, and he was one of the first maverick independents ever.  He bucked the Hollywood system and took his film to the theaters himself; many times he four-walled theaters and Assembly Centers on college campuses, which means basically renting out the buildings, taking the risk and keeping the rewards, and there were plenty of rewards and grass-roots kudos when this film was released.  It was an unheard-of idea to do what they did at that time but it worked; they made a lot of money and the film was and still is a cult classic.  Sure, it has socialist, utopian views that are passe now and never really were very relevant or realistic, but they were a good idea and an honest and valued message, and we could use more messages like that.Another point --- The use of violent imagery to promote peace is completely sane and normal, so I don't understand what Malton's reviews have against all of Laughlin's films and this very premise.  If you have a film about women getting raped and beaten and you are identifying the injustice of it all, to do that properly, you must depict that violence in some form to make the film and the story believable.  Does it glorify it and is it incongruous to the point?  Of course not; in fact, it's necessary to show the contrast for the viewer to even get the point and see the message in the film in its proper light, people!  And when Billy Jack does act as a pacifist and spare the violence, one commenter here thinks it's ridiculous, as if it was an action opportunity forsaken, missing the entire point of the film!  This wasn't supposed to be a John Woo film, you idiot!Take this film and all the films the Laughlins made at their face value and nothing more, that's all they would probably deserve from you anyway and give them the respect they deserve at least for their efforts.  The message was the important point so don't lose sight of that by creating arguments and commentary that is completely inconsequential to the film as a whole anyway.  They had the guts to make a film they believed in when the entire Hollywood machine was against them and they fought it and won, and created a nice body of work, though their films haven't all been as strong as Billy Jack itself, and though Billy Jack was no icon of sound production and acting values.  They faced despair and rejection and risked all they had on their dream and they succeeded.  Can you say that you have done the same or would risk the same?  Probably not, but then again, we are only mortal and prefer the safe route, content to lie back and fling unjust criticism at people, things and ideals which we do not fully understand or fail to appreciate.I believe every independent filmmaker and every person who enjoys films more than just an entertainment medium should look into the life and times of Tom Laughlin & Delores Taylor and see what it means to be a real independent filmmaker.  And this film is an excellent start. "},{"Title":"AS RELEVANT TODAY AS WHEN FIRST RELEASED","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Every now and then a movie comes along that strikes  a responsive chord in the conscience of the people.   BILLY JACK is one such film.  Filmed during the  height of the Viet Nam conflict (but released  several years later), this movie, along with EASY  RIDER, touches upon the human psyche in a way that  is rare among this medium. Film auter Tom Laughlin  produced, directed, wrote, and starred in this tale  of the underdog, coming to the rescue of the  disillusioned youth of the Freedom School.  Many  people have misunderstood this movie's message   this is an indictment against violence, not for.   Billy is a half-breed native American ex-green beret  that comes home to find America is in as much  turmoil and conflict as Viet Nam.  But the conflicts  here  are of our own design.  Racial hatred, intolerance,  bigotry and narrow mindedness are abound in society  and Billy tries to take the passive road but is  forced to retaliate.  The story is as much a tale  about growth and development as it is an action  saga.  Billy soon learns that violence begets  violence in his quest to find inner peace.   Following Columbine and other tragedies, this movie  is well-worth another look "},{"Title":"It's A Great, Classic, Cult-ish Movie of the 70's !","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack is a film that was a rite of passage film for many young people (i.e. high school grads of the late 60's).While I'm a bit younger than those who typically saw the movie for the first time, I admire the movie for the message it sent and for the (same) message that rings true but is forgotten today. Looking beyond the low-budget veneer, the movie is a symbol of the dawning of the 70's which was the gate that introduced the way for America as we know today. Great, but highly under-appreciated movie. A favorite of mine that sees a lot of VCR time in my home. "},{"Title":"A Ludicrous Message Of Peace","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Talk about sending out a screwy message!This film actually seemed to suggest that a good, swift kick in the groin would bring about peace and love. And that a gun in hand was far better than any old constitution when it came to enforcing justice.Seen today, Billy Jack's politics are, to say the least, highly questionable and its so-called message of peace looks downright ludicrous, considering the serious amount of violence that takes place in the story.Set in and around the town of Prescott, Arizona, actor Tom Laughlin starred, directed, and co-wrote this 1971, grass-roots hit, which by 1973 had grossed well-over $40 million. (Its budget was only $800,000)Billy Jack predates all of the Bruce Lee/Kung Fu movies and character Billy Jack's wardrobe of black t-shirt, denim jeans and jacket, and black hat with bead-work became an instant fashion trend amongst all the hippy-dippy youth of the day.Anyways, as Billy Jack's crude, little story goes -Half-breed, Cherokee, and karate expert, Billy Jack goes well out of his way to protect a hippie-themed freedom school for runaways that has recently come under fire (figuratively speaking) by the bigoted, reactionary townspeople of Prescott.Yep. Billy Jack's story really was as plain and simple as all of that.This film was actually credited with helping to raise the level of awareness regarding the discrimination of Native Americans.Billy Jack's memorable opening, title sequence, depicting the slaughter of wild mustangs, introduced the hit song One Tin Soldier by Coven.Lyrics excerpt - You won't hear any trumpets blowing, Come the Judgment Day, On the bloody morning after, One tin soldier rides away. "},{"Title":"Historically significant independent film","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Shot in 1969 and released in 1971, Billy Jack was hugely popular with the counterculture at the time.Made independently by Tom Laughlin and his wife Delores, the story revolves around a New Mexican town and the Freedom School located on the nearby reservation, which is run by Jean Roberts (Delores). When the school provides sanctuary for an abused pregnant teen, her father -- a deputy of the town -- stirs-up hostilities. Jean responds with pacifism while her man, Billy Jack (Laughlin), fights fire with fire.Billy Jack contains numerous worthy elements, but it's hampered by really lame skit performances at the Freedom School. Howard Hesseman (Dr. Fever from WKRP) takes the lead in most of these overlong and tiresome skits. One or two (at the most) would've been tolerable, but they overdo it. Yet Billy Jack delivers if you can look past this serious flaw.The title sequence is stirring with One Tin Soldier, covered by Coven. Shortly later there's an excellent showdown sequence in the town where Billy Jack confronts the persecutors of the kids. Laughlin is an intriguing Rambo-like protagonist, a full dozen years before Rambo debuted in First Blood. It's interesting that Billy Jack became so popular with the hippies since he's an ex-Green Beret, rejects the concept of total pacifism and has short hair! As it turned out, Laughlin was right to opt for the short haircut because it's a timeless look, whereas Hesseman looks horrible and seriously dated with his hippie mullet.There are some quality action scenes with Laughlin showing off his martial arts skills, but this is mostly a drama. As such, people viewing Billy Jack purely for the action will be sorely disappointed.Thankfully, much of the drama is good and even insightful. Billy's relationship with Jean (Delores) is refreshing in that Billy doesn't opt for the clichéd hot babe. Don't get me wrong, Delores has a nice body, but she's a far cry from Megan Fox. The question is raised at the beginning of the film as to whether they love each other and the ending effectively answers this. By the way, Tom and Delores have been married since 1954 and have 3 children -- I love it when couples stay together.An interesting topic is addressed The pregnant girl, Barbara, comes off pretty obnoxious at first. She's disrespectful to her cop father and flaunts her dallyings with casual sex (no wonder he's ticked off, but this doesn't excuse his abuse). She starts to develop a relationship with a native student at the school, but she questions why he hasn't made sexual advances. He humbly informs her that sex isn't the reason he loves her. Somewhere along the line Barbara obviously confused sexual interest with love, but this guy demonstrates that sex is best as an offshoot of love & commitment.Then there's the fascinating debate between Billy and Jean as to which tactics are better A peaceable attitude that only resorts to violence when necessary (i.e. limited pacifism) or absolute pacifism, which refuses to ever turn to violence in response to evil. Contrary to the complaints of the film's critics, this movie is not hypocritical in that it preaches pacifism while occasionally showcasing violence. It's only Jean and, by extension her school, that supports total pacifism whereas Billy advocates limited pacifism, only resorting to violence when justified.Billy Jack shows that total pacifism does not work. It supports the balanced position advocated by the New Testament. Some erroneously think that the New Testament supports the idea of absolute pacifism, but it doesn't. Jesus' ministry team had a treasury box with loads of money and some of his workers carried swords for protection from thieves and murderers. Not to mention that Jesus got a whip and chased all the greedy fools out of the temple -- throwing over tables, swinging the whip and yelling. This caused the legalistic religious leaders to fear him and plot murder (Mark 1112-18). Harmless pacifists don't inspire fear and provoke murder plots. Also, Romans 13 clearly states the righteous laws of human governments are God-ordained for the purpose of punishing criminals, including the right to execute when appropriate. The majority of sane Christians realize this, but there are a few extremists who refuse to be balanced with the Scriptures on this matter and insist that conflict and especially armed conflict is never appropriate. Billy Jack shows that some people are so degenerate and evil that radical opposition and even execution are sometimes just reactions.The film also delivers in the area of women with the aforementioned Susan Foster standing out as the stunning Cindy. There's a great scene at the end with Cindy brandishing a rifle while wearing a jean jacket and purple hose and... it's just a great look, lol.The film also explores spiritual issues The youth of America rejected the religious indoctrination of their culture because it largely devolved into sterile, powerless, em-bondaging legalism. Billy Jack turns to Native mysticism and draws parallels to biblical Christianity. I'm not saying I agree with every jot and tittle of his claims, but some of them are interesting and he makes some valid points.Another good point is the decision of the writers to not paint all the townspeople as ee-vil rednecks. The sheriff's a quality soul and many of the folks of the town respond positively to what the Freedom School is doing.Unfortunately, the ending feels padded with the overlong standoff, but the climax sort of makes up for it. In any event, Billy Jack is a worthwhile period piece if you can overlook the horrible skits at the Freedom School.The film runs 114 minutes and was shot in New Mexico, with some parts in Arizona and California.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry For The Hippie Set","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Disillusioned half-Indian Green Beret Vietnam veteran Billy Jack comes back home to Arizona and what does he find? Several people illegally hunting on Indian land. And to make matters worse, one of them is the local sheriff, so the law no longer applies, and Billy decides that he must take it into his own hands. Not that the sheriff really matters-the real boss of the town is the local millionaire and his spoiled bully son.But there's more. There's a set of hippies near the town who have set up a Freedom School on the same Indian land (with permission), and occasionally they go into town to do street theater and other antics. The locals dislike them and the local rednecks harass them, and as pacifists they cannot fight back on principle. So Billy Jack comes as the great cowboy hero, punching out the local rednecks whenever they cause the hippies trouble.Things get worse when one redneck rapes one of the hippies. She tries to hide it from Billy Jack, knowing what he will do, but he finds out anyway, and despite the hippies' insistence, he shoots the rapist dead, and holes up in a church, ready to die fighting. But a lawman with better integrity comes up and Billy Jack surrenders to the law, the hippies raising their fists in a power salute as he is taken away.I was a tyke when this film was made, so I don't remember the era, but those who have do, and they laughed at the suspiciously clean hippies and the idea they were just harmless goofs who were unjustly bullied. Real-life hippies were neither clean nor harmless, and the dislike for them not so unjustified. Billy Jack is a period piece, but doesn't show the era as it really was. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This was a movie of its time and we saw it when we were young and ripe for the whole 'stick it to the man' message, and you know what, there's a part of us that still young enough to enjoy it while knowing that it's a simplistic piece of fluff. Ah, the innocence of youth lives on. There will be those of course who will pompously go on about how shallow it all is and how we shouldn't see violence as a solution to anything, all the while comfortably ignoring Iraq and what the conservatives still see as a virtuous endeavor. Maybe we should have sent Billy Jack to sort out Saddam Hussein!!! At least there might have been more than oner tin soldier who would have ridden away. The final thing is that movies don't have to be great art to be entertaining., They need to connect with their audience and this one did, with my wife and me, and we still like it. "}{"Title":"The Beginning of the Billy Jack ERA","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Title Tom Laughlin, Delores Taylor, and Clark Howat. Billy Jack is the second, and highest grossing, in a series of motion pictures centering on a fictional character of the same name, played by Tom Laughlin who also directed and co-wrote the script. Filming began in Prescott, Arizona, in fall 1969, but the movie was not completed until 1971. American International Pictures pulled out of the production, halting filming. Twentieth Century Fox came in and filming eventually resumed, but when that studio refused to distribute the film, Warner Bros. took over. The film lacked distribution, so Laughlin took it to theaters himself in 1971. The film died at the box office in its initial run but took in more than $40 million in its 1973 re-release, which was supervised by Laughlin.Summary These changes with the second film, Billy Jack, in which the hero must defend the hippie-themed Freedom School (a thinly veiled reference to Prescott College) and its students from townspeople who do not understand or like the counterculture students. Jean Roberts, played by Laughlin's wife, Delores Taylor, who also appears in each subsequent film, organize the school. Their 11-year-old daughter, Teresa, plays one of the students and sings two self-written songs. Susan Foster and several other supporting players from The Born Losers also appear in different roles. Many cast members, particularly the students, were non-actors who improvised most of their dialog. The San Francisco-based improvisational comedy troupe The Committee, including Howard Hesseman, also posed as students and performed some of their satirical skits. Although marketed as an action film, the story focuses on the plight of Native Americans during the civil rights movement. It attained a cult following among younger audiences due to its youth-oriented, anti-authority message combined with the then-novel martial arts fight scenes which predate the Bruce Lee/kung fu movie trend that soon followed. The centerpiece of the film features Billy Jack, enraged over the mistreatment of his Indian friends, fighting a gang of racist thugs using his hapkido karate-kicking technique. Billy Jack helped raise the level of awareness regarding the discrimination against Native Americans at that time.Questions Why did the Indian children go into town for? Why was Bernard Poser so afraid of the Indians children? Who did the injustices to Billy's girlfriend Jean? Who pulled the trigger that kill one of the Indian children? Will Billy die or turn himself in? My thoughts on this movie This went on to become one of the highest grossing films of its time, and remains among the top 100 when the list is adjusted for inflation. In his Movie and Video Guide, film critic Leonard Maltin writes Seen today, its politics are highly questionable, and its 'message' of peace looks ridiculous, considering the amount of violence in the film. Billy Jack's wardrobe (black T-shirt, blue denim jacket, blue jeans, and a black hat with a bead work band) would become nearly as iconic as the character. The film's theme song, One Tin Soldier by Coven, became a Top 40 hit in 1971, and featured the chorus. I give this picture 8 weasel stars because of the action and suspense in this film. "},{"Title":"Billy Jack, where are you?","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I ask again, Billy Jack, played so amazingly well by Tom Laughlin (who also wrote and directed), where are you, especially when America is in such dire straights?If you were to ever check my reviews on this site of some of the more political flicks out there, you'd find that I may fall quite well within Billy Jack's key demographic. I do consider myself left-leaning in my politics, and even the film's conflicted peace/war message gets to me because I'm just as divisive when it comes to MKLVFKWR.In Billy Jack, the ex-Green Beret Karate (actually Hapkido) expert takes the side of a progressive freedom school, headed by Jean Roberts (Laughlin's wife and Golden Globe-nominee Delores Taylor), that is constantly being attacked by local bigots and racists of all manner. Billy Jack, who is half-white and half-Indian, takes exception to this and decides to take matters into his own hands and feet (and the occasional firearm).For all its political implications, Billy Jack does remain resolute in its politics and doesn't buckle. The movie does end in a shootout (foreshadowing the flicks of the '80s that were to come), but the way it ends can earn points for those that truly appreciate under-appreciated works of art. Its budget limitations do show, but Laughlin fought tooth & nail to have this picture made. He wasn't in it for the paycheck or the mainstream fame; he was making a statement, a statement against The Man, and the whole Vietnam era. Aside from this, Billy Jack does have many other accolades working in its favor. Of course I'm talking about Billy Jack's martial arts showdown in the park with a bunch of hired goons.This fight and others in the Billy Jack series, were choreographed by Hapkido Grandmaster Bong Soo Han (also Laughlin's instructor and body double during some of the more complicated parts), and was instrumental in bringing martial arts to the United States, even before Five Fingers of Death (1972) and Bruce Lee. Though be warned, martial arts enthusiasts, this IS the only fight scene in Billy Jack.In today's world, I hope Billy Jack makes a comeback.10/10 "},{"Title":"Stick it to The Man!","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Billy Jack is one of those films that seems to have absolutely no middle ground with people, i.e., one either hates it or loves it.I fall into the latter category.Although Billy Jack was shot on a shoestring budget and contains some of the worst acting -- and singing -- ever recorded on film, I love everything, and I do mean *everything* about this movie! It will appeal to anyone who is a) a major fan of the sixties; b) who still believes in the peace and love idealism of that time; c) those who love movies with scenes that are aimed directly at invoking your most basic emotions by way of manipulating you with cheap and shameless sentimentality.Billy Jack panders to your sense of utter outrage at blatant hypocrisy and injustice, and invokes the hippie/flower child fear of living in a truly hostile environment infested with mindless townspeople and hateful rednecks.Stick it to the man! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The Billy Jack Series appeals to a higher intelligence","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The Billy Jack Series appeals to a higher intelligence, therefore and sadly, many people may not like it. Why? Because they won't get it. Why? Alas, Chivalry is rarely taught here in the United States of America these days, nor does it appear highly regarded. Billy Jack is actually the second of four movies in this series, the fourth being only available through a collectors set as it was never released in theaters, and the first being fairly obscure and released only for a short while in theaters. The series include Born Losers, Billy Jack, The Trial of Billy Jack, and Billy Jack Goes to Washington. This movie will appeal to creative thinking people and for those who champion optimism with regards towards humanity, this movie is a must see for all red people. 10 stars for Billy Jack. "},{"Title":"A Real American Hero!","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" A Vietnam Veteran who's skilled in karate is not to be taken lightly, but then again, don't ever mess with Billy Jack. He's no Kwai Chang Caine, but he's cool as Shaft. His respects to society is like Ha! The way they treated these kids, who needs them. Billy Jack(Tom Laughlin) really knows how to kick serious butt. I see lots of those guys get their jewels kicked and others get really humiliated by him and the kids. I liked the part where the sheriff's son whips his switchblade and popped her buttons and her bra with it, something has to be done. What does Billy Jack do? He makes him drive his car into the lake, now that is funny! This is not your usual martial art film, and I'm glad I got to see for the first time. After seeing it over and over, I liked it very well. I don't why they took Billy Jack away, the real bad guys in the movie way society itself, feeding on narrow-mindedness. This is a great movie, and it's recommendable to all martial arts buffs. Rating 4.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"One Tin Soldier rides away. . . .","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack is just one of those movies that cannot be hated. It is at points so overly corny that the people who do not even agree with its message just can't hate. It is absolutely impossible for anyone with a soul to hate it. Its just an all around enjoyable film! Of course, pacifists like myself cherish this movie for different reasons.The basic plot of the story Barbara is a young pregnant girl who is beaten by her father. The doctor who treats her, concerned for her welfare, sends her to live at the Freedom school way out on Indian land. It is a progressive school, that teaches the value of love and peace.The children of the Freedom school are outsiders already. A bunch of unnatural people, black and indians and those into free expression. WHAT CRIMINALS! When the children come to town they are treated unfairly, because many of them are not white. When the half breed Indian witnesses their appalling treatment, he just goes berserk in a very well done Martial Arts sequence.Tensions are already rising between the town and the school (and the authorities) and when they figure out that Barbara is at the freedom school, everything starts to fall apart from there on. Billy Jack has used every means necessary to stop these struggles, but what ultimately works is nonviolenceThis movie has an ultimate message of Nonviolence, a poignant message these days. When i saw this movie I was not inspired. I had been already inspired to live as a pacifist by looking at the world around me.This film is often credited as the first Martial Arts film. This is a lie, it is not a martial arts film it has one Hapkido sequence and that is about it. What this film does is something that I haven't seen in any other films (save other Billy Jack films) is to show modern day indians and modern treatment (of course, this was more than thirty years ago). I think I would like to point to Trial of Billy Jack for a second, where one of the major struggles is the indians having land taken from them. Go to any Indian reservation and they will tell you that Tom Laughlin was not exaggerating this problem.  "},{"Title":"Best movie of all time, hands down!","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie as a child with my father and have loved it ever since! This websites description of the plot is lacking considerably. They do not even mention, Barbara a key character who is driving force behind much of the conflict in the movie. This compliments the theme of the film; protagonist, Billy fighting against the close minded Posner. The opening song, One Tin Soldier sums up what one can learn and gain from this wonderful movie. The nudity present in the film does seem to be a bit unneeded but it is not excessive in my opinion. The message of love your neighbor is perfect for all ages, as is this film. Even as a six year old I was able to appreciate much of what this film had to offer! All should watch this film as it is a modern classic! Two thumbs up and a 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"Unlike anything I've ever seen","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I sat down recently with my mom to watch Billy Jack. She had bought it as a sort of nostalgic gift for my dad, her high school sweetheart and a martial arts enthusiast that grew up during the 60s and 70s. Over the years, I've flipped through my dad's old martial arts magazines. Billy Jack was on several of those covers, but I'd never seen the movie.My mom laughed at the memory as I sat down to watch it. I was mesmerized from the second the song One Tin Soldier started. I was mesmerized by what I was watching. Sure, there was martial arts action sprinkled throughout, but I was intrigued by the story and the way Tom Laughlin presented two sides, that of establishment and anti-establishment. The story made me think about my values. It's too bad that some people here seem to be getting off on kicking the movie around. I'm a movie buff that can appreciate Star Wars, James Bond and Indiana Jones as much as Cabaret, Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore and The Limey. Yet, I found qualities in Billy Jack that I don't remember seeing in any action film. The characters are authentic and they aren't totally good or totally bad, and while that is a quality in some movies, (i.e. Brando's One Eyed Jacks), I was surprised to find myself sympathizing with some of the establishment characters like the deputy whose daughter is pregnant. It made me relate to characters on a more emotional level that is difficult to describe. Usually, I have a pretty good eye for bad acting---a popular theme for people who are bashing this particular film. However, I don't remember anything that I saw as flat out bad acting. Because the performances seemed so natural to me, I felt like I was watching real people and that only added to the authentic feel of the movie.Billy Jack isn't your typical martial arts fare. And believe me, I've seen plenty of them. I'd say it's more of a period piece on the early 70s and the cultural movement of the day. It inspired me to think about pacifism, how it's not the answer to everything, and how sometimes, backed into a corner, you just have to fight back. "},{"Title":"No","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Probably the worst movie I've ever seen. It doesn't matter what the messed up message was, the actors, the setting, the entire movie was more messed up than Ozzy at at crack house. You can stop reading here or continue to read my ten, that's ten (10) lines of filler text, as is required by the stupid rule. So, now I have to continue to tell you how bad this movie is until I use ten, that's ten (10) lines of text. That is way too much space to use on this crappy movie. But, the rules are the rules and contrary to the context of this movie, I will abide by the rules and continue to tell you how bad it was until I have the required ten, that's ten (10) lines, not words, but lines of filler text. "},{"Title":"One of the WORST Movies Ever Made About American Indians","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" It's also one of the worst movies ever made, period. Too offensive to even be camp, with a phony sanctimonious and hypocritical message of beat people up in the name of peace. The film is what I would call Red-sploitation. Just like there was Blaxploitation, where 70s films supposedly about Blacks (but rarely ever actually made BY them) pushed the worst kinds of stereotypes and justified them by giving the audience cheap thrills. Yeah! he beat up the Man! Except that nothing was changed. It was the cheapest kind of straw man empty victory. To top it off, they have a WHITE man playing an Indian. McLaughlin was Not Indian At All. He's even less believable as an Indian than David Carradine was as Chinese in Kung Fu. Shouldn't a film supposedly so strong against anti Indian racism at least not be racist itself? So how does this white man in redface pretend to be Indian? He puts on a Cowboy Hat. And he Squints. And Talks Slow. Talk about every racist stereotype in the book! And the film gets every fact about American Indians Wrong! It invents a fictional Nishnobie tribe. It invents a phony snake handling ceremony that doesn't exist outside a screenplay. And it has a White woman who preaches and tells the supposed Indian Billy Jack about how to be an Indian. Talk about racist arrogance! Even the pretense about being against racist violence is phony. American Indians don't need some phony white pretender to come in and protect them. The real American Indians, people like AIM and warrior societies, were already fighting the good fight, and putting their lives on the line in real ways. They didn't go in and lash out without thinking. Just like Martin Luther King (except they believed in self defense) they went in with carefully thought out campaigns to help their causes. They weren't brainless knuckleheads.Even the fight scenes are so badly done. The double is smaller, darker, and Asian. The editing looks like it was done with a meat cleaver.And for sheer annoyance, nothing can beat the soundtrack. Like nails on a chalkboard.Oh yeah, the sequel to Billy Jack bombed. That's because of American Indian protests against the racism of these films.Unles you enjoy laughing at the camp racism of it, save your money. Better yet, rent Smoke Signals. Watch a real American Indian film, not one put out by a racist pretender. "}{"Title":"Pure 70's drivel - One Tin Solder Rides Away","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This movie is so bad on many levels. My biggest gripe. The hero preaches non-violence throughout the movie and then....Kicks everyones you know what.I wish I had rode away before I saw this movie. Just Listen to my review, that was told long ago. Bout a kingdom on a mountain and a valley far away....Seriously, If you want to see an example of 70's movie making and the belief that we have to pound the message home over and over and over again then rent this movie.HIYA - I'm running away. "},{"Title":"Grade C- for a B movie.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Movie critic, actor and TV personality Joe Bob Briggs summed it up once about this film `Women love it, men despise it'.  In 71 when this film came out it had audiences whooping and hollering.  Now it's essentially laughable.  Tom Laughlin as Billy Jack the ex-Green Beret who takes on a new mission by protecting a free school threatened by redneck narrow minded townies.  A bunch of high stepping Karate kicks in slow motion by Jack put the bad dudes in their place for a while anyway.  Laughlin as Billy Jack was popular for a few years and appeared in four films as the peace loving trained to kill  now you done and got me upset crusader.  One things for certain though Billy Jacks hat whatever it was called before is now called The Billy Jack hat.   "},{"Title":"Sorry, but it's an exercise in pretentious futility","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  BILLY JACK is one of those unfortunate films from the counterculture era which preaches its message so strongly that it becomes a self-parody. It is a poorly acted, one-dimensional film that might have made an interesting half hour quasi-documentary on Native American culture if all the unnecessary, pretentious improvisational comedy (term used very loosely), singing by untalented and overzealous performers, and leftist propaganda were removed. As it stands, it is a boring, self conscious exercise in futility. It might have had some relevance to youthful audiences in the early 1970's, but it's just a waste of time in the present day.   "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack is by far one of the most ridiculous movies I have ever seen.  I saw it many years ago and thought it was good, but after watching it again recently, I couldn't believe how bad it was.  It is applauded for being one of the most successful independent films of all time.  However, it was Fox that originally bankrolled the entire project and produced.  In post production disputes, Tom McLaughlin raised enough money to buy the film from Fox and release it himself.  So, it really wasn't totally independent.  Which is sad, because that was one of the reasons one could make an excuse for it's poor quality.  I can't believe nobody has mentioned Billy Jack's quick morph into into a short Asian man during the fight scene in the park.  When he does a roundhouse kick at one point, it is obviously a much smaller, darker Asian man doing the kick.  Had this movie been more balanced, well written and acted with more talent, it may have been a classic.  Now it is just a date piece of hippy propaganda.  For a movie preaching pacifism, there is a great deal of violence.  All in all, Billy Jack is a poorly executed film with lop-sided values.  It's prequel, The Born Losers, was better (and that's not saying much). "},{"Title":"It's all about The HAT!!!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Violence is golden in this, the first and best of the Billy Jack films. However, you can't dismiss this as empty-headed blood and guts,although the action is superb. If you watch all 3 movies you can see the evolution of the character Billy Jack from a guy who solves his problems with his fists to a man who uses his intellect and wisdom to overcome obstacles. Also, if your in support of Indie film makers then you should see all of Laughlin's work. The film also introduced Hapkido to America, a martial art that combines elements of Akido and Tae kwon do.The fight scenes are GREAT, some of the best ever. The hippie kids are a scream and Howard Hessman is pretty funny. The troupe he works with was a pretty infamous underground comedy group back in the 70's. But above all, it's about The HAT!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie to watch when you call in sick to work","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Hey, when you are watching a movie about a white guy playing a peace-loving native american with feet of fury you tend to expect a lot.  If this film were made today it might have never even made it to the big screen much less video.  The best thing about this film is the spirit it captures of the time - the hippies, the music, the freedom trips.  The story isn't bad, and in fact times is pretty amusing, especially when Billy Jack kicks a$$ and that jerk Barnard gets his.One thing kind of interesting about this movie is that the kids at this school mostly look like they are 27 and over with many of the guys in the later stages of balding...maybe they fried their hair off with all those drugs.Billy Jack is cool and remains one of my favs.  I don't think many people today under 25 get its message though.  I wish the sequels were easier to find but they never seem  to make it to TV. "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps Billy Jack is a film in which you had to be alive during the era to appreciate it. Perhaps I am a moron, despite my movie opinion is respected by everyone I know. Perhaps the fact of the matter is that Billy Jack is just a plain old terrible movie. It stars Tom Laughlin as a protector of people and other living things named the tittle character who, under discrimination becomes involved with a free arts school and it's troubles. It was definatly made with the feelings of the late 60's (make love not war) but even then the film wasn't popular. And today it just seems worse. it's almost sad really, because some of the old films were very popular but on today's standards they look stupid. But rest assured, this movie is still bad even if it had 60's themes. Bad performances, long, and enough elements to raise an eye brow at it's original PG rating. do yourself a favor and see something else. */**** "},{"Title":"Why is it that the harshest critics are illiterate?","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I have seen Billy Jack nearly 50 times. It was released when I was about 9, and I saw it in the theater first. I now have two copies, one on DVD and the other on VHS - one complete and no commercials (from Billy Jack Enterprises) and the other copied from Joe Bob Briggs' late night TV show - because he (Briggs) did a live phone interview with Tom Laughlin during the commercial breaks. Billy Jack is an ex-Green Beret with a chip on his shoulder big enough to dam the Grand Canyon. He's edgy, and doesn't mind being spiteful when it comes to white adults mistreating kids - of any race. In a nut shell, this film is about being human, and treating others humanely. We all have to live on this planet, at least for now. The sooner we learn to treat each other the way we would want them to treat us, the sooner we'll have a world worth living in. THAT is the message of this movie.Yes, I know Tom Laughlin doesn't look like he has any Native American blood in him, and the camera crews didn't know how to shoot a martial arts scene, but that is to be expected for a low-budget indie film from the early 1970's. What made it work for me was that the writing actually made me care about the THEME of the show. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Film that defined a Generation","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack is the film that defined a generation of Americans during the 1960's and 70's.  This legendary independent film by film-maker Tom Laughlin addresses all of the social questions of the 1960's and 70's.  For many people who lived during that era, this film is a very important work. The greatness of this film is the fact that it addresses so many valid issues experienced by those generations, and the current generation. Racism, Violence, Rape, Drugs, Abuse.. this film challenges all of these. Film-makers today could learn a great deal from this film about social change through the Film medium. On a personal note, even though I was only born the year after this film was released, it has changed my life in many positive ways.  I feel that the subjects it addresses are still very valid today, and that this film cannot be viewed without learning something new each time. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about white people in a south-west town being prejudice of the Indians, pretty much as the southerners were to the colored people.  Billy Jack stands up for the peace loving Indians by protecting them from harm and harrassment. Everytime that the white people cause the Indians a problem, Billy Jack shows up to save the day. You want to yell out, Yay, there's Billy Jack to rescue. You will root for Billy throughout the movie and boo the bad guys. The towns retailers do not want to serve the Indians and they ridicule them. When the town's rich bully, Bernard, ridicules a young Indian girl, you are feeling sad for the girl, you curse the jerk until Billy Jack comes to her rescue in a very impressive manner.Bernard is put down many times throughout the show by Billy Jack.  Every time he is put down, you will praise Billy Jack.Billy Jack shows love for all the Indians and white people they are associated with at the Indian school and is willing to fight for their rights.  This movie really makes you feel sorry for the way the Indians are treated. It has one of the most touching endings I have seen, second only to Shane and the Fighting Sullivans.  You will stand, give a thumbs up and root for Billy Jack with tears in your eyes even as the credits are rolling by and they are playing the song one tin soldier. Even though there is a slow section in the movie, it is one of my favorites that I can watch over and over again.  "}{"Title":"This whole movie is one long goof","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Here is one minor but symptomatic example of the dramatic ineptitude of Billy Jack. The kids at the freedom school are doing a skit about a new messiah. One girl raises her fist in a power-to-the-people salute as she suggests that the actor playing the messiah give a sign of his new religion. He then gives the raised fist as the sign. It simply isn't good drama to telegraph the sign. It makes the messiah look like a copy cat, instead of being the one to introduce the sign. What is wrong with the whole movie is numerous instances of such sloppiness in every single scene. There was evidently a lot of improvisation (probably including the scene just mentioned), which can be used effectively by a good director, but Tom Laughlin (as T.C. Frank) does not notice the inconsistent details and lets them get by. "},{"Title":"Below average movie!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, unless you remember the Funky Hat, and are curious as to its origins. In 1967 or 1968 I saw Born Losers at the theater. That was the movie where Billy Jack first appeared. It was pretty bad, but at least it was a good guy, bad guy movie. The motorcycle gang comes into town and Billy Jack kicks some serious butt. So, when I saw the trailer for Billy Jack 3 or 4 years later, I decided to spend a couple of hours and give it a watch. Was I disappointed! I am not comparing this movie to the movies of today. I had been going to movies for years before I saw this one, so I was comparing it to current movies of the time. It was, and still is awful. The only 'message' the comes across in the end is, if somebody murders somebody, you murder them back. You don't give them a chance to have a trial, you kill them. Then, you act like a victim when you are arrested for murder yourself. Everybody is corrupt, the police, the court, the politicians, anybody with money, etc. And strangely enough, NOBODY in the entire nation can see this...except you and your spaced out friends. And the only way you can get anybody's attention is to commit murder...in the name of peace and love. Give me a vomit bucket. I was around for a couple of decades before this movie came out, and I was in the military in Viet-Nam, so I have first hand knowledge of the state of our country when this film was made. And believe me, it doesn't reflect anything even remotely resembling the state of the country at the time. The only thing it does do is prove the American Dream can be achieved by anybody. A below average director, writer and actor can become quite wealthy making a substandard movie. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Pretentious","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I was twelve years old when I saw this on the big screen and loved every minute of it. Today I feel a trickle of cold sweat whenever the movie is mentioned, and when I recently had occasion to see the film again I cringed to think that I had ever been enthusiastic about it in my childhood.It isn't so much that BILLY JACK is a bad movie as it is an awesomely pretentious one rife with glaring bouts of hypocrisy. The story of non-violent native Americans and flower children saved from hysterical cowboys by Billy Jack (who wants to be non-violent but always has to kick butt) is well-intended, but from a modern standpoint it is acutely embarrassing. The production values are so-so, and the cast is merely adequate at best. If you have fond memories of this film, keep them by leaving BILLY JACK in the past don't see it again. And if you have never seen it... leave well enough alone.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Oh Gawd!","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is easily one of the worst films ever made.I remember when it first came out I took a date to see it, but the lines were too long and we decided to do something else.For years after that, I wanted to see this film. I heard such great things about it. How Billy Jack was the coolest anti-hero ever, and how he stuck it to The Man and all that sort of blather.Finally, one day I happened to see that it was going to be on cable in the near future. I planned everything around being home that day so I could finally see this cinematic Classic.Lord have mercy, but disappointed doesn't begin to say it. The film is just atrocious! Not enough that the writing is juvenile and sappy, the acting non-existent, the editing and production values in general being about par with an eight-grade film project, but then top it off with a preachy, condescending, self-righteousness that would make Jerry Falwell blush and you have the recipe for the treasure that Billy Jack is. Oh lordy...The only reason I can think of for anyone to watch this, is if they want to have a laugh at how pretentious and fatuous it's possible to get. Oh gawd, it's awful. It really is... "},{"Title":"It's True What They Say About Writer/Producer/Director/Actors","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  It has been many years since I have witnessed this nadir of American cinema so I may get some things a little out of order. That won't matter one bit. Believe me. And you will if you've seen this thing. Really.Anytime that the same name appears as the writer, the producer, and the director, one has to at least be mildly suspicious that nobody else seemed to want to help out. Add lead actor to the credits and you have a recipe for disaster. Somewhere Michael Medved's Golden Turkey is squawking at this load of horse excrement that through it's antidisestablishmentarianism reputation became something of a cult movie. As cult movies go, it is no better or worse than most. The bad thing about this gut buster is our hero, Tom Laughlin. Some things are impossible to fabricate. Tom's contribution to the list of such things is his decision to put himself on the credits as producer under a pseudonym. What false name did he use?, you ask. Why dear reader, he used the name Mary Rose Solti. See. I could not possibly have made that up. I checked the IMDb listing for dear old Tom and found that he's used enough pseudonyms in his career to be the most wanted interstate bank robber in history. Too bad he chose another calling. Enough about Tom! What could I say that hasn't already been said anyway. I will give him this much.....Billy Jack was an incredible investment that returned over 80 times the initial capital required to make it! It was, however, a case of a blind squirrel finding a nut. Tom just happened to be in the right place at the right time. The three (count them) movies that he made after this demonstrated even more heavy handed preachiness than Bea Arthur off of Prozac. Two of those three featured, you guessed it, Billy Jack! The other took place too long in the past for Billy Jack to have been born yet.Okay.....really enough about Tom!Billy Jack is the classic story of peaceful, back-to-harmony-with-nature good folk being put down by the man. Or in this case, rednecks. It seems that the Freedom School has run afoul of the local banjo-boys who want it shut down, bulldozed over, and replaced with a Wal-Mart. (I'm making the Wal-Mart part up because Wal-Mart had not, by the early seventies, penetrated as far as the desert southwest where the movie takes place.) The local ruffians, with the half-hearted help of the local constabulary are intent on running Jean Roberts and her subversive school out. They are being bankrolled by the big rancher who represents American greed and capitalism. Exactly what the school teaches (aside from Freedom) is never actually explained, nor is the vehement opposition to the school. Wait, it has to be that the school helps the local tribe and the bad guys are even worse than we thought because they are kicking the Native Americans when they are down and out and are perpetuating racial stereotypes and prejudice. Little do they know that their kids will someday be begging the tribe for janitorial jobs in the Bear Runs With Cash Casino. Maybe the Freedom School is teaching the finer arts of the gaming industry. We'll just never know. To this maelstrom of bad feelings and violent sentiment is introduced Billy Jack. He's a half-Indian half-White tribal policeman who just happens to have been a Green Beret and who just happens to be a martial arts expert and who just happens to be really messed up because he just happens to have been over in Nam. Since he is also doing a fairly decent Robert Blake impersonation, we know he is not to be trifled with and that sooner or later all that pent up rage is just going to boil over and erupt and it ..... Ooops, I'm rambling nearly as badly as the monosyllabic dialogue. Billy Jack knows injustice when he sees it and, wouldn't you know it, sometimes the only way for peace loving touchy-feely types to flourish is to get a genuine Bad Ass like Billy Jack to do their dirty work for them.Pretty soon, the rancher's son up and kills somebody (but not before raping his victim). Billy Jack can no longer rely on words. Sometimes an avenging angel's gotta do what an avenging angel's gotta do. With the help of his trademark Funky Hat, he kills the damnable miscreant. Oh yeah, the rape victim was Billy's love buddy. Since he has stepped over the line, he seeks sanctuary in a church (call him Quasimodo) but he gives himself up to an angry throng in order to prevent further death and chaos. I knew that Mel Gibson got that movie idea from somewhere, now I know where. We're left with the quick wrap and set-up for a sequel, The Trial of Billy Jack.....followed by the three-quel, Billy Jack Goes to Washington. Hey, a felony is no barrier to public service. Damn right.The plot is basic and emotionally charged. In the proper hands, this would have been done decently. For example, Sam Peckinpah would have had a scene in which someone has their ears torn off with vice-grips. That would have been great cinema! This train goes off the track at the outset with the theme song, One Tin Soldier. This song is, at best, a bad parody of really really bad folk-anthem. Hint I think the songwriter(s) really thought it was quite good, else they surely could not have slept at night.The trademark, Funky Hat, is almost a character in and of itself. Having been ten years old when this movie came out, I endured an entire decade of seeing really cool dudes wearing replicas of Funky Hat. They also wore black outfits and never seemed to have girlfriends (or boyfriends for that matter). Even today, there are those who still relish its feel on the head, its broad brimmed protection from the sun, and its ability to render the wearer totally ridiculous in appearance. I suppose you could hide a lot of pot up there in that dome and the customs officers at the border would never notice.....they'd be laughing too hard to make you take it off. In the proper hands this movie would have favored character development while blurring the lines between good and evil ala Norman Jewison. Not so in the ham fisted directorial style of Tom Laughlin (or should we call him Mary Rose?). Tom seems to subscribe to the school of cinema that holds that audiences only recognize extremely polarized characters. Either that, or Tom had some sort of experience with peyote that rendered him incapable of crafting two dimensional (let alone three dimensional) characters. Suffice to say, you are not going to find any conflicted good guys or bad guys here.There is not a single character that I wanted to see alive at the end of the movie. As the show drug on, I was hoping for some biblical justice that would wipe all these people from the earth.I'm not even going to delve into the total lack of production values. That would be akin to shooting fish in a barrel. Let's just say that Ed Wood put together more polished productions. I'm sorry to all of you who have such an excitement going for this movie. It is just plain bad.  "},{"Title":"This is a strange movie!","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack is at times a martial arts, vigilante film.  Other times, it is a political propaganda, left wing recruitment film.  Other times, it is a free form acting film.  So in a word, it's uneven.  I think the film would have been much better if it stuck to one aspect and did the best it could. There are some very, very good acting here and some bad acting.  So, a rating of 5 out of 10 was given. "},{"Title":"Martial arts movie about a Native American played by a white guy.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Billy Jack is about a ex-green beret guy turned hippie, who is supposedly Native American (although he looks white) that defends a group of tree huggers from a town of right winged conservatives. Billy Jack's stunts look fake, in fact he hardly does any stunts at all. He basically just threatens to break the bad guy's arm in order to stop them. Ohh no!!! This movie makes Beverly Hills Ninja look like Enter the Dragon. "},{"Title":"Hooray for the underdog!","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  If you make it, they will come. In America, we love heroes and underdogs. A movie depicting the triumph of the underdog generally can't miss. Well, this one did, at least at the box office. But it has become an undeniable cult classic. Why? The misunderstood lone wolf hero type has been beaten to death in low budget films before and since. The acting in this film is beyond terrible. The plot is on a 6th grade level. The villains are caricatures of themselves. Technically speaking, it's a mess. So what is it that makes me watch this about every 3 months? Simply stated, it's junk food for the brain. It's a cinematic Big Mac. When you feel life is getting the best of you, you can check out of reality for a couple hours and watch Billy Jack Just go berserk! on some stupid racist rednecks, and for a brief time, all is right with the world. That, and the fact that it resonates with the liberal 60's generation, is the reason for it's cult status. "},{"Title":"Go ahead and hate your neighbor/Go ahead and cheat a friend","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Strange, shaggy, hallucinatory movie suffers from sensory deprivation. Billy Jack, a highly self-important piece of grand-standing masquerading as a quasi-action flick, is noble in its attempt to put heart and humanity back into the action genre, although as an entertainment it comes up short. Follow-up to the 1967 cult hit The Born Losers has half-breed freedom fighter Billy Jack (Tom Laughlin) saving mid-western town from corporate elitists and their evils. Dated, muddy film with a documentary-like approach is full of Indian mysticism, barefoot hippies, and general mayhem in search of a message. Laughlin, laconically handsome and occasionally good-natured, cuts quite a presence on the screen; if only he had reeled in his ego and the tendency to put all his thoughts and passions into one low-budget basket, he might've been a major movie star. Every time Laughlin appears, the film's draggy pacing picks up (perhaps because the director was Laughlin himself, under the pseudonym T.C. Frank). Followed by two more sequels in 1974 and 1977. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Does not hold up over time","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The years have not been kind to this movie.  It was overrated when it first came out and now it is just bad.  The acting is extremely poor.  Delores Taylor may be the worst actress to ever be in a movie, but she sure can turn on the water works.  It was a low budget movie and it shows. "}{"Title":"Funny As Hell, And That's Not A Complement","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I really don't know a whole lot I can say about this movie. I watched it a couple of weeks ago and I laughed so many times AT it (rather than with it) that I was still trying to catch my breath hours later. I mean, really, Mr. Laughlin and his collaborators have to be the worst screenwriters in the history of the world (along with director). To be fair, the acting isn't terrible for the most part, though it isn't Oscar-worthy, but even the decent performances are ruined by such dialog as Life's been one big s*** brick for me up to this point and (my personal favorite) DAMN YOUR PACIFISM! How anyone could say those lines with a straight face is beyond me.Quite frankly, this movie is a blatant piece of hippie propaganda, railing against The Man, guns, Nixon, anti-Communism, the Vietnam War, the police, whites, and the Establishment. This is painfully aggravating at times (particularly the town hall meeting), though it does make for a few laughs, albeit most of them unintentional. The Committee's comedy scenes (particularly the almost-certainly ad-libbed robbery scene with the Sheriff) are rather stupid, though some manage to be funny to an extent. The townspeople are sleazy, bigoted rednecks (with a few exceptions), and Billy Jack simply can't practice what he preaches. The movie is chock full of violence, most of it precipitated by the pacifists. Nothing like a bunch of hypocritical hippies to make your day, eh?The funniest bits are the establishing scenes at the Freedom School, particularly when an actor playing Jesus gives the Black Power symbol on the cross. That had me ROTLFMAO for the next five minutes.And poor Martin, the little Indian punching bag! Over the course of the movie, he's punched in the stomach, falls off a horse and breaks his leg, hit in the stomach with an iron bar, and shot four times in the head. You can't help but feel sorry for him.Billy Jack is the tackiest, stupidest movie you're likely to ever see, and shows you just what was wrong with the late '60s/early '70s. If anyone tells you that those were magical, mystical times, show them this movie. It's almost hard to believe that MST3K skipped this one (though maybe it was because of the political content that they did). On the other hand, if you're a fan of Grade-Z cinema, I recommend this movie for a couple of laughs.Four stars for making me wet myself. "},{"Title":"Political Activism Fails Good Concept","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This film could have been about a minority figure who has risen above his difficulties and wishes to make the world a better place for all. It isn't. This film could have offered an alternative voice to conservative politics of the day. It doesn't. Billy jack, the half white, half Indian former Green Beret and martial arts expert instead shows a world in which the anti conservative solution to world problems is to gang up and bully those that act differently to the norm. It is all right for Jack to beat up people, we can tell they are bad. Bad people work tirelessly to discredit Jack, even committing crimes and blaming Jack for it. Rape, for some, is the ultimate crime. In the movie's screwy value system, Jack is willing to kill rapists because he cannot use the justice system to further his cause. The movie Billy Jack makes an accusation about war atrocities in Vietnam that didn't occur. It was fiction, but the politics of the film overrides what might have been. "},{"Title":"Cringing is putting it mildly","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" When I think of this movie, I still cringe...At the time, liberals were committing suicide, running off to Canada, spitting on GI's (I was one back then), and burning flags. A favorite pastime was hating Dick Nixon 24/7 for covering up a 2-bit political crime that he had no knowledge of at the time it happened. Lots of angst for hippies back in them thar days! And as with all things liberal, reality is often replaced with fantasy (most often provided by Hollywood and TV (Primary Colors, The West Wing, etc.)- where the villains are all old rich white guys (probably republicans) and the superheroes are caring, nurturing pensive, (and often troubled) liberals.The times were ripe for Billy Jack. Just how much boring, agonizing, inane peace/love/nurture/defiance/hate/revenge/anti-establishment whining , drivel and psyche-torture can be jam packed into a 2-hour cinema experience? Watch the movie and find out.It's the next best thing to having a hangover and watching Martin Sheen do a love scene with Bea Arthur. "},{"Title":"A poor movie, but a revealing retrospective","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when it first came out.  I was about 13 and saw it with my older sister, who at that time was so severely disillusioned with her high school experience and with the system that she would've eagerly enrolled in a Freedom School (as depicted in the movie) of her own, had one been available then in central Indiana.  As children of the Sixties, we rather deeply connected with the movie's portrayal of institutionalized hypocrisy, corruption, and racism, and felt something of a call to arms after viewing the seemingly stirring final scene of young people lining the highway and giving the power salute to their departing hero.The problem, of course, is that our fervor was hopelessly adolescent, by which I mean that our idealism was untempered by a deeper understanding of human frailty and of how tragedy is often intractable and not merely a matter of simply being stupid or evil.  Unfortunately, the movie Billy Jack is equally adolescent and as such presents situations and characters that can easily be categorized as enlightened or neanderthal, unlike real life, which almost invariably is more ambiguous and complex.The flaws in the movie-making craft here are not difficult to find exposed microphones, choppy editing, stilted dialogue, stagy acting, tendentious manipulativeness, and one-dimensional characters on both sides who behave with remarkable imbecility on a regular basis.  And then there is the overarching liberal earnestness of it all, wonderfully (and almost nauseatingly) captured in the character Martin - idealistic, pacifistic, kind of dumb, universally loving, and ultimately martyred for being all that.  All these flaws - and their badness can hardly be exaggerated - work together to make Billy Jack very nearly an embarrassing piece of trash.But there are some elements that work, most of them humorous.  (E.g., the street-theater scene with the stick-up improvisation, and Jean's remark about the guile that even pacifists sometimes show We have our days.) And, darn it, I'll even go so far as to say that some - not all, but some - of the outdoor cinematography is fairly good.  And, finally, that cloying earnestness makes this movie a genuine document of its time.  People, certainly not just my sister and me, really did feel strongly about the social criticism rendered by Billy Jack.  It was poorly rendered, but it was rendered with conviction and sincerity - not unlike a great deal of the social discourse at that time.  Society was violently polarized by the Vietnam War, the civil rights movement, and the youth counterculture. Billy Jack manages to capture quite a bit of that contemporary feeling. The kids in the Freedom School are, in their own way, as conformist as the redneck thugs they fear; and each side views the other with suspicion and misunderstanding.  To quite an extent that's how it was all over.If I were a high school social studies teacher, I think I might show this movie in my class - not, heaven forbid, as an example of the cinematic craft, but as a revealing look at how the youth counterculture saw its place in the world back then. "},{"Title":"Loose Shoes parody of this movie sums it up.....","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The movie Loose Shoes sketch Billy Jerk goes to OZ parodies this movie well. The last title card sums it up and nails it down.Self-Righteous, Pretentious, Arrogant, Moralistic, PompousI also remember the Original Caste playing a dance at my junior high school back in the day. One Tin Soldier was a one hit wonder and they stank up the place.Laughlin can't act his way out of a paper bag either.'nuff said. . . . .. ... "},{"Title":"Billy Jack is such a dated movie!","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I just watched Billy Jack and I think it's so dated! Watching it now in 2005, it seems so unsubtle with its messages of ending racism and fascism. It's full of hippies that are full of just as much bullshit as the Establishment. I hate both sides that are fighting in this movie and it was fun to watch them all torment each other. The hippies have these gay ass street theater performances to shock and teach the townspeople about how their perceptions of reality are not the only ones in existence. This movie could have been so much better if only they would have been more subtle with their moral lesson giving techniques. This movie reeks of corniness. Kids of today who've grown up with Tupac and GTA games would laugh their asses off at this overly serious B movie. "},{"Title":"Once a noteworthy film, but has not really stood the test of time.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" When I was a kid growing up in Calgary Alberta in the early 70s this movie came to town and stayed and stayed and stayed. It played for years, not months and obviously hit some sort of a chord.I didn't see it at that time, my parents wouldn't take me, but I remember each week picking up the paper, reading the movie section and there would be the ads for it...78th straight week and so forth. I don't know ultimately how long it played, but it was a long time. So a lot of people went a lot of times, this years before Star Wars did the same thing.Billy Jack was an independent film that is CLEARLY an independent film but which hit a home run at the box office.So, like some of the other reviewers here, when I saw a DVD copy in a used shop, I grabbed it and tried to watch it.It's brutal to watch now. Dated, hokey, clichéd characters, cheap production with static camera shots and poor editing (really lack of editing), pretentious, way too long and fully of dated hippie dippy baloney. Still, Mr. Laughlin, the star, producer and director deserves credit even so (apart from the obvious financial success of this puppy). He created a vivid vigilante character that stands with the Rockys, Rambos, Dirty Harrys, and so forth. When Billy Jack (Laughlin) is on screen, the movie has a strange fascination even now. Too bad there's lots lots lots more intensely boring stuff you have to watch in between his scenes of being the tough guy.Only true film scholars with a major in tough guys need bother with this movie. "},{"Title":"Loved it then but now I've grown up","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" A runaway girl returns home to tell her policeman father that she is pregnant. Her dad asks, who's the father. She replies in the most defiant, in your face tone, the fact is I've been balled by so many guys, I do'not know if the baby is white, black, Chicano, Chinese or Indian. SMACK(the sound of a backhand across the face). Now that is a funny scene. This pretty much sums up the attitude of the movie. We're hippies. You're square. You're lives are normal. We've made a mess of ours. You need to loosen up and be more like us. I saw this movie At the age of 12 and left the theater thinking about its powerful message. INDIANS CAN REALLY KICK BUTT WHEN THEY'RE TRAINED IN THE MARTIAL ARTS. Thats right. Lets face it, thats all anyone really wanted to see in this movie. In fact my friends and I use to debate who could kick who's butt, Billy Jack or Bruce Lee. Problem being one was a fictitious character with fictitious skills, the other was the real deal.Twenty years later I was able to see the movie again on late night t.v. While watching I realized that what seemed to be a great movie in 1974 was actually one of the silliest movies I've ever seen. Its not that the fight scenes were poorly done or that the acting is horrific but the plot of the movie is absurd.A freedom school(what are they taught there? How to be hippies?)where screwed up kids are indoctrinated with yet even more left-wing hogwash, leaving them with even less of a moral compass.A spoiled brat town bully who thinks its his job to screw and/or rape his way thru the female population.A half breed Vietnam vet trained in martial arts, who's job it is to defend the freedom school from said town bully/bullies. Lets start with the school. They teach a pacifist philosophy and yet they come into town on weekend outing raring to let everybody know they are the counter culture with a stack of chips on there shoulders to boot. Everything about them, passively or not, comes across as confrontational. Word of advise. If you live in a place where the majority does'not really appreciate you're values, STAY UNDER THE RADAR! In 1971 most communities would have been leery of a bunch of hippie types moving in near by and rightfully so. Think of the Manson family and Spawn ranch.The character of Billy Jack while interesting in concept comes off as way too mellow dramatic. The ice cream store Pr whoop-ass dialog is a good example. In fact the clenched teeth line delivery thru out the movie gets annoying real quick. One Interesting aspect about the first two Billy Jack movies(Born losers/Billy Jack)that I have not seen mentioned is the plot flip between the two. In Born Loosers he is actually defending normal straight society against the on slot of the counter culture where as in Billy Jack its just the opposite. But I guess Laughlin was just following the trends of exploitation movies of the time. Everything Pr Easyrider = freaks bad. Everything post = freaks good.From what I understand, Laughlin believed so much in Billy Jack that he thru all his career eggs into the Billy Jack franchise basket. Thats a shame because the movies arn't all that great. "},{"Title":"a dopey cult hit","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is a somewhat watchable movie that was a hit when it debuted--simply because it was the right type of film at the right time. If it had come out only a few years later, it no doubt would have bombed--like what happened to its sequel, THE TRIAL OF BILLY JACK.BILLY JACK came out during the absolute height of discontent about the Vietnam War. The sequel, out in 1974, was after the war officially ended. At this point, the thrill of the hippie movement had lost some of its appeal and the anti-establishment hero, Billy Jack, was passé.This film is itself a sequel to the film THE BORN LOSERS--a movie about an evil biker gang that terrorizes a small town. Now, instead of fighting evil bikers, our peace-loving hero (who always seems to spend half the movie beating the crap out of everyone) is defending the residents of a combination Indian school-hippie commune. In fact, it's amazing that for a pacifist, Billy kicks the crap out of an awful lot of people. As far as the plot goes, it's really predictable and the dialog is terrible, but if you've always wanted to see what it would be like to graft a Steven Segal movie onto a hippie flick, then this is YOUR film. All others should beware! "},{"Title":"The lead (Laughlin's) character is super. But the film is pure schlock.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Tom Laughlin is a very impressive and decent individual, who possesses the ability to back up his beliefs. We all want Billy jack to win. We all want to be Billy Jack. But stand back and really look at the film, and the conservative Billy Jack is holding up banners of radical movements. His character is superb, but the overall film is schlocky, and looks like it could have been a college student film project. "}]