[{"Title":"Tongue-in-cheek horror and lots of Art Deco...","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film would have probably been horrible had they taken themselves seriously.  Fortunately, they didn't and, consequently, created a fascinating and entertaining festival of murder, revenge, and Art Deco set design. Vincent Price is Phibes, a brilliant organist and acoustic expert who's wife dies during an operation.  He seeks to avenge her death by killing all 9 members of the operating team in creative and extravagant ways.  You know the murders will take place, but you're fascinated at how they are done. It's like watching a master at work and all of the murders are works of art. By the end of the movie you'll find yourself rooting for Phibes.Price is at his best at Phibes.  Phibes requires a machine to speak, so Price is effectively miming to the dialog, but he does it so well.  The performance of Virginia North as the silent, yet deadly, Vulnavia is particularly interesting.  She plays the murderer's sidekick and is always beautiful and mysterious.One of the most wonderful elements of this film is the Art Deco set and costume design.  Every scene just oozes with elegance.This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  No, it's not Gone With the Wind, but it's fun and fascinating just the same, sort of a candy movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Calling this 'Horror' does not make it justice. I wouldn't call it 'movie', either, but 'film'. It's pure art. The sets and art direction are incredible, the whole movie shows the 'aura' of 1920's Art Deco, giving it that 'classy' touch. The script is also very original, and there's even room in it for lots of laughs, without sacrificing style or rhythm. Vincent Price is PERFECT as Phibes, as the other reviewer just said. He IS Phibes, and succeeds where others would probably fail miserably, fitting in perfectly in the 'tone' of the movie. Great direction by Robert Fuest, also. He managed to mix the perfect amount of horror, drama, romance and comedy in a single movie. "},{"Title":"An Old-Fashioned Love Story","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"37 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vincent Price plays a dead man avenging the surgical team that lost his wife on the operating table.  Nine doctors in all(one of them a nurse) are treated to nine of the most innovative, creative, outlandish deaths imaginable. The deaths loosely follow the Ten Plagues of the Old Testament, but each with a new twist.  The film is an exercise in witty, stylish black comedy seldom seen today.  Much of the credit MUST go to director Robert Fuest for his vision of something truly unique  a world in the 1920's with clockwork musicians, 20's music, and beautiful sets and costumes.  Price gives one of his best performances in a role that barely utilizes his greatest attribute, his voice.  Price relies heavily on movement and facial expressions, and does so wonderfully.  The cast is superb with British stalwarts adorning the film all over.  Terry-Thomas has a nice cameo as a Doctor Longstreet experiencing a blood donor's worst nightmare.   Peter Jeffrey, a woefully under-appreciated actor, gives a fine comic performance as a policeman always on the spot a moment too late.  Joseph Cotton does a credible job as the surgical leading physician.  Aubrey Woods(wonderful..simply wonderful), Hugh Griffith, and John Cater also lend their talents to the supporting cast.  Caroline Munro plays Price's dead wife as well.  This film rejuvenated Price's career in the 70's.  It is unique, poetic, haunting, and, for me the most important, very amusing.  If you lack a sense of humour with regards to the world of the macabre, you might want to stay away from Phibes.  It is a very dark, black comedy, yet one that is at its heart nothing more than a tragic love story of sorts.  "},{"Title":"Dr. Phibes = horror like it should be","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There are several actors in cinema that give away terrific performances all the time...No matter what role their cast in, they're always believable and impressive. But then, even beyond that, there are some actors who're just BORN to play certain role!! And that's the theory could be stated by Vincent Price in the Abominable Dr. Phibes. It's impossible to imagine this mad murderer being played by anyone else. Price IS Dr. Phibes and he makes the most of his role here. A truly powerful and fascinating performance that yet has to find its equal. Even if you're not into horror, I would recommend The Abominable Dr. Phibes if it were only for Price...it really is an acting job every self-respected fan of cinema should acknowledge.But The Abominable Dr. Phibes is much more than just a 'tour-de-force' by Price. It stands as one of the most entertaining and original horror movies ever made. It's an innovating movie in every way you look at it and - like none other - it passed the test of time. The film is over 30 years now and it still looks refreshing and extremely cool. To me personally, the single title also sums up several reasons to proof that horror is the most powerful genre in cinema. First and foremost, it brings together two types of cinema that are hard to amalgamate. Face it, the basic plot of Dr. Phibes is a love-story and a tale about how to deal with the loss of a loved one...Much more than a ravenous psychopath, Dr. Phibes is a hurt romanticist! Secondly - and most teachers will deny this - Dr. Phibes is an educational film!! I guess we've all learned about the Biblical Plagues that overcame the Pharaoh in school, but it'll be much more easy to number and memorize them after you've seen this film. You might even say The Abominable Dr. Phibes is a valuable history lesson. And finally, this movie really proofs to me that horror is the underdog-genre in cinema. Do you remember how the plot of Se7en impressed the whole world when it came out in 1995? Both critics and audiences called it innovating, dared and highly original...but were the true horror fans impressed as much? I don't think so because the basic principles the killer in Se7en uses are just a pale tribute to the methods Dr. Anton Phibes employed. Anyway...I start to sound way too dedicated in my love towards the genre. Basically, what I mean is The Abominable Dr. Phibes is a perfect horror film and perhaps even one of the most entertaining cinema experiences you'll ever have. Especially when it's your first viewing, Dr. Phibes will be a satisfying purchase. It's a refreshing horror film with adorable British humor and solid acting and directing. The whole thing is just a chain of brilliant sequences. Almost impossible to determinate a few highlights...the entire movie is one HUGE highlight!!  "},{"Title":"Vincent Price was born to play this role! Camp, surreal, with lots of black humour, this is one of the most entertaining movies I've ever seen.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vincent Price bashers accuse him of being a ham. Now Price was capable of restrained performances, just have a look at 'Witchfinder General', but sometimes his hilarious over the top style perfectly suited the material. This is definitely the case with 'The Abominable Dr. Phibes', which could well be his most entertaining movie. The film was directed by Robert Fuest, who had previously been a writer and art director for 'The Avengers', and it shares a similar camp sensibility, with lots of black humour and some deliciously surreal touches. Price was born to play this role! Later there was a sequel (good), and an attempt to recreate the approach with 'Theatre Of Blood' ( for me, a bit of a disappointment), but the original Phibes is easily the best. Price is supported by a strong cast, including Joesph Cotton (who made 'Baron Blood' with Mario Bava around this period), Terry-Thomas, and Peter Jeffrey ('If...'). Cult fans will also get a kick when they see who plays Phibes wife (uncredited) Caroline Munro ('Captain Kronos Vampire Hunter', 'Maniac', 'Faceless'). 'The Abominable Dr. Phibes' is one of the most entertaining movies I've ever seen. If you haven't seen it before then you are in for a real treat! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest of the Great","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of Vincent Price's performance, and perhaps even his best (although Theatre of Blood is very close).  Where to start...?  The clever writing (which was lost in the sequel) revolving around Phibes' method of execution, based on the Biblical plagues of Moses.  The grim-faced unstoppability of Phibes.  Joseph Cotton in one of his best post-60's roles, here perfectly in character as a god-like doctor (particularly in the final operation sequence).There's also the Art Deco set design which many have oohed and ahhed over in here and elsewhere.The British cops are a bit too humorous, and there's not really a lot of background here.  But the movie is a good example of the Tales of the Crypt macabre revenge line, with Phibes' scarred visage standing in for the Ghoul or the Crypt Keeper.  Most of the doctors we see (particularly Terry-Thomas) are just the kind of elite arrogant snobs that so often got their one-uppance in such anthologies.In any case, I would definitely recommend this movie.  It's not really a horror movie, but more of a grotesque serial killer type flick in the lines of stuff like Se7ven. "},{"Title":"An ingenious horror classic","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Abominable Dr Phibes has achieved quite a cult status among horror fans, and for good reason; as this is one of the finest pieces of camp horror ever produced. The villain at the centre of the film - Dr Phibes - is one of horror cinema's true villainous masterpieces. Unlike many of the not very well thought out villains that we see all too much of today, Dr Phibes is well-rounded concoction of evil. He has his reasons for killing - revenge, his killings certainly aren't boring by any stretch of the imagination and even the man himself IS horror, as he's a horrifically scarred madman that can only talk through use of a microphone connected to his throat. He surrounds himself with horrid looking camp items and has no care whatsoever for his fellow man. However, despite all these bad points that the man has - we are still able to care for his plight somewhat. Phibes isn't someone that just kills for the fun of it; he's distraught over the loss of his beloved, which puts the audience in a strange situation as we have decide whether or not there is a human being beyond this malicious facade. This madman is played by Vincent Price - who else? Price was born for this role and he makes it his own. Price embeds himself on your mind with this performance and it's impossible to imagine anyone else playing Dr Phibes; and that is a sign of a great actor. Price has played many roles in the style of this character, but this is his best and I'd even go as far as to say that this is the quintessential Price performance.The plot of The Abominable Dr Phibes follows the man of the title as he gets revenge on the doctors that he believes killed his wife after she was fatally injured in a tragic car accident (the same accident that got Phibes his own injuries). However, Phibes doesn't want to get his revenge by any normal means. Guns, knives, axes etc are alien to this man, as he decides to take his revenge in the style of the ten deadly plagues of Egypt. The deaths scenes are ingenious to say the least, with the death in the style of the seventh plague being a particular highlight, which is sure to delight everyone that sees it. The film isn't entirely serious, and is keen to make fun of it's delicious plot. Peter Jeffrey, who plays the bumbling Inspector Trout who is assigned to the case is the source of most of the comedy and steals every scene he's in. The comedy in the film is hilarious and provides a nice breather from macabre horror.The Abominable Dr Phibes is most notable for it's extreme camp style and has been touted as the campest film ever made by some critics. There is a very good reason for this assessment, as anyone that views it will be able to clearly see; but The Abominable Dr Phibes is more than just a camp horror film. Beyond it's horrors, it's a heart-warming tale of how a man deals with losing a loved one and is actually quite touching because of this. Well, maybe not touching; but the theme of loss is definitely there! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror movies ever","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Sheer terror doesn't get much more frightening than this. Scare-master Vincent Price plays a doctor who loses his voice in a car accident, but can still speak by way of an electronic device. He vows revenge on the nine doctors that were responsible for an unsuccessful surgery attempt on his wife, Victoria. He, along with his fiendish but sexy assistant Vulnavia (Virginia North), murder them one by one in such grotesque ways as draining one guy of all his blood, attacking a nurse with a swarm of locusts, and giving an attendee of a costume party a frog mask that becomes so tight around his neck that it snaps his head off. The sheer audacity of these grisly murders, along with Price's meticulous and methodical planning, make for a one-of a-kind scary experience. "},{"Title":"Campy cult classic with perfect performance...","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 12/11/2004 - 7 out of 10(DIr-Robert Fuest) Campy cult classic with perfect performance and role by Vincent Price who does most of the job through his facial expressions and presence. The story revolves around a dead-like Dr. Phibes playing his organ, directing music, dancing and ceremoniously killing off the surgeons who failed to fix his wife after a car accident. He uses the Pharoah's curses as the basis for each killing and he inventively makes each one unique and grins and even applauds himself after one demise. Some subtle British humor is also thrown in for extra but all that's needed with this one is Price and this role to make it classic horror-camp. "},{"Title":"Wicked and ingenious","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've recently discovered THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES, after avoiding it for so many years because of THEATRE OF BLOOD, which I absolutely hated and since the stories for both films resemble each other and that the star of both films is Vincent Price, I had no desire to see THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES. I finally bought a video of the film on eBay (for a buck) and I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised. THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES is totally wicked and ingenious. It's the complete opposite of THEATRE OF BLOOD, which was nearly unwatchable. I love everything about DR PHIBES. There's almost nothing wrong with it. Everything is excellent acting, script, set design, music, etc, are ALL top notch (for its low budget, of course). I can't tell you how much fun I had watching DR PHIBES go about killing his victims in morbid but ingenious ways, along with the help of his beautiful and funny assistant, Vulnavia, with everything culminating in a truly suspenseful climax and an ending that left me giggling and smiling. The whole concept is brilliant. If Stanley Kubrick had directed a horror/black comedy, this is probably how it would look like. The sardonic use of music (it's almost a musical). The wicked screenplay, aptly handled and which never crosses the line into all-out-comedy or all-out-horror. The memorable cast of characters (inspector Trout being my favorite). The timing and the tone of the film are near perfect. Only the occasional mod sensibilities seen here and there were incongruous with a story which set around the 1920s. I've watched THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES four times since I received the video. The first viewing experience was, I admit, an experience filled with apprehension because as the film went along I thought it sorta looked too much like THEATRE OF BLOOD (but not as grubby, more colorful. I now realize TOB is a total rip-off) and it seemed slow and repetitive and wondered if it was going anywhere but slowly and surely, I gradually caught on with the film's wickedly fun atmosphere and by the time the film ended, I was totally knocked-out. PHIBES keeps getting better and better with each subsequent viewing. This film has been riped off repeatedly these days with other horror films like SAW or even a non-horror films such as V FOR VENDETTA. It's truly mind-boggling how often other filmmakers have taken ideas from PHIBES. Also, I suspect Tim Burton was highly influenced by this flashy black comedy. It, at times, feels a lot like a Tim Burton film, but with an actual strong ending. All in all, I have to give THE ABOMINABLE DR PHIBES a 10. "}{"Title":"Vincent Price At His Best","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This Black comedy and it sequel Dr. Phibes Strikes Again show that campy horror films can be high art as well. Even more recent horror films like se7en owe a lot to this film. Not only can this film be gruesome but campy and artsy at the same time. Prices over the top voice acting is made all the more eerie because of the fact he does not actually speak in the movie. He used his knowledge of acoustics to make devices to speak for him. To speak he plugs devices into his neck.....he also uses the same hole in his neck to drink. Price used this to good effect as during the speaking parts he moves his neck and throat muscles like he was actually speaking. Vulnavia played by Virginia North is equally weird as she does not speak as well and has many elaborate costume changes and dance numbers. Since these films were made in 1971 and the sequel in 1972 you do have to wonder if drugs had anything to do with the films....were they made for the drug taking public? In any case this is the pinnacle of the British horror film genre. So often the British did such bad things to the genre....they reclaim a lot of glory with these two films.Most of the humor in the film come from inspector trout of Scotland Yard. Most of the other characters are basically fodder for Prices revenge, revenge for his late wife's operation that left her dead and Price disfigured.No true horror film fan can truly be called that unless they see these two films. It should also be required viewing for directors and producers of todays horror films. If you have a chance catch both films if you can. If the local video store does not have them they are often shown on cable channels like Flix and AMC, netflix should have them as well. They are consider cult classic so chances are good that you will be able to find them somewhere. "},{"Title":"A must see for Vincent Price fans.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Although categorized as a horror movie, it is, in reality, a dark comedy. The cast is outstanding, featuring Vincent Price as the title character, Terry-Thomas and Joseph Cotton as two doctors, and Virginia North as Phibes' mysterious silent assistant. The accent of the film is definitely on funny lines and expressions. Although not his best movie it's a must have for Vincent Price collectors. "},{"Title":"Creepy, Classy, Stylish and Fun","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSWhile it may sound like just another revenge story, The Abominable Dr. Phibes is actually a beautifully well-made film that turns a well-trodden formula into a cinematic feast of style.The film opens with Phibes (Vincent Price) at a pipe organ, rising from the floor. We see him, covered entirely in black, wind up his peculiar animatronic band, the Clockwork Wizards, and dance with a fashionable young woman named Vulnavia (Virginia North). There are no words spoken by Phibes until much later in the film, and the young woman, while always at his side, never utters a single word. This lack of dialogue sets the tone for the film, one that elevates its simple plot by setting it against an elegant backdrop of malevolent innovation and high '60s fashion. There is a dark beauty in Phibes' murders, both in their conception and cinematic presentation. One man is exsanguinated alive by Phibes. Bottle after bottle of his blood is placed neatly in a line on the mantle over the fireplace. Another man is killed during a masquerade ball, after he puts on Phibes' ornate but lethal frog mask. As the mask tightens around his neck, the camera's point-of-view shot is bathed in red before he falls down the stairs. Murder is seldom so beautifully performed.Vincent Price, in his 100th film performance, plays Phibes with just the right combination of remorse and determination. Price doesn't emphasize the eccentric nature of the character - his actions do well enough on their own.It's a delicious role for Price, performed partially behind masks or makeup, and without ever opening his mouth. Virginia North, as the beautiful screen nymph Vulnavia, may have no dialogue, but still manages to convey a screen presence. There are moments in the film where we'd really like to know more about her. In one scene without Phibes, she sits listening to the Clockwork Wizards while smoking a cigarette. The scene doesn't move the plot forward, but does make us wonder what on earth she's thinking, and how she came to be involved with Phibes. Her affiliation and loyalty to the mad doctor are never explained. Director Robert Fuest, a veteran of the long-running British TV series The Avengers, demonstrates a keen eye for exquisite composition and cinematic staging with The Abominable Dr. Phibes. Fuest's scenes often convey great depth of action, sometimes plot-driven, sometimes not. In one scene, two doctors are talking in an elevator, concerned that Phibes has infiltrated the hospital. As they leave, we see Vincent Price in the background. Other shots of multi-layered action are more aesthetically driven. When Price is at the masquerade ball watching the doctor in the frog mask, his close-up reaction contains a chandelier in the extreme foreground. And when Vulnavia stands in a field watching a plane crash, there are flowers in the extreme foreground. This is just one way Fuest brings elegance to the macabre subject matter. Another is in his use of clean, symmetrical compositions. Generally rare in film, symmetrical framing usually infers a psychological interpretation, here reflecting Phibes' neatness, order, and precision.The soundtrack is another powerful element at play in the film. Basil Kirchin's original score stems organically from the Phibes character. Since Phibes was a concert organist before his untimely demise, an organ features prominently in the film. The Clockwork Wizards play an eclectic array of tunes, from moody blues to soaring romantic band music, but always with an otherworldly twist. Kirchin also uses electronic sounds, music boxes, and operatic vocals. The cumulative effect of this potpourri approach is a musical representation of Phibes himself - classically trained, passionate, and dangerous.The film concludes by suggesting Phibes may strike again (as indeed he does in an inferior sequel). The film cuts to black, indicating that perhaps the audience is Dr. Phibes' final victim, put to rest by a Clockwork Wizards' rendition of Over the Rainbow that accompanies the closing credits. Well, if we have to go, at least we go in style. - Scott Schirmer  "},{"Title":"Murder With Style","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's almost harder to review a personal favorite - where do you start? Phibes is a gorgeous visual feast (the director, Robert Fuest, was the man responsible for the look of TV's The Avengers), it features a commanding performance by Vincent Price as the title madman, the plot is over the top, yet never veers out of control, Peter Jeffrey (as Inspector Trout) provides wonderful comic relief, and Phibes racks up a body count that most Hollywood slashers would be envious of.Price plays Dr. Phibes, a multidisciplinary genius (doctor, expert in acoustics, and clockwork-automaton maker, amongst other skills) who is horribly disfigured (or perhaps killed?) rushing back home to attend to his beloved wife during a dangerous operation. When she dies on the operating table, Phibes blames the surgical team, and begins picking them off one by one via complicated plots based around the biblical plagues of Egypt. Trout trips to the plan fairly early on, but is still unable to stop the killing, due to Phibes' diabolical intelligence and unstoppable will. It all comes together in Phibes' secret hideout where Phibes threatens the life of the chief surgeon's son with a fiendish puzzle.Speaking of Phibe's secret hideout, I can say that it is the main visual joy of the film. Decorated in art-deco glory, filled with musical automatons, and graced with the presence of the ethereal, mute sidekick (robot?) Vulnavia (whose relationship to Phibes is never fully explained - he dances and dines with her as with a lover, but is devoted to his dead wife - but that inconsistency actually adds to the charm of the film instead of harming it). "},{"Title":"Somewhat Unfinished","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Abominable Dr. Phibes shows signs of being rushed, or underdeveloped, its sequel even more so. The storyline shows such promise, and is certainly the ancestor of serial killer films such as Se7en and Saw. (The latter even employs the key imbedded in a living victim, originally imported from Phibes.) The decision in Se7en to utilize fewer murders (seven deadly sins vs ten plagues) is a wise one, since it leaves Se7en more time for character development, one of the weaknesses of Phibes.A camp sensibility informs The Abominable Dr. Phibes, with the music, showtunes, Beardsley-esquire decor, costumes, and the presence of the voluptuous Vulnavia ( in whom Phibes has no interest whatsoever); his devotion to his wife Victoria notwithstanding, Phibes is one of the gayest characters Price ever played. Both Phibes films end with a rendition of Somewhere Over the Rainbow, an unusual use of the tune that makes us feel further empathy for the tragic Dr. Phibes, monster though he seems to be.The audience takes a fiendish delight in anticipating the fates of the victims, though it would have helped if we had been made to feel that they deserved it more. Terry-Thomas in particular takes delight in his role, tippling copiously and leering with relish at his Victorian equivalent of a porno film. Oddly, this makes us have more empathy with his character; one regrets his death more than that of the others, and for that, his exsanguination seems somewhat more compassionately and painlessly executed than the others. What Dr. Longstreet may have done to deserve this mercy, we are not informed.The policemen investigating the murders develop into comic relief. It's possible the studio was modeling them on the success of another film series begun by A Shot in the Dark, whose investigator so completely took over the film series that in time, audiences forgot that the 'Pink Panther' was originally a coveted diamond in a suspense film originally intended to be about a celebrated thief (Arsene Lupin, anyone?) The police investigators in Phibes show evidence of possibly having been seasoned by producers in this way, hoping to add to the film's appeal with audiences.The character of the one victim-to-be who is given a role in tracking down Dr. Phibes, Dr. Vesalius (Joseph Cotten) undergoes a transformation from an eccentric deeply absorbed in his model trains to the man possibly capable of stopping Phibes. The name his character is given, Vesalius, was probably intended to be based on Dr. Hesselius, a recurring character in J. Sheridan LeFanu's stories. Hesselius is employed as a sort of metaphysical expert in those stories, something of an antecedent to the Dr. Van Helsing of all the stories based on Stoker's Dracula. It's probable that Vesalius was intended to be an adversary of Phibes, more his equal than a hapless victim, but that this notion was never fully realized. It might explain Vesalius's easy recognition of Phibes's pattern, the G'tach (then again, he might just be Jewish). Having said what I've said about Vesalius, however, I'm rather glad that he was never developed into an arch adversary; it would have stood in the way of Phibes becoming an antihero of sorts in the second film. The second film completely refashions the character of Phibes from a madman bent solely on vengeance to a deeply maligned man with a definite positive goal, i.e. eternal life with his deceased wife Victoria in Elysia. We (the audience) are definitely meant to see Phibes as more deserving of attaining this goal than his adversary, the dislikeable Robert Quarry. Phibes's pronunciation of his assistant's name changes, from Vul-nah-via in the original, to Vul-nay-via in the sequel.These sorts of inconsistencies in the storyline is likely a result of too many cooks spoiling the broth, together with a general rush to completion. One might wish to see Dr. Phibes redone, if only Vincent Price were still around to play him. He is irreplaceable. "},{"Title":"Sweet Revenge","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A very fun dramedy tongue-in-cheek horror. Quite a bit of comedy to keep you entertained and enough horror keep you interested. Classic Vincent Price fun.Dr. Phibes is out for revenge. Nine doctors that Phibes blames for his wife's death and ruined his life. Dr. Phibes is a doctor, scientist, organist, and biblical scholar -- all of which will play a part in helping him get his revenge biblical plague style.Extremely colourful film visually... quite elaborate sets and costuming. Great casting and an enjoyable story. Mad fun.Great afternoon cinema that would be great as a double feature with the follow-up film Dr. Phibes Rises Again (1972).8/10 "},{"Title":"Maybe not the best movie of Price but still pretty good","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A movie that clearly is more about mystery and atmosphere than a character study. The story is pretty basic about a man calling himself Dr. Phibes (Vincent Price) who seeks revenge for the death of his wife and his own disfigurement. Though he cannot move his mouth he was clever enough to invent a machine that recreates his voice. Very nice setting where he lives with some great contrasts. He has his own private opera with organ and wax figures playing other instruments and a beautiful young lady (who I believe never says anything) occasionally playing violin or dancing. When one of the doctors who he holds responsible for his wife's death dies he symbolically burns the face of the wax image he created of them. Even though the killings are technically not by his hands he surely has a creative way of invoking them with 10 plagues from the Thora (Jewish) as his guide. Very creative indeed. Surely this has inspired later movies. With the operation scene in mind I had to think of the Saw movies. And the plagues might have been an inspiration for movies such as The Reaping while the killings also reminded me of the method that the killer in Seven was using. Very inspirational film indeed. "},{"Title":"One of the wildest horror films ever made","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Phibes (Vincent Price) is quite the talented man. Not only is he a doctor, he is also a successful concert organist and, by the looks of things, some sort of mechanical engineer. He was also married to the beautiful Caroline Munro (who goes uncredited) until Phibes suffered serious facial injuries in a car crash on his way to see his seriously ill wife, who ended up dying on the operating table. Believed dead but instead in hiding and seriously p****d, Phibes begins to hunt down and imaginatively murder the nine doctors he holds responsible for failing to save his wife, building up to Dr. Versalius (Joseph Cotten), in the style of the Ten Plagues of Egypt from the Old Testament.It would be easy and indeed lazy to label Dr. Phibes as camp. With it's wildly colourful sets and outlandish performances (Price is wonderfully over-the-top), this shares more with the kitschy futuristic feel of A Clockwork Orange, which came out the same year, than, say, the original Batman TV series. All realism is left firmly at the door, as we are introduced to Phibes, sat hunched and wildly bashing his organ (no euphemism intended), in the middle of what appears to be some kind of macabre ceremony. Left unable to speak following his accident, Phibes has also created a device which, when inserted into his neck, allows him to speak to his dead embalmed wife. It's deliciously free-spirited, never allowing something like logic to get in the way of fun, acid-trip horror.It shares a lot in terms of narrative with the superior Theatre of Blood (1973) - which is often labelled Dr. Phibes 3 by it's fans - so the film is little more than murder after murder. But it's the inventiveness and the sheer audacity of the set-pieces that makes the movie so much fun. We have death by bats, a doctor who sits back and lets Phibes drain him entirely of his blood, skull-crushing-by-frog-mask, and a face eaten by locusts. There's something morbidly fascinating in watching the predictability of the events unfold, and the murder scenes provide buckets of black humour, in a tamer and more Carry On-style than Theatre. Price is unsurprisingly a joy to watch, while Cotten is surprisingly game. One of the wildest horror films ever made.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A truly unique artwork","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This Film was one of the most intriguing and interesting I have watched in years. I first encountered this movie one slow afternoon, with nothing else to watch. I was hooked about 1 minute into the film, It was that good, and whatever flaws it may have are vastly overshadowed by the positives.I believe that the first thing worth noting is how the film looks, and it looks stunning in all of its eccentric marriage of 1920's Art-Deco and early 70's vibe. This might sound odd on this review, but trust me it looks beautiful (in an odd but compelling way) and only makes this film stand out from the pack of its contemporaries and even films today. Truly marvelous. The story is sublime, and very original for its time. Of course, the idea of a man getting revenge on those who failed him may be a cliché today in many horror style movies (Err, the entire SAW series), but Phibes arguably was the birth of such an idea made over 30 years before the first SAW movie. Unlike in SAW, Phibes actually has clear motives from the get-go, and his reason for revenge is truly touching actually(His Wife died on the operating table and he blames it on the surgeons). I won't give the whole movie away, but I will mention that the methods of revenge are some of the best parts of the movie, using inspiration from the Old Testament to carry out some of the most creative kills ever. The movie's ace card is undeniably the acting/dialogue. The role of Dr. Phibes is played by none other than the one and only Vincent Price, and his performance here (even though all of his dialogue was pre- recorded) proves just how irreplaceable the man truly was. Price went from campy, and actually rather humorous, to warm and sentimental, to ice-cold murderer sometimes in the same scene, handled with aplomb by the master. The facial expressions he pulls of sync perfectly with the solid dialogue pre-recorded (check out the scene where Phibes gives his first lamentation to his dead wife,- Nine Eternities in Doom! couldn't have been pulled off better by ANY other actor!. While Price is the greatest acting force here, Terry Thomas and Peter Jeffrey also have likable characters and do solid acting efforts as well. Even Joseph Cotten was not nearly as bad as everyone else says he was. Virginia North as Vulnavia may not have much to do and her character is unexplained, but she sure does look good, and same with Caroline Munro as Victoria Phibes who has even less to do (lie in a coffin), but is easily one of the most stunning actresses in the history of film. The film is not without its flaws though,as sometimes the humor can get too silly for its own good, the pacing can occasionally slow, the sometimes shoddy SFX, and fact that some of the deaths are so OTT they are hard to believe.None of this though affects Phibes' shining credentials. This film cannot really be pigeonholed. It is officially known as a horror film. It is not a horror, but it does contain some genuinely horrific scenes.Sometiems it is called a comedy, though it is not really a comedy, though it does contain truly funny moments. It is even considered a romance movie by some, but i believe it is not a romance either, even though the pain that Phibes feels for his wife comes off as shockingly authentic, and translates well to the attentive viewer. The ending in particular is actually one of the most poignant and emotional in any film. The fact is, Phibes combines the best things about different types of genres, and largely it succeeds. I suggest to anyone sick of the mostly hackneyed garbage that is modern horror movies, to check out this little gem immediately. Better yet, anyone who loves film should see this at least once. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Creepiness and black humor - isn't that what good horror is all about after all?","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Not-so-sought-after qualities such as creepy or eerie would have a derogatory sense if applied to most things in life a person, a house... Fortunately for us horror fans, this is actually the opposite to the good old Horror genre. After all, be it a short story, a novel or a film, having these qualities, more or less guarantee the reader/viewer is going to quite probably find what he or she is after being scared and definitely entertained!The Abominable Dr. Phibes achieves that quite well you are evolved in this tense atmosphere throughout - creepy characters and scenarios make sure of that and now and then, you're reminded of its rather quirk and surreal plot during the frequent occasions when it shamelessly mocks itself. The plot doesn't unwillingly fall prey of the obvious clichés, such as making use of a single comic relief character or scaring constantly The said relief here is provided by grotesque scenes such as cops trying to, as silently as possible, unscrew a corpse from the wall after just being, well, impaled - at his posh social club in the heart of London! At the end, you're not sure if those grotesque deaths are more down to Scotland Yard's lack of competence - as pointed out by Trout's superior, or actually due to Phibes's cleverness who, for being so focused on his macabre plan, is - thankfully to our own enjoyment - always a step ahead.Add up to that equation unique performances and clear attempts of not being taken so seriously, and you are, for a good hour and a half, transported to a rather art deco 1920's where not many a proeminent doctor are safe until Phibes is either caught or, at what it seems, finally concludes his tasks in a grandeur typical of the silent movies of the era, with righteous final confrontation, enigmatic ending and everything after. "}{"Title":"Vincent Price is top-notch as disfigured and demented revenger Doctor Phibes","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Horrifying and genuinely frightening movie that impacted really during the seventies with great main and supporting cast of Britain's best . Well made horror movie full of black humor and a bit of gore where numerous people meet horrible deaths by a despicable avenger named Doctor Phibes (exceptional Vincent Price), causing wreak havoc and bizarre murders wherever he goes . A series of grisly killings are happening and Police (Peter Jeffreys) is investigating the deeds , as several of the roles come to a sticky final . Dr Phibes goes on his quest to avenge his beloved wife (Caroline Munro in photograph ) . After being disfigured in a car crash , Phibes decides to seeks revenge against the members of a surgical team (whose chief is Joseph Cotten) and he seems to dispatch new weird death , committing inventive crimes and killing every few minutes of the movie with the assistance of his lovely companion ( a delectable Virginia North). Camp terror movie with charismatic performance of excellent protagonists , Vincent Price and Joseph Cotten , and all around with special mention to Peter Jeffrey as intelligent Inspector . Vincent is excellent as master of menace , the picture is specifically devoted to the particular talents of Price. Vincent continued to play various films in similar style shot at England as ¨Theatre of blood¨ , ¨Madhouse¨ , and the following ¨Dr Phibes rises again¨ . Terry Thomas also have a splendid time in this vivid flick of a doctor's vendetta . The chief excitement lies in seeing what new and amazing victim can be dreamt by the campy effects, in fact, the murders parallel those in the Biblical plagues . The movie's intelligence , adequate Fx , rare score, luxurious photography all combined to make it a 70s horror classic and its influence cannot be overstated . Colorful cinematography by Norman Warwick and modernist production design in Art Nouveau or Decó style . This delightful motion picture is well produced by American International -James H Nicholson and Samuel Z. Arkoff- and compellingly directed by Robert Fuest . This is a top-drawer black horror with a strong genre cast should the terror fans'attention . It's followed by a good sequel titled ¨Dr Phibes rises again¨ again by Robert Fuest and Vincent Price in which Phibes attempts to revive his beloved wife and going on vengeance on those he thinks responsible for her death . "},{"Title":"When the acid reaches him, he will have a face like mine!","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price plays the good Dr. Phibes, who was hideously scarred in an auto accident while rushing home after his wife died in an operation. Phibes had to recreate his face and talks through his neck. He's out for revenge against the nine doctors involved in his wife's death. Phibes, who has a PhD in theology, uses the curse of the Pharohs from Exodus to kill them in ingenious theme deaths (hail, boils, blood, frogs, etc). Throughout his plot he's assisted by Vulnavia a silent, fashionable, young woman who is not his daughter. Why he didn't just forget his wife and get with her, I'll never figure out (she's attractive and does anything that he says, the perfect woman).The cast in this film is definitely strong. In addition to Price (one of the all time kings of horror), Joseph Cotten, Terry Thomas and John Cater are in it. The plot is set in the 1920's and it looks pretty authentic for a picture that probably didn't have a huge budget. This is an example of good film making, it is fun and doesn't really have any bad parts. "},{"Title":"Nine Eternities in Doom","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I would have to say that this film is on my top ten list. Horror is so clever if you can step away from the whole stereotypical creep with hatchet vs. teenage kids idea. The plot in this movie, though partly defecated upon by the lousy acting of some supporting roles (namely the cops), was almost literary. Even without moving his mouth, Vincent Price lent a quality to the Phibes character that made the movie, in a way. I was discussing with a friend of mine who could be cast as Phibes if they were ever to (gasp) film a remake, and neither of us could find in our minds a suitable fellow to fill Price's shoes. The fact that the bats in the first death scene (possibly this could be a spoiler) are only fruit bats, however, was thoroughly giggle worthy. "},{"Title":"A Cult Film on the Day of Release","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If the producers' intention was to create an instant cult film, they were certainly successful with this wildly entertaining film that holds up to repeated viewings. Although thrown into the horror genre for lack of a proper category, Dr. Phibes is low on horror for anyone over the age of ten, which is likely far younger than the age group actually targeted by the director and writer. With more than a passing homage to The Phantom of the Opera, this is a tale of revenge that has been cleverly planned to mimic the ten plagues of Egypt. The retribution murders are fun in their implausibility and diabolical inventiveness. Vincent Price camps up his role as Phibes and shows obvious relish in his own flamboyance. However, the art director, costume designer, and cinematographer deserve bows as well. Working with what at times shows to be a modest budget, they created an art nouveau/deco style that recalls the early 20th century but does not really exist in any particular period, although the story is ostensibly set in the 1920s. The color and camera angles are self consciously arty, which works perfectly with the sets and over-the-top direction and performances. This film and its nearly as good sequel are excellent entertainment and are among Vincent Price's best films from his later period. "},{"Title":"Very Good Vincent Price Movie!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I had heard of this movie quite a while ago, but dismissed it as a ghastly 1970's B-Movie. How wrong I was!Vincent Price Plays Dr.Anton Phibes a man who was presumed dead following a car accident after the Death of his beloved Wife on the operating table. But low and behold Dr. Phibes isn't dead although is terribly scarred and can only speak with the help of a grammaphone, and decides to have revenge on the Doctors he believes Killed his wife.Price's performance is outstanding - hilarious one minute and scary the next, but thankfully he plays it tongue-in-cheek as do his co-stars Including Joseph Cotten,Terry-Thomas among the Doctors and Peter Jeffrey as the Det. leading the investigationDon't just dismiss this as a Obscure,awful British B-Movie- It deserves better!Follwed by a sequel.My Rating *** out of ***** or 7/10 "},{"Title":"classic Vincent Price horror comedy flick","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Great movie to just sit back and enjoy, seeing Vincent play this part, will have you laughing throughout the movie, might i say the actors playing the police nearly steal the movie. The movie actually moves quite quickly, there is no slow area of the flick, just good early 1970's style. The color throughout the movie is bold, and the dry sense of humor of all involved make this movie, one for anyone's library.For those who watch this on DVD, the trailer for the movie is a must to be watched, it is classic, how towards the end of the trailer you are advised that this movie may be the most frightening movie you will ever see.  "},{"Title":"Love means never having to say you're ugly.","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Fighting the trauma of his wife's death, Dr. Phibes uses his imagination and psychotic ways to enact his revenge on the medical community of London. Instead of just going the normal judicial system route, Phibes takes a page from the Bible and uses the ten plagues to ease his sadness. Hail, boils, and bats are just a few of the methods that he uses to bring justice upon the eight doctors and one nurse that couldn't save his wife. When the police begin to get suspicious, they begin putting the puzzle pieces together. Oddly, what they discover is that they may be dealing with an element not of this world. The infamous Dr. Phibes holds secrets and it will be left up to one cunning detective to uncover the truth. He will need to work fast before the insatiable Dr. Phibes strikes again.This 'cult' classic was film well before its time. Set in the 1920s and released in 1971, there are elements to this picture that can be felt in the heart of our horror/thriller genre today. Price gives us one of his most memorable roles as the daunting Dr. Phibes bent on revenging the death of his wife. Coupled with moments of Se7en, the Abominable Dr. Phibes chills and entertains better than some recent films of a similar genre.What sets this film apart from others made during this time is the imagination of the script and the powerful sets. The powerful set design and Technicolor-esque photography are so bright, beautiful, and distinctive that it only aided in creating the creative world in which Dr. Phibes resided. The set design reminded me of a splash of Kubrick tossed together with a few shreds of Jim Henson's darker eye. Add to this mix some fancy and modern camera work, enjoyable humor, and grotesque murders and you have built only a larger platform for Price to do what he does best. This was one of those films that just seemed to 'click' at every level. Director Robert Fuest did all of his homework while creating this masterpiece that will remain in my eyes a pivotal film in the history of horror.Grade **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable with memorable sequences.","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dr Anton Phibes (Price) is a mad musical genius who was horrifically disfigured in a road accident. However, with his extensive knowledge of acoustics, he recreated his own voice by plugging an amplifier into a hole in his neck and his face with a lifelike mask. From his grandiose art-deco mansion in London he plots revenge against the nine surgeons who failed to save his wife's life at the operating table. Each surgeon is killed according to the ten curses of the Pharaoh from the Old Testament, which include killer bats, rats, bees and locusts.A highly enjoyable camp horror with a number of memorable sequences including the opening where Price emerges from the ground in a sinister black cape at the consul of his art-deco cinema organ. The film is always impressive for the art-deco sets of Brian Eatwell and there are some amusing cameos from Terry Thomas and Hugh Griffith. Vincent Price as Phibes and Joseph Cotton as Dr Vesalius, the head surgeon who the madman is reserving until last and Peter Jeffery as the hapless Inspector Trout all score in their roles.Dr Phibes Rises Again emerged in 1972, which saw the mad doctor resurrected along with his beautiful henchman Vulnavia and the pair headed for Egypt in order to discover the Elixir of life, which would enable Phibes to revive his wife. However, despite equally impressive settings, the script was poor and couldn't put across the same level of conviction of its absurdities to the audience. Guest players like Robert Quarry and Peter Cushing were wasted too. "},{"Title":"Camp Classic!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is my all time favorite Vincent Price flick. Using the plagues of Egypt as his inspiration, the Abominable Dr. Phibes exacts revenge upon the doctors who allowed his beloved and beautiful wife (the stunning Caroline Munro, seen here only as a lovely portrait) to die on the operating table during what should have been a routine procedure. Assisted by his silent and sinfully pretty assistant Vulnavia, Dr. Phibes creates some of the most bizarre and creative methods of murder ever seen on film!There's a frog mask which slowly shrinks and eventually crushes it's wearer to death whilst a happy ragtime jazz song plays in the background. There's a hoard of deadly bats in a mans bedroom, one of which can clearly be seen hanging by a string as it flies towards the camera!!! There's a weird and disgusting sequence with liquefied Brussels sprouts and locusts. Big time EW moment! There's also death by unicorn horn, desanguination and a funky ice machine. But it seems Phibes has been saving Joseph Cotton for last...or rather, he's been saving Cotton's young son. In a wickedly clever climax, Cotton has only minutes to save his sons life before a vat of acid empties itself onto the boys face. Can he, will he, save him in time? This is a bizarre, visually stunning film complete with wild fashions, stag films and 1920s tunes that are so out of place that they fit right in. Vulnavia is a high point, a lethal assassin whose beauty is her deadliest weapon. Her presence is never explained, but you will not care, believe me. Price is as silent as she is, his lines spoken in desolate narrative as he plays his organ and gazes mournfully upon the portrait of his lost love. This film never takes itself too seriously and is an absolute riot to watch, a fantastically brilliant black comedy that should not be missed by horror fans, especially fans of the late great Vincent. It's so cheap and silly and ludicrous that it is absolutely flawless. 10 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Vincent Price at his menacing, wittiest, best!","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this camp horror classic in the theater.  Being very young, the comedy missed me entirely.  All I saw were the grotesque, yet inventive, ways Dr. Phibes murdered his victims.  This hilarious black comedy is definitely one of Price's best...and his mouth never moves!  Dr. Phibes was supposedly killed in a car accident with his wife years before.  He survives and decides to knock off everyone he feels is responsible for his wife's death. Standout performances by Terry-Thomas as the naughty doctor who likes peep shows and Peter Jeffrey as the by the book inspector in charge of the cases, whose problems don't just stop at solving a murder.  Check out his home life.  Many very quiet scenes with no words spoken, but it adds to the suspense and fun.  Highly recommended.  Also, catch the sequel, Dr. Phibes Rises Again! "}{"Title":"Who doesn't like crazy organist?","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Warning============POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD I was given a Vincent Price movie collection by my very loving mother for christmas back in 2002.  Unfortunatly I am just now getting to relive the wonders of our great friend Dr. Phibes.  This movie is just a great movie and one that can be watched over and over again.  A Doctor believed dead his wife dead as well, and nine doctors to blame.  As one would guess Dr. Phibes is NOT dead and is now ready for action.  This movie is full of very great ways to finish off those who you want revenge against.  The story line is fairly good i would give it a 6 out of 10, acting is good 8 out of 10(Hello Vincent is in it), horror factor 8 out of 10.  This isn't your straight gore horror it is more of suspense and anticipation of what crazy way is someone going to die next.  Over all I would give this movie a solid 7 out of 10, and is a definite purchase for anyone interested in a great horror movie. The sequel isn't quite as good but is still a great purchase I will do a quick review on that movie next.MC "},{"Title":"Why Dr Phibes is an important gothic fantasy in early 70s horror","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!I like gothic horror movies. Whilst Hammer and Amicus fought off denizens from the beyond the grave, director Robert Fuest and Vincent Price made a truly remarkable double-bill of movies concerning the machinations of hideously disfigured musician/theologist, Anton Phibes, and his quest for revenge, re-vivification and immortality.The plot of 'Abominable' is an ingenious reworking of Jacobean revenge tragedy played out within literally Biblical proportions, as Phibes merrily dispatches the surgeons who let his wife die on the operating table.Of course, this being a Vincent Price movie, we know that just around the corner is hammy and camp humour. Yet, it is in the playing of this - along with it's absolutely sensational cast of eclectic British actors (yes, and Joseph Cotton, too!) - that lifts the movie from the mundanities of early 70s horror to the heights of delirious 'knowing' horror (which today would be insultingly called 'postmodern'). That the cast all enter into the ghoulish, gleeful playing of things allows the movie to enter into hitherto unexplored regions of horror. That is, the exploration of grisliness combined with a tongue in cheek playfulness that allows the narrative to be propelled by a series of outstanding and inventive deaths that, even today, remain as ingenious as ever.The movie also benefits from the sensational production design. Brian Eatwell's marvelous art-deco sets look incredibly expensive (they weren't!) and the Roaring Twenties is perfectly captured by director, Fuest. His often striking use of camerawork sets the mise-en-scene to work in enveloping the viewer in a truly bizarre world. One only has to look at the framing of the giant Phibes set with the mad Doctor literally raising from the dead to wind up his clockwork band of puppets to see that this is no ordinary horror movie.Whilst Hammer were content to recycle old themes (albeit very well), and Amicus explored anthology stories, AIP made the film. Yet, the film is quintessentially British in tone. It has a welcome dose of graveyard humour, the actors are typically 'stiff-upper lipped' and the story, although possibly inspired by EC Comics, has a typically 'British' feel to it.I cannot praise this movie enough. It is superbly ghoulish fun and recommended for people who want more than modern horrors can ever hope to give an audience. "},{"Title":"Vengeance Like the Wrath of God!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vincent Price plays Dr. Phibes, a man hell-bent on getting revenge for the death of his beloved wife. Disfigured in a blazing car crash he seeks vengeance against the ten doctors than he holds responsible. A Price classic, he attacks the role with his usual grace and presence. This is a fun little revenge piece with a twist, he dispatches the doctors with the very plagues visited upon the pharaohs in the Old Testament. There is a lot of wit and banter on display with good direction and a clever script. Good fun. 7/10 "},{"Title":"entertaining review of an entertaining film","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is perhaps one of Vincent Price's best performances ever if not his best one. In this film he portrays a doctor who is driven over the edge into a state of madness by the death of his wife Vulnavia in an auto accident. Rather than doing the conventional thing by suing for malpractice he takes his revenge against the medical team that operated on his wife. He does so by killing them off one by one in the most creative and original  ways ever devised by the foul human mind. Some of the methods he uses to eliminate them include using bats,locusts,and rats.  There is a lot of humor or comedy in the film which makes it less of a grim or serious story but still entertaining regardless. For those who want a good fright this one will be disappointing but for those who want mayhem with humor this is definitely a good recommendation. The music in the film is haunting and the scenery or background in Dr.Phibes residence is excellent. Dr. Phibes assistant is pretty,doesn't speak at all and dresses gorgeously. That's all I can say for this character who shows little or no personality whatsoever. The investigator in this story is rather bland and unoriginal,along with the bungling police who are nothing more than that. The other characters in the film don't really stand out in any memorable way. Dr. Phibes however is an original and unforgettable character in every way and one can't help but feel pity for him despite his gruesome acts of vengeance. "},{"Title":"excellent horror comedy from the master","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Very bizarre and somewhat effective horror film w/ Price as the mad doctor out for revenge.  Cotten is pretty dull (but so is his role), but Price is campy fun.  Some of the killing is pretty gruesome, and definately different (a pilot killed in his cockpit by rats, a brass unicorn spears through the heart, etc.).  I like the opening very much, with the robot orchestra. There are also many odd film compositions here.  Humor is a spice for this film, which is not essentially a comedy, and much ofit is levelled at the cops (Mr. Trout).  "},{"Title":"Artsy horror classic","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This minor classic straddles artsy camp, the Keystone cops, and gross-out horror without ever losing its deadpan aplomb.  The eponymous Phibes (Vincent Price) takes revenge for the death of his wife by murdering her surgeons one by one, using as his modus operandi the Biblical plagues of Egypt.  Why?  Oh, who cares?  Director Robert Fuest and Set Designer Brian Eatwell deliver one of the most hypnotically beautiful horror movies ever, and the tension between the gorgeous, pristine images and the horrors being depicted gives the movie a weirdly engrossing pull.  A bevy of classy actors (Joseph Cotten, Terry Thomas) drolly back up Price's over-the-top characterization - and this time, can you blame him?  The good doctor apparently has vast resources, limitless luck, and of course the demented energy of a mad genius, and when he's not figuring out how to have someone eaten alive by locusts, he's pounding away on his underground organ, or whispering sweet nothings to his wife's corpse.  He's an ARTIST, you see - every murder is outrageously stylized (and outrageously improbable), and he even has his mute assistant accompany his killings on her violin.  The whole thing is so morbidly witty - and so perfectly poised - that you may just never forget it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Stylish Black Comedy","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film features one of Vincent Price's most solid performances.I first saw this imaginative film twenty-five years ago when I was just a kid and I loved it then, and when I recently saw it again I loved it even more.  It is simply wonderful entertainment.A bitter, angry man, Phibes seeks revenge against the eight doctors and nurses who couldn't save his wife's life after a car accident.  Dr. Phibes lives in an art deco wonderland complete with mechanical musicians, an assistant who looks and dresses like a supermodel, an enormous pipe organ made with colored lucite, and a car that has illustrations in the windows of what Phibes used to look like before the accident.  Now that's a villain!What makes this brilliant gem a black comedy is the way in which Phibes dispatches of his victims  corresponding to the nine plagues of ancient Egypt.  Being a theologist, Phibes has intimate knowledge of the Hebrew language and the plagues as well, so I guess you could say there is a method to his madness.  The victims are all pretentious and soulless, except perhaps for the nurse, so like Phibes the viewer has a feeling that they deserve their just rewards.  It's quite an accomplishment for a film to make you identify with the villain!  Like Rod Steiger in No Way To Treat A Lady or Anthony Hopkins in Silence of the Lambs, Price's performance is intentionally over-the-top, which is really the only way to play a character like this.  The film wouldn't be believable or enjoyable if Price walked around in a business suit and lived in a townhouse.Sure the plot is silly, but what horror movie doesn't have a silly plot? There are holes everywhere  if eight doctors and a nurse got together to save a woman's life, they must have been very dedicated professionals, certainly not deserving of the madman's wrath.  The death by ice in the motor car didn't make any sense; one would have to lower the air temperature very quickly in order to flash-freeze a person.  Wouldn't the nurse wake up if she felt goo on her face?  If you have to pick at all these things, then go watch a documentary or the evening news or something.  If you want to be entertained, then see this movie! "},{"Title":"If you like this, you will love RAIMI's DARKMAN","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Phibes is a very cool character. He's not only a mad doctor at 100% but also one of the ultimate bogey men. This guy is a genius, his mind is by far superior to everyone else's. At the same time, he's a psycho monster (disfigured and totally twisted) moved by revenge. Phibes uses to hide himself into the darkness (he wears masks to reproduce his former human facade) and he's extremely...ehm... dangerous. There is a similar character. The unfogettable DARKMAN, played by Liam Neeson and created by the evil mind of SAM RAIMI. Darkman is the definitive bogey man, a disfigured psycho hero with unknown faculties, searching for revenge against his enemies who disfigured HIM. In the while, he can assume alternate identities with special syntethic skinned masks. In fact, he was a scientist, a genius. I advice YOU. Rent Phibes, then buy Darkman. You will be not disappointed by these two great heroes, surely the darkest movie characters in history. Both the movies are stunning Horror/action/adventure/drama/comedy mixs...please, don't miss them. Revenge is the medicine, of course.  "},{"Title":"darkly funny, surreal and bizarre, a must","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  a unique film to say the least!  the abominable dr. phibes is not a movie you are likely to forget anytime soon after watching it. a horribly disfigured doctor, (we do not see his ghastly face till the end), anton phibes, survives the car accident his wife was killed in and, following the Ten Plagues of the Old Testament, takes stylish vengeance on the nine doctors guilty of letting her die on the operating table. phibes is basically a twisted genius who lives in a surreal world of his own making, inhabiting(if my memory serves me) an abandoned mansion in which, like the phantom of the opera, he pounds on his organ and plots his deadly revenge against the doctors who let his beloved wife die. the doctors are lurid, unappealing people, and we are clearly meant to sympathize with phibes and not them, whereas in theatre of blood there was some ambiguity as to whether we should feel empathy for price's character or his enemies. some moments in the film are actually touching, such as the scenes in which price speaks lovingly (using a machine) to his wife's picture and stares longingly at her perfectly preserved corpse, although we can safely attribute this to price's first rate acting ability and not the slightly ludicrous plot. some moments in the movie are darkly hilarious, such as the part in which one of the doctors, who is actually in the custody of the two tenacious and dogged detectives on price's tail, is pinned to a wall by a huge gold pike that phibes somehow manages to fire at him. the two simply stand and stare at each other in disbelief and shock, and it made me laugh out loud. every time he exacts his unpleasant revenge on each one of the doctors he places a medallion on a head sculpture and melts the face, and it is genuinely chilling to watch. perhaps the most memorable murder sequence is when phibes and his assistant fill the personal plane of one of the nine with rats, and as they attack him he loses control of the plane and crashes, phibes' odd assistant dances gracefully and plays a violin. the ending is very satisfying, and phibes basically escapes into the sealed chamber of his lair and successfully evades the two detectives who have finally closed in on him, while his sidekick meets with a more unfortunate (and gruesome) fate. and throughout the movie while all this is going on, we get to see fascinating glimpses of phibes' personal life and bizarre creations, the most notable being the clockwork wizards, this strange blow up doll quartet that dances eerily in tune to what sounds like muzak as phibes watches. with the kind of forgettable garbage that the genre of satirical horror produces nowadays, (vampire in brooklyn, from dusk till dawn), it really is a much safter bet in terms of assured quality to take a trip to the video store and rent a vincent price movie than pay eight dollars to see an ineffectual mediocrity that really never should have been made in the first  place. in any case, phibes is a must see for both fans of the horror genre and just casual viewers who enjoy a great film every now and then.           "},{"Title":"Precedes se7en","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie held forth an interesting atmosphere and an admirable villain. In those ways, it precedes Se7en though comparisons stop there.  It was ahead of its time if one has a sense of history in film-making, and even today it is not too badly dated, especially for the realm of horror films, a genre which is easily dated.  "}{"Title":"Price at his peak","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's easy to pick apart the plot contrivances.  Yes, as any Sunday School student knows, the plagues are out of order . . . . But this is a rare horror gem laced with the black humor of the old E.C. Comics, then coated in an Art Decco veneer.  And Vincent Price, as the master musician turned serial murderer, pulls it off with a pantomime that bucks his reputation as a ham.  The murders, while farfetched, are deliciously grisly.  When in the last 30 years have we had a horror films with as much style, ingenuity and class?  It's the perfect bookend to Price's other '70s gem Theater of Blood.   "},{"Title":"Nine killed her, nine must die!, is Vincent Prices mantra in this masterpiece horror film.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I really can't say enough about this film. For me, its a masterpiece of poetic horror and is Vincent Price's greatest performance. It also has an entertaining supporting cast that brings humor to an otherwise chilling film. In every scene that he's in, Price is mesmerizing. His monologue via a transmitter to his dead wife is truly moving. His anger towards Joseph Cotton is perfectly acted even without opening his mouth once. For an incredibly underrated actor like Vincent Price (and an underrated genre like horror films) to count this gem among his best work must be a thrill to any fan.  "},{"Title":"Vincent Price at his most sinister","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is great camp horror of the early 70's. Vincent Price, at his evil best, is a man seeking revenge on those he blamed for the death of his wife.  Nine Killed her, nine shall die. Each of the killings is based on the old testament, and each is more ingenious than its predecessor. Vincent Price's 100th film is a winner. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a must see film for film buffs and fans of Vincent Price.  Price gives one of his best performances as Dr. Phibes, a doctor revenging his wife's death by killing the 9 who let her die.  Hilarious. Not for children. "},{"Title":"The most inventive serial killer in movie history...","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My object all sublime,/I shall achieve in time,/To let the punishment/Fit the crime.--Gilbert and Sullivan, The MikadoBefore Dr. Hannibal Lector, before Freddy Krueger, before Jason Vorhees, there was Dr. Anton Phibes (who, rumor has it, was actually based on Church of Satan founder Anton Szandor LeVey; as he actually opened said Church for business in 1966, it is not entirely without conjecture that he may have been the model for Phibes). He is the Renaissance Man of mass murderers. Not only can he play an organ with great skill and gusto, but he also has a Teslaesque genius for mechanical invention. It would also seem that he has a good working knowledge of zoology, as witnessed by use of animals in some of his killings.What held my attention for this movie was it's lush production designs. Phibes' house, the mechanical band (who generate their music elsewhere, as the motions they make would merely cause a lot of noise if a human did the same things with the instruments as they), his car, and, of course, his outlandish contraptions may have gone on to inform the sensibilities of such dark luminaries as Clive Barker and Tim Burton. I think that they may have also played a part in the conception of V for Vendetta, the excellent underground comic strip by Mr. Alan Moore and Mr. David Lloyd.Now, as to the story, I'll be the first to admit that the basic idea is not very original (there are very few original ideas in storytelling, though). What's different about this one is it's execution...literally. That's all Phibes' many murders are to him, executions for murder one of his dear departed wife. Perhaps he was thinking on a verse from the New Testament when he got his inspiration from the Old Vengeance is mine./I will repay, saith the Lord.--Romans Chapter 12. The plot may seem a bit incredulous at times and there are a couple of killings that may be hard to swallow as far as their coming off so smoothly (specifically, the deaths by Blood and Hail). My answer, which may be equally hard to swallow, is that in both cases cited, the last thing either victim expected was for what was going to actually kill them (how could it be otherwise in the case of Hail?). Another notable element to the plot is that this is the first time I have ever seen this type of movie where the killer's plan works PERFECTLY. Even the last bit of business with The First-Born does what Phibes needs it to do.Now, as to the players, need I really say that Vincent Price is the main attraction here? The fact that he is silent (due to his damaged voice box) most of the time just adds to the creepiness factor. The occasional dry chuckle gains even more prominence with such quietness. Inspector Trout, as played by Peter Jeffrey, is seemingly the only member of his police force that actually wants to do the job he was hired to do. That his superiors are so press-conscious does not seem the slightest bit ridiculous when one considers the recent JonBenet Ramsey case, in which such similar press concerns may have helped to sabotage the investigation. No one else truly made much of an impression on me, not even Joseph Cotton's stock good doctor character.While not a film one can truly call great, definitely one of the best for those who have a taste for weird fiction. "},{"Title":"Schlocky Technicolor with plot twists and an avenging Vincent Price...","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vincent Price plays Dr. Phibes, a cryptic jack-of-all-trades whose wife was killed by a team of nine doctors.  So, after planning a devious scheme (eight years planning), the unsightly Phibes (he supposedly burned alive in a car crash) kills off the doctors one by one, following the Pharaoh's Curse of the Old Testament.  In that respect, it's kind of similar to Seven with the Seven Deadly Sins plotline.  But the similarities stop there, because Dr. Phibes doesn't carry any of Seven's gloom - it's gaudy Technicolor art-deco all the way! The cops eventually catch onto Phibes after visiting a Rabbi, but are unable to stop his creative killing spree (bees, bats, frogs, blood, hail, locusts, darkness, and death of the firstborn).  Believe me, the makers of newer horror flicks like Scream and H20 could take a cue from Dr. Phibes and his strange strategies of death. The film plays with humor a bit, but mostly though the police officers' incompetence and one-liners - it could be developed a little further.  In fact, someone should remake this film with more character development and more unnerving psychopathic twists - this version, as creative as it is, just doesn't hold up.  Still, Vincent Price does a great job in the lead role as the obsessive, organ-playing husband of retribution - he makes himself a martyr that audiences will root for (as both villain and tragic-hero)!  "},{"Title":"A treat","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A very sophisticated offbeat horror outing for Vincent Price. Price is perfect with his face expressions as Dr Anton Phibes. The mood is not so far removed from the charming, witty British TV Series of the '60s, The Avengers- indeed the director Robert Fuest worked on the series, as did a few of the actors in this film. Fuest does a fine job, and is helped out by an inventive script- the wonderfully devised demises of the Doctors- particularly the Frogs one. The Art Deco designs are glorious; it's a treat, both visually and aurally. Price's main opponents are played by Joseph Cotten (of The Third Man, no less) and Peter Jeffrey, as the aimiable, incompetent Inspector Trout.Overall, a uniquely charming treat. Rating- **** (out of *****) "},{"Title":"Creepy, Kooky, Campy Fun","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  English doctors are being murdered in bizarre ways inspired by the plagues visited on Egypt in the Old Testament.  The cause  Anton Phibes (Vincent Price) is still ticked off at the team of doctors who couldn't save his wife.  One of those doctors (Joseph Cotten) is determined to solve the case.The Abominable Dr. Phibes has the same campy charm and sly humor as the Avengers TV series, on which Phibes director Robert Fuest worked. Phibes is stylistically remarkable.  Many of the scenes have little or no dialogue and depend on ingenious sets and props.The real charm of Phibes is its sneaky, sick sense of humor.  My favorite bit  After a victim has been impaled with a unicorn head, the Scotland Yard inspectors have the unscrew the corpse from the wall.This could be horror legend Vincent Price's creepiest role.  His makeup creates the appearance that his deathly pale skin is latex pasted to his skull.  Without his trademark voice (Phibes is mute without an elaborate device that creates speech), Price makes excellent use of his evil eyes. "},{"Title":"thoroughly entertaining camp classic","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I had never seen Phibes before and came across it the other day in the video store.This could be the campiest horror film of all time. Price is obviously having a ball playing the crazed Dr. Phibes, embarked on a campaign of retribution against the surgical team responsible for his wife's death. The whole atmosphere of the movie is a delightfully devil-may-care pastiche of horror, humor, camp, and self-satire. The props, costumes, and sets leave us unsure of exactly when the story is taking place, and the lighting and color schemes are cheerfully garish. The murder scenes are so outlandishly grotesque that they go beyond gruesome to absurd, and much of the music is weirdly out of character in a zany way. Terry Thomas puts in an appearance, as does the venerable Joseph Cotten. The movie is right up there with Theater of Blood as among the best things Price did.If you like horror films and haven't yet seen this entertainingly bizarre classic, give it a whirl. "},{"Title":"Dr. Phibes rhymes with vibes!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In 1970 this film had its New York premiere at the Museum of Modern Art. Though anything but a museum piece, it is interesting that its status as a highly artful film was recognized even at a time when horror films were generally regarded as the bargain basement of genre cinema production.  It now stands as a masterpiece of early Postmodern sensibility.  It can be enjoyed, as other patrons on this site have observed, straightforwardly as a tale of vengeance, sadism, and romantic tragedy.  The original novel by William Goldstein was widely distributed in paperback at the time of the film's release, and is worth reading after you see the movie.  Goldstein's original conception of Dr. Phibes as a charred remnant of human suffering coldly and ruthlessly carrying out his divinely ordained scheme of vengeance does come through at moments in the film, thanks to the flashes of humanism in Vincent Price's brilliant acting.  Equally good are Joseph Cotten, Peter Jeffrey, John Cater (whose role as the perennially clueless inspector was enlarged in the sequel) and deserving of special marks, Virginia North as Phibes' mute amanuensis and muse, Vulnavia.  The score by Basil Kichin and the exquisite Deco/Bauhaus sets by Brian Eatwell (done with inimitable British style on a shoestring) have a lot to do with how beautiful this film looks and sounds, as does the cinematography and the role of the neglected genius Robert Fuest at the helm.This film inspired a whole cycle of revenge thrillers in the early Seventies, many of them starring Vincent Price.  Probably the best one after the original was 1973's Theatre of Blood, thanks to his support from Diana Rigg and a whole roster of the great and good in British theatre, among them Coral Browne, who was to become his wife after they worked together on this film.In 1973 plans for a third Phibes film (featuring the good Doctor's encounter with Hitler) were scrapped because of the star's dissatisfaction with studio-dictated cuts to the sequel.  These had necessitated last-minute redubbing of certain sequences to have the film make any sense at all. "}{"Title":"Price at his best!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vincent Price was never better than performing outrageous horror charectors, with his tongue firmly in cheek with an artistic, camp, flair! In a comic book sense this is a classic, with the climax of seeing the charred remains of Phibes' (Price) face from behind the mask he created himself, a sheer joy to behold. Extremely enjoyable, rent it, no buy it..... now!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie.  Possibly Vincent Price's best.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Vincent Price is spectacular as Dr. Phibes, a deranged organ player who seeks his revenge on the surgeons he believes are responsible for his wife's death.  His macabre way of taking delight as his kills his victims truly gives him the feel of being mad.  He plays a sympathetic villain though, since all this is done for love of his late wife.  For horror fans, you won't be disappointed either as he kills the surgeons according to the plagues brought on by Moses, resulting in both gruesome and bizarre deaths. I highly recommend your viewing this movie.  I guarantee you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"It's stylish, in a Grand Guignol sort of way.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing a clip from this movie on the A&E Network Biography segment on Vincent Price and thinking, That looks rather interesting.  It's too bad the video stores in my town don't carry this.  I jumped at the chance to buy it for a low price, and I was not disappointed.  Do not show this movie to children, and do not watch this movie if you have a weak stomach.  Also, check out the sequel Dr. Phibes Rises Again.  Both movies show the late Vincent Price at his best.  "},{"Title":"Nine shall die!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ The Abominable Dr. Phibes is an odd cult favorite featuring Vincent Price as his usual hammy self, killing the doctors whom he thinks are responsible for the death of his wife. He gives a largely silent performance, and he's great. The death scenes are about as elaborate as they can get. Dr. Phibes relies a lot on luck to pull these murders off though. I mean, how did he know the exact moment to catapult the unicorn, or when the nurse would be asleep, or when the doctor would be driving down that particular country road. It's a tiny bit hard to swallow at times. But that's the fun of it I suppose. It revels in its ridiculousness and it's as campy as it gets; I love it. Vincent Price once again brings credit to the horror genre. "},{"Title":"Moving, silent performance from Vincent Price in gorgeous black comedy.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This splendid black comedy has a virtually identical plot to a more celebrated Vincent Price classic of two years later, 'Theatre of Blood' - a cultivated and artistic madman, perceiving himself wronged (in this case, the failure of the medical profession to save his dying wife) sets out to systematically and elaborately revenge himself on those responsible - nine surgeons.  As with the later film, the viewer is allowed the frisson of seeing all the revenges carried out until the last one, maximising pleasure and suspense.  In 'Blood', Price's revenges were inspired by Shakespearean plays performed by his actor-killer.  Here, the pattern is more arcane, almost Borgesian - as he inflicts the ancient Biblical plagues on the Egyptians on his enemies - you know, locusts, hail, death of the first born, darkness and all that.  There is rather less justification for this than in the later film - among his other intellectual achievements, Phibes has a PhD in theology, a somewhat less personal appropriation, especially as Phibes' quest is a potent mix of the Gothic and the Platonic, the desire for unity in death.  Hence the patterns, the elaborate preparation, the painstaking execution, the ritual, the theatricality - as with 'Blood', these are all ways of trying deal with the most terrible and meaningless grief.'Phibes' achieves a balance between the tragic and the comic that supposedly-more-serious films would envy.  This is a very funny movie - the bulbous-nosed detective is called Trout, his head is a phlegmatic ass, his men meticulously inept; the revenges are delightful and inventive, my favourite being a Surreal masked ball, where a man is choked in a frog helmet, watched by bemused pigs, birds etc., although the locust one is pretty good.  The performances veer from the ripe to the comically earnest, while never slipping into sarcasm.  There is an excellent cast of old favourites, including Joseph Cotten and Terry-Thomas, with Peter Jeffrey typically excellent as the harried Trout.  The extraordinary set design, the futuristic apartments, the vast 'Phantom of the Opera'-like organ, playing not gloomy Romantic dirges but seaside cinema warm-ups, with accompanying plaster orchestra and solemn dancing rites; all co-existing with sharp early 70s realism to sometimes comic, sometimes unnerving effect. But none of this distracts from Phibes' plight.  Price's performance is one of his greatest, moving even when at his most ridiculous, a silent performance of great subtlety, matching the focus on action in the opening scenes. While all the other characters live vapid, self-obsessed, or quaintly lecherous lives, Phibes' great love, no matter how Poe-like and perverse, is magnificently ornate and not a little wicked. "},{"Title":"more often silly than sinister...","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  more often silly than sinister, more of a curiosity than a classic.  some very nice sets and moments where elements actually coalesce into something interesting, but i'd have to say this is not one of price's better films. made ten years after corman's poe adaptations, and even several years after rosemary's baby, this film lacks any real sophistication and intelligence. the plot often plods, and certain scenes just fail completely, yet the film has it's moments, just too few to make it really worth the investment of time to watch it.  unless, of course, you are one of the many people that like their horror films to be a bit schlocky, in that case you might like it.  not really my taste, hence 4 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"He ain't the phantom of the operating table, but he's close!","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If Dr. Philbes is a surgeon, I'm staying as far away from that hospital as I can get. But don't be fooled by the title Philbes is a doctor of music, a doctor of theology, a doctor of culture. He's eccentric, passionate, humorous, dapper and sophisticated. He's also creative. When he gets a plan into his head, he takes it to the extreme, whether creating a band made out of plastic men, planning his wife's funeral, or killing the doctors he blames for her death and the accident that left him morbidly scarred. So between the birds and the bees, frog heads that crush skulls, a veggie head mold that makes a delicious lunch for locusts and all sorts of other inventive ways of torturous end of life methods, he gets an A in the school of evil creativity. It's so creative, in fact, that for actor Vincent Price, who plays this part, he not only got a sequel, but a sort of unofficial remake where the victims were changed from doctors to theater critics and his profession from well-rounded doctor of whatever to ham actor thriving on Shakespeare.Dr. Philbes doesn't thrive on Shakespeare here. He lives through the science of the ancient Egyptians and the tribulations brought to them when pharaoh didn't let Moses and his people go free. It's ironically another reference to The Ten Commandments for the over-the-top Price who played Baka, the chief master builder in that classic Cecil B. de Mille epic and later his appearance in The Story of Mankind where his satanistic attorney utilized references to the ancient Egyptians and Moses himself. Then, there's his campy performance in Queen of the Nile where he looked like a female impersonator playing Jeanne Crain's high priest father. Dr. Philbes is obviously meant to be camp, and I ain't referring to Camp Snoopy.British character players make cameo appearances as his victims, the most famous of which is gap toothed Terry-Thomas who was so memorable in this that he got to play another role in the sequel. Hugh Griffith, too, plays different characters in both films, a slightly larger one in the second, but here seen as a Rabbi who confirms the necklace Price puts around each of the necks of his victims as a Hebrew representation of the plagues of Moses which God put on the Egyptians for not obeying his word. Joseph Cotten co-stars here as the head surgeon during Price's wife's operation which presumably killed her, and Price's revenge against him is the most evil of all.The gory death scenes will certainly gross some people out. Fortunately, watching this right before bedtime, I didn't have nightmares, but I did have to turn my head away a bunch of times. Obviously meant to represent the art-deco style of the 1930's with its choices of designs and music, it is attractive to look at and definitely creative, but I hesitate in calling this a masterpiece because it seems to take great pleasure in its mean-spiritedness even if its tongue is firmly in its cheek. I also have to say that this film didn't warrant a sequel, and that comparisons to older horror movies is quite inevitable. "},{"Title":"A visibly rich and 'campy' stylistic film.","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The Abomidable Mr. Phibes, 1971. A modern time (1927) Renaissance Man, Doctor Phibes loses his beloved wife during a surgical operation. He decides to get vengeance on each member of the surgical team in the most horrific biblical way.*Special Stars- Vincent Price, Joseph Cotton, Peter Jeffrey, Virginia North, Terry-Thomas, Hugh Griffith, Caroline Munro.*Theme- Vengeance is a strong emotion.*Trivia/location/goofs- There is a film sequel to this film called, Dr. Phibes Rises Again. Enjoy the 1925 Art Deco styling of the sets. In order for Joseph Cotten to know his cues, Phibes' dialog was read aloud by a crew-member. Vincent Price said Joseph Cotten was very uncomfortable doing his scenes, so he intentionally made a lot of funny faces to make him laugh. The name Vesalius is a reference to Andreas Vesalius, a Flemish scientist who cut up corpses to learn about the workings of the body. The Vampire Bats were really flying foxes, very docile fruit-loving bats. A very young Joanna Lumley appeared as a laboratory assistant, but her scenes were cut. Virgina North appeared in a play in London called Council of Love, in which she was silent throughout her performance. I played the daughter of the devil, she told the Associated Press in 1971. I'd go around and do terrible things. The people who made the movie saw me in the play and decided I was what they wanted. You might say I was ready made for the movie part. For the many scenes in which Vincent Price was required to speak without moving his mouth, he was painted with a substance called 'collodion' which literally immobilized his face. GOOFS- The film is set in 1925. The automobiles, airplane, and film projector seem to be from the 1920s, but the house interiors, including the lights around Dr. Phibes' organ, and clothing appear to be early 1970s mod style. At the end Dr. Phibes plays Somewhere Over The Rainbow which was written in 1935. You can clearly see wire attached to the flying bat. After Vulnavia dances with Phibes, he lowers the cage of bats into the cellar. Vulnavia runs up the stairs, then appears downstairs seconds later, in different clothes. It is established that Phibes is murdering the surgeons he hold responsible for the death of his wife; but at the masked party, Dr. Hargreaves introduces himself as 'a psychiatrist'.*Emotion- A visibly rich and 'campy' stylistic film with many film 'exploitation' elements added for good measure. This melodrama is enjoyable and has genuine elements of horror. Clever and memorable as one of Vincent Prices best films. It's a must see film.*Based On- Popular news articles from the horror and crime pages. "},{"Title":"Hebrew horrors...","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Even as a kid, I recognized the fruit bats that attack and shred the second of Phibes's victims as flying foxes. Which led me to wonder, even as a kid, WHY fruit bats would attack and shred someone. Were they, perhaps, rabid...? Or (much more likely) did the filmmakers just get lazy and hope that nobody would realize that they were just fruit bats? (I STILL find it impossible to overlook this glaring gaff because the fruit bats are so damned CUTE...) I was tempted to say that this was the role that Vincent Price was BORN to play, but I realized that that wouldn't have been correct he was too much of a ham to be destined to play a part which required him to keep his mouth shut. Still, the part affords him ample opportunity to strut his stuff and he seems to revel in it. There aren't a lot of actors I genuinely MISS seeing on the big screen, but Vincent Price is one of them. "},{"Title":"Campy, Minor Cult Classic","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price doesn't just chew the scenery, he unhinges his jaws like some giant anaconda and swallows the set and his co-stars whole. And it's a lot of fun watching him do it! Price plays the insane Doctor Anton Phibes who embarks on a campaign of revenge from beyond the grave following the death of his beloved wife; Victoria. With the aid of his beautiful, clockwork assistant Vulnavia, Phibes attempts to murder the doctors using the ten plagues of Egypt outlined in the Old Testament. The Abomible Dr. Phibes is campy fun loaded with black humor and performed by an able cast of vetern character actors. Followed by Dr. Phibes Rises Again. "}{"Title":"Vincent Price's Last Great Villain","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Released by AIP in 71, this movie came out at a time when the horror movie landscape was going through some monumental changes. As a result, the movie occupies an interesting niche in both the history of horror and Price's career, as it signified the changing times.Price had seen great success throughout the 60s making movies for AIP, almost all directed by the great Roger Corman and loosely based on the works of Poe. Price was typically the villain in these and most were variations of the same character, where he was an evil aristocrat with a master plan or dark secret.By the end of the 60s that well had run dry, however, and AIP was seeking new roles and ideas for Price. His turn, a few years before this, in WITCHFINDER GENERAL, had shown an even more sinister side to Price. It was that side of him that AIP exploits here, using Price as a murderous doctor, seeking revenge for the death of his lost love. The movie would be the first in a string of films for Price, during the early 70s, that were similar (followed by a sequel, THEATRE OF BLOOD and MADHOUSE). In all, Price was involved in a series of murders that were typically thematic and very elaborate. These were not just knife to the heart murders, but the kinds that would make Jigsaw proud.As mentioned, it wasn't just Price's career changing, but the horror scene in general. NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD had brought gore to the masses. A year after this, Wes Craven's landmark LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT would be released. Horror was turning more violent, more gory, and much more bleak. The days of the colorful, campy horror movie were coming to an end and DR. PHIBES was possible its' last great gasp.The movie brings quite a bit of camp into the mix. While not quite BATMAN TV series level, it's close as each scene goes for the maximum gusto without ever pushing into ridiculousness. The same cannot be said for the bad humor, though, which is probably my least favorite part of this movie. Almost an attempt to pull off a PINK PANTHER-ish vibe at times, the jokes just fall completely flat for me, personally.The color tone and sets here are brilliant. Eschewing the rich, saturated color of the Corman/ Poe cycle and Hammer films of the decade before, this movie brightens up the palette, bringing a comic book vibe to it that is more than a little reminiscent of EC Comics. The blood is candy red, the liquids are apple green, everything just screams Crayola.The murders in the movie are excellent. Each based (loosely) on one of the ten plagues visited upon Egypt, they are grand and elaborate, again bringing to mind some of the traps of the BATMAN villains and foreshadowing the sort of killings we'd see decades later in SAW and FINAL DESTINATION. My favorite is the locust death where Price bores a hole in the ceiling above a sleeping nurse, only to pour some bright, green goo over her head and unleash locusts to feed on the goop. When our detectives discover the body, she is little more than a skeleton, eaten alive by bugs.As with most movies, it's Price that steals the show, though. An even more impressive feat considering that he cannot speak throughout the movie. An accident has left him dependent on voicing himself through a tube and phonograph horn, not unlike a modern voicebox. As Price never moves his mouth the entire time, his legendary hammy acting is called upon even more as he gestures wildly and emotes everything through eyes and actions.Sadly, Price's career would wind down drastically in the years following this movie and horror would change quite a bit as movies like LAST HOUSE and Texas CHAINSAW came within a few years, leaving the innocence behind and bringing horror to a much more visceral level. In a lot of ways, this movie really is the last of a dying breed. "},{"Title":"Nine Killed her; nine shall die. Nine eternities in doom!","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" You know you're not in for an ordinary horror film in the first few minutes, when a black, hooded figure plays a hot pink-coloured organ and strikes up a jazz band consisting of clockwork players! And so we are introduced to Doctor Anton Phibes, one of the most delightful, funny and strangely touching characters ever to be played by Vincent Price. Whatta Guy! It isn't long before Doc Phibes gets down to business, namely murdering the doctors or medical assistants whom he blames for his wife's death upon the operating table. Each is dispatched with references to one of the ten curses of Egypt, and what a grisly, hilarious combination they make! From a head-crushing frog mask to being eaten by locusts after being covered in a goop made from Brussel sprouts, (with Price on hand to discard vegetables that don't meet his quality control standards!) there are some marvellously inventive deaths here.Director Robert Fuest, a former set designer, makes full use of Brian Eatwell's splendidly evocative 20's art-deco sets. And with two hilariously incompetent cops on Phibes' trail - I think it's a left hand thread. - the whole film is a joy to watch. Indeed, The Abominable Doctor Phibes is probably the first notable body count horror to be made, delightfully misanthropic, and splendidly entertaining.And of course, the film is made unique by the playing of the ever- brilliant Vincent Price; who else could have played Phibes? He even brings a touch of pathos to his villainous role, and had me laughing out loud several times, most notably with a rather unique method for imbibing the vino! The Abominable Doctor Phibes is a great film, and for me one of the highlights of Price's horror career. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price plays the macabre Doctor Phibes. He is a living corpse who is out for revenge on those he holds responsible for his wife's death on the operating table. There are nine he holds to blame, eight doctors and a nurse. One by one they die by strange and varied ways. All are curses from the ten Biblical plagues of the Old Testament. Eight are killed by those various means. The last to be alive is Joseph Cotton playing the lead surgeon Dr. Vesalius. He is called to the house of Phibes to save his son by operating on him for a key that will unlock the son's collar and the gurney before acid will drop on Vesalius's son and kill him. Vesalius conducts the operation in time and moves his son from harm. As this happens Phibes, thinking he has succeeded in his final revenge, goes to the vault where he has his wife's body, inserts needles into his arms, lays down with the body, and is drained of blood while embalming fluid enters. As the police leave they wonder about the final curse, that of darkness. Well the lights go out before they exit the building but no one further is harmed. A fairly good movie all in all. "},{"Title":"Incredible Movie","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" What a classic horror film. Vincent Price as The abominable Doctor Phibes really gives the audience what they crave. Seeing this film when I was only six years old still gives me the chills hearing his voice calling the name of Victoria, his beloved wife. Who by sheer chance died on the operating table in six minutes. Now with a new trek, Phibe's hunts down the operating team to exact justice for his wife's too early death. Yet, an accident causes Phibes to become disfigured and can only speak through a speaker with some innovation and brilliant technical skills. With him, is a beautiful girl named Vulnavia. A woman who is as mysterious as Phibes is. Yet nobody knows where she comes from or when. In the middle of the killings, Scotland yard investigates further to try and catch Phibes before he kills again. Now with a new resolve, Phibe's finally makes his point by creating the same scene with the operating doctor's own wife. Doctor Vesalius must try and free her by operating on her body to retrieve a key which is buried inside her. But with a catch, above her is a six minute timer with tubes of acid ready to cause a new face lift like Phibes. With this mounting pressure, it gives Phibes a way to escape before Scotland yard can make a move. I thought this film was brilliant, lots of killing, ingenious ways to make a point, wonderful music to match the films eccentric look of the roaring twenties. Vincent Price is in my view, one of the most legendary actors of all time. A true passionate man of his craft. But his most impactive role was Baka in The Ten Commandments. He will be sorely missed by his fans. A wonderful talent. "},{"Title":"The doctor is in","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This pretentious little film had elements of horror, comedy, and drama, and it couldn't decide which it wanted to be. It had touches of all of them, and none of them, but to me it worked for the most part, as the only film I've seen which was comparable was V For Vendetta, which both protagonists led mysterious lives with deformed faces, while dwelling underground basically. Vincent Price was good, but not up to his normal standards, as I thought the best character of the film was Peter Jeffrey's Inspector Trout; he portrayed the bumbling, but ambitious Trout perfectly. Joseph Cotten was just OK as Dr. Vesalius and was rather monotone considering his unfortunate predicament. I specifically enjoyed the shots of Phibes' abode, which reminded me again of V For Vendetta, as his place was apparently hidden from others; this movie isn't nearly as good as the other film I just mentioned, but has some interesting characters and scenes and is quite original. Call me morbid, but I was glad when Vulnavia got killed by the acid instead of Vesalius's son, as I found her quite annoying and silly. Phibes murdered all the other doctors because of vengeance, as he believed they were responsible for not saving the life of his wife, but he gives Vesalius a fighting chance? I don't understand why he would give the doctor a chance to save his son's life, as he could've easily killed both father and son. Hard one to figure out, but it turns out that Phibes is already dead, but is still walking around killing everyone else. The final and very clever scene has Phibes eluding the authorities by laying next to his dead wife somewhere below the top floor, as he is ready to join her, as the coffin lid slowly closes in an eerie dark atmosphere. I did expect more scares, but overall this is a fine piece of film which I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Great story, wanting for a remake","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Graphically, this movie is good and enjoyable. Although the settings were cheap, the choices for artifacts, costumes, colors and camera positioning made up very good shots. But this work is even more remarkable for having a great soundtrack. It fits perfectly well into the story, that is the best part of it. A thrilling suspense, with a wonderfully tailored plot. I regret the technical limitations of the producers of this movie. With such story, it would get a 10 for sure from me, if properly produced, and with tiny little changes here and there. When I take into account the time this movie was done, and the budget allocated to it, it really impresses me.The pace of the film is not fast, but it's not tedious as well. Some sequences seems to be purposely slow, for the audience to assimilate what's going on in the screen. But it never wanders to dead ends; the story is all linked up. An important fact about this film is that most of what happens in it is feasible, or almost. For me, it really felt like an Agatha Christie story.A few elements simply are, like Dr. Phibes' assistant. But it's a needed element, it would be lacking if it weren't there.Summary The acting is OK, the scenery is cheap, the soundtrack is great, the story even better. I highly recommend, for those devoid of bias against old-time horror movies. And I'll eagerly pray and wait for a good Hollywood remake. "},{"Title":"I'm prescribing&#x85; revenge.","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film will always be etched into my memory, as it was my first taste of one of horror's signature performers; Vincent Price. So when Price automatically shoots to mind&#x85; Dr. Phibes comes up immediately. Could have anyone else pull off the part so gratuitously? Dr. Phibes was a well-regarded concert musician who was also happily married to his beautiful wife, until an accident where a group of surgeons couldn't save his wife's life on the operating table. Horribly disfigured, with everyone believing him to be dead he goes about seeking revenge by using the good old book (the bible) in orchestrating the ten curses of the Pharaohs on those responsible for his wife's death.Nine killed her. Nine shall die, nine eternities in doom! Nicely put there.The British black vein comic-strip horror The Abominable Dr. Phibes is a flamboyant soap opera bathing itself in decorative camp (stunningly fabricated set-designs and inventively devised deaths) and a blown-up turn by Vincent Price. Price actually doesn't get a whole lot to say, but he eats it up with those few dialogues he does get as it's more so a psychically visceral performance. Where he perfectly portrays the aching hurt in his eyes and gestures. It's all in the name of love. Around him is a sensational support cast with Joseph Cotton, Peter Jeffrey, Norman Jones, Terry-Thomas and the angelic appearance of Virginia North. Boasting quite a lyrical script with plenty of tongue-in-cheek wit to spare, the humour was always played up which did take away from what could have been eerie and disturbing. Nonetheless underneath its theatrically ludicrous and masterfully precise plot was a noticeable nasty streak as its auspicious theme gets set in motion. It's simply music to the ears, as is Basil Kirchin's airily harmonious score. Director Robert Fuest's spirited style is tersely captured with show-stopping passages and colourful decors.A refreshingly accomplished and snappy baroque horror with an outstanding central performance from Price. It has me real curious about the sequel (yes the show must go on) that followed a year later; Dr. Phibes Rises Again. "},{"Title":"A slasher that thinks -  fancy that","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Phibes (Vincent Price) is more dead than alive, the victim of an auto accident that fried him alive, while en route to his wife's side. She's undergoing surgery to save her life, but dies on the operating table.The shell of the man survives, and his tortured soul sinks into insanity. He constructs and executes a plot of systematic and symbolic vengeance on everyone who was in the O.R. that day, blaming them for all that's happened. There's method to the madness, and I mean madness. If Phibes was any more loony, you would swear you're watching Tom Cruise on the Oprah Winfrey show. He organizes his campaign of terror to echo the woes wrought upon Egypt by God through Moses. The plagues--certainly you've heard of them. The motivation for the killing goes beyond just box office, and the killer is not just a brain-dead zombie marching around killing people left and right with an ax or similar object, in Roman numeral sequels.It's a very well told -- and violent -- tale. The one thing that's out of place is the sexy babe assistant of Phibes. What is her motive for taking part in this bloody murder spree? Just some eye candy for the audience, apparently. She really doesn't add anything else. Anyway, Phibes plays more like a Phantom of the Opera type guy than all the psycho-heartless monsters of recent years. There is some sympathy for this tragic character, and his ultimate plan after the killings is an interesting curiosity. The potential victims are given some dimension, rather than cardboard targets to kill. Some are innocent of the blame for the death of Dr. Phibes' wife.Done in the style of a Edgar Allan Poe story, and effective at it. Try this little bit of old school horror. "},{"Title":"Uh, these ten curses, would they follow any particular order?","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dr Anton Phibes was thought to have been killed in a car crash rushing to be at the side of is beloved wife, Victoria, who herself has been in an auto accident. Sadly Victoria was killed, the medical team unable to save her, but a few years later someone is killing off members of the medical team from that fateful night. All of whom are meeting grizzly ends reminiscent of the The Ten Plagues of Egypt. It can only be the work of a madman? Or that of one twisted by a need for revenge?Who you going to call when you have goofy Gothic horror film calling for sedate mania mixed with camp supreme? Vincent Price Phibes of course. Surround him with lavish art deco sets to fuse with the baroque nature of the story Bernard Reeves & Brian Eatwell and monstrously have fun constructing the death sequences. And the result you get is kitschy cult classic that harks back to a time when the horror genre didn't take itself too seriously. It's silly of course, but screenwriters James Whiton and William Goldstein have pushed the boundaries of imagination copyright Rod Serling with the story and its execution, while Price is having a wail of a time and promptly gives one of his best 70s performances. Directed at a sprightly pace the deaths fill out three parts of the piece by Robert Fuest, the film spawned an equally enjoyable sequel in 1972, Dr. Phibes Rises Again. Where both Fuest and Price returned to again work the campery horror magic. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Made for Vincent Price","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is just the sort of off-beat and strange horror movie you'd expect Vincent Price to be a part of. Riddled with entertaining inaccuracy (I never knew rats and bats could be so deadly), if you don't take Dr. Phibes too seriously you'll be able to have fun with it. Price essentially works off of his creepiness alone, which suits him perfectly fine - perhaps makes Phibes all the more intriguing of a character. I can't imagine Phibes being anyone other than Price.It's a B movie, as you'd expect, and if you're looking for higher art look elsewhere. If you want black humor, horror, and Price doing some of his best physical acting, check out Dr. Phibes. "}{"Title":"Overrated, but interesting curiosity.","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Considered one of Price's best films, 'Phibes' doesn't really deserve it's reputation, but is certainly interesting in it's own weird way.Price plays the title character; a disfigured musician who; with the help of his sexy assistant Vulnavia(the best thing about this movie)systematically eliminates a group of surgeons he blames for letting his wife die on the operating table.Now, don't get me wrong. The whole idea of a madman killing people in imaginative ways is quite possibly my favorite sub-genre; and as I've said; this is considered to be the masterwork of that sub-genre, but it isn't. For one, all of the murders are rather poorly executed(HA!). There is no build-up or rationale for why each individual get's his or her own particular fate with the exception of Phibes himself and the leader of the medical team(Joseph Cotton; brilliant actor wasted in a role that wouldn't challenge the acting abilities of Arnold Schwarzenneger; though he gets a chance to shine as the film ends.).We never come to care for the victims, so we never feel any suspense, and thus it fails as a horror film; but since films like these are the kind where we root for the bad-guy and vicariously participate in his clever murders; they aren't supposed to be, they should be unsympathetic or unlikeable and we should enjoy watching them get their comeuppance even if they are innocent because of some character flaw. But that isn't the case; we don't get to know any of the victims even enough to hate them, one murder actually isn't even shown but just alluded to as having happened before the film begins!; and when one victim(Terry Thomas) actually is characterized as a lecherous fool; his murder(by blood drainage)doesn't reflect it in any way other than his stupefied expression at the gorgeous Vulnavia(she made him 'stiff', I guess?). It fails as being funny or scary; heck, it doesn't even try and be funny and fail; it just makes no attempt at humor other than two stupid inspectors and one murder(the best in the film and the only genuinely funny part)where a psychiatrist's head is crushed by a frog mask('My name's Hargraves, I'm a psychiatrist; head-shrinker')while Jazz age favorite 'the Dark-town strutter's ball'(why???)plays in the background. If the entire film had been as good as that scene; I would understand it's reputation.The best part of the film, not surprisingly; is Price's performance as Phibes. He proves it's possible to overract in a role where you expressionlessly say nothing while r e a l l y static pre-recorded lines are played out on a phonograph(Phibes speaks through an electric tube in his neck he hooks up to the 'graph). The scenes of him mourning his wife, dancing with Vulnavia and destroying busts of his enemies with a flamethrower(????)are quite creepy and simultaneously very touching. Price always played fanatically devoted husbands; Phibes is the ultimate culmination of them all. You really pity this pathetic, half-dead man who has literally lost EVERYTHING and who entertains himself with clockwork replicas of his former bandmates. The ending; which reveals that Phibe's actually blamed himself for his wife's death most of all and that his murders were actually a prelude to his suicide is genuinely disturbing and oddly touching. The final death trap where the head doctor must save his son is also excellent; with Cotton giving his all to what we have mostly seen as a bland character who does detective work but doesn't seem very concerned. It's a moment which put's anything in the 'Saw' movies to shame in it's suspense.The sets, music, costumes and decor are excellent, it's for that reason I give the film an extra star. And as I've said; there are some really fantastic bits, but all in all, don't believe the hype. That said; it's all fairly fun. A very stupid; but more entertaining sequel followed. Both films should be seen; preferably as a double bill. However; if you wanna see what really IS the best Price revenge horror-comedy; see the truly excellent 'Theatre of Blood'.~ "},{"Title":"HEY! The Doc Was There FIRST!","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Okay, so people have been going ga-ga (or is that gore-gore?) for the FINAL DESTINATION and SAW franchises, basically for the diabolically elaborate death sequences featured in both. But as the old saying goes Everything old is new again, and of course, the art of inventive slaughter has come full circle, with most people having forgotten by now that there's a rich history behind the concept of Fifty Ways To Leave Your Lover...In PIECES.If you want to start reviewing said history, THE ABONIMABLE DR. PHIBES is as good a place to begin as any. Beloved old hand (and old ham) at this revenge game kinda thing, the late, great Vincent Price dominates the entire film (as he should) as the fiendish MENSA candidate Dr. Anton Phibes, a master of mechanics, acoustics, chemistry, biology...well, the list is too long to go into. The victim of a horrifying car accident with his lovely wife, Victoria, he was assumed dead while a team of nine doctors worked unsuccessfully to save her life. Well, for them, that's the least of the bad news. Even worse, however, is the fact that Dr. Phibes, hideously deformed by his injuries but still alive, is one perturbed puppy. Who doesn't feel like the surgical team did everything they could to save his spouse, and he's about to express his displeasure in ways that will make Rube Goldberg AND the Marquis de Sade go WOW, man, that is so HARSH! AND cool!Phibes proceeds to do away with his enemies via the Nine Plagues that Moses, via The Big Guy Upstairs, rained down upon Pharoah in Egypt, and the stylishly shocking way in which he does it has to be seen to be believed. Giant vampire bats suck and shred one hapless soul, locusts give a hapless nurse a facial that L'Oreal would DEFINITELY not want to take credit for...you get the picture. I don't know what writers James Whiton and William Goldstein were smoking when they conceived this script, but I'd like a kilo of it, please!Robert Fuest directs with a trippy and maniacal sense of glee, with DP Norman Warwick following his leering lead, and Brian Eatwell's sets are enough to make Russ Meyer AND Roger Corman jealous...and sit up to take notes. Basil Kirchin and Jack Nathan provide one of the most unique scores ever, mixing a little jazz, razzmatazz and creepy classically vibe all in one great package. This is one camp classic killfest that's all over the place...and all the better for it!Lovers of old school screen vets can rejoice to appearances by Terry-Thomas, Hugh Griffith and Joseph Cotten as the only man brilliant enough to star as Phibes' nemesis, Dr. Vesalius. Add to that some great comic relief in the form of the baffled and bumbling Peter Jeffrey as Inspector Trout, and the ravishing beauty of Virginia North, introduced here as Vulnavia, Phibes' sidekick and willing servant, (and no, she ain't naked! This WAS a PG-rated affair, after all--actually GP, which tells you how far back this movie goes!) And if you look closely...yep, that IS lovely scream-queen in waiting Caroline Munro in an uncredited bit as the stiff-but-sexy Victoria Phibes.So, sometime when you're done visiting yet another movie that takes you through the usual paces of a Modern Meat Market Massacre, try coming back to a more genteel era...when producers knew how to do slash with STYLE! Back when ingenuity was the Father of a good horror flick with a difference, and Price was absolutely priceless! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully entertaining tongue-in-cheek horror film","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Abominable Dr. Phibes is a wonderfully entertaining tongue-in-cheek horror film with lots to recommend about it to classic horror fans. The main reason is a great central performance from Vincent Price. As the mad scientist who needs a box to talk, Price seems to be having the time of his life. Anton Phibes is simply the role he was born to play. While I think Price gets an unfair reputation as merely an over-the-top bogeyman (check out his subtle and effective portrayals in House of Usher and Witchfinder General), hes always remarkably entertaining in self-conscientiously humorous mode. And even when hes being deliberately campy, Price could always maintain a sense of dignity. This is why hes endured to several generations of horror fans as an icon. The screenplay helps Price a lot - its never really frightening and hilarious without being too silly.The rest of the cast offers delightful performances as well. Joseph Cotten gives a sympathetic portrayal to balance the camp hes surrounded by. Peter Jeffrey as the inspector is also very entertaining, and Norman Jones steals the show as his uptight Sargent. As Phibes' mute assistant, Virginia North has icy cold sex appeal, coming off as being both dangerous and alluring. The direction by Robert Fuest isn't anything great aesthetically, but he keeps the material moving at a lightning quick pace. The Abominable Dr. Phibes isn't a top-class masterpiece (its far too entertaining for that), but its one of the most enjoyable horror-comedies ever made. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Murders, Religion, Music... It Must Be Phibes!","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Victoria Phibes (Caroline Munro), wife of Dr. Anton Phibes (Vincent Price), was in a horrible car crash in 1921. Eight doctors and a nurse tried to save her, but failed. Now in 1925, Anton, presumed dead, will use his knowledge of theology and music to get his revenge on those who killed his wife with the help of his beautiful and fashionable servant Vulnavia (Virginia North). Can the police hope to stop Phibes and the ten plagues of Egypt? Let us get this out of the way first if you are looking for an accurate portrayal of the ten plagues of Egypt, you are probably not going to find it here. They are heavily modified and re-ordered for the purpose of this film. (There is no reason for them to be altered other than aesthetics, so do not ask me why the writers decided this.) Now, maybe I am wrong because they seem to be following an odd list, but I do not know. Second, there are some major plot holes if you try to find out how Phibes gets in and out of places so quickly undetected. But this is camp and should be seen as such. It is fun, pure and simple.Phibes is a great character and it is really too bad he only had two films. I love him, I love Vincent Price and I love the Clockwork Wizards. Detective Harry Trout (Peter Jeffrey) is also a pretty interesting character and I am saddened he was not brought back for a third film even if it required a new villain.There are two actors who need to be singled out Joseph Cotten (The Third Man), who plays Dr. Vesalius. Cotten has been a mainstay of film for decades, and to see him in this non-traditional role is quite a turn for him. And Virginia North, the fashionable Vulnavia, who would leave film after this to marry a rich Englishman. The silver screen lost something special when she walked away.The deaths in this film are pretty gruesome considering the lighter tone of the movie. Nasty vampire bats, horrible boils, impalement from a unicorn's horn. The Saw movies owe a huge debt to this film for the idea of a key being buried inside of a victim with only an X-Ray to be used as guidance. (I have not heard anyone else make this connection, but it is really obvious once you have seen both films.) I also liked how Phibes did not speak until 32 minutes into the movie, and how his face was not revealed until the end (though some versions of the movie give this shocking secret away on the cover).This is a must-see film in the long history of horror. Vincent Price is always a winner, and Phibes is one of his best alter egos. The film really needs to be given the star treatment with a loaded DVD, if for no other reason than the lasting influence of the movie on horror today. I am only aware of of Midnite Movies edition, which is decent but does not really do the film justice. "},{"Title":"A helluva good time!","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Readers may have noticed, usually I do not like artsy films. This is due to the fact that often they are little more than grand and visionary images repeated over and over. So, keeping that in mind, some friends are surprised I regard this title as a nearly perfect black comedy. Look at the cast though, everyone plays their roles with deadly serious poise and the hero is a murderous genius! Not so much that we are intended to love Phibes as a character (and we are), but he is far too charismatic and inventive not to like.Trout is investigating the curious deaths of a few doctors around London when he comes to the conclusion that something is amiss. The first two really do not peak his interest, even though one man was stung to death by a swarm of bees (boils) in his room and another ripped to shreds by bats. Might I remind you, these deaths occurred in the middle of London. Not precisely the sort of locale that supports populations of killer bees or genetically engineered bats. Work with me here, Flying Foxes are really too cute for the bloodthirsty part they play, but something scratched that man to death. Anyway, Pike - I mean Trout, realizes that foul business is afoot when one man has his skull crushed by a mechanical frog mask.Victoria Phibes died during an operation (exactly what is not explained) and her grieving husband was presumed dead after his car drove off a cliff and burned. Unfortunately for the doctors, the man either has the greatest immune system ever known or is an undead avenger (I'm partial to the latter explanation myself). Biding his time, he devised a fiendish plan to kill anyone involved with Victoria's death. Nothing simple like a knife or bullet either. Phibes will visit a deadly plague, derived from what Moses called down upon the Pharaoh, on each and every person.We, the audience, are privy to the extraordinary lengths Dr. Phibes is going to for revenge. Whether he is intensely playing the pipe organ that dominates the grand ballroom of his hideout or gracefully dancing with Vulnavia, the man has style. Nobody else is there to see, save the incredible clockwork musicians playing music, so the performances solely gratify Phibes' strange tastes.Probably the most chilling end is that of Dr. Longstreet. Lulled into a dreamy state by Vulnavia, he allows himself to be bound to a chair. Then Phibes walks in and fixes the old horny coot with a reproachful stare (I love the look he gives the victims) before inserting a large needle into the man's arm. Attached to the tube is a pint jar and the glass container begins to fill as Phibes slowly works the pump. He artfully drains every single drop of blood from the poor man, leaving him a gray husk and placing all eight pints on the mantel. I've watched hundreds of slasher flicks and few scenes have ever really deserved a second thought. Watching a man's blood being leisurely pumped from his body made my hair stand on end.Gruesome as it may be, the last victim's end provides Trout with a much-needed clue. Phibes had a set of pendants specially made; each has a Hebrew symbol representing one of the plagues. He wears the respective pendant when executing each sentence and lost the one for blood during Longstreet's initial thrashing. Between visiting a jeweler and a Rabbi, the inspector is able to start piecing things together. Fat lot of good it will do.Impressive powers of deduction (actually he or one of his servants spent hours sorting through folders) enable Vesalius to volunteer that all the deceased were involved in the failed surgery on Victoria Phibes. Despite knowing this, two more are killed before the authorities get the remainder under police protection. Still no good; Trout and another inspector actually open the door for number seven when a brass unicorn head (beasts) is catapulted across the street, skewering him. Then there's the problem of removing the victim from the wall, resulting in a scene that really cracks me up. "},{"Title":"One of Vincent Price's Best!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Abominable Dr. Phibes is both a great Vincent Price film and a great horror movie. It's definitely among one of Price's best films, like House on Haunted Hill and The Pit and The Pendelium.The Movie centers around the Character of Dr. Anton Phibes, who seeks to kill the nine doctors that bumbled his wife's surgery. Disfigured by a car accident, Phibes has to use makeup, wigs, and wax facial features to look like his used to, as well as talk through a cord hooked up to his neck to a gramophone.Phibes fatal punishment for the doctors is not a simple death, but painful, creative killings that use the ten plagues of Egypt as a blueprint. The most creative and my personnel favorite is the plague of frogs. The rather unfortunate psychiatrist is attending a masked ball and is given a frog mask to wear for the duration of the evening. The mask itself has been rigged with gears that cause the mask to shrink and eventually crush the wearer's skull. What a way to go! Definitely should be checked out! "},{"Title":"Great Gothic horror...","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Abominable Dr.Phibes is up there among the best horror films Vincent Price starred in. Lets get the few negatives of the film out of the way first. The opening is too slow and Vincent Price's role is limited because he can't speak normally. That said, this is still a superb tongue-in-cheek horror.Price is Dr.Phibes, a Ph.D. in music and theology who seeks revenge against the nine doctors involved in the operation in which his late beloved wife passed away. Phibes supposedly died in a car crash around the same time, but is actually alive and plots revenge. The revenge take the form of the Ten Plagues mentioned in the Old Testament. The ten curses in Talmudic order are the curse of boils, bats, frogs, the curse of blood, the curse of rats, hail, of beasts, the locust, of course, the death of the first-born, and then, finally, of darkness. When each of the nine doctors starts dying in order of the curse, Scotland Yard takes notice and involves the leading doctor of the failed operation, Joseph Cotten.Phibes is not a horror film in the modern sense ala The Exorcist. The tongue-in-cheek humor is present throughout and the colorful visuals and art-deco sets really add to the appeal. Dr.Phibes assistant Vulnavia is played by ex-Bond girl Virginia North, whose last film this was. Phibes is even better than Theatre of Blood, to which this is often compared. "},{"Title":"Way horror and movies in general should be","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Horror movies especially today depend to much on gore to create fear. Modern lunatics are all random slashers with chainsaws and knives. The movies today aren't scary they're just disgusting. Dr. Phibes is different. Maybe not so much in how the villain, Dr. Phibes, kills, but more because of the kind of killer Phibes is portrayed as. Phibes, unlike his contemporaries Mike Meyers (The murderer in the Halloween movie series not the comedic actor) and Jason, is a well developed character. He chooses his victims for a reason albeit a demented reason, and after they are dead he stops (at least for the purposes of this movie I haven't yet seen the sequel). Dr. Phibes environment also sets it apart from modern horror. Most movies made now take place in dark creepy abandoned houses or ghost towns. While the lair of Dr. Phibes is an elegant chamber with art work and a grand organ as a center piece. Yet it retains an equally powerful sinister feel about it. One of the thing I particularly enjoyed about the movie is that it does one thing particularly rare in horror movies, it was funny. Thanks mostly to Inspector Pike oh... I mean Trout, the movie has a major comedic element. As I generally prefer comedy to horror I found this vastly improved the movie for me. I especially liked Some Where Over the Rainbow being played during the end credits. the It is however quite similar to other Vincent Price films in plot. Doctors in Vincent Price movies really live to the end of the film, and their down falls usually involve the Price's character's wives. Other examples would include Pit and the Pendulum, Tales of Terror (which the doctor does survive with Price's Wife),and my favorite House on Haunted Hill. I know I've seen others but those are the three I can think of. Over all a great cult movie for the Halloween season. "},{"Title":"Imaginative movie, great acting!","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have to confess, this movie brings back memories to when I first saw it at a drive-in back in the early 1970's. The acting is excellent as well as the plot, there is a good amount of comedy that brings a smile to my face even now. Vincent Price literally scared the 'yell' out of me when I was a youngster and he certainly does so in Doctor Phibes. I enjoy popping this flick into the player and watch it a few times a year, it is amazing what new things you will notice when you do so. If you are into horror movies with a great story, I suggest you pick up a copy today. I raise my glass to you Doctor Phibes, I think I will watch it again tonight! "},{"Title":"9 killed her 9 must die 9 eternities in hell -9 stars","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price in one of his best roles of all time. Mr. Price plays the mad Dr. Phibes who is back from the grave in order to reap sweet revenge on the 9 doctors he feels are responsible for his beautiful wife's death. As the tag line says 9 killed her. 9 must die, 9 eternities in hell. The insane undead Dr. takes his victims out in some of the most elaborate and bizarre ways ever put on film. One Dr. is impaled by a brass unicorn that was catapulted across a street and sent through an elevator. (incredible) Part of the beauty of the little art-house picture is the dark morbid sense of humor it gives off. The Abonibal Dr. Phibes is a must see for any horror fan, let alone Vincent Price fans. If you have not seen this one yet don't even rent it. Just buy it! "}{"Title":"Phibes  Phine, Phabulous, Phantastic Pheat!","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This charmingly evil adventure was Vincent Price's 100th motion picture and as such, it is filled with many references to his past career. Dr. Phibes is disfigured a'la the Price character in House of Wax; he is obsessed with portraits of his dead wife who haunts his soul, a'la his (and Dana Andrews')obsession with the dead Laura in the film of the same name; even the name of Phibe's dead wife, Victoria Regina Phibes, is a nod to Price's first Broadway play, Victoria Regina, which he starred in with Helen Hayes. For this one, they pulled out all the stops and it is a doozy! Believed dead from an automobile crash while racing from Switzerland to England to be by his suddenly ill beloved wife, but merely hiding for ten years, the grief-crazed Anton Phibes has amassed a truly ingenious and deliciously terrifying fate for the surgical team he believes murdered his soul mate on the operating table. He is killing them one at a time according to the ancient Curse of the Pharoah's from the Old Testament (after all he is doctor of Theology as well as a concert organist and acoustics expert) and he is saving the best for last for lead physician Dr. Versalius (Joseph Cotton). Assigned the case, Inspector Trout is having the devil of a time uncovering whodunnit and isn't quite certain who his real enemy is some homicidal maniac or Chief Inspector Waverly, his prissy demanding boss who is driving him to unleashing a curse of his own. The art direction and sets are full blown Art Deco, but with a sad, melancholy tone; Dr. Phibes' Clockwork Wizards are reflections of Phibes himself beautiful music makers lifeless and just going through the motions; the period music and film's score are impeccable and notice the opening theme played by Phibe's on his magnificent, eye-popping multi-tiered concert organ Mendelson's March of the Mad Theologians. Now how clever is that, eh? The dialog and patter between the police officers is a joy; Terry-Thomas gives a full blooded portrayal of an unsavory Dr. Longstreet, Aubrey Woods is priceless as the proud and humorless goldsmith, and Vincent Price has seldom been finer. The artistry of Price in this vehicle is how he times his throat and jaw movements to his voiced-over dialog -- try it, it's not easy to do, but you can't keep a good acoustics expert down. And behind those red-ringed eyes, beneath that Beatle-styled graying hair, behind the ghastly pale elegant visage of Price's Dr. Anton Phibes lurks a hideous, dark secret which makes for one of the most thrilling and disturbing climaxes in film history. The organ plays 'til midnight at the large house in Muldeen Square. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"The Abominable Vincent Price","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Of all the horror movies the inimitable Vincent Price made, this has to be the creepiest. His makeup alone is worth the price of admission. Tongue firmly in cheek, campy? Yes, but this film is so much more. Though much would be subtracted, this one could survive on story and plot alone taken in a serious manner. But the icing makes the cake taste so much better, especially if the main ingredient in the recipe is Vincent Price who makes ham and overacting completely acceptable in a way no one else could. Possibly Price did his best acting in the somewhat neglected non-horror film His Kind of Woman. Possibly his best horror outing was The Masque of the Red Death. Possibly, however, his best acting and his best horror outing is The Abominable Dr. Phibes. Added to this are supporting players who at times equal the master's camp and hilarity. It's easy to see why Price laughed so much during the shooting of this movie. I don't know much about Peter Jeffrey but his character Trout is irreplaceable for the success of Dr. Phibes. Equally irreplaceable is the finely crafted role of Vulnavia. I've seen this film several times and still don't know for sure who Vulnavia is or how she became connected to the illustriously deranged doctor. Virginia North without uttering a word, just fiddling around, makes the sultry she devil come alive. At first I thought she was Dr. Phibes' daughter by his deceased, beloved wife. But according to the script the love birds had no offspring. Another spice in the icing is the setting. Most movies from the psychedelic hippie era are out of date and seem to have taken place sometime during the old stone age. Dr. Phibes has withstood the test of time partly because it takes place in the 1920's. The fads, fashions, dances, and music from that period are less dated. Plus setting the film in a different eon creates the illusion that Dr. Phibes lives in his own world of flappers and fanatics. The well-chosen musical scores filled with tunes from the 1920's intensify the atmosphere of love, revenge, and murder.Using the ten plagues on the House of Pharoah during the Egyptian captivity of the Jews adds to the suspense and mystery. This idea of using Biblical allusions to carry out nefarious schemes of torture and mayhem was not exactly new and has been used before and since. But never so effectively. "},{"Title":"Unique and imaginative.","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is probably some of the most fun you'll ever have watching a movie; a B horror movie! While Dr. Philes is hard to classify as horror(even in terms of B horror) it is without a doubt a repeated theme done in a unique way. Revenge is all that Dr. Phibes is after a group of surgeons when they fail to save his wife from death. Dr. Phibes believes that she was killed and now, after a near-death car accident, he is left almost voiceless. The overall quality of the movie is B horror, but it's also got a bit of a comedic theme to it. The death sequences are brilliant and very fake-looking, but this was done in the early 70s so it's more than forgivable. The end is interesting... it makes sense once you watch it. For fans of Vincent Price this is a must see. Even without a voice that man knows how to act. I'd recommend it for people who are in the mood for a different kind of revenge. "},{"Title":"Strange horror movie","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Doctors are being killed in various gruesome ways in 1925 London. They only have one thing in common--they all worked on an operation to save Victoria Phibes--but she died. Her husband Anton (Vincent Price) supposedly died in a car crash. It seems he survived, blames all the doctors for his wives death and sets out to kill them using the curses visited on the pharaohs before Exodus in the Bible! Phibes has a helper named Vulnevia (Virginia North) and, occasionally, dances with her in front of a robot band while old music plays.As you can see this is one odd horror film. Still it's ALMOST great. The deaths are imaginative, bloody and pretty funny (this wouldn't get a PG rating today). The sets are beautiful--especially Phibes' Art Deco place and the all green hospital. The film also has plenty of comedy which is (for once) actually funny. But the musical interludes don't work for me. They stop the film dead and add nothing to the plot. It seems they were just added to pad out the running time. Still, we get to see beautiful Virginia North in some eye-popping costumes and hear some great old music--but that's not what I look for in horror films.The acting is good too--Price can't move a muscle in his face but still manages to overact (amusingly) with his voice; Peter Jeffrey is LOTS of fun as Inspector Trout; Joseph Cotton gives a very good performance as one of the doctors and North doesn't have a word of dialogue but looks stunning and plays her part completely straight-faced. Also Caroline Munro pops up (in pictures) as Victoria Phibes.Some people have complained that this is a bit too gruesome for kids. Well...I saw it at a drive-in when I was 9 and it didn't bother me! The only part that scared me was when Price took off his mask and revealed his face. I distinctly remember hiding behind the car seat when that came on!I can only give this an 8 though because the movie, logically, doesn't make a bit of sense! Most of the murders could never happen and I still can't figure out how Phibes faked his death, got rescued, bought the house and make the (very) elaborate sets. And who the heck is Vulnavia? Still it is enjoyable and has a great ending which uses Over the Rainbow to great effect. Even some of my friends who hate horror films like this one! Worth catching. Just ignore logic. And stay tuned after the closing credits for a neat little surprise! "},{"Title":"This is my favorite Vincent Price movie","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My favorite actor in horror films when I was growing up is Vincent Price.  As a child,  I never missed one of his horror movies.  I think I've seen every one at least 20 times.  His acting was flawless.  His demeanor so believable.  When he was evil,  he was very very evil. "},{"Title":"Not A Nice Man","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price is diabolically amusing as Dr. Anton Phibes, who is systematically murdering the nine doctors he blames for screwing up his wife's operation, resulting in her death. Phibes, a man of seemingly limitless resources, cunning, and patience, concocts a merciless scheme of using the ten biblical plagues to exact his vengeance, and though he is relentlessly pursued by the authorities, he always is one step ahead, leading to a self-created climax involving the playing of an organ and Over The Rainbow! Not to be taken seriously, film is a bit too grisly and violent to really work as a dark comedy, and too campy to work as straight horror, but nonetheless is a much remembered cult picture, and followed by a sequel. "},{"Title":"A hugely entertaining horror classic","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's films such as The Abominable Dr. Phibes that so clearly illustrate what a giant of the horror genre Vincent Price truly was. In it he plays Dr. Anton Phibes, an incurably insane man hell bent on avenging his wife's untimely demise on the operating table. The surgeons on duty that day are held accountable by the mad doctor and he sets about dispatching them one by one via a highly convoluted series of elaborate murders based around the theme of the Biblical plagues of Ancient Egypt.There's very little not to like in this one. Price is fantastic as the crazed title character. It takes real skill and screen charisma to play so gloriously over-the-top while still remaining essentially believable. Phibes really is a terrific anti-hero. His secret home too is a wonderfully colourful Art Deco creation, replete with organ and blow-up robotic band. He is accompanied in his evil plans by a mysterious young woman called Vulnavia who adds another delicious touch to this set-up.The murder set-pieces are priceless (did you see what I did there?). Seriously, they are a terrifically inventive combination of the grotesque, the camp and the comical. And there are so many of them within the narrative that the film essentially boils down to a succession of grand guignol set-pieces linked together by a comical plot involving hilariously useless law enforcers. The basic premise of the movie was repeated in another Price vehicle two years later in Theatre of Blood, which was yet another gloriously entertaining movie.This is certainly a highly recommended picture that will appeal to a wide range of people. While it's a horror movie, it's also genuinely funny. And unlike a lot of British films it's very visually stylish. A camp classic of the highest order. "},{"Title":"A doomed love story from hell!","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The perfect combination of British humor, Horror, art direction, and a groovy but creepy villain.I love these kind of love stories from the grave. And Dr. Phibes delivers the right amount of creepiness, gore, mean dialogs, and an exceptional performance by Vincent Price.The bright colors used during important scenes make this movie a delight to watch. The Art Direction is just great mainly because it creates a flamboyant world where Phibes is able to roam free and plan the 9 murders. Talking about death scenes, there are some really creative murders that may have inspired the Saw movies. My favorite deals with the mask of a frog. Enough said.Watch this timeless movie because it surely is one of a kind. May Vincent Price live forever. "},{"Title":"Beware of Yahveh","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The movie was so successful they made some kind of sequel called theater of blood which was,IMHO ,even better for Shakespeare was more inspiring than the plagues of Egypt and also because the hero had a more talented co-star in the shape of Dame Diana Rigg .But Phibes was the first one -although it owes ,like lots of other movies ,a good deal to Agatha Christie and and then there were none -and is a must for any horror buff;the crimes are ,so to speak,imaginative and you will know where the Saw writers found some of their better ideas when you see the scene of the operation;although American,Joseph Cotten has got the British stiff upper lip;the police never lose their composure amids all those horrors and brilliantly fail to prevent the good doctor from doing away with those who botched their work some years back. "},{"Title":"Price gets his revenge in campy horror role...","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" VINCENT PRICE fans must have assumed the actor had quit playing the lead in horror films after the cycle wore itself out during the '50s and '60s, but he came back strong in this stylishly produced thriller in widescreen and color. He's a mad serial killer who intends to take revenge on a bunch of doctors and then join his wife in the afterlife.After being disfigured in a car wreck that killed his wife, he's determined to get revenge on physicians responsible for what he considered the murder of his wife who died on the operating table. The revenge motif starts with the first shocking scene of a man's bedroom being invaded by bats, just one in a series of baffling murders being committed by the madman.Medical men die every day, say the Scotland Yard detectives assigned to the case, after three medical men have died. Little does he know the case is just beginning. The police are always one step behind, too late to prevent any of the killings, each accomplished in a very stylized way with a devilish flair of imagination (highly contrived, of course, in true horror movie fashion).Cotten is the last victim on Phibe's list and his fate is saved for the last segment in the film as he is forced on a mission to save his son from certain death. All of this is handled with a good deal of tension and suspense up until the final moments.A good entry in the horror cycle, if a bit late in Price's career, but he still had the capacity to carry this sort of thing off with a flair for the macabre. Joseph COTTEN appears a little ill at ease in his role as the last victim--probably with good reason--but actually it's one of his better latter day roles.Trivia note Seemed like an anachronism to hear the song One for My Baby and One More for the Road sung during the film which supposedly takes place in the 1920s. Song wasn't written until 1943 by Johnny Mercer for the Fred Astaire film, The Sky's the Limit and later became a big hit in 1958 for Frank Sinatra. "}{"Title":"Great entertainment - one of Vincent Price's best films","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Despite his noteriety in horror films for nearly 20 years, it wasn't until the 1970's that Vincent Price made films that contained his best characterisations (nb. also Edward Lionheart in Theatre of Blood.)Dr. Phibes is a merciless, bitter-and-twisted character and Vincent Price's hamminess in the role is perfect casting - who else could utter the over-the-top dialogue with such credibility and finesse?Price's performance aside, the film's relentless and unforgiving pace is a significant attribute, and the script, which contains plenty of on-screen grisliness and nastiness, perfectly compliments the ingenious plot.One should also note the amazing art-deco sets in Phibes's house. They really do enhance the scenes when Price plays contently on his organ.Robert Fuest is also very proficient in the director's chair, bringing a very visual style to the film, whilst the supporting cast (the last person I expected to see here was Joseph Cotten) play their roles in an amazingly straight-faced fashion.Watch it! "},{"Title":"Vocally challenged organist believes that revenge is sweet","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Dr. Phibes, mourning the loss of his lovely wife, seeks revenge on the doctors that he feels murdered her. He and his silent, violin playing assistant find many unusual and interesting ways to get this payback. Unfortunately the inefficient British police were helpless at stopping the kinky keyboardist from carrying out his nefarious scheme. This was vintage Vincent Price, if you want to see him in a totally different role check out the excellent Whales of August. "},{"Title":"A Deadly Deadpan","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Fondly Remembered and Revered by Most this is a Visually Stunning Black Comedy with Horrific Overtones. Its may be Overrated but it is Still Quite a Different Blend of Tea. Vincent Price, Stifled from much Acting by a Frozen Face/Mask and a Monotone Off Screen Diabolical, Distorted, Dialog Delivery has been much Praised here, but for what, it is Hard to Say. It's just about Everything Else that makes this what it is.The Value of this Off Kilter Thriller is in its Look and Tone. Deadpan in Delivery and Deadly Gruesome in its Murders, this Remains a Unique and Special Movie that was Ahead of its Time. It does Manage to become a bit Tiresome and Repetitive as the Respective Numbered Victims are Dispensed with, but it Never Manages to be Boring.A bit Lengthy but Still a Cult Movie to be Sure and Worth a Watch for Something Completely Different. It is a Colorful Experiment that is Better than it Should have been and that begs Thanks from Everyone Involved, from the Director, Writer, Set Designs, Costumes, Cinematography, and Performers. It is a Patchwork of Talent that makes this a Delight. Bold and Bloody, Bad and Beautiful. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of Vincent Price's best movies!","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES is a superb stylish movie that definitely ranks amongst the best of Vincent Price's work. May he rest in peace for delivering such an emotionally moving piece of entertainment.The most effective and indeed creative idea at work here is the presentation of the movie. Its theme is difficult to decipher in precise terms. Some will see it as a horror movie. Some will see it as a dark comedy. Some will see it as a typical revenge epic. And others will recognise a tragic love story.The plot of the movie can be summed up without giving away spoilers - Dr. Phibes was involved in a car accident during which he lost his ability to speak. His wife dies following an unsuccessful surgical operation. Dr. Phibes then decides to take revenge on the doctors whom he considers responsible for her death. A series of murders based off the biblical plagues takes place leaving local police baffled.Whilst the plot on paper sounds very disturbing, the execution is done in a very light-hearted, almost comical, tone. This is supported by a very uplifting musical score. Most of the gore effects are left to the imagination rather than being presented on the screen. Violence is very subtle and hardly any overt violence is shown. As such, the movie gained a mere PG rating from the MPAA. The virtual absence of gore works heavily in the movie's favour by enabling it to retain a light tone that ensures the movie never becomes unwatchable.Some creativity is used during the execution of the murder scenes, providing obvious inspiration for the producers of THEATRE OF BLOOD, another Vincent Price movie with a similar theme. In addition, THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES plays a part in setting standards for the slasher movies of the 1980s as far as creativity goes. It has to be said however, that the movies of that decade, many of which are highly entertaining, are not nearly as stylish or classy as this movie.A very carefully crafted screenplay ensures the movie plays with the mind of its audience. Many will be confused as to whether they should sympathise with Dr. Phibes or his victims. Whilst Dr. Phibes commits gruesome murders without repentance, he shows a very loving side as he plays his organ whilst constantly thinking about his deceased wife. Vincent Price delivers a superb performance that really touches upon the emotions of the viewers during these scenes.Also worthy of mention is Joseph Cotten, who steps in for Peter Cushing (who turned down the role), as Dr. Vesalius, the lead doctor performing the surgical operation on Phibes's late wife. Joseph Cotten is given some very emotional scenes to work with, which he places to perfection and mirrors those where Dr. Phibes reminisces over his deceased wife.The actors playing the victims also deliver superb performances. The movie particularly makes effective use of Terry-Thomas, a comic actor well known to British audiences at the time.Special kudos should be given to the excellent Peter Jeffrey, who adds plenty of comical moments to the movie as the police inspector assigned to investigate the murders. He is given superb support by John Cater, a very unknown actor, who steals every scene he's in with perfect glee as the police superintendent constantly on the backs of the officers below him. Both of these actors reprise their roles in the sequel, DR. PHIBES RISES AGAIN.Let's not forget Virginia North, who plays Phibes's assistant, Vulnavia. Vulnavia is shown to be a mute, who never speaks. But due to a superb performance by the actress, we can read her thoughts through her facial expressions. This is a very difficult role to pull off, but she does it to perfection.Ultimately, THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES is successful due to an excellent combination of suspense, dark humour, superb acting performances from all concerned, very emotionally touching scenes, creativity, intelligent witty scripting and stylish execution of the whole product.I can definitely recommend this for fans of Vincent Price. "},{"Title":"Hoo-ray for Dr. Phibes!","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A neatly stylized thriller. It's great to see Vincent Price with an altered screen presence - in this film, he plays a mad doctor who has adapted his way of speaking following a disabling accident. Mr. Price is a delight to watch, always; but, The Abominable Dr. Phibes gives Price a new way to display his acting skills. In an interesting parallel, his beautiful assistant is even more mute than the mad doctor!The way and manner of mass-murdering is very interesting and novel. I found the locust a little weaker than the others. I also could have stood a little more suspense between the crimes; but, it might have taken a better criminologist to keep the hunt interesting. Even so, it's an excellent thriller and one of Price's greatest characterizations. ******** The Abominable Dr. Phibes (1971) Robert Fuest ~ Vincent Price, Joseph Cotten, Virginia North "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This tacky horror movie should be intriguing and fun, and it gets there at times, but by and large it's tedious stuff. Vincent Price stars as the title character, a mad genius who devises bizarre deaths for the doctors who failed to save his wife. Copper Peter Jeffrey tries to discover what's going on 'ere then with the help of surgeon Joseph Cotten.The deaths are inventive and there are some enjoyable bits and pieces, like the aftermath of one doctor getting impaled by a unicorn, but the pace is far too slow and the structure doesn't help there are three scenes in the movie - Price planning in his lair, the murders, and the bobbies on the trail - and the repetition really started to wear me down after a while. The sequel is slightly superior. "},{"Title":"The fiend that plagues thee.","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price is, of course, loved by horror fans for a number of fantastic performances. It would be hard to pick a definitive favourite from his movies but if you ask any horror fan to compile a Top 10 of Vincent Price movies then I'd put good money on the fact that The Abominable Dr. Phibes would appear on such a list. It's a film that mixes horror, humour and style in equal measure &#x96; all centred by yet another superb central performance from Price.Our legendary leading man plays the titular character, as if you had any doubt, and is out to avenge the loss of a loved one. He does this by, of course, killing those he deems responsible in a style replicating the Plagues of Egypt. The main target would seem to be Dr. Vesalius (Joseph Cotten) but there are many others to be dealt with before the big finale comes around. And poor Inspector Trout (Peter Jeffrey) always seems to be one or two steps behind the abominable killer.Directed by Robert Fuest, and written by James Whiton and William Goldstein, The Abominable Dr. Phibes is just a nonstop mix of macabre humour and entertaining death sequences. It's what you might call delicious and delirious stuff. Vincent Price has to talk through a gadget that he holds to his throat (moving only his throat and not his lips) and does this, usually, when lamenting the loss of his beautiful wife (an uncredited and beautiful Caroline Munro). There's a typically charmingly cheeky turn from Terry-Thomas. Each death seems to get more and more complex and ridiculous with the plague of locusts proving a particularly hilarious and unbelievable scene.Everyone on screen goes along with the macabre fun and they are well rewarded by the creation of a movie that genre fans should embrace with affection and hold close to their horror-loving bosoms. It never outstays it's welcome and even has a decent sequel for those who want a little bit more. "},{"Title":"One of Price's best films","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Abominable Dr. Phibes is one of the best Price films of all time.**SPOILERS**Three surgeons have died in the past couple of days, and the policeman assigned to the disappearances, Inspector Trout, (Peter Jeffries) finds that all of the men were in the employment of Dr. Vesalius, (Joseph Cotton) who worked on a case for a Dr. Anton Phibes', (Vincent Price) wife, but who had died during the operation. Trout sees that the deaths are all based on the Ancient Plagues of Egypt, and orders Vesalius and his men under police protection, but the deaths continue. Now knowing that Dr. Phibes is indeed the cause of the deaths, Vesalius teams with the police when Phibes and his assistant Vulnavia, (Virginia North) kidnap his son.The Good News This here is perhaps one of Vincent Price's best known roles, and for good reason it is also one of his best films. This is mainly due to the humanity Price brings to the role. He is a far more human killer than some will give him credit for, and with the humanity there, we feel for him more than we would some faceless killer in other films modeled after this one that it could've degenerated into. With Price known mostly for playing the maniacal villain with a sense of humor, this one takes the past films up a notch with it being over-the-top campy. Hilarious lines of dialog are inserted just because of this. The lines with Inspector Trout comes easily to mind, and in my opinion, steals the comedy from most of the film. This is mainly due to Price hamming it up in a more serious performance instead of his usual joke-cracking, but he even gets into it a little with some pretty funny sequences at times. A ball-room dancing sequence for no real reason is just one example. There are others, but they won't be given for fear of spoiling them. Even without it being campy, there are some pretty genuinely creepy scenes in here. This is due to the method of death in the film. It is quite original the way the killing is done, and basing them in the order of the plagues of Ancient Egypt is a brilliant stroke of originality. That allows for some ingenious and flexible deaths, as they aren't restrained to the usual ax and knife deaths. Knowing the actual order of the deaths is part of the fun, so I can't really spoil them here. Just know they are original and quite inventive. There was even a jump that is quite successfully scored in here that is one of the most surprising jumps in horror cinema, and it gets you totally off-guard. This is just another in the long series of creativity in here. The fact that this is also a very fast moving film is another great factor, as the film never really seem to be slow or dull, and something is always happening. We happen upon the first murder at the very opening of the film, and the film doesn't really slow down since. An excellent judge of timing on display to go along with all the other positives.The Bad News There is only a few relatively unimportant things I want to bring up here. The first is also one of it's greatest strengths the camp factor. Even though it makes the film more fun if it's camp, the seriousness of some of the events make it seem a little out of place. The deaths are deadly serious, while the rest of the film is played for laughs, and the difference tone is quite apparent in some cases. The other factor is Phibes himself. One of Price's best instruments is his voice, and here he has it modified by a special instrument attached to his throat. Without the fluctuating tones he uses in his other roles, the great instrument isn't as effective here.The Final Verdict A classic by any means of the word, and easily one of Price's best films. It's got a little something for everyone and is a solid, all-around great film. The negatives aren't nearly enough to overcome the positives, and a lot of great viewing is had with this one. Highly recommended to Price fans, but also to those that enjoy fun, campy horror films.Today's Rating-PG-13 Violence "},{"Title":"a cult classic in every way.","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price plays Dr. Phibes, a man bent on seeking vengeance (of biblical proportions!) against each member of the surgical team that was operating on his wife when she died. I cannot express how much I adore this movie. It is an almost surreal, vicious (yet amusing) film with my favorite performance ever by Price. He plays Phibes as creepy and ruthless, but also sympathetic and poetic. That may translate as hammy to some, but I thought his performance was ace. The quirky set design, extravagant costumes, and Phibes' band and organ playing add to the playfully creepy tone. The murder sequences are surprisingly gruesome and wicked, making contemporary thrillers like Seven and Saw come across as not so original. And I cannot forget my favorite character, Phibes' lovely assistant, Vulnavia. She has to be one of the most eccentric characters I've seen she doesn't speak, she wears elaborate dresses and headpieces, and she is often seen flitting across the dancefloor with Phibes or playing violin during the murder sequences. I'm not sure everyone would appreciate this movie, but it is definitely a favorite of mine. "},{"Title":"another great one","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" During the few years when Vincent Price made a lot of movies in England, one of the coolest ones was The Abominable Dr. Phibes. They let Price be as campy as he wants, as a dead-alive guy using the Passover curses to take revenge on the physicians who couldn't save his wife. Price tread a slightly similar path in Theater of Blood, that time using scenes from Shakespeare plays to take people out.But this is the really neat one. In my opinion, the highlight was the he will have a face like me scene. It must have been fun to film that! Anyway, it's another horror classic. Also starring Jospeh Cotten, Virginia North and Terry-Thomas. "}{"Title":"Widescreen makes a difference","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This review is of the widescreen DVD of this film.  Before now, I had only seen this film in the pan & scan format on TV.  Amazing how different it looks.  Phibes's mechanical band looked huge and now is shown to have only a few players.  The costume party looked huge but it is now obvious that only 6 people were there.  Also, the sets look smaller and tackier.  The widescreen version is nice but makes it more obvious that this was a low-budget film.  Being some 30 years older than I was the last time I saw this film, I also have to say that the film sure relies on coincidence for the bulk of it's plot.  How did Phibes know the chauffer would stop and help the lady with the stalled car?  How did he know the guy would even drive down that road?  Lots of things in this are pretty hard to swallow but I guess if you are going to accept the premise of a dead man avenging his dead wife, then I suppose they figure you will accept anything.  Makeup isn't bad on Price.  The main reason to own this DVD is because it is the same un-cut version that played in theaters in 1971 complete with the original score (that AIP/Orion stripped off the movie for past video releases).   "},{"Title":"Its no Theater of Blood","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I rented Theater of Blood a few weeks back and was completely taken by it- Vincent Price was given free reign to go over the top in so many different directions (everything from Shylock to a gay hairdresser).  This film, however, barely allows him to speak, and that is so much of what makes Vincent Price, well, Vincent Price.  Its an entertaining film, but lacking in the looniness and sick brilliance of Theater of Blood. Did it bother anyone else that the 10 plagues were a)inaccurate (there is no plague of bats!) and b) in the wrong order? (Blood, frogs... ending with darkness, then the killing of the firstborn). Of course, most Rabbis keep a convenient scroll nearby containing nothing but an illustrated and inaccurate account of the 10 plagues. "},{"Title":"The Awesome Mr. Price","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent Price is, as far as I am considered, THE greatest of all Horror icons, and my personal favorite actor of all-time. And Price plays one of his most incomparable and unique roles as the mad Dr. Phibes in this ingenious and delightfully macabre highlight, Robert Fuerst's satirical Horror masterpiece The Abominable Dr. Phibes of 1971. Hardly is there another Horror film that pairs a brilliantly grotesque atmosphere with delightfully macabre wit as The Abominable Dr Phibes does, and and hardly has there such an ingenious performance as that of the great Vincent Price in this wonderful film.Dr. Anton Phibes (Vincent Price) is an ingenious organ player and madman, pursues only one goal - to take bloody revenge on the doctors he holds responsible for the death of his beloved wife, who has died several years before. His wife died on the operating table after an accident, in which Phibes himself was disfigured. Years after the accident, Phibes, who is believed dead, and only able to speak through a microphone attached to his throat, plans his revenge on the doctors in his bizarre quarters. The acts of revenge, at which Price is aided by his beautiful and silent female assistant (Virginia North) are carried out by ingeniously grotesque methods... The unique visual style is as ingenious as the innovating and brilliantly grotesque manner in which the murders are carried out. I will not give any example for this, as I am not willing to spoil any of this film's wonderful cinematic delight. A much as Dr. Pibes is a vengeful psychopath, he is also a melancholic and sad romantic whose life has become meaningless since the death of his beloved wife, and whose only remaining joys are his grotesque organ play and his desire for revenge. Vincent Price, as mentioned above one of the greatest actors ever in my opinion, plays this role with absolute brilliance. Not only would no other actor have been able to play Dr. Phibes with such greatness, it is simply not imaginable for any other actor playing Phibes at all. This film truly is another proof of the brilliance of Vincent Price, and no one, not even people who don't like Horror can deny that. The cast furthermore includes the great Joseph Cotten, and Peter Jeffrey is great in the role of the investigatin Inspector Trout, the only one to suspect the presumably dead Dr. Phibes. This film is fantastic in so many aspects that it is not possible to name them all, and no Horror fan or true cineaste in general can afford to miss it! Absolutely Wonderful! "},{"Title":"Great camp","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This will go on the list of the worst movies every made along with The Beast Must Die, Plan 9 From Outer Space and the original Detour. Ed Wood would have been jealous. Supposedly taking place in the late 1920s with 60's hairstyles and fashions, this turned out to be one of the best comedies we've seen. It earns at least one star for the folks who made it accomplishing getting it on film. Joseph Cotton must have needed work when he got himself into this one. It is worth seeing for sure; where it is not for those with a weak stomach, it is a real comedy if you can get over being embarrassed that you spent two hours watching it to the end - if you make it that far.  "},{"Title":"Good fun if a little silly.","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Abominable Dr. Phibes is set in London during 1925 where Scotland Yard's finest Inspector Trout (Peter Jeffrey) is investigating the mysterious death's of several doctors in strange & gruesome ways. Inspector Trout soon realises that the common link between the doctors is a young woman named Victoria Phibes (Caroline Munro, uncredited) who died during an operation, other doctor's were involved in the operation & they too are being killed off one-by-one. The prime suspect is Victoria's husband the musician Dr. Anton Phibes (Vincent Price) but he supposedly died in a car accident, or did he...?This British American co-production was directed by Robert Fuest & is a surprisingly good horror comedy if your in the mood for something light. The script by James Whiton & William Goldstein certainly doesn't take itself too seriously & in actual fact is deliberately camp & silly. To it's credit it moves along like a rocket, there's a satisfyingly high body count with some extremely silly but original methods used to kill off it's victims & despite not exactly being the most deep or meaningful film ever made it's good camp horror entertainment that works surprisingly well. I must admit I liked the somewhat downbeat ending too. The character's are dumb & not really developed that much, the dialogue isn't great & Price barely says a word in it, in fact for the first 70 odd minutes he only says about three lines. I don't understand who the woman helping him was either, she is given the name Vulnavis about 10 minutes before the film ends & that's all we ever learn about her. There is never any explanation given as to why Phibes kills people using Egyptian plagues as his inspiration (in the sense that I know why he's killing people because of his wife but why is he killing in the style of Egyptian plagues), not that it matter a great deal though. Some of the jokes work while other's miss the target by a fair amount, this is probably one of those films that will either work for you or won't. I can't see there being too many people sitting on the fence here. Overall I thought it was really good, fast paced ghoulish fun but then that's just my opinion for what it's worth.Director Fuest does alright, the art deco sets & period design look very nice & are pretty impressive but some of the direction leaves a little to be desired. For instance Fuest can't inject any sort of menace or threat into scenes with extremely docile animals, the sequence where Phibes drips a green goo over a nurse without her noticing or waking up & then covers her head in locusts which then presumably eat the skin from her face as the next time we see her there just a skull. Well besides the fact locusts don't eat flesh all they do is just sort of sit there & the whole thing is just so silly, a similar things happens with some rats which just literally sit in a guys lap & he has to scream & convince us that he's scared of these things which are not doing anything to him at all! It doesn't work & if the film had a more serious tone in general then these scenes would kill it dead. It's not scary neither is it gory although Phibes takes his mask off at the end to reveal a hideously burned face in a decent bit of special make-up effects work.Technically the film is good, it has strong production values & is well made. Filmed in Elstree Studios & on location in England. The acting is alright, Price doesn't get to do or say much & when he does speak it's through an electronic thing on his neck so he never moves his lips. Terry-Thomas has a small role as a doctor.The Abominable Dr. Phibes is a rather good film actually, I wasn't expecting too much but it turned out to be a rather fun & entertaining way to pass 90 odd minutes & it deserves some credit for that if nothing else, right? I liked it, I'm sure horror fans will but I could also see many not liking it. Followed by the sequel Dr. Phibes Rises Again (1972). "},{"Title":"Worst $3 ever spent!!!","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I watched a review of this movie on Cinemassacre and it looked pretty cool so I decided to buy it. I paid $3 on eBay for it and had to wait a week to get it. Once it arrived I popped it in and was ready to be chilled like the DVD case said. I was chilled alright, chilled with boredom and anger for spending $3 on this crap. This movie took about 30 minutes to get going, the first scene is Dr Phibes playing the organ and dancing around in a robe like a damn fool. He then starts to randomly kill people in the lamest ways possible. Bats, an air conditioner, c'mon man! We don't get a clue as to why he's doing this until the middle of the movie. At that point I was sleeping. I turned this thing off, threw it against the wall and cursed like a truck driver for 15 minutes. This movie came out about the same time as the Texas Chainsaw Massacre so I was expecting something like that. Man, was I wrong. If you have trouble sleeping buy this movie. It sure does the trick. I want my $3 back and I want it back now. "},{"Title":"Theater of Blood was much better.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Handsome, colorful, but also tedious, lackluster horror film. Much inferior to the VERY similar Theater of Blood. I agree with all those who said that Vincent Price's inability to use his voice in a normal way hurts the film. His completists will have fun anyway.    (**) "},{"Title":"One of Vincent Price's best roles","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A man uses the plagues of the bible as part of his revenge on the doctors who let his wife die and didn't try hard to save her.This movie had some great direction and the sets and costumes and designs were all very beautiful. The methods of killing were unique for its time and an obvious inspiration for many films to follow, especially in later years with movies like Saw. The movie did had unbelievable things going on and flaws.Vincent Price has always stood out to me as a great actor and very original and here he does one of his better roles. Supporting cast was okay, I do hate the mannerisms of these British actors and their heavy overacting ways.I must admit for its time, it was a nice film. I didn't love it but I liked it a lot 4/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Bats and rats and locusts&#x97;oh my!","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Demented organist Dr. Phibes murders the surgeons he blames for the death of his wife, with each killing based on the biblical plagues visited on the Pharoahs.In many ways, Dr. Phibes can be seen as a practise run for my favourite Vincent Price movie, the brilliant Theatre of Blood as in Theatre, Price's protagonist is an unhinged individual, presumed dead by the authorities, who exacts revenge on the group of people he believes have wronged him by carrying out a series of highly inventive, 'themed' murders; the tone of both films is almost identical&#x97;haunting, macabre, and with a camp streak a mile wide; and like Theatre, The Phibes movies feature great supporting casts, including many faces familiar from 70s British TV and film.Phibes never quite reaches the level of magnificence achieved by Theatre of Blood&#x97;Price's camp style is still a work in progress, the preposterous death scenes aren't quite as well orchestrated, and there is a distinct lack of comical gore&#x97;but there is still plenty to enjoy in director Fuest's innovative direction, Norman Warwick's colourful cinematography, the quirky, anachronistic design, which cleverly combines the styles of both the 1930s and 1970s to surreal effect, and the very dark, tongue-in-cheek humour (best line I think it's a left hand thread).The horror audiences of the time certainly thought so, for Price returned the very next year for the rather disappointing sequel, Dr. Phibes Rises Again. "},{"Title":"Like Theater of Blood classy, clever, entertaining and shocking-not to be missed!","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Like Theater of Blood a film I enjoyed enormously, I watched The Abominable Dr Phibes not knowing what to expect. If I had a slight preference to which film I enjoyed more, I would have to say Theater of Blood. But Abominable Dr Phibes is pretty much everything that made Theater of Blood such a joy to watch- it is classy, entertaining, clever and shocking, not to mention very creative. For one thing the film is very well made, the sets are wonderfully constructed and the costumes(especially Virginia North's- who is quite alluring here) were eye popping. The film is efficiently directed, and has a dark and clever script. The murders are very cleverly done, the murder with the fruit bats was quite chilling, and that's an understatement in itself. And I loved the music, the organ music at the beginning was quite sinister and haunting considering the fact I did find the first 5 minutes a little slow and strange, but the film is so entertaining and enjoyable I am past caring. The performances were excellent, Joseph Cotten does well, and Peter Jeffrey is very amusing as Inspector Trout. Terry Thomas is impressive in a small role. But there is no doubt in my mind, that horror maestro Vincent Price gave the best performance of the movie as the deformed maniac. He IS Dr Phibes as far I am concerned, with facial expressions that make the hairs on the back of your neck, a florid style, an inclination to ham and a sinister timbre to his voice whenever he speaks. Overall, unmissable, clever and entertaining with a perfect lead performance. 10/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"super cheesy fun!","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Is this a great film? Absolutely not. But it makes no pretensions--it is intended as silly and over-the-top horror. It is super cheesy but fun! The story involved a weird genius who wants to exact revenge on those he blames for his wife's death. He also blames them for his horrible disfigurement which can only be hidden by masks and prosthetics. Plus, due to this accident he can't even talk without a goofy hi-fi system! This Phantom of the Opera-like man plots this revenge with his beautiful assistant who never talks and never really develops as a character. You might notice this quickly if it weren't for all the weirdness that overwhelms you. The mansion is chock full of audioanimatronic musicians, a grand pipe organ and cool gadgets.The other reason you probably won't question all this is that your attention will be grabbed by all the weird ways he exacts revenge--and they are WEIRD!!! The are supposedly all inspired by the 10 plagues that were released on the ancient Egyptians, but the writers got several of them wrong! I'm surprised they didn't check a Bible or talk to a rabbi about this first. Oh well.Anyways, the ways of killing these people were so crazy, so cool and so amazing that you might actually find yourself rooting for this nut case. Think about it--one person had their head eaten by grasshoppers and another was slowly drained of all their blood! And, if you haven't gotten enough senseless killing, there is a sequel!! This movie has cult classic written all over it!FYI--There is a sequel. It's vastly inferior but still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"good flick","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  good but a little bit overrated but not by much this has some great Black comedy and camp humor in it and i cant say enough about Vincent Price performance it is just wonderful and it is one of the best performances in his career there is actually a lot of blood in this movie and lots of disturbing and strange deaths the rest of the acting is solid and steady as we see Dr.Phibes hideous deformed and decaying face that actually made me flinch and does not very often make me do that now there are a few things in here that i didn't like at first there is too much dialog and most of it is uninteresting but still this is a good horror flick that i do recommend the directing is pretty stylish the sets costumes are magnificent and it is also visually stunning you can see all the embalming fluid bottles all filled up (yuck) see it *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Grind away at the organ all you want Vincent, this horror movie monkey isn't dancing to your tune in this overrated 'classic'.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Vincent has been in some really great movies, though this is not one of them. I have to say again that this film is really overrated as *cough* 'classic' horror movies go and I've watched lots of them lately (from 1920s to 1980s) as I study the history of horror films. Not everything Vincent does is gold, but this is probably better than the Dr. Goldfoot film Bava was forced to make starring Vincent, a DVD which still sits unwatched on my shelf. If I want a campy film with Vincent behind a series of theme murders I'd much rather watch him again in Theater of Blood (made two years later). Some of the murders here were extremely ridiculous and unlikely -- and not in a way that entertained me. They were like something out of a bad giallo (and I've seen dozens of gialli, from the great to the downright awful). The cops in this Brit film were even more bumbling and incapable than you'd expect in an Italian giallo.I give it points for good set design, especially in Phibes art deco lair. I give it points for seemingly originating some ideas, which were obviously later revamped into the Saw movies' time limit puzzles. The last 15 minutes or so were what redeemed this film for me. The final showdown and the Phibes mask reveal were actually good but not good enough to make up for the boredom and exasperation I felt during other parts of the movie. I detract points for the annoying music sequences where I felt like a (literally) captive audience member forced to watch Price sit in the corner of the room playing with his organ. I was annoyed by the 'speaking with unmoving lips' element of Phibes character which was not stylish or atmospheric to me, but annoyingly distracting -- both Corman's and Romero's versions of Poe's M. Valdemar do the disembodied voice thing much more chillingly and effectively. Some people seem to give points for the attractive actress as Vulnavia, but I can see more attractive women in a Hammer production and they're usually part of a better film (despite Hammer's characteristic recycling of sets and typically low budgets). To put things in perspective, I'll probably give the later inferior installments of Hammer's Dracula & Frankenstein film series a second viewing long before I'll watch this DVD again.According to the trailer this might be 'the most terrifying motion picture you've ever seen'. The terrifying thing for me was realizing the DVD had a sequel on its flipside which I now felt obligated to sit through in hopes it would improve on the character. I'll let you know how that turned out when I can find the time to sit through it (instead of choosing something else from the 140 or so other unwatched titles I have waiting on my shelf). "},{"Title":"Abominably Dull...  =8P","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I dunno, maybe the old-fashioned Grand Guignol style is just not my glass of moo juice, but the MooCow was terribly bored while watching this Vincent Price opus.  Price(House of the Seven Gables, The Fly, the Pit and the Pendulum)is a sort-of deceased, sort-of mad, wealthy organist/bible scholar, sort of.  His wife dies udder the knife, and so mad Phibes decides to kill off the doctors & nurses responsible for her death.  Of course, he can't simply kill them - where's the moovie in that?  No, he concocts these complicated, Byzantine, fancy-schmancy deaths, based on the 10 plagues of the Old Testament, the kind of thing you might see a third-rate Bond villain try. A similar plot occurs in Seven(7 deadly sins), but that chilling, gruesome flick is a cow of a different color! It doesn't help that Phibes does not talk, except through an electronic box - it sounds as if his voice is coming from inside his elbow.  Worse still, the bumbling and thoroughly stupid British police, meant for comic relief, are irritating to the point of distraction.  Joseph Cotton(Citizen Kane, The Third Man, Frankenstein's Daughter)plays a dull, stuffy doctor, so there's nobody to give a hoot about.  The extravagant, unbelievable deaths just seem hokey, and the victims are nobody I cud care about.  Price is far moore..priceless when playing suave, educated, semi-sane characters, especially ones which allow him to use his rich, mellow voice - check out the above-mentioned films for a far better example of Price's legendary work.  Director Robert Fuest is a vet director with such diverse tv & moovie projects as The Avengers tv series, The Devil's Rain, and Wuthering Heights. As for Phibes, the MooCow says it's a dull, stuffy, gaudy bore.  Give it a look to see the masterful Price, but don't forget the caffine. ;=8) "},{"Title":"Price's Timeless Performance","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Abominable Dr. Phibes, The (1971)*** (out of 4) Cult favorite has Vincent Price giving a timeless performance as Dr. Phibes, a madman who returns from the dead to seek vengeance against the nine doctors he blames for his wife dying on the operating table. Phibes, a Bible scholar, plans to kill them using various curses that struck the Pharoah during the Old Testament. I'm really not sure how this film was received when originally released but today it's certainly a classic of the genre and I'm sure many would call it Price's greatest performance. I wouldn't go as far as to call it his greatest but one can certainly see how talented the man was here. Not only do we get Price delivering a perfect performance but Joseph Cotten also manages to do great work and in the end this is a perfect example of AIP during the 70s. Director Fuest deserves a lot of credit for bringing some rather creepy situations to the screen and this includes the opening murder, which is brilliantly executed. The tension built while we wait to see how the man is going to die will keep a smile on your face and each of the murders just get better and better. With a little bit of gore thrown in, the murders are all nicely delivered and make for some great fun. The cinematography is nice throughout and we also get some nice music but once again, the real key to this movie are the performances. Price sinks his teeth into the role and really makes us like the guy to matter how crazy he is or how many people he kills. That brilliant voice is perfectly used here and really sells the character. Cotten and Price work perfectly together and the supporting players are nice as well. The ending is handled very well and one can't help but love the make up work done for Phibes. "},{"Title":"Rather nasty and repellent horror outing, with no levity to get us through the gore...","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stylish on a small budget, this ghoulish American International Pictures horror outing is a long way from producers Samuel Z. Arkoff and James H. Nicholson's Edgar Allan Poe tales. Music scholar-turned-madman Vincent Price exacts bloody revenge on the group of medicos who years before had failed to save his dying wife. Grisly is one thing, but director Robert Fuest shows no self-effacing humor (dark or otherwise) over these killings...and absolutely no sympathy for the victims. The costumes and sets are impressive, and Price is certainly in the spirit, but the fun is mitigated by the harsh treatment. Followed in 1972 by a sequel, Dr. Phibes Rides Again! ** from **** "},{"Title":"Novelty  Horror Later Done Better","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm surprised THE ABOMINABLE DOCTOR PHIBES is so well regarded with an average rating of 7.0 on this site . I do remember liking this film when it was broadcast on television about 30 years ago . I recently saw it again and found it rather uninvolving . Perhaps its high rating is to do with there being a hardcore horror following ? The problem is the plot . Dr Anton Phibes wants revenge and bumps off some doctors using biblical prophecies . That's the whole plot explained and we see a series of imaginative murders loosely linked and there's not much else to the story . There's minimal character development and characters are simply introduced just so they can be killed off . Say what you like about Vincent Price but he has a rich distinctive voice ( So much so that Michael Jackson used him for Thriller )but he is dialogue free here . It should also be remembered this type of plot was used a couple of years later for THEATRE OF BLOOD , a much better and far more entertaining camp horror film "}]