[{"Title":"A personal revenge that carries suspense, drive and grim realism&#133;","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"37 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Valdez is more a symbol of conscience!Burt Lancaster&#151;at that time 57 years old&#151;in fact dominates the film by a mystic presence, rather than actually being on screen for any length of time&#133;The bulk of the film constitutes a battle of wits and guns between Valdez and an extremely stubborn leader of a band of trigger-happy gun-slingers&#133; So when Frank Tanner (John Cypher) provokes a shoot-out which results in the death of an innocent man, Valdez asks $100 compensation from Tanner to provide financial support for his pregnant widow&#133; Tanner not only refuses, but humiliates Valdez and orders his hired gunmen to beat him hardly, to tie him to a cross, and to drive him out of his place&#133; Again Spain locations represented the American frontier for this revenge tale about an aging former cavalry man who dusts off his old uniform, straps on his old guns, takes plenty of ammunition, and erupt a one-man army against a greedy, rotten, evil rancher and his henchmen to enforce justice at any cost&#133;As the pursuers forge deeper into the wilderness, the situation shifts around with hunters becoming the hunted&#133;Susan Clark (Gay) sides with Valdez without falling in love with him, while Barton Heyman (playing the chief henchman El Segundo) provides his character with warmth and quality at a pivotal time&#133; "},{"Title":"Ravioli Western","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"51 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  When something works well it often becomes the vernacular of its particular field of endeavor. Today, many guitarists sound something like Jimi Hendrix, possibly without even being aware of it. But when Hendrix burst onto the '60s pop music scene, nobody even remotely resembled him, stylistically or otherwise. When Sergio Leone's Fistful of Dollars was released, with its uncompromisingly vivid characterizations, sparse, almost symbolic backdrops, and evocative, minimalist scores, the Western was changed forever. Clint Eastwood certainly portrayed the brutal, enigmatic hero as well as it could be done but the purity of Leone's form could probably have carried almost any actor with a similar type of charisma through the story. In Valdez is Coming, adapted from the co-titled Elmore Leonard novel, Leone's moralistically stark paradigm acquires a conscience and characters that, while as vividly drawn as the Master's, are discernibly more real.Burt Lancaster, one of the cinema's truly great stars, stoically embodies Bob Valdez, a former cavalry scout of Mexican descent and veteran of the Apache wars. Valdez is going quietly to seed as a part-time town constable and shotgun guard for the local stagecoach line. But when he encounters the vicious, offhand injustice meted out by racist rancher and gunrunner, Frank Tanner (Jon Cypher in his big-screen debut, later to play the goofy Marine General in the TV series, Major Dad), Valdez is transformed into a golem of precise ferocity. Nothing clever or arcane about the plot, it's about payback stretched out across a Leoneian landscape (like the Leone classics it too was filmed in Spain). What you see is exactly what you get and the film moves right along while Valdez elegantly works his way through Tanner's men as they pursue him and Tanner's woman, whom Valdez has taken hostage literally from Tanner's arms. Watching, as Tanner realizes that, by crossing Valdez, he has begun to chew considerably more than he may be able to swallow, is Tanner's very competent Mexican ramrod, El Segundo (the late Barton Heyman in another debut role). Segundo, an unflinching pragmatist capable of killing without batting an eye, but still no stranger to honor, is torn between keeping a straight face as Tanner wades in deeper and deeper and hunting down Valdez, who is methodically taking out Segundo's best men as the pursuit progresses.The relationship between Segundo and Tanner is one of the film's most interesting aspects. While not rendered in great detail, it is still a good study in the nature of power. Unfortunately, some nimnul editor removed from the VHS issue a few lines of dialog between the two that comprised, arguably,  the most pivotal moment in the entire film. Fortunately, I remember it from the film's original screening. Segundo has entered Tanner's parlor to inform him that a certain Bob Valdez desires an audience (to convince Tanner to contribute to the welfare of a widow whose husband's death, at Constable Valdez' hands, was the result of Tanner's bigotry). Tanner turns to Segundo and smirks, `I don't know any BOBE Valdez', mocking Segundo's densely-accented English. For just an instant, just a blink, Segundo considers putting a .44 pill in Tanner and high-tailing it back to Mexico. Then he lets it go. Tanner is currently where the money is; perhaps another time. And there, the dark heart of the film is displayed. Its racist engine is never completely cloaked but it never steps forward into such clarity as it does in that deleted scene. When Segundo and Valdez come face to face in the final sequence, their terse interchange; a dialog between two very capable men, is memorable.The principal supporting cast turns in solid work that enhances the overall effort. Richard Jordan (yet another debut) began his noteworthy career as a character actor in this film, with his role as the slightly unhinged R.L. Davis, a sharpshooting wannnabe whose barely flickering conscience just manages to save his life. If the stately, vanilla, Canadian actress Susan Clark was never your pint of Molson's, see her as Tanner's mistress-with-a-secret before rendering final judgment. Hector Elizondo, whom many may remember as the hotel manager in Pretty Woman, is completely diametric here in a brief role as one of Tanner's hired guns who receives a hard lesson in alternative shotgun technology.Valdez is Coming is not Red River, or Shane, but it is a rock solid, and engrossing 70's Western that should absolutely have a place in the collection of any fan of the genre. Compact, well-acted, believably plotted, and equipped with a spare and interesting music track that actually augments the drama instead of drowning it, the film stays firmly within its envelope and delivers. With a stellar personality like Burt Lancaster effortlessly carrying the weight, things are pretty much all good. In the film Ulzana's Raid, released a year later, Lancaster reprised the Valdez type in the role of the not-yet-retired Army scout, McIntosh. Although not as coherent as Valdez is Coming, Ulzana's Raid is still a good watch, largely due to its interesting characters, including the great Mexican star Jorge Luke as an Apache scout who rides with McIntosh. "},{"Title":"Before I knew better...","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" ...was Bob Valdez's reply when he was asked when he used to hunt and shoot down Indians to eradicate them from rangeland.  This is a great movie, one that deserves watching by anyone interested in the Western, and any Elmore Leonard fan.  Burt Lancaster gives a great, artistic and very reserved performance as a very tired, lonely man who looks unassuming but should just not be messed with.  His history makes him a very dangerous man, although he now only wants to live in peace.  Of course, when he tries to do the honorable thing, he is treacherously dealt with, which leads to one of the most entertaining and compelling westerns ever filmed.  Also of special note is Barton Heyman, who plays the world-wise Segundo, who quickly realizes that they are not after any ordinary man, and provides a great surprise ending.  This is just a crackerjack movie, compelling from start to finish without losing a carefully crafted artistry that any movie lover would appreciate.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Topflight cast in offbeat western tale","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I usually avoid Westerns like the plague, but the pedigree on this film (debut of theater director Sherin, starring Lancaster, Cypher, & Clark and featuring Jordan & Elizondo in their first movie roles) kept me interested til the, well, offbeat ending.  Beautiful location scenery and smart writing helps this story of a Mexican sheriff (Lancaster) betrayed and humiliated in a most blasphemous way by a vile land baron (Cypher) over the honor of a widowed Apache woman.  Clark plays the baron's kindhearted lover who admires the sheriff for his decency and bravery.  Jordan is especially smarmy here as a cowardly would-be gunslinger.  Because of brief but bloody violence, a few S words, and a threatened rape, this film isn't suitable for kids under 14, but it would make a good object lesson in morality for teenagers.  A nice companion piece to Henry Fonda in The Ox-Bow Incident. "},{"Title":"Before I know Better","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Occasionally, a film arrives with little or no fanfare and surprises many who expected just another film. How often we are wrong. That, should be the premise of this story. Each pivotal character woven within this western tapestry seems to have reached the summit of experience. Then why does each ignore the warnings when they arise before hand? For many Burt Lascaster fans, this is a classic role as he plays Constable Bob Valdez, an aging but experienced peace keeper. Townsmen and friends alike, know little of him or his background, until an uneventful day when a rich and powerful land Baron, incites all to chase and corner an ex-army soldier because he looks familiar. Accidentally killing the soldier, Valdez seeks $200.00 compensation for the widow. When challenged to get the first $100.00 from Mr. Tanner (Jon Cypher) the rich landowner, the task become an impossible quest as Tanner has no intention of giving Valdez anything, but contempt, torture and pain. What ensues is a noble saga worthy of the former Indian scout and tracker. Although, Tanner is the main obstacle, Valdez is also challenged by Tanner's formidable collection of professional gunmen assembled by his experienced right-hand man, El Segundo (Barton Heyman). Among them is Hector Elizondo as a Mexican Rider and R.L.Davis (Richard Jordon) as a cowardly opportunist. Playing Valdez's friend is Diego, (Frank Silvera), in addition there's Tanner's wife, Gay Erin (Susan Clark) who is taken hostage, but ends up anything but. What transpires is a valuable lesson for all. The experience of a man may be hidden by time, but time cannot hide the experienced man. ***** "},{"Title":"great performance by Lancaster, keen portrayal of West","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie, driven primarily by Lancaster's embodiment of the character of Valdez - a town constable who kills an innocent man in self-defense, only to then become the subject of constant abuse by the slain's pursuer.  Valdez's vengeful reactions to this abuse, the episodic pacing, and the great supporting actors make this a real cinematic treat. Lancaster's treatment of voice and body language show he is an actor of extreme talent.  Of further interest is the landscape of Spain, which makes up the film's authentic exteriors. "},{"Title":"Mexican gentleman takes on mob of old west gangsters","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A former Apache hunter, who has lost his taste for violence, becomes embroiled in a running duel across a scorched, rugged terrain with a gang of gunrunners...all over a lousy 100 bucks...and honor...and a woman. This film reminded me somewhat of Charles Bronson's first big box office hit, Chato's Land. The band of thugs, unlike the group chasing Chato, were up to the job of killing Valdez, but found their quarry to be more elusive than they had bargained for. Very good western, right up there with Lancaster's film of the same year, Lawman. I still can't feature Burt as a Mexican, though. "},{"Title":"Elmore Richard was never served better than by Lancaster in this film.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Valdez is Coming is a companion piece to Martin Ritt's HOMBRE. Both stories center on a single man's moral code, as does MR. Majestyk with Charles Bronson. Filled with incredible dialogue and a trailer that cried out,Tell Frank Tanner, Tell El Segundo and the sixteen others, Valdez Is Coming.Valdez, a good old man tries to ask Frank Tanner for some money to support a widow that was married to a mullato Tanner forced Valdez to kill. Not only doesn't Tanner give the widow and money, after a second attempt of restitution Tanner throws Valdez to his men who tie him to a cross and leave him in the desert to die. A slimey Richard Jordon releases him and 'Bob' Valdez puts his old military uniform on and with his scatter gun and 'indian fightin' ways Valdez proceeds to kill all the men who don't recognize his code of honor, meanwhile stealing and wooing Tanner's woman. An absolute classic of the spaghetti western genre carried to a higher realm by Leonard's script and Lancaster's subtle acting. "},{"Title":"Interesting social commentary by rookie director","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The opening scene begins like a Sunday picnic/Turkey shoot well-dressed couples in period costumes milling around, young boys plunking away with their new rifles. It takes a minute or so to realize that this is stand-off with a man sealed inside a log cabin. A few racial epithets later and we realize the man is (a) black and (b) possibly innocent of the crime he is accused of.Director Edwin Scherin lucked into a fine script co-authored by Elmore Leonard, one of the pioneers among popular writers to take up the subject of racism in best-selling detective and action novels. He uses Burt Lancaster, the title character, judiciously at first, having him enter inconspicuously and a little awkwardly, like a man who knows he is out of place. But soon Lancaster assumes control of the deadlocked situation, and but for the interference of a trigger-happy shooter (Richard Jordan), almost manages to end it peacefully.This scene sets off the plot events that follow, as Valdez tries to obtain money to compensate the man's Native American widow. Most of the action - except for the bizarre humiliation of Valdez at the hands of a wealthy gun-runner - follows standard formulas, but Lancaster underplays his role so well that the clichés turn to his and the movie's advantage. Add solid supporting roles by John Cypher, Susan Clark, and an offbeat ending, and you have a surprisingly engaging Western that delivers what we expect and then some. "},{"Title":"valdez is coming","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Like Martin Ritt's 'Hombre', made a few years earlier, this was adapted from an Elmore Leonard novel, and, like 'Hombre', it presents as its hero someone from an oppressed minority who is forced into a confrontation against heavy odds, due to the violent actions of some unscrupulous characters who hold him in racial contempt. Happening across a shooting party, Mexican lawman Bob Valdez is forced into a confrontation with an innocent army veteran, a black man accused by the rancher who's leading the party of a murder he didn't commit. Stricken with guilt at having killed the man, Valdez tries to get the rancher to give him $100 to compensate the dead man's Native American widow; however, he's met with contempt and physical violence, and the main part of the film sees him taking his revenge. (Although one should note that it's not straightforward revenge, as Valdez is acting as much to prove a point &#x96; to make the rancher accept his guilt and show some concern towards the oppressed &#x96; as he is to avenge a personal slight or injury.) Less downbeat and more unbelievable in its development than 'Hombre', this is nonetheless a film I wanted to like, and one which certainly has something to lift it above your average western. It's not a 'message' picture, as was the vogue at the time ('Little Big Man', 'Solider Blue' et al); rather, its revisionism is gentle and easy to miss, often just a seemingly throw-away line (asked when he hunted Apache, the titular hero replies before I know better). The fact that Valdez is a Mexican also runs counter to the usual western clichés of those 'over the border' being either caricatured bandidos (Calvera from 'The Magnificent Seven' and General Mapache from 'The Wild Bunch') or poor, oppressed farmers, essentially innocent but often incapable of defending themselves without the help of white mercenaries (again, we can turn to 'The Magnificent Seven' and 'The Wild Bunch' for examples). Indeed, an exchange between Valdez and his old friend Diego, where Valdez impersonates the rancher who will prove the villain of the piece, nicely captures the mix of scorn and idealisation which characterises the white man's view of the Mexican well, you're a good greaser, Diego. As long as you're a good greaser, I treat you fair and square &#x96; yes sirree, Diego, you people sure know how to live singing, dancing, screwing &#x96; you don't worry about nothing. It's one of the best moments of the film, in part because it's so understated, yet underlain with a certain dramatic tension having begun wryly, ironically, Lancaster delivers the final line with what is almost a sigh; a shift to a new, quiet seriousness and determination which is signalled by the faint rattle of Morricone-esquire percussion on the soundtrack, and which sees him ride out on his horse for his near-fatal second encounter with the rancher.Given all this, it's unfortunate that the Mexican is played by a white man in make-up, although I'd accept that, back in the 70s, there were less bankable Latin stars of the kind who crop up in Hollywood films today (one can imagine Benicio del Toro playing this role, for example). Not that Burt Lancaster's make-up is particularly bad; and, after all, the fact that he played the hero of Robert Aldrich's 'Apache' in similar 'brown-face' didn't prevent him from giving a very fine performance in a very fine film. His blue eyes do look a little out of place here though, and the henchman character, 'El Segundo', looks like a pantomime villain, with hair that sprouts in huge, wild tufts on either side of his head, and dollops of face-paint which make him look like Laurence Olivier's Othello. Indeed, several of the protagonists also look distinctly like 70s TV characters I'm thinking primarily of the woman Valdez kidnaps, and her man, the villain of the piece.Particularly in the second half of the film, 'Valdez is Coming' threatens to become a rather tedious revenge/chase movie, though the plot is slightly more complex than this. Nonetheless, there is something rather pulpy about the way that Lancaster turns from put-upon minor lawman to brilliantly competent guerrilla fighter, shooting a man from a 1,000 yards, easily picking off the numerous armed riders sent after him, and sneaking into the heart of the enemy camp without anyone noticing. It's particularly noticeable partly because of the understated, resigned quality that characterises his performance in the initial stages of the film moving slowly and speaking carefully, almost deferentially, Valdez is a character not exactly resigned to his lot (which is being treated with open or concealed contempt by his white neighbours) but understandably cautious about being too outspoken. From the moment he pulls his old army gear from under the bed and starts to growl, Valdez is coming, he is suddenly athletic, hyper-alert, and a crack shot who never misses the target. Imposing such a cliché on what could have been a reasonably realistic look at life in the Old West means that the film fails to live up to its initial promise. The end result is a rather uneasy compromise between action-movie set-pieces and something more thoughtful and interesting. Still, it's worth an hour and a half of your time &#x96; even if that's for what it could have been more than for what it is. "}{"Title":"Great Burt Western","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Burt Lancaster is perfect as the aging town constable. He is a decent guy who is manipulated into killing a man in self defense. He tries to raise money for the dead man's widow and is told by the town leaders that they will match any amount put up by the big rancher who manipulated Burt into killing the man. He goes to see the guy and is beaten and has a wooden cross tied to his back. He is set free to walk through the desert back to town. He should die but whit a little help he survives. Let Sleeping Dogs Lie would be a good title for this film because Burt's past is that of a man who hunted Apaches. Burt was sleeping but now he is wide awake and woe to those who mistreated him. Burt's character packs a vicious bite. I love Burt in all his westerns and this is one of his top 10. "},{"Title":"They tore his body.They buried his pride.Find Tanner,El Segundo and 16 others.And tell them,VALDEZ IS COMING!.","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" After killing an innocent man in self defence, Mexican-American lawman Bob Valdez(BURT LANCASTER)asks gunrunning rancher Frank Tanner(JON CYPHER),who instigated the chaos, to pay the dead man's wife compensation. Tanner rebuffs and humiliates Valdez twice, and the second time results in the latter being tortured. An angry Valdez has had enough, and is prompted to dust off his old army uniform, take up his musty Buffalo Rifle,his battered Shotgun and his haggard Winchester and raise Cain on Tanner and his men. The one man apocalypse that is Bob Valdez kidnaps Tanner's fiancée Gay Erin(SUSAN CLARK)and escapes deep into the mountains. Tanner and his men relentlessly pursue Valdez through the hazardous terrain.However,if Valdez has his way, it will not be long before the hunter becomes the hunted...VALDEZ IS COMING was a bit of a let-down for me.The region 2 DVD print spoiled the film, but I'll talk about that later. The film is bad, it's good and at times it's unintentionally funny so I got a good laugh out of it.Burt Lancaster was fantastic as always and although I did think his Mexican accent was very good, I couldn't help but chuckle each time he spoke. The dark makeup and eye shadow didn't help either and I couldn't take him seriously in some scenes, watching him charge about among the rocks with his rifle drawn was rather amusing, although these shots were excellent. Jon Cypher was good as Frank Tanner,but I couldn't take him seriously either and he wasn't as threatening as he should have been. Richard Jordan's character was annoying and behaved like an immature child, but Barton Heyman stood out as El Segundo. The script and storyline were great. It's a straw that broke the camel's back premise in which the wronged hero raises hell and kicks ass in truly epic fashion, which I find inspiring. The ending was terrible. It was so pathetic that it made me laugh out loud. It was extremely anti-climax as the film was good the whole way through, the suspense had been built up energetically for it to fizzle into nothing. This ruined the film, the characters are simply left in limbo and the film doesn't get the climatic final shootout it deserves. The characters just stand there and what follows is a stupid freeze-frame of them looking at each other. Although the final lines are morally relevant as they question the acts of both Valdez and Tanner and sum the film up. Valdez didn't want to kill, but through Tanner's ignorance and greed was forced to.The action scenes were taut, brisk and magnificently shot. They were abrupt, although still exciting and intense. Burt did his thing fantastically and the stunts were awesome. The shots of Valdez with his Buffalo Rifle shooting Tanner's men from nearly a thousand feet away were exhilarating and incredible. The shots of Valdez riding between the two horses whilst being shot at by El Segundo were amazing, but the adrenaline rush was unfortunately short lived as this scene was hacked to pieces. The BBFC are extremely strict when it comes to animal cruelty which called for the shots of the two horses being shot and tripping to be cut. This really disappointed me and because of this, I didn't enjoy the film as much as I should have. The brutal shot two horses crashing into each other and some shots of men being shot and falling with their horses were also cut, making the killcount seem smaller. I am just as disgusted by animal cruelty as everyone else and love animals,especially horses, as much as the next person, but I seethe with anger when westerns are cut to pieces because they have a few shots of falling horses. As the film was made in a time and a country where animals had no rights, the BBFC should have left the film alone.It completely destroyed my viewing experience and it's unfair on me as the viewer. When I buy the DVD I expect to get my money's worth. When I buy some cut version I feel as if I'm being cheated. Rant aside, the short horse chase in the canyon was brilliant. The scenes in which two of Tanner's men are shot by Valdez on two separate occasions and he sends them back to Tanner all shot up and in agony with a message that he will get Tanner sent a chill down by spine.The cinematography was terrific with superb shots of the rugged,rocky,barren Spanish landscape which only Spaghetti Western fans can truly appreciate. The script had quite a few plot holes and at times the dialogue was very dry, corny and boring which made the film drag. Some lines were so cheesy that I cringed. At times some scenes were packed with pointless screaming and swearing, but there were some clever and memorable lines too. The soundtrack wasn't bad. The quality of the region 2 DVD is below average with poor sound quality. It could do with a re-release from Pegasus. VALDEZ IS COMING is a slightly above average western drama, it's shot in a taut, fast paced way with some outstanding action scenes, all of which build up to nothing. The region 2 DVD didn't do the film justice and if you want to see it, buy the uncut region 1 print. It's the type of film you should enjoy with a couple of Beers on a dull Saturday afternoon.Although,even if the film isn't so good, the poster sure has one hell of a tagline.6/10.(After shooting a Mexican rider with his shotgun) Mexican Rider(dying)What you got in that thing. Valdez I told you, it's for Rabbits. "},{"Title":"Three in a row.","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Adapted from the famous novel by Elmore Leonard. Burt Lancaster made three westerns all in a row. 'Valdez is Coming' was the first, then 'The Lawman' (which i have not seen) and of course the mighty 'Ulzana's Raid'. Here he plays a softly spoken (Mexican) constable, who is set up to kill an innocent man. Burt Lancaster shows he is an actor of such quality and class plus almost perfect as the quiet man, on a mission for bloody revenge. 'Valdez' is such an unusual western and only someone of Lancaster's pedigree could have played the part of Bob Valdez and do it justice. This is a very well respected movie and was directed with a deft touch by Edwin Sherrin. A must for any serious western fan. "},{"Title":"Talk softly and carry a big gun -- a really big gun!","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Life's full of coincidence, no? This is true just a few weeks back, I happened to pick up another novel from Elmore Leonard called 'Valdez is coming'. After reading it, I said to a close friend, 'Hey, this is a great story &#150; and it'd be another great movie... So, when he told me it already was, I just had to get it and have a look.Leonard is prolific not only one of America's premier authors, he's responsible for some of the most talked about films ever, among them being Get Shorty (1995), Mr. Majestyk (1974 ), Jackie Brown (1997 ), Pronto (1997 ) and many others. So, when you get wind of another one from this master storyteller, you sit up and take notice.Leonard's heroes tend to fall into two camps the tough guy who's got heart when needed, or the guy with heart who gets tough when pushed. In both cases, you get a character who's the type of guy you'd always like to have as a friend, but never as an enemy...Bob Valdez (Lancaster) is the local constable who gets caught up in a stand-off between an alleged killer and a vigilante posse led by Frank Tanner (Jon Cypher). After being forced to kill the accused murderer, Valdez tries unsuccessfully to persuade the towns' leaders and Tanner to kick in some compensation for the man's Apache widow. They refuse, of course, and, in the process of asking Tanner again, Valdez is cruelly treated Tanner orders his men to tie a wooden cross to Valdez's back and then forces him to walk back to town &#150; some fifteen miles.Unhappily for Tanner, he picked the wrong guy to bully Valdez is a retired scout and Indian fighter who knows how to exact revenge. He returns to Tanner's spread and kidnaps his girl friend, thus forcing Tanner to pursue both of them into the high sierra &#150; the very place that Valdez knows better than anybody. That sets up the final confrontation between the two men, but preceded by Valdez picking off eleven of Tanner's men with better tactics and better firepower. And, for a western, the final scene is unique you'll never see another western with an end like it. Bar none...Filmed in Spain, up in the sierra, the cold terrain and air are overwhelming, almost. The music sound track is adequate and doesn't intrude as others have; the editing is just a tad too quick in a couple a places, but the photography is just stunning. Lancaster gives a solid performance as the Mexican constable, with just the right amount of lilt to his affected Mexican-English, and his tacit subservience to the bullying Americans; Cypher is excellent as the cruel and near-sociopathic trail boss and landowner; Susan Clark is competent, but not outstanding, as the kidnapped girlfriend; and a special mention for Barton Heyman as El Segundo who finally learns what true loyalty means. In sum, a stellar cast for a well-produced and very intelligent western.If you like the western genre, in my opinion this one ranks in the top ten for that genre. So, if you haven't seen it yet, I give this one my highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews Valdez is Coming","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Burt Lancaster(who I just thought was great, though he battled with the accent just a bit..a minor squabble)portrays Bob Valdez, a former Apache hunter for the Calvary now a constable who accidentally shoots an innocent black man claimed to have murdered the husband of Gay Erin(the beautiful redheaded Susan Clark). Gay's lover is Frank Tanner(Jon Cypher), the leader of a band of cutthroats who lead the crusade to take out the black man who was mistaken for being the one who killed Gay's husband. Valdez tried to smooth things over by consulting with the black man, but hothead RL Davis(Richard Jordan..a bucketful of energy and spunk)open fires before the constable to get the honest proof of the victim's innocence. Valdez ends up killing the innocent man and desires all who fingered him to pay for the man's pregnant squaw to have passage home. This is an insult to Frank who is a racist pig who loathes the sight of greaser Valdez. When Valdez persists, in kindness and gentle-care, Frank to pay $100, he is is attacked and roped to a wooden cross..they send him into the desert this way to perish. RL Davis is sent on his way when he is told by Frank that he couldn't shoot straight. RL, in his only moment of kindness in the film, releases Valdez from his ropes after an incident when Bob tried to break the wood roped to his arms. After being lent help and rest by his friend, Valdez will seek revenge for what Frank and his cronies did to him. What Frank and co. doesn't know is that Valdez is a great shot and smart tactician. He knows the mountains and is a wily problem for Frank to solve. Still Valdez has a problem when RL tells Frank of Bob's friend's helping him and this act of betrayal proves once and for all that RL is a greedy lowlife simply desiring to be one of the guys. Still Frank will continue to underestimate Valdez who knows the entire country all too well. Before it's over, Frank will, without a doubt, know that..Valdez is coming. The film is a blast to watch. It's one of those vendetta entertainments that often frequent the multiplexes in the 60's and 70's when the rules, thanks in large part to Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch, were starting to be broken. We were actually seeing the men act and talk the way they did in those days. The mean behavior exhibited by crooked men who lived for wealth and prestige. In this film Frank seems to be one mean sonofabitch and finds that he is slowly losing his men one by one to a superior enemy he misjudged because of different skin color. He automatically looked at him as a weak peasant instead of a great gunfighter and that theme works greatly here in this short and satisfying western. "},{"Title":"Often Overlooked Modern Western and Burt Lancaster Film","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Gritty, well written movie. For some reason, friends that are fans of both Burt Lancaster and/or westerns have not seen this movie. The action is taut. The supporting cast is very good.Burt Lancaster's Valdez attempts an act of compassion and in return is brutally beaten. He survives, begins to dole out his own justice and slowly each of his antagonists (and his main nemesis' girlfriend) begin to respect and admire this older man's inner morality, courage and prowess. It's a classic understated performance.There is one scene that I always remember. Valdez has successfully kept his pursuers at bay with his long range Sharps rifle. One of the men giving chase catches up with him and seeing the rifle (and having seen his compadres picked off with it) asks, Did you hunt buffalo? Valdez responds, No, Apache...before I knew better. "},{"Title":"On Valdez is coming","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The review is deserved - possibly the BEST western I have ever seen - certainly one of the best movies ever for me; the closure in the final seconds is an act of creative courage that should shine on the director's head for ever - I walked out with my girlfriend of the time (no artistic slouch herself) shaking heads and muttering they can't really finish it like that, can they? I knew then that I would seldom see such a bold stroke; Lancaster shows what he is really made of when the glossy facade is dropped. Just been TV screened and I'm blown away once more - 35 years later!! The sheer moral vacuum of Tanner is a depiction of the worst that can happen when location and money allow someone to construct a reliaty founded on self-image - kill a man so that no-one will have cause to wonder if I killed my lover's husband to grab her - I don't need to kill someone to take his woman - and a life is a small price to pay to make that clear. The distancing of his henchmen is so vividly and quietly a thing of manhood's measure in Spanish terms that it quivers in the air on the the mesa above the plains and the leaching of colour is a pure masterpiece of mood that takes some seconds to notice happening "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" i re watched this film last noc, for the umpteenth time, and it is better than i recalled. i would have to put it in my top five westerns. it is that good. i can't write a technical review; it's all about the emotion for me. a couple of folks have done what i would call technical reviews, and they are spot on. my sole purpose here is to say that this film is about dignity in a way that rarely does a film achieve. it is not, as some claim, a spaghetti western - they are visually confused, i think. it is a spare, lean film that speaks to individual human dignity. yes, it does have racial overtones, but it goes far beyond those limits. the film is absolutely universal in its compelling portrait - in a way i think it is more like a samurai film; it speaks to bushido, to honor and duty. no one ever did elmore leonard a greater service on screen. i simply can find no fault with any of the cast, writers or director. don e. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Open Conclusion","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" While traveling protecting a stagecoach back to his town, the middle-aged Mexican-American Constable Bob Valdez (Burt Lancaster) witnesses a group of locals shooting on a cabin where a black man is trapped with his Indian pregnant wife, accused by the powerful Frank Tanner (Jon Cypher) of being the killer of the local Jim Erin. Valdez decides to talk to the man, and when he opens the door, the henchman R.L. Davis (Richard Jordan) shoots; the man believes it is a setup and shoots on Valdez, forcing the peace officer to kill him. Sooner they find that the victim was innocent and Valdez asks for one hundred dollars to Tanner to give to the widow. However, he is humiliated and nailed to a cross by Tanner's henchmen and sent back to the desert. He is miraculous saved by his Mexican friend Luis Diego (Frank Silvera) but recovers his health. Valdez retrieves his outfits and weapons from the time he was a professional shooter killing Apaches for the U.S. Cavalry and rides to Tanner's land. He hits one of his henchmen (Hector Elizondo) and sends him back to Tanner's farm with the advice that Valdez is coming.Valdez Is Coming is an overrated western, with a good story of guilt and revenge, supported by magnificent performances. Unfortunately the last fifteen minutes and the open conclusion are absolutely disappointing, specially considering that R.L. Davis and El Segundo have burnt Luis Diego's house and hands and abused of his daughter. The make-up of American actors with blue eyes to become a cliché of Mexican people is quite ridiculous. The disrespect with the Catholic religion is quite out of the context of the plot. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) O Retorno de Valdez (The Return of Valdez) "},{"Title":"Jesus with a rifle - one of my all time favourites","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Burt Lancaster is always great, but this is one of my favourites. Lancaster as Valdez can best be described as Jesus with a rifle.  He kills the bandits only because they continue to refuse his small request for an Indian woman who has lost her husband (I think he is killed by the bandits).Great, spiritually moving, film. "}{"Title":"Justice Prevails !!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Love this movie.Burt Lancaster plays the dejected do-gooder who only wants to make amends for the death of wrongly accused black man. The plot builds at an ideal rate as you feel the anger built up in Valdez as he tries to collect dollars to help the widow of the slain man.Lancaster is at his best as he shows what machoism is all about especially if its on the side of right.The scenery is excellent as we cross the desert, mountains and plains while the chase for Valdez goes on.A must see. One of my favorite Westerns. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and little-seen revenge western","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Similar in story to Michel Winner's CHATO's LAND, VALDEZ IS COMING turns out to be the better film thanks to its realistic depiction of racism and politics in the American west. Headliner Burt Lancaster (who plays a Mexican, which is slightly distracting) stars as Valdez, a man who stands up for the rights of the individual and finds himself all but condemned as a result. What plays out is familiar &#x96; a lone renegade pursued by a posse of evil men, whom he skilfully defeats &#x96; and also unique, including a twist ending that totally avoids cliché while being a bit of an anti-climax.The film is a mix of the good and bad, with interesting parts of the script failing in the execution. The opening stand-off is particularly good, but the latter scenes involving moustache-twirling villain Jon Cypher and his prim and proper mistress, Susan Clark, are dated and dull. Lancaster is a commanding presence as always, and there's a particularly good supporting role from half-crazy Richard Jordan as a trigger-happy cowboy, but in contrast the direction is pedestrian (the director later moved to TV) and there are intriguing plot points that end up going nowhere. Filmed in Madrid, the Spanish scenery is a highlight, and the sequence in which Lancaster is punished by the villains is inventive, sadistic and straight out of a spaghetti western. "},{"Title":"I would like to see Frank pay it.","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Valdez is Coming is directed by Edward Sherin and adapted for the screen by Roland Kibbee and David Rayfiel from the novel of the same name written by Elmore Leonard. It stars Burt Lancaster, Susan Clark, Jon Cypher and Frank Silvera. Music is by Charles Gross and photography by Gábor Pogány. It's out of United Artists and shot in DeLuxe colour. Plot finds Lancaster as ageing town constable Bob Valdez, who after being forced into killing an innocent man, attempts to get compensation for the dead man's widow out of the townsfolk responsible for the events leading up to the shooting. This is met with a less than favourable response, particularly from crooked rancher Frank Tanner (Cypher), who although he is the most guilty party, takes umbrage to the suggestion and has Bob tied to a wooden cross and hounded out of town. But Bob will be back, he may be old and gentile in nature, but he's an experienced Indian fighter and a crack shot marksman. Watch out, Valdez is Coming.Solid if a little too ponderous at times, Valdez is Coming is sort of like an amalgamation of an American Oater and a Spaghetti Western. Filmed in southern Spain, at locations where master Italian director Sergio Leone shot many of his European Westerns, the film is the silver screen directing debut of Edward Sherin, who made his name as a director in American theatre and television. Whilst the direction is competent and the acting from Lancaster adds a complexity to the story, the picture almost seems to be trying too hard to make Leonard's source material work. The bigotry of men card is played very early on and from then on in everything is just too predictable, in fact were it not for Lancaster's screen presence the piece would fall well under average. The Christ-come-avenging angel motif is subtlety played by Lancaster, but tension is in short supply and action sequences few and far between. Somewhere in the cramped mix is a good film, one with something to say, a film desperately trying to make a dramatic thrust courtesy of a decent man on a mission narrative. Sadly it doesn't all come together, but thanks to Lancaster and a neat ending, it's not one to dismiss completely. 6/10Footnote British cuts of the film offer a version missing some violent moments, suffice to say that if seeking the film out one should choose carefully. "},{"Title":"chases, ambushes, race, culture, humiliation","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" An incident involving a black man who is holed up in a shack with his native American woman escalates after the man is killed by the town constable, a Mexican who had served in the US Cavalry chasing Apaches. Thus opens the film and sets the stage for the story of Valdez, the constable, who after killing the innocent man tries to set up a collection for his woman and runs into violent reaction from the wealthy, racist white rancher who wanted the man killed in the first place, and who runs roughshod over his own men, the Mexicans who hired out to him. The black man, the Native American woman, the Mexicans, the Anglos, and then the rancher's not so faithful mistress, give this movie a lot of great subplots to think about, but the central story of Valdez first asking and then demanding money for the dead man's woman is simple yet effective as it draws out into chases and ambushes while revealing the characters for who they really are. "},{"Title":"Overlooked underrated gem of a western!!!!","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I have watched this movie many times and enjoy it very much. It has great action, good acting, a superb plot, and a satisfying ending. Burt Lancaster is fantastic and show's why he is and was a superstar. This western is gritty, tough, bloody, and believable. Some movies should only be seen once, some such as this one, many times. This is not a spaghetti western!!! I think that spaghetti westerns have been way overrated. This western surpasses most if not all of the spaghetti's. Why you ask! I think Spaghetti westerns lack believability, you know the good guy is never gonna die, while in this show the good guy takes a beating and loses at the end but wins as well. Great unexpected ending! "},{"Title":"Despite odd casting, the film worked very well","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" At the summary states, this film truly made an unusual casting decision by casting Burt Lancaster as a Hispanic man. At first, this made me groan, but after a short time I realized that he did a pretty good job with the accent and there are many light-skinned Mexicans, so it wasn't too hard to believe this. The only negative about this is that the film is in many ways about race prejudice and you wonder if maybe casting an Anglo in such a role that it might be undermining the central message. Regardless, the film is several notches above the usual Western.It begins in the Old West with sheriff Lancaster being called in to arrest a man holed up in a shack with his odd woman. The man inside is killed by Lancaster and then it's discovered that the man was NOT the wanted man, but totally innocent. Lancaster feels bad about this and tries to take up a collection to help the lady but no one seems to care. In particular, the rich land owner who insisted the guy in the shack WAS guilty felt no compunction to help at all. This angered Lancaster, but the rich guy said that he could care less since the dead man was Black.The rest of the film consists of Lancaster spending the rest of the movie trying to force the rich guy to contribute his share. However, the rich guy responds by having Lancaster beaten and humiliated--and in the process unleashing retribution from Lancaster, who begins killing off the land owner's posse as they chase him across the Southwest.Despite the simplicity of the plot, the film never got dull nor did it seem overly preachy. Also, the film ended very well, though I don't want to spoil anything by saying more about it. An intelligently written script, good acting and direction make this film a winner. "},{"Title":"Good and violent Western with excellent performance by Lancaster","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The film concerns about the upright Bob Valdez(Burt Lancaster),an older Mexican-American constable,he accidentally murders someone accused by Tanner(Jon Cypher) of being a killer of the husband from his lover(Susan Clark).Then Valdez asks Tanner one hundred dollars for his spouse,it ignites the violence ,passions and ultimately deadly taking on with the local landowner baron and his henchmen(Hector Helizondo,Richard Jordan).A respectable Valdez recovers his uniform and weapons his days in the US cavalry and he goes killing one by one enemies.He's only helped by an old Mexican(Frank Silvera).This Western revenge flick is plenty of violence,shoot outs and packs lots of action and excellent performances.Features a sensational acting by Burt Lancaster as an old but honorable gunslinger looking for justice. Appear famous secondaries with future and wide career as Hector Helizondo(Pretty woman,Turbulence,Princess diaries)embodies one of the underlings sent back by Tanner for killing him,besides Susan Clark(Showdown,Murder by Decree,Colossus),Frank Silvera((Killer's kid,Viva Zapata) and the early deceased Richard Jordan.The picture is based on Elmore Leonard novel, a prestigious writer with numerous scripts and books adapted to the cinema as Western(3.10 to Yuma,Tall T,Hombre,Joe Kidd)as another genres(Big bounce,Mr Majestic,Jackie Brown,Get Shorty).The motion picture is professionally directed by Edwin Sherin,posteriorly become in director of television(Law and order).The film was shot in Almeria(Spain)where were filmed by the hundred Spaghetti Western. "},{"Title":"Leone Oh No!","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I've watched this film over and over. There is perfection in it's brevity, assuredness in performance, outrageous make up, good costumes, peculiarly effective non-classical western camera-work and Burt! Perhaps one day I will write that piece on Burt's political stance demonstrated in his movies, but for now will add my name to the list of Valdez supporters. I particularly admire the taut structure and tone, the minimal but highly emotional exchanges between the players and the curious fact that none of the Mexicans are played by - Mexicans. I do not agree with the associations made by some commentators about the Leone connection. This film came from a completely different camp. This is Lancaster territory not Leone's. I would love to talk to Edwin Sherin about this film or any of the surviving cast and crew. Any offers? "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Not one of the great westerns, but really good. Lancasters accent from central casting is a bit overdone, even hokey, as is most of the story. Overdone. Even so there is a nice feel to this thing. And it has a few really very fine moments, starting with a very slight one that most are going to miss, the Credits. A lot of character is packed into the poses of the silent Valdez riding the stagecoach as guard, from the way he pulls up his coat against the cold, and then the way he chomps his apple and slices off a piece for the driver. Too bad the rest of the movie could have shifted to that kind of subtlety. But I have said even so. And so it is, everything in this film is bang bam square in the face, from its blatant racism to the very milquetoast of Valdez one to the Superman lost my cape Valdez two few westerns weaknesses have been so much their strengths. If there is, however one blatant overweening irreparable weakness its is Cypher. He just is so overwrought he is embarrassing. And Lancaster, silent, screwing in his long range rifle and starting to mow down Cyphers men, is great. For about a minute you follow his eyes over the gun and revel in his greatness. As for the plot, forget it. As full of holes as most movies. Susan Clark, admitting she killed her husband also has a fine, toothy moment. The really truly great thing about this film however is the acrobatics of Lancaster, taking us nearly all the way back to the Crimson Pirate. Just look at him scamper and grab, practically somersaulting about nobody in the history of cinema ever had anything close to his physical presence, his balletic glide and grace, his long loopy way of snatching and holding things. And this movie puts it all very center stage. That alone gives this a high place in the Lancaster canon. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Hundred Dollars!","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Today, Elmore Leonard is primarily known for his crime fiction. Throughout the 1960s and 70s, though, he spawned a number of Westerns, most notably 310 to Yuma, Joe Kidd, Valdez is Coming and Martin Ritt's Hombre, the best of the bunch.Directed by Edwin Sherin, and set in post-Civil War Arizona, Valdez is Coming stars Burt Lancaster as Bob Valdez, a Mexican-American constable. When Valdez is manipulated into killing a black, ex slave, he rightfully holds cattle baron Frank Tanner (Jon Cypher) responsible. Valdez orders Tanner to pay the deceased man's wife one hundred dollars compensation. Tanner refuses.Valdez is Coming's middle section unfolds like a conventional revenge-western. Tanner repeatedly beats and humiliates Valdez, who subsequently fights back. The film then climaxes with a brilliant sequence in which Tanner and Valdez face-off in the desert. Pay the hundred dollars, Valdez reiterates simply, the line encapsulating the absurdity of both the film's plot and the sheer stubbornness of Tanner, a man whose pettiness, selfishness and cruelty Valdez's lofty principles have exposed. The last act gunfight has long been a cliché in Westerns. In Valdez is Coming, though, director Edwin Sherin abruptly ends his film before the requisite showdown begins. It's an effective move; Valdez's final monetary request is the showdown's first bullet, the look on Tanner's face makes it clear that Valdez's principles have hit their target, and Sherin's abrupt conclusion forces we the audience to contemplate the pettiness of frontier justice, vengeful gratification, pride and even human egos.Unsurprisingly for a western released in the 1970s, Valdez is Coming is preoccupied with abuses directed against minorities. Women, Apaches, blacks, Mexicans and half-breeds are all the victims of cruel, white, land-owners, and Tanner's refusal to pay is always linked to his covert bigotry; Mexicans, Natives and Blacks simply don't matter. Valdez wants to make them matter.Lancaster made a number of covertly political films in the 1960s and 70s. Valdez is Coming isn't as good as these. It's too conventional, aesthetically plain and Lancaster looks a bit ridiculous in brown face paint. Still, it opens and closes with a pair of powerful sequences and Lancaster imbues his character with an infectious mixture of grime and grace.What really elevates the film, though, is Elmore Leonard's prose. Spare, direct and pulpy, Leonard skewers the tropes upon which Wild West mythology once hinged. Instead of a celebration of white masculinity, individualism and The Law, Leonard posits a brown man as the hero. More than this, Valdez becomes an almost divine figure. Granted a Christ-like resurrection (in one of the film's more hokey scenes), he becomes nothing less than a leader of the downtrodden.7/10 &#x96; See Hombre and The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean. "}{"Title":"Very nice performance by Lancaster.","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Screen legend Burt Lancaster plays Bob Valdez, an ageing Mexican-American lawman who is called upon to assist in the apprehension of a supposed murderer. The resulting confrontation was instigated by thoroughly nasty land baron Frank Tanner (Jon Cypher), who turns out to be a very bad guy indeed. The murder suspect ends up dead, and Valdez believes that his Indian wife should be compensated. So he goes to Tanner to appeal to him to pony up half of the needed dough ($100) but Tanner and his men laugh at Valdez and humiliate him instead, tying him to a cross. After Valdez is freed, he's ripe for revenge, abducting Tanners' woman Gay Erin (Susan Clark) as he gets ready for a final showdown.While this entertaining Western does ultimately turn rather conventional, it's still an interesting and thoughtful look at bigotry in the Old West. Based on the novel by Elmore Leonard, and scripted by Roland Kibbee and David Rayfiel, it combines some complex character relationships and details with a tried and true revenge story. Lancaster hand picked Edwin Sherin to direct the feature, based on Sherins' success guiding The Great White Hope on Broadway, and Sherin proves up to the task of working in this genre. He gets solid performances out of a well chosen cast, and gives certain scenes just the right amount of tension. Lancaster is quietly authoritative and appealing as Valdez, and Cypher is just right as his snake-mean adversary. The latter gets an introducing credit here, as do the late, great actors Richard Jordan, as the cowardly R.L. Davis, and Barton Heyman, as Tanners' main henchman El Segundo. There's also a brief scene for the always excellent Hector Elizondo. Filmed on location in Spain, this features the expected dazzling scenery as well as a stirring - and sparingly used - music score by Charles Gross. But what folks may not expect is that ending. Sherin, Lancaster, and company definitely deserve some credit for doing such a thing.If you're a Western fan, and always like discovering overlooked pictures, give this one a shot.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"All This For $100!","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Mexican-American lawman Burt Lancaster is forced to kill a wrongfully accused black man, during a circus-like standoff. Attempting to collect a hundred dollars compensation for the man's pregnant Apache wife, he's beaten and nearly killed, before suiting up to take the money from the bigwig responsible, one way or another.Based on a novel by Elmore Leonard, this explores familiar Leonard themes of stubbornness and racial/ethnic strife in the west (see also Hombre, Joe Kidd, and Mr. Majestyk, among others.), while also keeping up with Lancaster's pursuit of roles that reflected his views on social justice.As far as the actual movie goes, the first half is fairly unpleasant, though it really hammers home the unrelenting nastiness of the villains. The second half is more action-filled and satisfying, as we cheer on Lancaster's cat-and-mouse games with a virtual army of goons, though I think it's hurt by fact that the credits begin to roll before the ending is completely resolved!If you enjoy this, don't miss Lancaster in Lawman, a very similar film made in Spain at the same time. "},{"Title":"A Special Western","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Probably a very low budget film but a great script and a good job of acting by many of the cast. I came away with a deep appreciation for this film.Burt delivers a surprising well covered Mexican character portrayal as do many of the cast. This is a story about power and ego. The plot centers around justice in a wild west and who has the power can be quite corrupt. The story deals with a last stand by Valdez to make right a wrong. A bit of David and Goliath with Valdez proving that he still has his finally tuned talents from his years of Indian Scouting. I truly liked this movie because it was believable and honest about the pride of a man determined to make things right.Perhaps somebody in Hollywood has the good sense to try a remake, since that seems to be common play these days. I'd like to see what modern movie industry could do. "},{"Title":"Coming from the past when endings had style","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" God knows what made the Broadway actor/director Edwin Sherin shoot this modest revenge western which I enjoyed immensely as a boy, next to George Roy Hill's Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Martin Ritt's Hombre and Sydney Pollack's Jeremiah Johnson. All four have more things in common than solely the title heroes' sky-blue eyes ; I would like to mention only what impressed me most (and still does), i.e., the final shot belonging in the gallery of the most memorable ones in the history of western.Valdez Is Coming is schematic and not very believable, but it has its strengths, too  for instance some fine laconic dialogue in the vein of The Magnificent Seven, or mostly fine actors with Lancaster in the lead. (It may be a personal prejudice, but I always found the old circus artiste more convincing in roles like this one than in those in Visconti's frescoes.) I enjoyed especially Barton Heyman as charismatic El Segundo, despite the reservations of colleague R.J.Maxwell (which sound justified to me).Remarkable is the participation of the veteran Hungarian cinematographer Gábor Pogány ; his camera-work here is nothing like as spectacular as in, let's say, Il Cristo proibito, yet there are moments when the viewer's eye rejoices, even given the mediocre non-anamorphic transfer of the MGM's PAL disc. "},{"Title":"Burt Lancaster anchors this worthy Western","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Easygoing, but crafty and resourceful Mexican constable Bob Valdez (a typically sturdy performance by the always reliable Burt Lancaster) must resort to violence in order to collect one hundred dollars from evil and corrupt rancher Frank Tanner (nicely played to the hateful hilt by Jon Cypher) as compensation for the pregnant Native American widow of a black man Valdez wrongly killed. Director Edwin Sherin, working from an engrossing script by Roland Kibbee and David Rayfiel, brings a plausibly gritty aesthetic as well as a provocative moral complexity to this simple, yet strong and compelling tale of justice, principle, and revenge. Moreover, Sherin not only makes excellent use of the arid desert locations, but also stages the exciting shoot-outs with real flair and skill. The fine acting by the able cast constitutes as another major plus Lancaster makes for a credible and sympathetic reluctant man of action, Susan Clark gives her role as Tanner's fed-up mistress Gay Erin a substantial amount of class and depth, Frank Silvera does well as Valdez's loyal friend Diego, Barton Heyman likewise impresses as the shrewd El Segundo, Richard Jordan positively oozes as despicable sniveling weakling R.L. Davis, and Hector Elizondo pops up in a small part as a treacherous Mexican gunman. Kudos are also in order for Gabor Pogany's crisp widescreen cinematography and the rousing dramatic score by Charles Gross. The moments of brutal violence pack a pretty harsh punch and the ending is pleasingly ambiguous. Recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"Another Memorable Elmore Leonard Western Adaptation","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Burt Lancaster plays an old Mexican/American who accidentally kills an African American during a stand-off with him. Afterward, Bob Valdez (Burt Lancaster) goes around collecting money for the widow. The chief culprit, a wealthy land owner named Frank Tanner (Jon Cypher) refuses to ante up a cent so the old man digs into his trunk and dresses up like the sage cavalry scout that he once was and comes to collect. The big difference is that he abducts Tanner's trophy woman (Susan Clark) and Tanner sends his best gunmen against him to no avail. Elmore Leonard's Valdez Is Coming served as the inspiration for this lively western lensed on location in scenic Spain with Lancaster in top agile form. The conclusion is a letdown, but everything up till then is pretty good. Hector Elizondo is good as Tanner's second-in-command, and Richard Jordan of Raise the Titanic has a supporting role. Mind you, this is also very formulaic, but some of the action is unforgettable, particularly when the villains make fun of Bob Valdez and tie a cross to his back and force him to walk through the desert at high noon. The dialogue is cool and captures that nonchalance that is so characteristically Elmore Leonard. If you are a Burt Lancaster fan, this is one of his last kick ass oaters. "},{"Title":"a pretty clear metaphor of 70s","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" This movie is, for long, a very handbook of that special era that was the 70s, when the paradigmatic view of American society, and our entire society, was changing archetypal views to accommodate the old fashion to the news, unsolved, challenges and, over most, to construct an ad hoc stereotype...in this way we have the lonely hero, the man who is capable to go up over the own feet when the social constructed roles of humiliation touch his very moral core and, following his superior imperative, finish taken the gun and opening his way with bullets but, over most, with bravery...a pure old fashion way to see the world and what the man must to do in there, the way that America was constructed, by the way....But this man carry with him the guiltiness too, in this case, we don't know how much Apaches he killed but for sure enough to make Valdez take over his old shoulders the vindictive claim never expressed for a silent Indian woman. The old theme a man, just one man, can carry on over his shoulders the right way and, against all reasonable preview, win, but his struggle always is fight against the shadowed background of his own sins. This pure, ontological view about the man and his constraints, in Valdez is coming is mixed with all that construct that arise in 70's....The new theme racism (Indian, black, Mexicans), contemporary capitalism (the bad guy, a kind of landlord, have a lucrative weapons trade that is ruined for Valdez intervention), feminism (the woman killed his husband because he was a bad person, betray the bad guy because for him she is just an object, ride with Valdez like his equal), and social responsibility (the cause of Valdez is a social cause, the moral legitimation to kill all those people is because that is done in virtue of a superior value, the justice, make flesh in the submissive Indian woman or Mexican good worker). The very final statement, posed in the last 5 minutes of movie, very improbable from a rationale point of view, make sense from the metaphorical view the three man, the three views of life embodied in the bad guy, El Segundo y Valdez, make clear that everyone take decisions, that decisions carry on effects, and the way that anyone faced that effects make the difference between men...at last, everyone is alone with his conscience and the claims that the other can make about his acts, and the society is just a kind of desolate landscape looking at us with a kind of indifferent acquittance...a very 70s statement, for sure. "},{"Title":"A Little Plata For The Widow?","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Fundamentally a revenge Western, not too badly done, but with considerable built-in illogic. The humble, wheezing old local sheriff, Lancaster, is tricked into shooting a man by the evil boss man Jon Cypher. The deferential Lancaster begs one hundred dollars from Cypher for the innocent dead man's window. Cypher and the gang laugh at him and shoot holes in the wall against which he's standing. Lancaster pursues the matter and Cypher's gang beat him and tie him to a crucifix and send him off stumbling through the forest to die. Well -- he doesn't die. How COULD he die? If he did -- or even if he were merely disabled for life -- the title of the movie wouldn't be Valdez is Coming. It wouldn't even be Valdez is Going. As it is, Lancaster recovers from his near-death experience with the help of humble Mexican farmer Frank Silvera and his taciturn family. Then, Cypher and his group had better look out because Valdez is definitely coming. He digs out his old uniform and weapons from the time he was a cavalry trooper, hits and runs, kidnaps Tanner's girl friend, Susan Clark, and finally get the one hundred dollars for the widow.Frank Silvera's part isn't a big one but he's great at playing Mexicans. He was the gunslinger who finally offed Paul Newman in Apache. He's played African-Americans and Tahitians. He LOOKS ethnic. His father was a Spanish Jew and his mother was Jamaican. A marvelously reassuring performance.Susan Clark is fine. She has deep-set blue eyes and thin but sensuous lips, the upper one the same shape and size as the lower one. I wouldn't mind kidnapping her myself.Lancaster is Lancaster. He was fifty when this was shot and still running and hopping around doing some of his own action scenes. My God, he was fit. His Spanish accent isn't bad but he really ought to stay away from dialects.I don't know who is responsible for casting and make ups but the director should really have brought some of them up short. The head of Cypher's gang is played by Barton Heyman. His appearance is ludicrous and he's on screen often. First, his face is too dark for a Mexican or Mestizo, emphasizing his startling blue eyes. Next, he's balding and yet make up has given him the kind of long bushy hair combed back that was fashionable among rock stars in 1970, when this was shot. And they've topped it off with a set of mutton chop whiskers that turn him into a simulacrum of Frank Zappa or somebody. I don't like to carry on about what ought to be a minor problem like this but every time the guy appears, it's as if a gong had been rung and a big red sign flashed on the screen -- 1970.At the end -- lookout, a spoiler -- Cypher and his gang have trapped the unarmed Lancaster and his captive Clark. Clark has decided to abandon Cypher and leave with Lancaster. Cypher orders the gang to shoot Lancaster. One of the gang has developed respect for Lancaster and refuses. Bart Heyman grins through his ridiculous mustache and hollers, She is not MY woman! Cypher himself hasn't the guts to do it. Lancaster gets his one hundred dollars.It's not a bad movie. It's merely rather routine. But it is fun to see Lancaster unlimber his Sharps carbine and shoot half a dozen bad guys at a distance over a mile. Those bad guys were colleagues and friends of Heyman's gang -- you know, the gang that refused to kill Lancaster because they had no motive for doing so? Cue the deus ex machina. "},{"Title":"Justice is Coming","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Released in 1971, Valdez is Coming is a significant Western that champions human dignity. It's a tale of the meek (not the weak) versus the arrogant. PLOT Bob Valdez (Burt Lancaster) is an aging Mexican-American constable who runs into a ruthless rich cattleman, Frank Tanner (Jon Cypher), who senselessly causes the death of a black man for sport more than anything else. When Valdez humbly insists that Tanner provide a little money ($100) for the black man's pregnant Indian widow he is ridiculed, scorned and ultimately tortured. Valdez pulls out his old Indian-fighting uniform, his antique buffalo rifle and goes forth in the name of justice -- attaining the hundred bucks at all costs and wiping out anyone who opposes him.Burt Lancaster was 57 years old at the time and is almost unrecognizable as Valdez. Some have complained about a blue-eyed man of Mexican descent, but it's not terribly uncommon for Mexican-Americans to have blue eyes, as well as Puerto Ricans (in fact, Hector Elizondo has a minor role in the film and he's a light-eyed Latino). Some complain about Lancaster's accent but I think he comes off authentic; besides, are there any recordings of Mexican-American accents from 130 years ago? Lancaster does a fine guesstimate.Valdez is Coming is essentially a one-man army tale. It's not so much about revenge, as some claim, but rather justice and simple human dignity. Although I'm sure Valdez was infused with a spirit of vengeance to some degree when he first sets out against Tanner and his henchmen -- especially seeing he was just horribly disrespected and tortured -- any need for revenge is clearly expunged after the mounting blood spilling; by the end of the film it's obvious that all he wants is the $100 and the case would be closed.A hundred dollars is an arbitrary number; what Valdez really wants is Tanner to pay for the senseless death of the black man and acknowledge the existence of his Native widow. Tanner is corrupted by power, pride, greed and racism and looks down on everyone else, especially non-whites like Valdez, the black man and the pregnant Indian. But he makes the mistake of underestimating Valdez because of his meekness, ancestry and disheveled appearance.Speaking of disheveled, one interesting contrast in the film is the difference of Valdez before and after he goes after Tanner. Before his quest for justice he appears spent, unkempt and slightly portly; but when he dons his old uniform and sets forth to attain justice he appears focused, orderly and trim.Throughout it all he's the embodiment of nobility and humility. The more one ages in enlightenment and spirituality the more one acquires humility. We see this wonderful quality overflowing in Valdez from the start (kudos to Lancaster), but it's woefully absent in Tanner.Susan Clark has a significant role as Tanner's woman, whom Valdez kidnaps. Susan is notable for her stunning appearance and non-verbal acting skills.The film runs 90 minutes and was shot in Spain.BOTTOM LINE Valdez is Coming is essentially a one-man army Western. Although it's far less compelling than, say, First Blood, in its favor are a sense of grim realism and a potent message about human dignity, justice and the superiority of humility over arrogance. It's also a smart film that refuses to spell everything out in a spoon-fed fashion, but it leaves little doubt for those who take into account all the blatant cues.GRADE B+ or A-WHAT HAPPENED AT THE END? (!Spoiler! &#x96; Don't read further unless you've seen the film). The further Tanner's lead henchman gets into the conflict, the more he sees the truth about both Tanner and Valdez. He consequently calls off his men, saying in effect, This isn't our fight; you're on your own Tanner.At this point Tanner is stripped of his protective covering and stands alone against Valdez, and he painfully knows he can't beat Valdez in a draw. He's lost and so takes the only reasonable option, paying the $100.This works better than merely killing Tanner as he would never be able to live down such a masterful humiliation. With numerous witnesses to spread the word, Tanner would die a thousand deaths.Rejoice the victory of the righteous, humble man. "},{"Title":"Not a mere shoot 'em up","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film is for people who like character and who like to think. Burt Lancaster's Valdez (beautifully underplayed) tries hard to do the right thing, but racism from a cold, cowardly Jon Cypher and practically every other white person forces him to get justice the hard way. I would not want to be the one in Bob Valdez's way or in his gun sites. I would be pretty happy, though, if Valdez had blown off R L Davis's (Richard Jordan) head, because he is one slimy little creep of a coward who richly deserved it. The ending is disappointing if you want to watch the film and forget about it, terrific if you want to keep thinking about it like I did. Got to watch this one again. "}{"Title":"Very good, but poorly edited?","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I agree with most of the comments already posted it's a good Western, with Mexican Lancaster starting off as apparently almost servile in front of the Yankee Tanner, but then showing he's made of steel. Whe he dons his old army uniform it's a bit like Clark Kent transforming into Superman.The ending was a bit of a letdown, and criticisms already posted give a rough idea of what it was. I didn't find it very convincing, and I'm grateful to rrichr for pointing out that heavy-handed editing leading to the cutting of an earlier scene didn't help Segundo has entered Tanner's parlor to inform him that a certain Bob Valdez desires an audience ... Tanner turns to Segundo and smirks, 'I don't know any BOBE Valdez', mocking Segundo's densely-accented English. For just an instant, just a blink, Segundo considers putting a .44 pill in Tanner and high-tailing it back to Mexico. Then he lets it go. There aretimes, such as this one, when I think that those who edit films should be test-run before a small audience, if only to see how far deletions can be unsatisfactory. "},{"Title":"You seen one Elmore Leonard, you seen 'em all","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Grizzled but crafty tough guy is minding his business but gets caught up in the nefarious pursuits of a rich bad guy who likes to get his hands dirty (but not too dirty). Some poor but noble Mexicans and/or Indians wander in the way & Tough Guy is forced to take a stand, with his inherent goodness trumping his veneer of selfishness. There's a pretty girl involved (maybe two, but usually just one), one of the minion thugs is a sadistic but wimpy bully, and there's plenty of shooting & maybe some car chases and a train wreck, if possible. This about covers 'Mr Majestyk' (Bronson), 'Joe Kidd' (Eastwood), 'Hombre' (Newman), 'Stick' (Reynolds), '52 Pick-up' (Scheider) & 'Valdez is Coming'(Lancaster). But it can't be denied that Elmore Leonard's sophisticated, dark but wry macho pulp was perfectly suited to the appetite for moody action films in the 1960s & 1970s. 'Valdez' is as good as any & much better than some, with Lancaster as enjoyable as ever as a small-town lawman forced into a one-man guerrilla war against Western mobster Tanner (Cypher), with Tanner's wife (Clark) among several people used as pawns in their scruffy chess game. Though Lancaster had played a German, an Italian & a Frenchman in the previous decade, the Hispanic Valdez was the only one he portrayed with an accent (not too badly). Clark is both more fetching & more convincing than most Leonard babes, which is saying a lot. The excellent Jordan also stands out as the stereotyped brutal worm, a surprisingly rewarding role in which Clarence Williams in '52 Pick-up' & Paul Koslo in 'Mr. Majestyk' & 'Joe Kidd' also shone. Still, the medicine for bringing an Elmore Leonard to the screen is a leading man who can be flawed & sensitive, yet no softer than rock-hard. It wasn't quite the thing for John Wayne & it's probably not the ticket for Adam Sandler, while Johnny Depp wouldn't be believable if he wasn't taking a beating from one or more girls. Some chips & a frothy mug (make mine a small beer) are all you need to add to 'Valdez' for an enjoyable couple of hours of couch potato-digging. "},{"Title":"Those Baby Blues Of Burt's","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Burt Lancaster's crystal clear blue eyes is but one, but the most obvious reason I can't take Valdez Is Coming all too seriously. Burt's given some great performances, but can't overcome his Anglo looks and a heavy handed script.Lancaster plays Bob Valdez, the Valdez who's coming in the title role. He's a Mexican-American sheriff who because of some trigger happy men in a posse is forced to kill a black man recently discharged from the cavalry with an Indian wife now left a widow. The leader of the posse is rich rancher Jon Cypher who organized the manhunt on the say so of Susan Clark, the widow of a man this black trooper supposedly killed. Not that Cypher is terribly upset about the mistake. He's got a low opinion of people of color.But when Lancaster just asks him for a decent amount of money for the widow, Cypher goes into a rage because no people who aren't white are going to tell him what to do. He fixes a kind of cross and ties Lancaster to it and sends him out on the desert. The mockery of the Catholic religion isn't lost on the Mexican populace.It's more than not lost on us, we the audience get hit on the head with it. When Lancaster gets loose, he goes Rambo on Cypher and his men. It's a lot of blood and guts after that, worthy indeed of any Sylvester Stallone film.According to a recent biography of Burt Lancaster, what Lancaster was trying to do was show the Mexicans as decent folks for the screen. His accent is passable, but why didn't they get the man some contact lenses to change that blue eye color is beyond me. And that religious symbolism was just a bit too much.Still when the action gets going, it doesn't let up. Those sequences are the best part of Valdez Is Coming. It's not Burt Lancaster's best venture in the west though. "},{"Title":"good revenge flick","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I like everything with Burt Lancaster and Burt in a western is that much more enjoyable to me. If you like Revenge movies like The Crow or Death Wish then you'll probably like this. It also has a great supporting cast which is mainly the bad guys and when they make Burt mad he makes them wish they didn't. Good shoot em up flick! "},{"Title":"Before Valedez Comes....","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I would definitely rent this one before I seriously considered buying it. I had read some of Leonard Elmore's western stories and seen some of the movie's of his books that's why I wanted to see it. And off course I was familiar with Burt Lancaster (Birdman of Alcatraz), No comparison by the way. So I had some expectations of it might being pretty good. Well it just wasn't, Lancaster is trying to play a Mexican and is accent is down right comical. If he just would have used is own it might have made it a little better to swallow. As for the story it's about revenge, and one's honor, but it was just way to short and I thought the very ending was disappointing, no Gun fight or even a struggle. It wasn't a horrible movie just not a keeper in my opinion. Maybe you'll find it to be funny, when you watch a movie that's so bad that it's funny? 4 stars for effort "},{"Title":"Fourth Quarter Fumble","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Imagine yourself an NFL first string quarterback. It's the fourth quarter at the two minute warning. You and your team have played flawlessly, and you're up by 13. It's the fourth down with a foot to go for a first down. Rather than risking a pass, you rush for that precious foot. You're hit hard! You fumble the ball, and a defensive player recovers it before it touches the turf. Your opponents go on to score two touchdown and two extra points and win by 1.That was the way I felt at the end of Valdez is Coming. Burt Lancaster, in one of his most brilliant performances, leads a mostly talented cast in an frequently exciting and touching, sometimes profound quest movie. Thankfully, the violence is restrained and sadism kept to a minimum. However, the last 15 minutes are presented in such a perfunctory, contrived manner, the ending becomes unnecessarily unsatisfying.Part of the problem involves two key supporting roles. Susan Clark lacks the necessary vulnerability and natural allure to provide much interest to her window dressing role. Compare her to Marianne Koch (Marisol in A Fistfull of Dollars) or Marianna Hill in El Condor, women in a similar situation, and you'll see what I mean. Similarly, Jon Cypher lacks is too bland a villain. Had he and Richard Jordan exchanged roles, Valdez is Coming would be a far better movie. Instead a movie that was at least a 9 for three quarters of its running time ends up a 6. "},{"Title":"The story of a supposedly coward against the supposedly strong and rich gangster","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Another western with a message for all those who understand that money may buy all things in the world. Lancaster played the role of a Chicano town constable, not much respected in his county.  Due to a mistake of others he killed a black person who had an Indian wife. Understanding that this Indian wife had nothing left to survive Valdez (Lancaster) tried to get some money for her. Everybody thought he was stupid man unable to defend himself. After several serious offenses against him, he decided to show his real face and started a fight against Mr Tanner and his gang. The end of the film showed that Mexicans (Chicanos) like to fight one against another and not a group vs one. The gang refused to go over Valdez, and his boss, Tanner, was compelled to face Valdez alone.         "},{"Title":"great film, depicts wild west in true form","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Set in the heart of wild west, it depicts the lawlessness of the times, beautiful settings, and the avengement of not only a man's death, but a minorty man's death. Lancaster's character only wants the killer(s) to pay the mans wife and kids $100.00, but they decline, and he proceeds to eliminate them via long shots with some vintage era buffalo gun, perhaps a creedmore?  In the end, Valdez comes and gets his way. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Lancaster Western...","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" ...Burt Lancaster is a half-Mexican lawman who is given incorrect information and kills an innocent black man. After he finds out, he tries to get the men who hired him to pay $100 each to the widow of said dead man. Of course, these mean ol' white folk won't listen to a half-Mexican so Valdez is forced to do something drastic...he kidnaps the fiance of one of the mean old white folk. From there on, the white man and a gang of Mexicans hunt for Valdez...or is it the other way around? The storyline to this flick is pretty decent (it's from a story by Elmore Leonard) but the direction of the action scenes is lacking and the end doesn't ring true. To make matters worse, a lot of the Mexicans are played by gringos and there's an obvious allusion to the crucifix in a scene where Valdez is tied to two pieces of wood in the shape of a cross. I thought only Spaghettis had such overt and unsubtle religious imagery. I don't mind religious iconography in non-religious films when it's subtle (like in 'The Wild Bunch') but when it's this obvious it not only seems unlikely, but also that the director is reaching for some vague profundity by showing religious iconography when clearly it isn't there.  "}]