[{"Title":"Edge-Of-Your-Seat Thriller","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"56 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  	Clint Eastwood made his directorial debut with this 1971 suspense/thriller, `Play Misty for Me,' in which he also stars as Dave Garver, a late night radio disc jockey for a small station in Carmel, California.  During his show, he opens the phones to take requests, at which times a frequent caller-- a woman named Evelyn (Jessica Walter)-- always asks for the same tune, `Misty.'  Her obsession, it turns out, is not with that particular record, but with Garver, who is currently sorting out a relationship gone bad with a young artist, Tobie (Donna Mills), but which may be on the mend in light of the fact that Tobie has just returned to town after a lengthy absence in the wake of their breakup.  In the interim, Garver has become entangled with Evelyn, a fan he soon discovers gives new meaning to the term `fanatic.'	Eastwood invades Hitchcock territory with this film, which it turns out was indeed a harbinger of the course his career would take from this point on, that of directing and starring in his own movies.  With this one, it's apparent that he had that special touch from the beginning; he knows unequivocally what he likes, what works and how to deliver it.  The only weakness in the film (if you can even call it a weakness), would be the use of longshots during a couple of scenes between Garver and Tobie that take place on the coast.  It adds a scenic vista for a backdrop, but listening to the dialogue with the actors in the distance gives it a dialogue-added-later feeling.  It's a minor flaw, however, that takes nothing away from the overall impact of the film, especially as Eastwood establishes a deliberate pace that allows the tension to mount throughout.	It would seem that for an actor to direct himself would be a monumental undertaking, especially the first time, but Eastwood proves here what has been corroborated over the years and with his films since, that he is his own best director.  And it's a club to which few actor/directors belong, which puts him in the elite company of Welles, Branagh and most recently, Ed Harris (with `Pollock'), just to name a few of the select.  As Garver, a minor celebrity whose biggest fan turns out to be his worst nightmare, Eastwood is thoroughly convincing, and though this may not be one of his most memorable roles, it is certainly well acted, and delivered with that subtle Eastwood charm.   	Jessica Walter combines just the right amount of beauty, charm and menace for her role of Evelyn, which just may be her most memorable performance ever.  She creates a character who is smoothly confident, if slightly vulnerable, and prone to instantaneous bursts of psychotic anger.  It's an honest portrait of an extremely disturbed individual with the ability to conceal the true nature-- and danger-- of her mental state.  Exceptionally well realized by Walter, Evelyn could be the older sister of Stephen King's Annie in `Misery,' a role for which Kathy Bates received an Oscar for Best Actress some twenty years after Walter inhabited the body of Evelyn.	The supporting cast includes John Larch (Sergeant McCallum), Jack Ging (Frank), Irene Hervey (Madge), James McEachin (Al Monte), Clarice Taylor (Birdie) and Don Siegel (Murphy).  A film that will have you on the edge of your seat by the end, `Play Misty for Me' withstands the test of time and works every bit as well today as when it was originally released.  A tale from the dark side, it's engrossing entertainment that may give you second thoughts about that casual acquaintance you've just invited to your house for dinner.  Eastwood chose a perfect setting for his film, using one of the most beautiful spots along the California coast as a background against which to contrast the grisly events of the story.  It all adds up to a wild ride for the audience, and an auspicious debut for Eastwood as the Man Behind the Camera.  I rate this one 8/10. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's powerful debut and one of the best suspense films of the 70's","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"45 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  In the early 70's Clint Eastwood was very anxious to direct a movie of his own and the producers gave him the opportunity to do so with one simple condition he wouldn't be receiving a paycheck from his work. Eastwood accepted this offer eagerly, directed Play Misty for me and the rest is, as we all know, movie history. Play Misty for me is a modest little thriller but it's more effective than a thousand electric shocks. Plot is rather simple but quite spectacular and Clint had the talent to tell it in a real exciting, stylish, strong, gripping and entertaining way. If someone's claiming that the story could never happen in reality I can only answer that it's impossible for me to agree. I actually used to date a girl who was annoyingly lot like Jessica Walter's Evelyn. More realistic the movie feels like, more powerful the experience obviously is and to me this film was almost frightfully realistic. Acting is superb. Eastwood's delivers a fantastic performance as Dave Garver and Jessica Walter is insanely great. One of the most sympathetic details of Play Misty for me is the fact that Clint gave a small supporting role of Murphy the bartender to his dearest friend and mentor Don Siegel.Siegel himself directed Clint in five movie classics Coogan's bluff, Two mules for sister Sara, The Beguiled, Dirty Harry and Escape from Alcatraz. In the famous scene Dave Garver and Murphy are playing an absurd game called Cry Bastion. Clint admitted in the DVD documentary that there's no such game at all - they were just fooling around and improvising the game while playing it and that makes the scene twice as amusing. I adore almost every moment of Play Misty for me but unfortunately somewhere in the middle of the film there's couple of totally unnecessary sequences. Other one is like an overromantic music video of a song First time ever I saw your face and afterwards there's a scene that makes the movie look more like a jazz festival documentary than a serious thriller and it needlessly breaks the excitement. Without those two scenes I would give Play Misty for me 10 out of 10. But now I'll have to settle with only 9/10. Play Misty for me started Eastwood's directorial career and it still remains to be one of the most powerful motion picture debuts acting director has ever made. It is such a terrific and marvelous suspense film it's almost touching to watch. This movie is an adorable classic and after 21 movies Clint has directed since, Play Misty for me has definitely place in the better half. "},{"Title":"Ahead Of Its Day With This Theme","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This was Fatal Attraction 16 years before that famous movie was made.The problem with this tense drama was credibility. There are several instances where just about everyone with a brain would avoid trouble by doing the sensible thing....except the character in here, of course. Also, being honest is the obvious thing to do here and, of course, that's not done either.Nevertheless, it's a taut thriller with Jessica Walter doing a great job playing a nutcase stalker Evelyn Draper. I also enjoyed watching Donna Mills. An appealing actress, and not just because of a pretty face, I wonder she didn't do more films? After this movie, it's been almost all television roles for her.So-so mono sound and poor picture quality helped me eventually trade my VHS copy in but, with a nice DVD transfer now available, I might check this movie out again. Clint Eastwood, the male lead here, has rarely been in a boring movie, and this is no exception. "},{"Title":"An impressive psychological thriller","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is quite an impressive, very 70s looking psycho-thriller that is sure to please.Clint Eastwood plays Dave Garver, a radio DJ in southern California. One night, a woman calls requesting that he Play Misty for me. Later, he meets the woman at a bar he goes to often, and they go back to her house together and make love. The next morning, he leaves, figuring it was just a one-night stand, but when he gets home, the woman, Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter) shows up with groceries and starts to make herself at home. Dave decides to go with it, and later sees that his old girlfriend, Tobie Williams (Donna Mills), is back in town, and the two become close again. But Evelyn won't go away, and continues to follow Dave everywhere, and starts to get viciously jealous of Tobie. And as Dave and Tobie's relationship forms, Evelyn becomes angry and violent, and eventually, murderous, and Dave must find some way to stop her before she ruins his life, and potentially, kills him.A very creepy movie. Jessica Walter is beyond convincing as the jealous psycho lover, and Clint Eastwood proves that he doesn't just do Dirty Harry movies. Donna Mills is also quite good as the innocent girlfriend. The movie implies and foreshadows a lot, making everything even scarier. But the best scene in the whole movie is the knife attack on the maid, Birdie. That scene competes with the shower scene in Psycho as one of the most shocking in film history. The way the camera darts and swings around, and Birdie's screams as she struggles and fights to get away, all add up to one of the scariest scenes I've every seen. The climax is quite good, if not executed a little too quickly, but what led to it was shocking enough to overshadow it.All in all, a great film that I would definitely recommend.   "},{"Title":"A Classic and One of the Best Thrillers of the 70's","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In the city of Carmel, the popular disc-jockey David Garver (Clint Eastwood) has one night stand with Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter), a strange he met in a bar after his show. The woman, indeed a deranged obsessed fan, stalks David and threatens his life, his girl-friend Tobie Williams (Donna Mills), his friends and even his job.The debut of Clint Eastwood as director could not be better. This low budget and low paced movie has a simple, but frightening story, which was ripped off at least in the famous Fatal Attraction and the teen version Swimfan. The magnificent landscape and locations in the beautiful city of Carmel, where Clint Eastwood was elected Major many years later, are another attraction. The performance of Jessica Walters is awesome, changing naturally her behavior from a sweet to an aggressive person, really incorporating her character. Clint Eastwood is very cool, as usual, and Donna Mills very gorgeous. I like the unusual break of tension adopted when Evelyn is arrested and Dave and Tobie's routine returns to normal, dating, going to festival, making love, increasing the suspense after the twist point. I do not recall how many times I have seen Play Misty for Me, a classic and one of the best thrillers of the 70's. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Perversa Paixão (Wicked Passion) "},{"Title":"A classic thriller that was ahead of its time!","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The directorial debut for Clint Eastwood was this classic suspense thriller that's both intelligent and shocking.Dashing California DJ has a one night stand with an obsessive fan, who will have his love at ANY cost!While a bit on the dated side, Play Misty for Me still works well as a steely, nail-biter of a film. The film's premise is clever, especially for its time, and escalates into an intense suspense piece. Eastwood's direction is well-done, nicely using the coastal filming locations. Eastwood also builds some great sequences of shock and tension, especially for the films edgy climax.Eastwood himself does a great performance as the tormented DJ. Jessica Walter however steals the show. Walter's performance is absolutely powerful and she comes off as one of the best psycho-females of cinematic history! She's simply unforgettable.A suspense masterpiece through and through, Play Misty for Me has since gone on to be quite an influential film and one that well-stands the test of time. Thriller fans should not miss it!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Eastwood's directorial debut is occasionally pedestrian, but he's helped by a solid script...","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Too-careful shocker directed and starring Clint Eastwood involves a radio disc-jockey who gets seductive requests by telephone for the song Misty--he later meets the overly-friendly female fan and they share a fling, but she 'won't be ignored'. Tense thriller may have been the starting point for Adrian Lyne's Fatal Attraction, though this one is far less slick. Sometimes an actor is so good in a role that it's impossible to see them as anyone else later in their career; such is the case with Jessica Walter, who nails this part of the psychotic woman--and seems to embody instability itself! Several scenes go on too long, the climax is so dark visually it is nearly incoherent, and there's a jazz festival interlude (and a romantic montage with Eastwood and Donna Mills) that feels like padding, but the central situation is unsettling, well-crafted and well-played. As for Walter, she had a tough time shaking off the affects left behind with this role, which of course is both pro and con. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Before there was Swimfan, before there was Fatal Attraction, there was Play Misty For Me","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie, I suppose, was the first nice-guy-being-stalked-by-psycho-female thriller.  And it's quite damn good.  Modern audiences might feel the film was too low-key, but I found it very suspenseful.  This proves you don't need eerie music (there's very little score on the soundtrack) and continuous gore to create suspense.  Jessica Walter is terrifying--maybe not as terrifying as Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction, but she comes pretty close.  It's fun--and somewhat hilarious--to see Clint Eastwood as a young man with LOTS of hair.  This was his first directorial effort, and he did a fine job.  Over 30 years, the premise has become all-too-familiar, so unfortunately the story is predictable.  Maybe 1970's audiences found it more shocking.  But I was able to predict who would die and when.  Nevertheless, I still found Play Misty For Me very entertaining and very well-acted.  But what was with that jazz concert scene?  Clint definitely should've left that on the cutting room floor.  My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the best suspense movies ever.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"26 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie has got to be on the top ten list of the best movies ever made. It's perfect. You really can't say anything negative about it because there is nothing wrong with it. It is paced just right, the acting is excellent, and its story is very engrossing. Play Misty for Me begins in California at Eastwood's radio station when he gets a call, with a very sexy voice, saying the film's title. He then has a little rendezvous with this woman, but when he decides to break it up, and go back to his original girl, she just won't leave him alone (the first Fatal Attraction, and the better). By the time the end comes (which is perfectly set in a secluded cliffside home)you are guaranteed to have jumped out of your seat, or you'll find yourself grabbing onto something, or biting your nails. I did. Hang on for a wild ride. Rating **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A Film That Launched A Sub Genre Years Later","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's strange but PLAY MISTY FOR ME influence didn't seem to have an effect on Hollywood until many years later when every studio seemed to be making  person from Hell thrillers  every week . This is the first movie to use the plot and dare I say it's possibly the best ? Clint Eastwood is not a great character actor and it's difficult not to think of him as anything other than Clint Eastwood but in PMFM he plays one of his most affable roles as Dave Garver a radio DJ who has a one night stand with Evelyn a fan . Come on guys it's not like he's married and we'd all probably do the same so he's easier to empathise with unlike say Michael Douglas in FATAL ATTRACTION or Bill Clinton in The White House who probably did bring their troubles on themselves , so to all intents and purposes Dave is a relatively  innocent  victim There is some sex and violence but since we're talking 1971 it's not as naseauting or as explicit as it would be in late 80s/early 90s with only the last ten minutes being anywhere over the top . It's a film whose dialogue keeps you entertained than than ridiculous set pieces as in   Why don't you chase some sailors ?  I hate sea food  or  What is this ? Be kind to seniir citizens week ?  or  Why don't you play some Al Monte   I never knew you liked the show   I don't . I just like Al Monte  Ah the days when dialogue was well written without being post modernist Eastwood's directing while not exactly being Oscar standard does at least show signs of great competence and manages to wring most of the potential tension from the story but there's one sequence that is every bit as influential as the premise when the story stops and we see a montage disguised as a pop song . I don't know if Eastwood should take the blame/credit for this but we'd see the same thing in APOCALYPSE NOW followed by just about every single movie of the 1980s having several musical montages PLAY MISTY FOR ME is a very memorable thriller , though since the premise has been stolen by literally dozens of movies in the last 30 years the familiarity of the story perhaps lessens the impact it originally had "}{"Title":"What a movie!!!","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood never fails to amaze me. I have not seen a resume like what he has for an actor, a producer, a composer, a screenplay writer and a director, considering the fact he started off as a mere extra. Made his debut in 1955 as an actor and later turned into a producer and a director and is still going strong and looks fit for his age (Million Dollar Baby).The beginning of the 1970s found Clint Eastwood either at or near the front ranks of actors who were considered sure box office, right up there with actors as diverse as Paul Newman and John Wayne. What caught a lot of people off guard in 1971, however, was when Eastwood, armed with the expertise he had gained working with Sergio Leone and Don Siegel, got into the business of directing. No one could have predicted that the Man With No Name would soon become the Man With A Big Name behind the camera. But that is indeed what happened; and his first effort both in front of and behind the camera was a winner PLAY MISTY FOR ME Filmed in Carmel, California, 'Play Misty For Me' features Eastwood as a DJ at a local jazz radio station taking all-night requests.On a particular night he gets a call from a mysterious woman to Play 'Misty' for me, referring to a classic Errol Garner song Misty. As it turns out, that woman (Jessica Walter) has something of a fixation on Eastwood. Furthermore, when Eastwood meets back up with an old flame of his (Donna Mills), Walter's fixation takes a turn towards the psychotic.At this time if you are thinking this sounds like Fatal Attraction starring Michael Douglas, you would be right. The plot is same somewhat but personally I like 'Play Misty For Me' more cause me being a huge fan of Clint Eastwood.'Play Misty For Me' was not a perfect movie when it was released. There are a couple of awkward sequences that simply don't work at all in the film, but Eastwood recovers from such scenes and makes some very good and mature directorial choices as the film progresses.Featuring of a cameo role from Eastwood's mentor Don Siegel as his local bartender, 'Play Misty For Me', despite some slightly misogynistic overtones, is an incredibly suspenseful work of film-making and shows the first glimpse of just how good Clint Eastwood would become both in front of and behind the camera. "},{"Title":"no such thing as casual sex","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood made a fine debut as a director with Play Misty For Me. There is a laid-back quality to this film, which begins in a casual way, and then tightens the screws later as the stalking plot kicks in. The film beautifully captures the Edenic qualities of Carmel and Monterey, and Eastwood has a great eye for the particular scenic details of the Northern California coast. Most movies today have a cut to the chase mentality, in which everything has to move at warp speed, so it's refreshing to see a movie take its time to establish the setting and the characters.This film is an interesting rebuke to the sexual revolution of the late 60's and early 70's. Jessica Walter's character may be acting in an extreme way, but there is some justification for her rage -- Eastwood's character is a ladies' man who likes to rack up as many conquests as he can, and then move on, but here's one woman who refuses to be discarded. The point is, there are repercussions to all our acts. Also, being a public figure brings its share of grief and misery (just ask John Lennon). "},{"Title":"Bold choices","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In his first film as director, Clint Eastwood Takes the bold decision to cast himself, as protagonist, against type. Eastwood's Dave Garner, late night DJ on local radio in Eastwood's real life home patch of Carmel, is not a particularly nice man. Given to self gratification without any consideration for the feelings of those he uses, it is poetic justice of a kind which finds him at the receiving end of unhinged retribution care of casual one-night stand Evelyn (Jessica Walter, gorgeous, sexy, and seriously scary). Factor in his attempts to rescue the relationship he damaged with The One That Got Away (Donna Mills) and that's about it for the plot.Eastwood had, by this time, spent a long time in front of the camera with some of the best directors in the business, so it's no real surprise that the direction here is as good as it is (and it's no fluke either, as his subsequent career has proved). First act exposition is laid out clearly, second act establishment of the primary conflict is involving, and the third act is full of screamingly effective suspense. This is a film by a man who knows absolutely what he is up to.And it's one of the best thrillers of the 70s. "},{"Title":"Some behavior unrealistic","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I recently viewed this movie on TMC, and even allowing for its age, I found too many holes, and some of the plot unbelievable. Up to a point, it was all it was supposed to be suspenseful, scary, edge of your seat. Then the plot broke down for me First, she was arrested for murder. She was obviously nuts. Why on earth did they let her out??? There could or should have at least been some explanation. Second, Clint Eastwood's character was too Clint Eastwood. So laid back, even with all the danger, he was still the same, no emotion. One would think, knowing this killer is stalking him, that there would have been some caution, some guard around his house, a little anxiety perhaps??? "},{"Title":"Despite minor flaws, a pioneer erotic thriller ... and a promising directorial debut ...","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Who would have guessed that a modest romantic thriller of the early 70's would have paved the way for a rich and admirable filmography? This is not to diminish the merit of Play Misty For Me, Clint Eastwood's directorial debut, but to put the accomplishment into perspective, and realize how Eastwood proved he had great predispositions behind the camera. The movie doesn't have this 'masterpiece' feeling, yet it's a captivating film centered around a romantic song and a female psychopath, which has probably inspired more classic villains such as Alex Forrest and Annie Wilkes. Play Misty For Me is a good start for an excellent directorial work, and on its own, it's a satisfying and entertaining film.Indeed, despite some technical flaws, I can even say I enjoyed Misty more than other 'superior' films. Play Misty For Me reminded me of movies like Duel or Rosemary's Baby which are not regarded as their directors' masterpieces, but managed to touch a particular nerve, mainly because they belong to the early work they defined a style and didn't try to be defined &#x85; a mindset that generally provides good results, if the movie has a good story, good characters, and a little something that makes it enjoyable. And that's why it works for Play Misty For Me the story tells the misadventure of Dave, Clint Eastwood, harassed by Evelyn Draper, his number one fan and a woman so in love, she doesn't want to let him join his true love, Tobey, Donna Mills, whose innocence and sweetness contrasts with Evelyn's attitude, and makes Dave's preferences fairly understandable.I mentioned Alex Forrest and Annie Wilkes, because I believe you can't watch this film without thinking of any of them. After Misty, I wondered how and why Evelyn isn't remembered as one of the most memorable cinematic female psychopaths &#x85; the performance of Jessica Walter is so unbelievably believable- she's hot and scary, sexy and twisted- that you genuinely feel sorry for Dave, and even understand his acts &#x85; and that is due to the intelligence of the script. I insist on this because in most movies, the antagonist who seems nice, turns a 180 on his friends and then becomes evil for the rest of the film. In Misty, Dave is worried but very patient, and when Evelyn tries to commit suicide in the bathroom, Dave handles this very calmly and it feels like a reconciliation. This proved that despite the B-movie feeling, the story is deeper than that. This depth is the strength of the film, what makes it a classic, because even as a viewer, I felt something for Evelyn before she reached her breaking point.Misty's strength is also a small weakness because as a guy, I felt a strong empathy to Dave, I could understand how a man even in love with such a pretty doll like Tobey wouldn't be able to definitely break up with Evelyn &#x85; sometimes, the doll is almost dull, she's so loving and innocent she's definitely less interesting than Evelyn, but she's so naive and endearing we want to protect her &#x85; Misty is a man movie, where one female is the evil bitch, and the other, the baby doll we want to protect... and between them, the MAN. Seriously, I'm not afraid to admit that I had a big man-crush on Eastwood in this film, he oozed masculinity from beginning to start, and I think he's at the peak of his handsomeness and virility here &#x85; in a way, I couldn't blame Evelyn for wanting him so much. But yes, it's a guy film, not really misogynistic but a bit macho, I'm just putting myself in female audiences' shoes, while personally, it didn't bother me &#x85; Eastwood is Eastwood, and is the Man even with these ridiculous white panties &#x85; maybe the part with the gay man, was a bit cliché from today's perspective, but I guess it was an indirect way to emphasize that Tobey, whose environment is more artistic, needs a real man model.Tobey is still an important character, she's the one who inspires Dave's desire to settle, her romance with him is so sweet, one can't be disturbed by the beautiful shots of them making love &#x85; some would complain that it's too long, I don't think so. I thought the jazz part was a bit too long, but this also didn't disturb me &#x85; in fact, it's a movie with casual flaws and a strong plot driven by great performances. This is why the enjoyment was consistent, never the erotic, nor the jazzy part felt overused. Besides, the music is a central element of the film, it's the legendary Misty jazz classic that started the relationship between Dave and Evelyn, and played a key role as many other thrillers songs Blue Velvet, Sea of Love etc., as to illustrate an erotic complicity between them, something that he doesn't share with Tobey. It's interesting that before the climax, it's precisely Tobey who asks Dave to play something for her, as if she was becoming her true love, a love in danger &#x85; A danger characterized by this shrill scream that surprises us every time Evelyn appears with the knife or any cutting object. She's scary indeed, and this scream is like her villainous trademark &#x85; when I watch the film again, I can't help but think that maybe she would have been remembered like the villains she probably inspired, if these scenes have been handled more correctly. Nothing to really blame on the directing, the shock is here, and I don't think Eastwood had the pretension to make a masterpiece. It's still a great debut blessed by Don Siegel's cameo and embraced by an unforgettable villainous performance by Jessica Walter &#x85; A thrilling romance, a romantic thriller, and a great directorial debut, Misty is an encouragement for Eastwood to Make More Movies For Us &#x85; "},{"Title":"She Read Too Many Of My Reviews!","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadBefore Fatal Attraction, without the annoying fat guy and his wife, this is the better movie. Eastwood directs very well. His use of darkness in the climactic showdown in the apartment is excellent. Full of pop out, scare the living crap out of you scenes, I recommend you finish eating before a half hour into this movie unless someone in the room knows the Heimlich maneuver. What Eastwood does so well is build her craziness from slightly odd to absolute Norman Bates' Whacko. I assure you this is the movie Adrian Lynne watched before making Fatal Attraction. Eastwood's character is very understated, quiet and laid back which heightens the dramatic contrast. Besides her terrible taste in music, she begins trying to take over his life after a one night stand. He has a much better and hotter girlfriend he is interested in. She begins stalking him through the middle part of the movie but don't let that keep you away; she pops out when you least expect it. Even Eastwood's friends and workers are not immune from her violence. Jessica does a great job here in a very unsympathetic role. The way Eastwood builds tension is the star of the movie. Notice how every scene with Walter she gets slightly weirder and more violent.Even before the one night stand that triggers the obsession, she reacts with great rage to any irritation. This is what triggers Eastwood to dump her. Good luck, she has made some sicko twisto lock onto him that only death, his, hers or both of theirs will break. I really like Eastwood but be warned, keep that remote control handy. He has always adored Jazz music even in In The Line Of Fire, we had to endure his jazz piano scenes which slow it way down. Here, he felt the need to take us to the Monterey Jazz Festival which chews up ten or fifteen minutes needlessly. You can do what we couldn't do in the theater, hit the chapter skip button unless you love Jazz. Again, like In The Line Of Fire, it was a mistake. The movie moves very well until you get to the Jazz Festival which in a scary movie kills the intensity. No movie is perfect but pacing is so critical in a scary movie. This is the main flaw of the movie. Yet, it plays with you, just like Fatal Attraction, the old 'she is gone forever and we are safe now.' My favorite scene is not the scary ending though that comes close. I love when he is half awake, we think she is in the nut house, and in a foggy lens we see her come in and try to stab him with a butcher knife in bed.He barely awakens in time. I own both of these but frankly this is far superior to Fatal Attraction; I hated Dan's friends that big unfunny comedian and wife who slow the movie way, way down. I liked Close's Alex but this one is scarier she is one convincing lunatic. As for the Jazz festival, just skip it like I do. The last ten minutes of this movie will scare the living crap out of you. Yes, I know the decor, 70's argot, and the norms will seem quite anachronistic and odd. It was the weirdest time in American history The 1970's. For all its flaws, it made Clint the director he would become. In a genre utterly alien to his acting Icon, Dirty Harry or The Man With No Name, he made an excellent, scary movie. Be Sure To Watch This At Night With The Lights Out. A Good Movie. "},{"Title":"DJ Terrorised By Insane Fan","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In his first movie as a director, Clint Eastwood shows a propensity for naturalism and a strong ability to build up tension. The use of hand-held cameras and actual locations as well as numerous shots of the California countryside around Carmel-by-the-Sea, gives the action a realistic feel and good use is made of shadows to create a rather ominous atmosphere.Play Misty For Me is a gripping thriller in which a rather passive man (whose attitude to sexual relationships is consistent with the time in which he lives) suddenly finds his life thrown into chaos by an unhinged woman. Her violent and irrational behaviour threatens his life and the lives of those who are close to him and this leaves him feeling trapped and helpless because he has no idea how to deal with such insanity.Dave Garver (Clint Eastwood) is the night-time DJ on a radio station in Carmel and his soft-spoken, intimate style of broadcasting is particularly appreciated by one of his fans who regularly phones to ask him to play Erroll Garner's Misty for her. One night, at his favourite bar, Dave meets an attractive woman called Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter) and later they spend the night together and he realises that Evelyn is actually the lady who likes Misty.Despite the fact that it had been mutually agreed that their encounter was purely a no-strings-attached fling, Evelyn regards it as something more serious and shows up at Dave's house with groceries and starts to make a meal. Dave is alarmed by this and tells her that he doesn't want to get involved in a relationship but she reacts badly. As her anger escalates, she attempts suicide by slashing her wrists in his bathroom and later sabotages and informal interview he has for a better job. Things get even worse when she vandalises his house and attacks his cleaning lady with a butcher's knife.Evelyn's admitted to a psychiatric hospital and this enables Dave to re-establish his relationship with Tobie Williams (Donna Mills). Tobie, who has recently returned to the Carmel area, is the woman he loves and their relationship develops well until further complications follow when Dave is told that Evelyn has been released from hospital.Tobie is a very good natured character and her presence in the story is effective in emphasising the difference between her and Evelyn. Similarly, a sequence in which Tobie and Dave are together in the woods seems relaxed until the mood changes when it becomes apparent that Evelyn is also nearby.The acting performances are consistently very good in this movie but Jessica Walter is outstanding in a role that requires her to be ultra scary. Her capacity to fly into a rage at the flick of a switch is startlingly good and the way in which she portrays the manipulative side of Evelyn's character also works well.Play Misty For Me is full of surprises and contains a particularly horrific incident in which Evelyn attacks Dave with a knife whilst he's in bed. It's also top class entertainment and reflecting on the events that take place, leads to the inescapable conclusion that it must've been a powerful source of inspiration for the plot of Adrian Lyne's Fatal Attraction. "},{"Title":"Wow...21 days AND under budget....","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I was very impressed when I read the trivia for this film. It's Clint Eastwood's directorial debut...and he finished the film ahead of schedule and under budget--in only 21 days! I could see why he was called on many more times to direct--and it's a shame he's known more for an actor than director.Eastwood plays a radio DJ. One night in a bar, he meets a young lady (Jessica Walter) and they end up spending the night together. She says there are no strings attached....but over time it's obvious that she is majorly obsessed with him. She pushes him VERY hard--and no matter how much he tells her to get lost, she won't take a hint. At first, it's all seemingly innocent but over time she begins to show a crazier and crazier side. As for the title, every time she calls in to his show, she says 'Play Misty for me'--as it's 'their' song. As time passes, the film begins to look more and more like Fatal Attraction.This is a very good film for a first effort from Eastwood. While the film has a few problems, overall, it's quite thrilling and suspenseful. Additionally, Jessica Walter did a great job playing an Erotomaniac--an individual who is convinced that a high-status person LOVES them regardless of all evidence to the contrary. There also is a strong degree of a Borderline personality--with SERIOUS anti-social aspects (heck, she's more than willing to kill--trust me on the diagnosis, it all fits). On the downside, I thought Eastwood's acting performance was a bit too subdued and cool considering what was happening to him. And I have no idea why the segment with the Roberta Flack music video and the visit to the Monterrey Jazz Festival was included except as filler--it was like an intermission and pretty weird. But overall, it's a nice little thriller.By the way, for an even better film on the subject, try watching the French film He Loves Me, He Loves Me Not--a truly brilliantly written film that you just have to see. "},{"Title":"Well if you are going to play away Dave...","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Dave Garver Clint Eastwood is a late night disc jockey in Carmel, California. Whilst his girlfriend is out of town he meets and beds a fan named Evelyn Jessica Walter who turns out to be the mystery caller to his show who sexily requests the Errol Garner classic tune Play Misty For Me. Thinking that his night of passion with Evelyn is purely a one off, he starts to become concerned as Evelyn refuses to leave him alone, and things are about to get very out of hand and become very disturbing for all involved.This was Clint Eastwood's first stab hrr hrr at directing and it proved to be a very commendable effort as he directs himself in the picture, polishes the production across the board, and then wrapped the film on time and under budget, quite an achievement and it's no surprise that he went on to be a big hitter from behind the camera right up to this present day.Play Misty For Me is a truly tight and engrossing picture, and certainly more of a character study than its slasher shell would suggest. Eastwood playing against type plays Garver perfectly weasel like, and it's because of his selfish sexual proclivities, and all round disdain for his actions, that the maelstrom that comes his way is kind of like the reckoning. The picture firmly belongs to Jessica Walter, her turn as the irrational psychotic in waiting, Evelyn, is truly magic, lacing sympathetic sadness with outright moments of terror, believable to the point of forcing the audience into an uneasy understanding. It's a mystery and a crying shame that Walter didn't go on to be a big star because the marker for major talent was right here.Edgy and darkly fascinating, Play Misty For Me stands up today as a right on the money thriller, and not even the sight of Clint in his over large white underpants can dim the films appeal, 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Lots of Thrills in Clint Eastwood's directorial debut","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood takes a break from Dirty Harry's and other violent types to make a vulnerable guy who fears for the attacks of a flame of one night stand, an obsessive fan (Jessica Walter) of his radio program that loves this guy so much that she can't stand the possibility of not be with him. In Play Misty for Me Clint's first film as a director, the tense is all around and the thrills will scary you when you less expect. Now, we can all say that it resembles Fatal Attraction except for one thing or other, this film doesn't have the whole arguable discussion over who's right or wrong on the affair subject that Adrian Lyne's classic had but the suspense created is creepier and at times more shocking than Fatal Attraction.Behind cameras Clint is a skillful director who knows how to provoke the audience even in this little gem that was his first film. The way he uses the editing in scenes like the attack suffered by his maid in his house (that is a really scary scene); or the climatic final moments are stunning, and very tense. Some of the dramatic moments (most of the time when Jessica Walter is not on scene) the film lost its power a little bit but nothing so serious. Also I must mention the great soundtrack use, after all, Clint plays a DJ and music is vital in the film, specially if you consider that the Misty of the title is the favorite music of his favorite and obsessive fan that keeps calling him to play it all the time. On screen, Eastwood plays a different kind of guy who knows exactly what he wants in terms of everything, from him companion and the music he selects on the radio but doesn't know to keep away this trouble and disturbed girl, and his performance is very good. But who really steals this film from him is Jessica Walter as the crazy woman, her appearance on the screen is very effective, scary, wild and very nice, that goes from sexy to dangerous and possessed. Every single scene of her makes this film more and more fun to watch (my favorite and the most hard to watch is when she interrupts Clint's business meeting with a old lady, creating a chaotic situation in this man's life). One of the best thrillers from the 1970's, one of the best thrillers of all time and Clint's greatest films. What a wonderful debut as a director. 9/10 "}{"Title":"A superb and oftentimes gripping thriller with fascinating character dynamics","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty for Me was the twenty-fourth movie that Clint Eastwood acted in, but the first one in which he also directed something which, up until one of his more recent movies, Gran Torino, become his trademark. After many years of watching closely how directors such as Sergio Leone and Don Siegel (who makes a cameo here) handled the movies in which he worked for them, he took his first shot. The result was Play Misty for Me a superb and oftentimes gripping thriller which inspired pictures like Fatal Attraction and for obvious reasons. It's an excellent, if sometimes uneven, piece of cinema. A remarkable first directing job for someone who learned by watching and observing a never attended film school.Mr. Eastwood cast himself as a disc jockey who finds his number one fan, a silvery-voiced woman named Evelyn, frequently calling him on his show play Misty for me. By chance, he happens to meet her and they have a brief, erotic affair. However, Evelyn (played magnificently and memorably by Jessica Walter) soon makes it apparent that she does not intend their relationship to end after one night together, even when one of Mr. Eastwood's former flames (Donna Mills) re-enters his life.The most interesting character dynamic in Play Misty for Me is between, of course, Mr. Eastwood and Miss Walter. Both are very good, in control, and concentrated all throughout the running time of the film. Miss Walter is very much obsessed with staying in character, which results in one terrific performance, which won her a Golden Globe nomination. And a wise choice of Mr. Eastwood's was to not only cast himself, but in the role contrary to his usual screen personae. By this time, most people had come to associate with him as sneering Man with No Name or the cop in Don Siegel's classic Dirty Harry. But instead of playing a tough, iron-willed man, he made the daring but exquisite choice of playing the disc jockey as a restrained, troubled, nervous man who can't find a way to explain anything properly, least of all to an obsessive one-night lover.Like with that great 1987 thriller Fatal Attraction, the movie takes a turn toward the thriller genre and in more ways than just psychologically. And as with the film I mentioned, it works as one of the picture's strengths. Taking an ordinary situation and escalating it into a probable, but exhilarating scenario. This is the sort of situation that would have made Alfred Hitchcock pleased and Mr. Eastwood handles it excellently. To keep it in an almost docudrama fashion, he shoots the movie without any remarkable, saturated lighting and oftentimes keeps the camera hand-held to make us feel like we are actually there.Play Misty for Me was Mr. Eastwood's first time directing a motion picture, and sadly, it does show sometimes. Some of his directing is superb, showing the smooth and slick craftsmanship that would later evolve into one of the cinema's greatest, but some of it is also a little hampered, a little too experimental too soon. For example, there is a scene in which Mr. Eastwood and Miss Mills go for a semi-romantic walk through the countryside and it plays in a montage of distant shots fading into and out of each other. First of all, the looping is not particularly good, and the mishmash of scenes seems a little uneven with the dialogue. Sure, it is a first attempt, but we have to be fair here.But as a whole, Play Misty for Me is a very involving, very entertaining and watchable movie and a very fine first directing job. Mr. Eastwood and Miss Walter are superb. As the ex-girlfriend, Miss Mills is sweet, charming, lovely, and convincing. Veteran John Larch (recognizable as the chief from Dirty Harry) gives another fine performance playing yet another cop. James McEachin commands his unfortunately limited scenes with enthusiasm. Clarice Taylor is deliberately funny as the housekeeper. And in his first acting job, Don Siegel is surprisingly good.The whole film is surprisingly good. "},{"Title":"Play Misty for Me A Very Strong Debut","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Despite Eastwood being quite certainly my favourite mainstream American director, I'd only ever seen his work from this current millennium (and '92's Unforgiven, but shh). Having seen the radical changes that can take place over a directorial career, I was a little afraid that Clint's earlier stuff might disappoint.A late-night jazz DJ, Dave Garver is not unfamiliar with the ladies. When, one night after his show, he runs into Evelyn, the woman who regularly phones in to request he play Misty for her, it marks the beginning of a fanatical obsession on her part. As Dave tries to give her the cold shoulder and reunite with his former love Tobie, Evelyn becomes more and more determined to have the man she idolises.Much as I avoided straying too far from the past decade's Clint output for fear of a lesser quality, my systematic run-through of his career both before and behind the camera demanded I eventually come to his early works. As his directorial debut, 1971's Play Misty for Me was the natural film to turn to. Having by then appeared in three films each for both Don Siegel and Sergio Leone, Eastwood learned from observation, founded his own production company, and insisted he be allowed to direct as well as star. And he fulfils both roles fantastically, showcasing himself as a consummate professional either side of the camera. In his performance as the near-womanising DJ, Eastwood is a combination of emotionally aloof in his dealings with Evelyn and sensitively sophisticated with Tobie. Though his harshness in dealing with his fanatic stalker is perhaps a little cruel, we like this character, his genuine attempts to regain the love of the woman he truly feels for endearing him to us despite the partial misogyny he exhibits. Jessica Walter, playing the role of Evelyn, is variously hilarious, terrifying, sympathetic, and indeed pathetic. The range of moods and emotions Walter manages is phenomenal, her sudden behavioral turns lending a manic freneticism to a character who is already quite well written. We cannot help but laugh as she neatly inserts herself into Garver's life, her inability to pick up his less-than-subtle hints quietly comic. She is doubtlessly the film's greatest strength, crafting a character that we fear, feel sorry for, and find annoying, often all at once. The plot requires a leap in faith at one point, rather stumbling in an upsettingly gaping hole, but this is a small worry in the grand scheme of things. As for Eastwood's direction, he does a very fine first time job, many scenes featuring the glorious darkened lighting he prefers and would later perfect with cinematographer Tom Stern. It is used well here, an interesting example in the articulation of the director's distinct style. Notable are the usages of jump cuts, twice employed here, rather surprising for Eastwood, and oddly evocative of the New Hollywood movement which was blossoming at the time. The more obvious of these two seems a reference to A Bout de Soufflé, bizarrely, not something I would have imagined among Clint's influences. Overall, the direction was controlled, confident, and far from the disappointment I feared it might maybe be.A very strong debut for Eastwood behind the camera, Play Misty for Me is a classic thriller story which functions very well with the aid of its central performances. Walter's acting is particularly noteworthy, almost inescapably comparable to the later Oscar-winning and fantastic performance of Cathy Bates in Misery, which I just happen to consider it superior to. The first of an astounding 31 films directed in a 40 year period, the film holds up well to the director's many later masterpieces. "},{"Title":"play misty for me","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is the first movie directed by Clint Eastwood. The first one in a long and talented series. Universal gave the agreement to Clint Eastwood to direct his first film from a story written a few years ago by a friend Jo Hiem. This film will be shot on naturals locations in under five weeks with a team of about 25 people for less than a million dollars as agreed financially. Its cost will be about $ 800 000.The tone and rhythm specific to Clint Eastwood is quickly felt. This narration may seem somewhat soft and a bit long at first glance but it did nothing, because it still built on a strong history, strong story lines and the plot is perfectly still and reinforces characters who are the major elements of Eastwood's movies always very human. Over here, this style of narration enhances the depth psychiatric Evelyn Draper played by Jessica Walter.An interesting use of type of shooting is out on this first work. There are actually shots and panoramic with feet, shoulder camera, subjective views, plans and very seventies or originals These elements and their good use to create wealth realization.We note from the foreground, a Hitchcock touch. A subject already explored by the master and who could be his indeed. It is true that this film is a suspense thriller background of psychiatry. But how to film some shots as coastlines, roads, action ... without forget to mention the tone and the overall pace of the plot and the action adds to achieving a certain Hitchcock key. This fact don't stop with the poster of the film in the unconscious of moviegoers back to Psycho. (A woman is brandishing a knife). This effect psychosis is immediately stopped by the photo just below of Clint Eastwood surprised and frightened on a pillow. This film has its own identity and is also a good right well Eastwood which is the solution.Note the reassuring presence for Clint Eastwood and friendly to us of Don Siegel, the mentor director of Mr. Eastwood. Don Siegel made his first steps as an actor for a small role. Don Siegel parties are also photographed on the first day. That is, a reassuring for Clint Eastwood who also said to see someone much more stressed than me on the first day of shooting. The experience gained in particular with Don Siegel and Clint Eastwood's talent enough to finish this movie with a good realization, a method acting and direction more than impressive and promising for a first film.And note the good jazz soundtrack in the movie supported by the long sequence in the music festival, it sound very Clint Eastwood.Although the story may lack depth and foundations, it easily gets trapped in the streets of this small California town and history experienced by these characters. A major work in the Clint Eastwood's career. A good movie, entertaining, fun and eventful. View this movie without hesitations.And now we have a pretty one for lonely lovers on a cool, cool night. It's the great Erroll Garner and the classic misty and this one is especially for Evelyn.Jeliosjelios@hotmail.fr "},{"Title":"Great debut for Clint","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty for me is the directorial debut of Clint Eastwood. At that time the Californian actor is becoming a big star, after smashes like the Sergio Leone westerns in Italy and a hit like Where Eagles dare. The same year of this picture, 1971, he also makes his first Dirty Harry appearance directed by friend Don Siegel -who plays the role of a barman in Play Misty for me!DJ David has a brief relationship with Evelyn, a woman who always listens to his radio program and always phones during the broadcasting -for asking the same piece of music, Misty by Erroll Garner. Evelyn is a psychopath person who develops a paranoia for David and begins following and scaring him. It's a rise of madness, until she tries to kill both him and his actual girlfriend...The film has, in certain ways, the same plot as Fatal Attraction by Adryan Line, made in 1987 with Michael Douglas. But most of all it has an Hitchcock-like story. This first Eastwood self-directed feature keeps you on your seat; the drama is very well directed and well acted, not too violent as well. I mean, it's after all a believable story, where Clint is more human and more vulnerable than the characters he'll play in the following years. I also presume this is a relatively small budget movie, you can see it... but it's one of the main merits ofPlay Misty for me. A genuine essential picture, where all the elements of thriller are there. Nothing more nothing less, and everything is extremely rich. "},{"Title":"Evelyn's one Scary Bird!","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I am a fan of Clint Eastwood both as an actor and a director. Sergio Leone's 'Dollar' films range among my all-time favorites (especially The Good, The Bad And The Ugly), and Eastwood continued to be the epitome of coolness in Dirty Harry and its successors. His work as a director is impressive, High Plains Drifter (1973), The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), and Unforgiven (1993) are my personal favorites of the films Eastwood has directed, and other films of his, such as Pale Rider, or more recently Mystic River are also very impressive. Having expressed my respect and admiration for this great actor and director, I must say that his directorial debut Play Misty For Me of 1973 is slightly overrated, in my opinion. Not that it was a bad film - on the contrary The film has some great elements. The performances are great, the locations impressive and I personally also liked the jazzy score a lot. Also, the 'stalking'-topic is interesting, especially for a time when stalking was not yet an issue as it is today. Nevertheless, I was a bit disappointed with Play Misty For Me, not least due to its reputation as a cult-favorite and essential thriller of the early 70s.Dave Garver (Eastwood) is a popular radio disc-jockey in Carmel, California. After picking up a seductive woman named Evelyn (Jessica Walter) in a bar, the womanizer's life is about to change. Evelyn, who has been repeatedly calling Dave on his show and requested the song 'Misty', soon turns out to be quite obsessive...Clint Eastwood is cool as always. Donna Mills and John Larch are also very good in their roles. The best performance, however, is delivered by Jessica Walter, who is truly great and believable in the role of the psychotic and obsessed Evelyn. The locations are beautiful and impressive, and the score is very cool. What disappointed me a little was the fact that it wasn't as suspenseful as I had expected. Also, Eastwood throws in some superfluous elements that just make the film less interesting. To some people these sequences may seem ingenious, but even though I like the music in the film, I personally don't want to watch a concert (that has nothing to do with the plot) for about 10 minutes in the middle of a movie. All things considered, Play Misty For Me is certainly worth watching, and Eastwood fans should definitely give it a try. It is just a little overrated, in my opinion, and as far as I am concerned, Eastwood has directed films that are much better, such as the cynical and brutal Western High Plains Drifter of 1973 (which was his next work as a director, and one of his greatest). Even though Play Misty For Me, is not one of my favorites from Eastwood, it is a decent film, however, and definitely recommended to his fans. "},{"Title":"the other cool Clint Eastwood picture of 1971","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Aside from one sequence, which I'll mention further down, this is one of the better directorial debuts ever put out by a major studio. And incidentally it also marks as something of a cool fascination in the span of Clint Eastwood's career as a filmmaker. This time he actually does experiment with a couple of things, aside from just telling the story, which is what usually he knows how to do in his best, traditional style. But Play Misty for Me, almost in spite of being as it is a very good psychological thriller, shows Eastwood capable of not being too strict with a style in approaching the very early 1970's story. As a precursor to Fatal Attraction that more than tops it, Eastwood plays not so much a bad-ass this time, but a regular guy with nevertheless his usual mannerisms. He's a disc jockey in a small town, who every night plays the song Misty for a mystery caller. One night he meets her in a bar (err, he meets her), and they start a slight relationship - slight, being the more appropriate word, as she is out of her mind and a true craver for attention. While Eastwood's character meets up with his old girlfriend, and wants to settle down, mad Evelyn can't stop against her Misty-playing knight in jockey armor.One can tell here and there that Eastwood had fun making this movie, even in such a brisk 21-day shooting period as he had here. But it's noticeable that he was able to have such fun with a screenplay that, while with a sensationalist sensibility, is never too unbelievable. And chiefly, Jessica Walter's performance is probably the most fearless in her character-actor career. She's so good in this role because she starts off seeming, well, normal, and then soon descending into a character that makes the audience feel quite creepy anytime she appears in the background or watching the other characters. Eastwood's acting, as he is acting himself, is also quite competent. The style he uses in filming it is not how it is in his later films- he'll go here for long-shots or close-ups, hand-held in a manic drive (i.e. Walter's knife attack against the maid), or even with a documentary feel at the jazz festival. The only part that, while not badly filmed, seemed out of place and changed the pace (that song is just wrong) in the movie was what Ebert called the Semi-Obligatory Lyrical Interlude. This same interlude could be done another way, as the core of the scene is there for the story, but it seems dated all the same.This minor liability aside, this is a fantastic mind-f***er of a movie Eastwood has here, where moments that the characters can relax are mostly in the early part of the film, where one might think this will be more of a romantic film. Fat chance; as the mood starts to elevate, and the development, or rather downward spiral, of Evelyn starts to overcome David's life, the film works that much better to bring us into the action. Is it the most fair representation of a woman's psychological attraction to a man? Probably not, but then again this isn't a Lifetime movie, either. Nice little cameo role by Don Siegel as the bartender. "},{"Title":"Look at Clint....Bum,bum, bum, bum bum bum bum bum bum bum(see if you can hum those notes)","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood has to be admired for his fight to break the mold put over him by Hollywood then and his first directorial effort and another movie, The Beguiled, show this dedication to craft but also his independence and ability as an actor and director. The story predates films like Fatal Attraction and a whole slew of stalker-type films that owe this film a little something and probably, intentionally or not, pay homage to it. The story concerns a one-night stand that goes horribly wrong when one woman wants a man who does not want her - things then build and build and build until people start to get hurt. The real star of this film is Jessica Walter as the Misty-loving woman who has more than her shares of mental instabilities. The scenes where she is able to excel are the ones where she can show stark contrast so believably as in one moment laughing and another swearing at people to be quiet. She is beautiful, creepy, seductive, and maniacal. Her performance is a one-of-a-kind gem. Eastwood is very able as a local disc jockey - a lover-boy type - who soon finds his casual relationship turning into a life-changing one. All the other actors are very good and the house on the cliff is most effective. There are so many nice things going for Play Misty for Me the aforementioned acting, Jessica Walter, the effective, taught tension that steadily grows and grows, an effectively creative and scary script, and some beautiful Californian settings of Carmel. Play Misty for Me is in a class by itself in its own sub-genre of stalkers/slashers, and it is indeed one of the best horror films of the last fifty years. "},{"Title":"everything is everything","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood's directorial debut can be looked upon two wayseither he didn't know what he was doing,or he had it all planned out.i tend to believe the latter.the people at Universal took a gamble(therefore they must have had low expectations),but also decided not to pay Clint for his director's job.he didn't seem to mind.Misty begins as the kind of lightweight flick Eastwood did in the beginning of his career.but once he begins a seemingly harmless fling with Evelyn Draper(played incredibly well by Jessica Walter)the film picks up momentum.Dave Garver(Eastwood)is a small town DJ trying to simplify his life(and supposedly getting over a lost love interest)but finds himself becoming the obsessive object of Evelyn.as much as he tries to be honest she seems to have no conception of what he is saying.without giving too much about the plot away this leads to big problems for Clint.there is probably some Freudian psychology inherent in this movie(way over my head) which makes the latter half interesting.this was done later in Fatal Attraction,but in my opinion not as well.anyone with a Hitchcockian bent will probably enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Very correct presentation of a psychotic woman","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" From my professional view (clinical psychologist) this film is a very well presented case study about a stalking woman, who is psychotic and psychopathic at the same time.What Dave (C. Eastwood) does not recognize from the beginning is, that Evelyn has been loving him for a long time before they even met, through the radio (he is a DJ). And, what he should have done from the beginning is, that he should have said NO to her approaches, when he felt, he did not love her. Seduction is a strong weapon, many a man cannot resist and sometimes - or maybe even more often - is abused in one or the other way.To make this a central issue in this film is very deserving, and, I fear, most often overseen, as this film's horror overwhelms the psychological implications for many a viewer.Aside from that, a musical highlight is Cannonball Adderly and Joe Zawinul (who later founded Weather Report) at the Monterey Jazz Festival, but, what a pity, too short... "},{"Title":"The first time ever I saw your rage","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Disturbing and atmospheric urban thriller has Eastwood in his directorial debut playing a late-night DJ who picks up Jessica Walter for a casual fling then discovers she's an obsessed fan who proceeds to destroy his life, in an escalating campaign of terror. Donna Mills plays Eastwood's girlfriend who becomes the target of Walter's jealousy, while ill-fated friends and police (Ging and Larch) are seemingly powerless to prevent her onslaught.Eastwood announces his arrival to the director's lounge with this well-crafted, bayside-set thriller demonstrating a knack for building suspense, a talent that is often inconspicuous among more experienced directors. Walter in my opinion has never occupied a better role (although her more recent comedic turn in Arrested Development is a highlight at the other end of the spectrum). She's positively chilling in her unhinged, mentally unbalanced depiction of total, blind obsession - it's frightening to see an otherwise demure looking woman turn into such a psychopath. Aside from the reliable John Larch and Jack Ging, it's fitting that Eastwood's mentor Don Siegel has a supporting role as a bartender with whom Eastwood chews the fat of an evening.Roberta Flack's soundtrack The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face is the proverbial cherry on the cake in a film that possibly isn't as widely re-run as it should; while the decor is dated, the themes explored are probably more relevant than ever in the current world of such intense celebrity worship. Great film, highly recommended. "}{"Title":"A impressive debut of the director Eastwood","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film is Eastwood's first try at directing a feature-length film and it is a very good first try. A low pace, as usual with Eastwood, but very much like a Hitchcock movie, not better, not worse, about a stalker, here a female (played expertly by Jessica Walter) stalking a male, played equally well by the director himself, and his ex-girlfriend (Donna Mills).The best thing with the DVD is the extra material, which is amazing, just as one would love to have with all DVDs. All the actors still alive (Don Seigel passed away years ago) are interviewed, Clint tells why he choose just them - many without an audition or anything, the producer tells about his friendship with Clint, and so on.If you find it on DVD, buy it, as the film is OK, as a run of the mill Hitchcock (which ain't bad) and interesting, and the extra material is just amazing! "},{"Title":"One of the better films ever made. A very underrated erotic suspense thriller and special because it's Clint's directorial debut.","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I for many years had been wanting to see this film, and I must say that when I finally viewed it my expectations were filled. I must say great movie one of the best I've saw! Clearly it's special because this was Clint Eastwood's first directorial debut, yet still this film was significant for the fact that it was really the first to introduce the stalker and love obsession genre as it was not 1987's Fatal Attraction but 1971's Play Misty for Me that started the genre.The film is well written as director Eastwood stars as Dave Garver a coastal California man who earns a living working as a late night radio DJ. And as Dave host the show when he's not talking or playing jazz music he's constantly getting calls from a female voice who always request the song Play Misty for Me to be played over the air. Then one night it turns out oddly enough when Dave goes to a local bar for a drink he meets an eager sexy woman and it turns out this woman has been the voice of the late night request! This woman Evelyn Draper(Jessica Walter who plays the role to a very wicked form)then arranges a passionate and hot one night stand with Dave. And this is exactly what Dave thought it was just a one night stand, yet Evelyn pushes for a torrid affair only Dave wises up and sees that she's to obsessed and he ends it.Then to add more drama Dave's ex flame Tobie(played by sexy and attractive future soap star Donna Mills)has returned back to the West Coast, and gradually the two rekindle their old love making ways. Still lurking around the shadows of the California forest, and oceanside is miss Evelyn herself as Evelyn soon will take her lust to a dangerous game of violence. As soon Dave and everything and everyone around him become the target of this very dangerous cat and mouse game.Clearly this was one of the best films ever made not only just for introducing the stalker and love obsession genre, but for it's direction from Clint as his pacing and shooting of the film really foreshadowed the viewer to be in a lot of suspense. And the California scenery was pretty as this picture was shot in Clint's hometown of Carmel, California. Plus a big thumbs up for the way the film brought to the attention of any man to be cautious with any female he takes from a bar, and it showcased that anyone can be bipolar just like the Evelyn character who gives off such a sense of kindness yet she's such a wicked cutthroat kind. Overall great erotic suspense thriller a must view that's clearly a classic. "},{"Title":"A decent but lacking thriller.","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This movie is a good early '70's attempt at the thriller genre. The movie has a well written story and concept but the slow style of directing doesn't use the movie its story and concept to the max and there are some unnecessary slow and distracting sequences that don't really feel connected with the rest of the movie. The movie had more potential really. This movie was Clint Eastwood's directorial debut and his lack of experience is showing at times. Of course his style and skills improved hugely in the following years and honestly, this movie really isn't a bad debut.Reason why this movie is better than the average thriller is Jessica Walter. She really was superb in her role and was truly chilling at times. Her performance really impressed me and her Golden Globes nomination for this movie was in place.The movie lacks some real tension but still there are some good memorable typical thriller sequences but unfortunately there are too few of those moments to fully make this movie a memorable or a must see thriller. There isn't really an awful lot wrong with this movie but its just that its lacking some real good and unique moments which is mainly due to the inexperienced way of directing and storytelling.A good, watchable early thriller that could had been a real classic though.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The first time ever I saw your face....","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Obsessive people can create hell for those people they go after, as is the case with Evelyn, a beautiful woman that is heard almost every night calling Dave's radio program that is being broadcast from beautiful Carmel by the Sea, a spectacular place in California. One night, Dave gets to meet this lady at his favorite watering hole where he goes to unwind. Dave and Evelyn end up having sex at his place.Dave had no idea what he was getting into. Evelyn, turns out to be an annoying presence. Dave, who has had an ongoing affair with the gorgeous Tobie, will live to regret ever getting intimate with Evelyn, a nut job, that he finds hard to get rid of. Evelyn, on the other hand, feels as though Dave is in love with her and will do anything in her power to make him accept her in her own terms.Unfortunately, Evelyn goes into a rampage, almost destroying Dave's house. Only a friendly police detective begins to see how he is being manipulated by the crazy woman that is wrecking his life with her own obsessive behavior. Nothing prepares him though from what Evelyn will do to make sure he will stay with her forever.This film marked Clint Eastwood's debut as a director. Mr. Eastwood learned a lot from a man he was closely associated with, Don Siegel, who by the way, shows up in the picture as the friendly bartender. Clint Eastwood loves jazz, in any form. His films are always enhanced by performances of the great musicians he admires. He even went to show part of the Monterey's Jazz Festival where Cannonball Adderley is playing.As a new director, Mr. Eastwood, fills a lot of the dull moments in which the action is not being up front, with magnificent photography of his own world, Carmel, and Big Sur. He even resorts to a sort of video within-the-film as Roberta Flack is singing her hit The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face while he and Tobie walk through the scenic cliffs and beaches of the area. One can't really blame him because those are typical excesses of first time directors. In spite of those distractions, he and screen writer, Joe Heims, created an enjoyable film that holds our attention even after more than 38 years!Jessica Walter, an actress that has worked extensively on television, is the disturbed Evelyn. She made an impression as the evil woman that wanted the dashing radio man for herself. Clint Eastwood is as cool as always in his take of Dave. Donna Mills plays Tobie, the beautiful woman in love with Dave. John Larch is good with his police detective. The amazing Clarice Taylor is one of the best things in the film as Birdie.Bruce Surtees photographs the California coast line with fine care to detail. Dee Barton is credited for the original music heard in the film. The great Erroll Garner's hit Misty is heard throughout the movie. This film gave Mr. Eastwood's fans a glimpse of what would follow, a promise this innovator fulfilled throughout his distinguished career. "},{"Title":"Eastwood meets romance meets horror","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Eastwood starts off his directing career on a very high note. Play Misty for Me is definitely a classic, and not a whole lot of other movies can transfer between genres as well as this classic can. Play Misty for Me starts off as a simple movie, basically becoming a romance movie, quickly turning into a thriller and almost a horror movie.Clint Eastwood plays Dave Garver, a local radio DJ whose job interferes with his personal life often. Jessica Walter plays Evelyn Draper, a fan of Dave's who becomes a one night stand for him and eventually she puts herself in the position of his lover and his crazy, obsessed stalker. Donna Mills plays Tobie, Dave's former lover who re-enters his life at a very convenient time. John larch plays Sgt. McCallum, the officer who gets involved in the case of Dave and his obsessed fan.The movie is a mix of genres, and they mix well too. This is definitely a high mark in Eastwood's career, and a change from his usual action movie. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaker opened the doors","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Bit of a groundbreaking thriller for debut director Clint Eastwood. Play Misty For Me could have been the catalyst for a spate of sexual grippers from 1971 onward, only it wasn't done well enough. It took until 1987, when Adrian Lyne left us cold after viewing Fatal Attraction, before this medium would be mastered. Of course screenwriter James Dearden stole his entire premise from this film (written for the screen by Jo Heims and Dean Riesner), but what he did with it was brilliant.Unlike F.A., Eastwood is never depicted as being at fault, even though he's a philandering old goat. Love interest Donna Mills seems happy to overlook this, after a bit of umming and erring, while the frighteningly obsessive Jessica Walter moves right into Clint's life, in a big way.Even if the characters are not that enthralling, director Eastwood does well enough with the formula to keep us entertained, while Walter's nutcase lover is convincingly presented.Sunday, May 24, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"DJ could mean Dangerous Job","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" From playing uncredited bit-parts in films of the mid-fifties, Clint Eastwood has passed through all kinds of Metamorphosis, predominating in `macho' rôles of which the worst must be &#145;Dirty' Harry Callahan, and going through the Sergio Leone westerns made in Spain, as well as other assorted tough policemen, gun-toters of all kinds from Josey Wales to a preacher, and even being a president's bodyguard. Even so, he found time and energy to set up The Malpaso Company, making himself star, director and producer all together. This obviously led to some forgettable films which seemed to have been made so as to keep himself in the forefront of everything, or just to keep the Malpaso employees busy and earning their wages.However, there is the `softer' side of Clint Eastwood, which, fortunately, produced a few films worthy of mention. His afamed Sergio Leone trilogy are of course worth a few watches, but not many of the other films make much of an impression. So it is precisely in some of his `toned-down' films where we get something rather better than just a tough guy doing the `macho' thing. I refer to Bridges of Madison County, The (1995) with Meryl Streep, Two Mules for Sister Sara (1970) with Shirley MacLaine, and Play Misty for Me (1971) with Jessica Walter, the two older films being among the very first released by his Malpaso Company. Apart from the Sergio Leone trilogy, it is precisely these aforementioned three films which most remain in my memory and which I can quite easily watch more than once. The story takes place along the beautiful Pacific shores of Carmel, though I imagine the property developers have seen to that; a women becomes obsessed with the local radio disc-jockey, which obviously leads to disastrous consequences. Well played by both actors, without going over the top, the story unrolls at a sensible rhythm which is maintained to the (foreseeable) ending. A few fragments of Cannonball Adderly, Duke Ellington and Erroll Garner are thrown in for good measure, and Dee Barton's own music is like the photography dark. Thus a tense atmosphere is maintained. A little above six out of ten on my scale.  "},{"Title":"Play it again Clint","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" (SPOILER ALERT) On his night shift on KRML radio DJ Dave Garver, Clint Eastwood, has been spinning records and making fans with his easy going and sexy manor as well as his connoisseur-like knowledge of the songs and the artist who preform them. One of those fans is Evelyn Darper, Jessica Walters, who's obsessed not only with Dave but with a song that she calls and requests him to play for her almost every night Misty. Dave constantly giving a plug on the air for Murphy's Bar & Grill, who's owner Murf ,Don Siegel, attracts Evelyn to the seaside ginmill to meet and even get an autograph of her idol all-night DJ Dave Garver. Being sweet and friendly towards her and even taking her home for a one-night stand turns the more or less shy and insecure Evelyn into an obsessive and dangerous stalker. She feels that Dave is as madly in love with her as she's with him and would go as far as murdering anyone who stands between her and him. The movie starts off with a harmless and uncommitted, even though Dave & Evelyn spend the night together the first time that they met, relationship to something so disturbing and dangerous that it drives Dave almost nuts and even violent toward the obviously sick and divorced from reality Evelyn. Following him all over Carmel and making a spectacle of herself in front of his friends and TV executives has Dave almost becoming a prisoner in his own home and radio studio unable to have any kind of social life at all unless with her. Evelyn turns violent every time she spies Dave with another woman no matter what his relationship is with her. Even his elderly maid Birdie ,Clarice Taylor,who found her in Dave's home wrecking the place whom she attacks and almost cuts to pieces with a butcher knife. This after Evelyn was released from the hospital after trying to kill herself by cutting her wrists. With Dave's old flame Tobie Williams, Donna Mills, back in Carmel he tries to rekindle his relationship with her and is quite successful. It's then that the deranged Evelyn now out on parole, of the mental institution, manically plans to murder Tobie. Well written and directed, by Eastwood himself, suspense/thriller that slowly draws you in not realizing, like Dave Garver, what dangerous ground your treading on. Jessica Walters easily steals the acting honors in her multi-personality role as the love-crazed and psycho Evelyn Draper. Who's obsession with the unsuspecting DJ Dave Graver leads to madness and murder and in the end, for Evelyn, a long and hard fall off a short ledge. "},{"Title":"Dated","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" At the time the topic -a psychopathic stalker- was really modern. At first it's also cleverly done as Eastwood does not take sides both characters are equally emotionally retarded and Eastwood comes across as downright nasty. It's also well acted. The problem with that film is however that the story does not carry it for a feature length so Eastwood includes two awfully long and boring scenes. These films are very visual but also very self indulgent. What the film would have needed is more character development in the middle. So you end up with a film that starts pretty interesting, then slows down incredibly with an ending or rather a climax that comes to sudden. So all in all the dramaturgy is wrong and the look of the film (long, long scenes with music) today seems terribly dated. "},{"Title":"A must for fans of Eastwood (both as director and actor).","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" We face an interesting psychological horror film, in true Hitchcock style in which Eastwood is relentlessly harassed by a woman obsessed with him. The attractive radio D.J. is threatened a psycho (Jessica Walter) which falls in love with him, because a brief romantic encounter.To the surprise of those who had seen Clint hitherto mostly in western characters, they took a big surprise to see that the cowboy could debut directing a film of the horror genre and also a great solution.It is a magnificent Clint Estwood movie, very intelligent and very suspenseful. It was the first film directed Estwood, creating the great classic of the film and one of the best movies of the 70's.Besides his debut as Eastwood as director, may be within the top five films he has made. To me the movie I liked all history, narrative, rhythm Increcendo performances, music...This film remains an interesting footage to its denouement; the story almost does not decay at any time. As a curiosity that in this film has a supporting role as waiter Donald Seagel, director Clint his orders in several films, and for which he said felt great admiration.The film viewer falls to Carmel and Monterey, and those roads along the Pacific (It call the 17millas road between Carmel and Monterey) feeling Dave Garver at the locations of the movie, among other places the paradise beach of Carmel (beautiful town that years later the same Eastwood was mayor) and its cliffs. "}{"Title":"Ominous and Impressive","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A memorable and remarkable debut for the Star turned Director. Upon its release it took Critics and Moviegoers quite by surprise. This is a tense and well handled suspense story that was influential and made its mark with a dark tone and an ominous jazzy score.It is not a great Movie but it is very good and holds its own among the now familiar genre of Psycho Thrillers. It is the overall tone of an underlying looming threat that unveils itself to be an overt onslaught of clinging infatuation and disturbing dementia that is at the core of its success.Not without some shortcomings like Eastwood as a romantic Character with sex scenes and gushing, syrupy set-pieces of heartfelt interludes. With the Actors limited ability these scenes with his True-Love are stretching his range and he does not quite pull them off either on screen or in the Director's chair. it is an overreach.Overall though, this is counterpointed by Jessica Walter's spot-on portrayal of a Woman who will not be ignored or discarded. Some good supporting roles add to the interest and this remains an overlooked, somewhat under-appreciated, impressive start to a checkered Directorial career. "},{"Title":"You're not dumping ME, buster blue eyes!","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Let me just say this about Jessica Walter, she's got the bitch on wheels gig down perfectly, doesn't she? Man, I don't even want to think about something like this happening to me, but then again, I don't look anything like Clint Eastwood so I'm not going to have that problem. In his directorial debut, Eastwood provides a nicely drawn, taut thriller that would have been even more intense without the filler scenes like the one at the Monterey Jazz Fest. And as long as he was throwing in that love scene with Donna Mills, wouldn't it have been something if crazy Evelyn burst on the scene during the Roberta Flack number? What possibilities.I guess what I liked best about the story was the pacing Eastwood used to develop the character of Evelyn, especially with the insertion of those brief but manic outbursts that reveal hints of her true mental state. That flare up at the business meeting had one of the best one-liners ever - She couldn't get laid at a lumber camp - I want to know who came up with that line.So with the revolving door set up involving Tobie's (Mills) roommates, it didn't take a lot to figure out who her last paying tenant would turn out to be. But the resolution to the story was somewhat anti-climactic with Eastwood's character slinking around the house knowing what he was in for but not really taking any precautions against it. I'm glad at least he didn't have any reservations about taking out Miss Personality with a good right hook. With all that, the only question left to answer is this - why was there a forest growing in David's house? "},{"Title":"Time piece thriller!","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" For those who live in the dark this was Clint Eastwood's directional debut and for me I don't believe he could have picked a better subject or script to do it.If you are familiar with Clint's biography then you would find an eerie similarity to Dave Garver in terms of how he lives his life IE;Woman to woman or bed to bed and of course being a local hero and I honestly believe that he is playing himself in many ways. It has been suggested that his Character lacked depth, but to me that was as deep as Dave was going to go and that Clint had done more than enough to establish who DJ Garver is. On the other hand Jessica Walter's character was complicated and while a more experience director might explore this more, however i feel that this did not hinder the experience of the film however it might have been the difference between what some would perceive to be a perfect film. This suspense was raw and for me I liked it that way as opposed to contrived. Look out for Jessica Walter performance as its simply divine.It's a good movie if you like it raw and you don't need the CGI or lavish explosions or gore to get the story through. "},{"Title":"I forgot how much I liked it.","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty for Me was one of the first thrillers I ever saw when I was a kid. I remember thinking that the woman who was after him was really pretty and 'what's this dude's problem?' Wow, to be young again...Yea this movie is pretty well-done, a little excessive, and very fun. I forgot how insane the woman gets, it's pretty funny at parts, actually. Totally the first real 'stalker woman gone nuts' movie ever. This has got to be the most unlikeable Eastwood role I've ever seen him in. I would have preferred if someone else had played Dave Draper, he's just so stupid. He makes mistake after mistake, lies to his girlfriend, lies to the police, lies to everyone and people get hurt for it, including him. He really is a bumbling jerk.All in all, this early example of a Fatal Attraction style film is worth adding to your collection. A hell of a good time to be had by all.7 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"The definitive psycho-bitch-from-hell story and script","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although produced years later, Fatal Attraction was an obvious derivative of this original. Later, Basic Instincts added sub-plots and flashing scenes.While not a GREAT movie, Play Misty for Me was not at all bad for Clint's directorial debut. He will probably never win an Oscar for his acting because he is, after all, Clint. However, his directing has proved to be his greatest skill and gives him substantial influence at WB.If you ever manage to get on the lot, DO NOT, under any circumstances, park in the spot marked Malpaso. "},{"Title":"True to Life for some of us","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hi All, As a somewhat famous(I am a guest at sci-fi/star trek/multi-genre conventions throughout Florida, New York and etc.) WRITER, I can attest to the kind of psycho groupie females that exist. Clint's groupie Evelyn IS REAL. There are girls and women out there who do what she did in this film(alright, not as VIOLENT as her). Clint(whom I met once, and only could say hello Sir--before breaking into stutters, so overwhelmed was I over his regular guyness and unpretentiousness but still Ubercoolness) makes a PROFOUND STATEMENT with his 1st directorial effort.The reality of the hell why not shag the hot groupie chick mentality we celebrities feel comes across tour de force-ibly in this witty and quite audacious script and through Clint's superbly realized Director's Craft.This flick is PURE MAGIC from beginning to end. I will say I disagree with other commentors on here about the jazz and love scenes. I realized very early in my public career that TRUE LOVE and I mean for your genre AND a WOMAN, MUST BE a full time commitment mentally and emotionally. I myself LOVE my chosen genre's Horror, Sci-Fi and Hard Boiled Detective fictions AND I love my soulmateIt is oh so easy to dismiss Clint's character Dave as a slick shag 'em and leave 'em EGOTIST. What he is in here is a REGULAR GUY who has ADORATION thrust at him and who like EVERY GUY who gets this, WOULD ACT(YEAH GUYS--LIKE YOU WOULDN'T SHAG EVERY HOT GIRL WHO ADORES YOU, IF YOU HAD THE OPPORTUNITY!) Jessica Walters both attracted me and scared me when I first saw this at age 10 in 1972 on the late late late movie (I'm 45 now) and ever since, I have secretly wished she would be MY obsessed groupie chick!!!! "},{"Title":"A solid movie with a few weaknesses","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Eastwood's first direction is already a sign of his talent. The mood, the suspense and the effective story is already there. The plot isn't the most original one by today's standards but at the time of the movie's release in the early 70's it was refreshing and it can still be watched with enthusiasm even if the sharpest edge from the story is gone.Jessica Walter's performance as mentally unstable Evelyn is very good and definitely one of the movie's gems. Donna Mills (as Clint's more regular girlfriend Tobie) and the rest of the supporting cast is fine as well and they succeed in what is given to them in terms of acting material. Clint's performance is solid and subtle and that shouldn't come as a surprise. The movie isn't necessarily very rich of dialogue or background score for that matter but the atmosphere is despite of or perhaps sometimes even because of that very enjoyable.The only weaknesses are the already mentioned quite predictable yet coherent plot and some editing/directing decisions. Longs scenes of Dave (Clint) and Tobie in the forest and in a jazz festival seem a bit stretched and unnecessarily long and that breaks the suspense and hurts the drawing power of the movie.A solid thriller and definitely worth a watch. Not a classic but if you're a Clint fan you won't be disappointed. Even to others this movie offers good acting, a coherent plot and some fine directing.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Legend's Misty Origin.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In 1971, at 41, Clint Eastwood confidently flaunts his directing debut with *Play Misty for Me* - at an age when most actors these days are contemplating which reality show to make asses of themselves on.Already known as a bankable actor for his Sergio Leone *Dollar* trilogy and a flurry of westerns and war movies, this was a breakout move for Eastwood, who had to waive his director's fee before the doubting studio would give him the opportunity to direct.Directed with the ease, grace and vitality that would become his trademark, *Misty* is the story of Carmel DJ, Dave Garver (Eastwood), whose apartment screams zenith of bachelor chic (I grew up believing that to be a successful panty hound, I'd need to get an oasis for the middle of my living room); a player who meets a rabid fan, Evelyn, (Jessica Walter), whose recurring on-air request is to Play *Misty* for me. What Dave believes is a one-night stand, Evelyn believes is the start of That Special Something. When Dave tries to rekindle his affair with his regular squeeze, Tobie (blond-and-70s-tasty Donna Mills), delusional psychopath Evelyn has other ideas.Every testes-bearer in the world over 21 can relate to this tale of the needy, clutching, jealous stalker and Jessica Walter is perfectly cast as Evelyn - not so strikingly beautiful that men would sympathize with her insanity, yet exuding that alluring MILF brand of psycho charm that entraps the male with its flattering desperation.One of Eastwood's mentors, Don Siegel (who directed him in three previous movies, and one which would be released a month after *Misty* &#150; a jagged little pill called *Dirty Harry*), cameos as a bartender, proudly watching his protégé angle the camera, pick up the girl, and birth an American legacy.(Movie Maniacs, visit poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Beware of those radio groupies.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It really is true. I've known a few radio personalities in my day, and they all seem to draw groupies to them. Play Misty for Me, as we all know, is the directorial debut of Clint Eastwood. He plays a DJ in a seaside California town whose talent behind the microphone attracts a psychotic woman who proceeds to terrorize him and ruin his life. Clint shows some definite skill in his first effort behind the camera, and the film is generally compelling.Jessica Walter, who plays the obsessed fan, often calls Clint while he's on the air and requests a song titled Misty. One evening after his show is over, the woman tracks Clint down at a bar and allows him to take her home. The bartender is actually played by Clint's mentor Don Siegel! How about that for a cameo? Anyway, this woman is determined not to be a one-night-stand, and she hounds Clint at every turn. The more he tries to push her away, the more psychotic she becomes. She attempts suicide, wrecks his home, cuts up his maid with a huge knife, ruins a job interview.... the list goes on. The woman obviously needs help, but she is so obnoxious and destructive that it becomes impossible for we the audience to feel sorry for her. Things get worse as one of Clint's old girlfriends moves back to town. Clint really likes her, and his attempts to win back this woman anger the unbalanced stalker even further. The film builds to a violent and suspenseful conclusion.Overall, this film is pretty good. It sounds derivative today, but that's only because so many films have obviously used it for inspiration. Clint Eastwood's direction meanders a bit, particularly in the last half hour. Too much time is spent showcasing his love for his ex-girlfriend, for example. One scene set to an easy-listening early 70's type of song goes on and on..... A brief scene at a music festival seems tacked on, as well. In the films final ten minutes, we get back on track and the ending is more than satisfying.I guess the moral of the story, if there is one, would be for us guys to be wary of women that throw themselves at us. That can be difficult, however, depending on how attractive she is, or how much booze we've had! 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"It's so real, it's scary!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" If any good-looking guy ever had a girl obsess over him, you gotta see this movie. It takes that obsession to a dangerous level about 17 years before the better-known Fatal Attraction with Michael Douglas and Glen Close.The whole movie is so realistic - no Hollywood sets - real interiors, real exteriors and no computer generated special efx.Clint Eastwood is NOT super human Dirty Harry here - instead he's a very believable DJ - low key and not that witty or clever - just a real guy trying to have a real life. He's way too kind to his pretty but psycho fan and it almost costs him his life - and his girlfriend's life as well.The pace is all so real and the lighting and photography is simple but beautiful. It's not the most polished film in the world but in 1971 the budgets were a tiny fraction of what they are in 2006.This is also a time capsule of its era and Eastwood and Mills are a beautiful young couple. This is a film that fathers should definitely show their sons at about 18 as a rite of passage. It will help them realize that sex is never casual and that relationships should be built slowly and cautiously. There are some crazies out there and you if you let them into your life, the consequences can be tragic.Good movie. "}{"Title":"One of the best films of the Seventies","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Combination of scenes, and permanent excitement within changes between horror (scenes with Jessica Walter, a superb actress!) to romantic (scenes with Donna Mills, specially the one introducing world evergreen hit The first time I ever saw your face) makes this film part of my TOP Twenty of 1970 - 2000.Colours of the film are modest, California seashore with its different coasts, and waves of the Pacific ocean seem to have impressed cameramen. Details, like motor sound of old Jaguar Cabriolet, or close up shots of appetizing sea food salad, served when Dave Garland has his business meeting, are perfectly treated. Why this movie didn't get an Oscar at least for The first time I ever saw your face? Allover merit One of the best of and with Clint Eastwood. "},{"Title":"Underrated Brilliance!","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although Play Misty for Me was Eastwood's first directorial work it remains my favorite Eastwood-helmed picture. His choices for it are perfect in this under one million dollar budget picture for which he was paid nothing to direct. In the 33 years since its release it has not just held up but risen to become a true film classic. Some will compare it in theme and plot to the later Fatal Attraction but Misty is head and shoulders superior. All of the reasons for Eastwood's popularity among his industry peers show up here. His discernment of script and talent and its combination with fine production values is here. His awareness and respect for his fellow workers show on the screen. It's all due to his intelligence, good taste, kindness and integrity. In this first directorial effort we see that while we enjoy watching Eastwood on screen we also admire and greatly regard his work behind the camera. Additionally no comment on this film is complete without the mention of Jessica Walter. We wonder why we have not seen so much more of her during these past three decades. Her work here is flawless.Although I had seen the film a number of times I looked for the DVD release on it finding it to be of high quality albeit with a terribly designed, unimaginative and ill conceived cover. Beyond the crisp print the DVD contains a treasure trove of data on the making of the film. For those who love exceptional DVD Movie entertainment this is a must.The icing on the cake is the stunning Carmel-by-the-Sea, California backgrounds, a wonderful, sensual montage visualizing Roberta Flack's beautiful rendering of the Ewan McColl hit, First Time Ever I Saw Your Face, the great jazz of Duke Ellington and the piano magic of Erroll Garner. ### "},{"Title":"Not only the best in it's genre but one of the greatest!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I cannot say enough about how superb this film is. Right from the onset it creates a mood and sustains it througout. I had no idea of the amount of suspense. It wrings you dry. Clint was marvelous and absolutely real in the role of Dave Garver. Donna Mills, excellent, Al Monte very funny and the rest of the cast just great. No I didn't forget one of the most real portrayals ever. Jessica Walter as Evelyn Draper. She left an impression on me so much that when I've seen her in other roles I still feel shudders. If there was anyone who ever deserved an academy award for a role it was Jessica Walter for that one. "},{"Title":"A unique combination of horror and human tragedy","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When I first saw Play Misty for Me - some decades ago now - I remember finding it one of the most terrifying experiences on film. In retrospect I think that what most unnerved me was the sex role reversal element with the woman as predator rather than the convention of the man stalking and terrorizing the woman. All right, it has been done several times since, most notoriously in Fatal Attraction, but never with quite the same chilling effect as Jessica Walter's Evelyn in Misty. Now, many viewings later (It is one of those films that I love introducing friends to) the shock horror element, but not the terrifying unease of Jessica Walter's performance, has diminished and I see the film for what it really is, possibly the saddest depiction of a deranged state of mind exacerbated by unrequited love that cinema has given us - more tragic even than Truffaut's Adele H. Clint Eastwood has made some pretty good films in his time (I particularly like Pale Rider), but nothing quite equals this first masterpiece. It is a model of perfect pacing and timing; one that should be made compulsory viewing for all aspiring directors of suspense films, so that disasters such as Arlington Road that knock you on the head in reel one, can be avoided. Hitchcock demonstrated time and again that the really successful suspense film must take the form of a gradual crescendo, a fact clearly understood by Clint Eastwood. Indeed here he takes the process a stage further by giving us the interesting variation of a double crescendo with an interlude of unbelievable calm and relief sandwiched in the middle. I notice that the insertion of the lyrical sequence accompanied by First time ever I saw your face followed by the jazz festival has often been criticised for holding up the action, but surely those who think this are missing the point. To my mind it is just about the cleverest use of lulling the audience into a sense of false security (The monster must certainly be dead or, in this case, put out of harm's way) that the cinema has given us. It has the effect of making the second crescendo even more harrowing than the first. Clint has got the timing and structure of his great tragi-horror film exactly right. "},{"Title":"Play Misty for Me","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Disc Jockey David(Clint Eastwood in one of his finest performances)is quite the swinger, but he gets what's coming to him..a psychopathic chick, Evelyn(Jessica Walter, who is the epitome of creepy, twisted stalkers)he beds who makes his life a living hell. While constantly stalking Dave, Evelyn has quite the tendency of showing up at his doorsteps always forcing herself on him. When Dave's old flame, Tobie(Donna Mills), returns to Carmel, they fall back in love which throws Evelyn into a complete frenzy.Solid suspensor may've lost it's impact thanks to countless clones and imitations. This may also be considered dated, but I really thought the whole addition of the Monterrey Jazz Festival was cool. The jazz is also a fine element Eastwood(who loves the music)adds as a special ingredient to the film background music. But, without Walter's dynamic performance this film couldn't fly. It seems that nearly every actress(especially Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction)has rehashed Walter's performance, but she stands at the top of the heap. The film's photography from the great cinematographer Bruce Surtees is stunning as he frames some magnificent long tracking shots and good angled close-ups. The film is really lean and doesn't waste a whole lot of time setting up the plot and Eastwood, always considered wood by critics, shows his disc jockey terrorized by Evelyn as conflicted and annoyed. He just wishes to start afresh with Tobie, but has committed the mortal sin of sleeping with the wrong person. "},{"Title":"A woman scorned is fatal attraction...","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" JESSICA WALTERS is very convincing as an obsessed ex-fan of DJ CLINT EASTWOOD, the woman who always asked him to PLAY MISTY FOR ME. She manages to keep up that conviction until some decidedly over the top scenes at the end have her chewing the scenery with too much relish.This is the precursor of FATAL ATTRACTION which had basically the same plot but told with even more intensity.The plot is an interesting one and Eastwood manages to get quite a bit of suspense out of the whole thing, although you have to wonder why he is so casual about his own safety with a nutcase like Walters on the loose after a short stay in jail. He should have known that no restraining order would keep someone like that away--but then common sense would have destroyed the rest of the plot.DONNA MILLS is Clint's old flame who returns to town and starts seeing him again, much to the chagrin and obsessive jealousy of Walters who then reaches the point of no return. It's a well crafted, suspenseful tale that drags a little when it spends too much time on his romance with Mills and the jazz music, but it does have Eastwood doing a good job as the rather laid back disc jockey jolted by a woman scorned. "},{"Title":"Clint plays Misty for a madwoman!","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood stars as David Garver; radio DJ and ladies man. However, his philandering gets him into trouble one night when he picks a woman in a bar, a woman whom, unbeknown to him, is the same woman that has been phoning his radio show to ask him to play Misty for me. It isn't long before Dave realises that there's something not quite right about this woman, but by then it's too late; he's already being plunged into every man's worst nightmare! Jessica Walter is absolutely superb as the smothering Evelyn Draper; she captures just the right mood for the obsessed woman; the scenes in particular that see Eastwood and Walter argue, with Walter ignoring everything he says are absolutely superb. Clint Eastwood is the quintessential leading man, and it's not hard to why he cast himself in the lead of this film. Eastwood's performances are always understated, and always dripping with testosterone, and this one is no different. His character here is a little more down to earth than what we're used to from Eastwood, but he plays the role well and it's good to see him in a less familiar sort of role. Eastwood is my favourite actor of all time, and I've never seen him in a film that isn't worth watching.Clint Eastwood also directs this film. Eastwood is under appreciated as a director; he, obviously, has won acclaim for his masterpiece 'Unforgiven', but a lot of his other films such as this one, High Plains Drifter, his entry into the Dirty Harry series; Sudden Impact and more recently, Blood Work didn't receive the recognition that is rightfully theirs. In this film, Clint revs the tension up to the max and the viewer is almost constantly on the edge of their seat waiting for the next thing that the movie sees fit to throw at you. Unfortunately, the movie isn't able to keep it's thrilling pace up for the entire duration as it takes a pit stop mid way through for Clint to go to a rock show. This section of the film diffuses the tension that the movie has created for itself and thus shouldn't be in the film. I feared that the movie might go down the pan after this ill-advised section of the film, but I'm happy to report that the movie soon gets back on course for a thrilling and satisfying conclusion.The music in the film is also superb. The title track, 'Misty' doesn't appear until the end, but the rest of the score is where the real musical artistry comes into play. The music for the film sets the tone of the movie just right, and the theme tune in particular is great; it's playful and easy to like and adds some fun into an otherwise dark thriller. Overall, Play Misty For Me is a very decent thriller. It's not a classic, but it's worth watching and it's a lot better than it's remake; Fatal Attraction. "},{"Title":"Interesting at first, downright comical thereafter CONTAINS POSS. SPOILERS","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I stumbled on this last night and got drawn in by the quiet dread of the slow moving first half. The acting was fairly realistic but the photography has dated pretty badly since.Evelyn was actually pretty frightening in her psychotic persistence and pestering, SPOILER? yet my sympathy for Eastwood went after it dawned on me that he used her in the beginning anyway. END SPOILERIn fact, Eastwood didn't really carry it all that well as a lead (although as a directorial debut it was a fine effort). The boy sure can squint though.((SPOILER)) The last half had me laughing out loud, the obvious twist of the flat mate which was telegraphed several scenes before, the Psycho scene with the sergeant a pale imitator and the hammy denouement (fist, face, window and cliff) was just hilarious and over so quick it must have been a rather bad editing decision ((END SPOILER)) Good lighting though, and Clint's gotten a lot better since (which thankfully should really have been the point). "},{"Title":"Nice camera-work, shame about the film","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood starred in his directorial debut, 'Play Misty for Me', but his role is thankfully self-effacing and (very) laid back; there's some nice cinematography (especially the shots of the Californian coastline), the use of music is interesting and overall this film is surprisingly accomplished for a rookie's work.  However, he does not manage to extract great performances from his female co-stars, Donna Mills and Jessica Walter, who are both wooden, and this type of plot (about a crazed stalker) suffers from some inherent problems which are not avoided here.  Firstly, the film forces us to take sides against someone with serious psychological problems the absence of ambiguity makes for a less interesting tale.  Following on from this, the finale becomes inevitable long before it is arrived at.  And finally, the madness of the stalker can make the whole story seem merely a horrific accident in the life of the victim, more notable for its violence than for what it reveals about the individual.  These problems can be avoided in stories of this type.  For example, in Ian McEwan's novel 'Enduring Love' a victim of a stalker learns some uncomfortable truths about his real relationships from this experience; but predictability and one-sidedness still shadow the story.  Better still is Shane Meadows' superb film 'A Room for Romeo Brass' in which Paddy Considine plays (with supreme skill) a man as sympathetic as he is unhinged.  On the other hand, there are Hollywood disasters like 'Single White Female'.  'Play Misty for Me' has an individual style, but the essence of the plot fits the Hollywood template. Overall, a promising film, but not quite a good one. "},{"Title":"A horror film by Clint Eastwood!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood plays a disc jockey who has a fling with Evelyn (Jessica Walter).  He thinks it's a one time thing.  She thinks otherwise--she wants to possess him and will stoop to anything to get him.  And she loves sharp objects...A very impressive directorial debut for Eastwood.  It's interesting that he did a slasher-type film seven years before Halloween.  But this isn't just an ordinary horror film.  It's quiet and (until the end) non-bloody.  There's just incredibly beautiful shots of Carmel CA.  The script is well-written and sharp (no pun intended) and has interesting, believable characters.  You even feel sorry for Evelyn (sometimes)!  There's also a wonderful love montage between Eastwood and his girlfriend (Donna Mills) set to Roberta Flack's The First Time Ever I Saw your Face. The acting is great.  Eastwood is stone-faced all of the time, but he manages somehow to convey his chasracter's fear.  Walter is just incredible as Evelyn--she really chews the scenery and is downright terrifying.  Why wasn't she even nominated for an Academy Award for this?  Mills is given nothing to do but looks great doing it!  Also Eastwood has some near-nude scenes (in the R-rated version).  Thanks Clint!  But be warned...the attack scenes are scary and the ending is very violent and VERY bloody. The film isn't perfect.  There's some bad 70s dialogue, horrible fashions and a needless, lengthy sequence at a jazz festival.  I have nothing against jazz, but it has nothing to do with the plot and stops the film dead in its tracks--and goes on for about 10 minutes!Well worth seeing.  Avoid the horribly edited TV print and rent the R-rated original.  "}{"Title":"A Misty Attraction","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hearing 'Play Misty for Me' is a classic and Eastwood's directorial debut, I decided to give it a shot. This was my first viewing in 2009 and it would be easy to compare this to 'Fatal Attraction' and more recent 'Obsessed,' but of course I cannot as these two were decades later. So, I guess, this was one that basically started all the basic instinct movies. Clint Eastwood's a Jazz DJ who has an obsessed fan which leads to a fatal attraction. Sorry, there, I did it. Anyways, perhaps I should've seen this movie first. Perhaps then it wouldn't have been such a (VERY) slow-moving picture. (Spoiler alert) We have the (obviously) diabolical femme fatale who's (barely) booked for assaulting a housekeeper 1 hour into the feature and then Clint and girlfriend head off to a Woodstock-type festival for 15 or so minutes. This was followed by the shockingly release of the bad girl just in time for the climax. What? The movie itself was slow at times, but then it screeched to a halt during the music concert. And I guess you'd have to be a fan of jazz (of which, obviously, I'm not) because it's throughout and incredibly wrong in the final battle sequence. It just doesn't flow/fit the action. But, then, again, it's the one that started the evil female stalker films, much like what Michael Myers did in 'Halloween' for the male stalker side. And I'm not an Eastwood hater (loved 'Unforgiven,' 'Gran Torino' and 'In the Line of Fire') but it was either his acting or character that didn't play out too well. So many odd events happen and Eastwood shows little to no emotion, as if just reading lines. In this movie, he actually was supposed to be human and not super-cop Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"The scream you hear may be your own!","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood certainly learned his lessons well when it came to making his directorial debut, with this now legendary shocker. It may not be all that original, but when it comes to this kind of stalker melodrama, it definitely set a template for others to follow. The pacing wasn't always as tight as this viewer would have liked, but the script (written by Jo Heims and Dean Riesner, based on Heims' story) is often pretty snappy and the film is well cast, and well acted, from top to bottom.Clint also stars, playing late night jazz D. J. Dave Garver, who learns that he has a devoted admirer in the sexy Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter). They have a brief fling, but Dave finds that Evelyn will be extremely unwilling to let him go. She will also go over the deep end upon her discovery that Dave is busy making amends with another woman, an ex-girlfriend named Tobie (Donna Mills). The balance of the film shows what happens as Evelyns' actions threaten to completely derail Daves' life.Clint is good in the lead, and Mills is appealing in her part. John Larch is a delight as a sardonic police detective who gets involved when the deranged Evelyn assaults Daves' housekeeper Birdie (Clarice Taylor). All lending their valuable support are Jack Ging, Irene Hervey, and James McEachin. Clint also casts his directing mentor, and five time collaborator, Don Siegel, in the role of Murphy the bartender, and Siegel does a solid and engaging job. But the main reason that Play Misty for Me is so memorable is because Walter is so incredible. She is, by turns, amusing, sexy, clingy, pathetic, and ultimately psychotic.Well filmed, and situated in Clints' old stamping ground, the town of Carmel. In addition to the score by Dee Barton, there's plenty of great music along the way, with some sequences set at the Monterey Jazz Festival. There are brief, jarring bursts of violence, and a fairly effective and suspenseful finale.This has to rank as one of the most iconic films in this whole sub genre of thrillers.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's mediocre director debut","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Mr. Eastwood's director debut, a nocturnal thriller, viewed in retrospect, is approximate to an amalgam of FATAL ATTRACTION (1987) and MISERY (1990), a radio jockey Dave Garver (Eastwood) in Carmel, California, hooks up with a girl claims to be his groupie, Evelyn Draper (Walter), it is a no-strings-attached fling, at least, in Dave's perspective, but she turns out to be his worst nightmare with her maniac obsession towards him, especially when Dave starts to patch up his romance with his ex-girlfriend Tobie (Mills), she will never let that happen as long as she is in the land of the living.As a slasher with a twisted female psycho as the antagonist, the drawing power is predominantly contingent to Jessica Walter's performance, Evelyn is an out-and-out lunatic on the loose, it takes time and someone's shed blood for Dave to realise that, and obviously, Tobie is on the top of the list as her next victim, Dave has to confront his incubus face-to-face, and ends his peril once for all. Thankfully Walter is a fiery enforcer of chills and derangement, heightens the clinical symptoms of Evelyn's mental disorder - self-absorbing in her own delusional frame, denying the real world with her passive-aggressive fixation, occasionally exploding with polarised mood swings, self- destructive and extremely bloodthirsty - to flesh out an utterly unsympathetic character, still, she is less scarier than Bates in MISERY and less vitriolic than Close in FATAL ATTRACTION.Apart from that, there is really nothing special to cull from this low-budget work aiming for cheap thrill, it is a moderately engaging thriller, the diegesis is awfully predictable and the film itself is not pulpy enough to be worshiped as a cult classic. There are notable adjuncts, like the usage of live footages at the Monterey Jazz Festival and a music video treatment with Dave and Tobie's romantic getaway in the picturesque landscape accompanied by Roberta Flack's soulful THE FIRST TIME EVER I SAW YOUR FACE, which are wholly inconsistent with the film's tenor and plot-wise, they are so irrelevant.We know how Clint Eastwood loves jazz music, and the Erroll Garner's jazz standard Misty plays a key role in the story, if only deducing from this movie, one might never guess what a major cinema virtuoso Mr. Eastwood would mature into along with time, alas, it is always helpful to have some trial run to get familiar with a new line of work. "},{"Title":"nice work from Jessica Walter","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Dave Garver (Clint Eastwood) is an overnight radio DJ in Carmel-by-the-Sea, California. Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter) calls in to ask Play Misty for me. She tracks him down at a bar and they have a sexual encounter. He's a serial casual dater but she won't take a hint. His casual dating turns into a hard break-up. She takes it badly by trying suicide in his home. He is forced to care for her and she threatens his reputation.This is Clint Eastwood's directorial debut and it's competent work. A lot of it is Jessica Walter doing a stellar job as the woman who slowly reveals herself to be crazy. There are no likable characters and that's the same problem I have with Fatal Attraction. I don't particularly care for anybody in this movie. There's also nothing quite as memorable as a boiled bunny but Jessica Walter is great. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's Directorial Debut","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A brief fling between a male disc jockey (Clint Eastwood) and an obsessed female fan (Jessica Walter) takes a frightening, and perhaps even deadly turn when another woman enters the picture.I appreciate that Eastwood's directorial debut was a thriller, rather than a western or drama or action film. He took a bold turn from what people might have expected and excelled at it. Over forty years later (2015), the film holds up very well and it really needs to be revisited by people in light of Eastwood's subsequent success (not to mention Walter's rising star from Arrested Development).I enjoyed this greatly, and may need to add it to my personal collection... especially if a blu-ray exists. "},{"Title":"Careful! I might put your eye out.....","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Disc jockey Dave Garver attracts the attentions of demented fan Evelyn Draper. Evelyn lets Dave pick her up at a bar, but later at her apartment, she admits that she is the cooing caller who repeatedly asks Dave to play the Garner classic Misty. From then on, Evelyn stalks Dave everywhere, ruining his business lunch, assaults his maid, ransacks his house and all of his belongings, and finally threatens to kill his girlfriend Tobie.........Eastwoods directorial debut has almost twenty years on Fatal Attraction, and while the controversy surrounding that movie is still pretty notorious, the controversy Eastwoods movie has a little of now, didn't seem like a problem at the time of release.The problem is that its a very misogynistic affair, with almost every female character portrayed as a plaything, or a lesser person to to the male counterparts. But, it's clear that Eastwood was Siegels protégé of sorts, so if you can just about ignore the way the female characters are depicted, you'll be in for terrifying ride.It's shows that no matter where or when you do it, one night stands never work, because you just don't know the history of that person you meet, or what history they have on you, especially when your a minor celebrity in your hometown.Eastwood is brilliant as the womanising DJ, and he does deserve some of the things that are happening, after all, he's a mans man, with luxurious hair, and even more luxurious outfits, like a real life Ron Burgundy.But Evelyn, she goes from slightly unhinged to psychotic in less than a minute, and when she finally goes for broke,the film is intense beyond belief.It also shows that Eastwood has always been a competent director, and he deserves the illustrious career he's had behind the camera.It's obviously not as shocking now as it was forty years ago, but this must have been something else back then.And he must have the hardest punch in the world, because he literally punches her out if a window and off a cliff.You dig? "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This was a brilliant movie.Jessica Walter's amazing psychotic performance was absolutely frightening and so very real.It was the original stalker movie before Fatal Attraction.And great to see a young Donna Mills I barely recognized.Great Directional debut by Clint Eastwood, Fantastic work !I read somewhere Clint gave up his Acting fee for the movie to be only paid as a Director.Overall the film was a great financial and critical success, with exposure of Robertas Flack song The first time I saw your face going to Number 1 from the movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent debut feature from Clint Eastwood","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" 1971 was quite a year for Clint Eastwood, as he not only released Play Misty for Me but the iconic Dirty Harry too. Each film is set in the San Francisco area and both are brilliant examples of different sub-genres of the 70's thriller. Misty is probably most famous now for being Eastwood's directorial debut. It's a well-documented fact that he has gone on to forge himself a very well respected career behind the camera. And I have to say that this debut movie remains one of my absolute favourites of his and is a very self-assured debut, made at a time when very few actors took the directorial reigns. The genre was one not readily associated with Eastwood either before or since - the suspenseful psychological thriller. But he shows a very sure hand, his low key and realistic approach to the material accentuating the tension if anything.The story is about a late-night jazz DJ who has a one night stand with a fan called Evelyn who he soon discovers to his cost is not only obsessive but dangerously psychotic too. It's a plot-line that some high profile Hollywood films have adopted over the years but back in 1971, this was a pretty original idea. The influence of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho (1960) is pretty evident here, although the emphasis has been shifted somewhat with the psychopath being a woman. Jessica Walters plays Evelyn very effectively indeed and is the standout performer here for sure. As the film progresses little clues mount up one by one to indicate that she is seriously disturbed, varying from obsessive possessiveness, to sudden vocal outbursts at strangers in public, ending up with homicidal violence. Eastwood handles this progression well and builds things up nicely. He also includes some very well executed creepy scenes, such as a sequence in a meadow where we see Eastwood and his girlfriend chat only for the camera to suddenly zoom up into a distant forest to show Evelyn malevolently looking down on them.It seems like some people don't like the musical diversions taken in the latter half of the movie where there is a romantic montage to the Roberta Flack song 'The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face' and the extended, loose documentary style footage of the Monterey Jazz Festival. I do understand why others don't like these moments so much as they really dilute the focus and deflate the tension a little. But I myself don't mind them too much. The montage is beautifully shot and the song very nice, while I quite like the unexpected change of pace that the festival material creates. They both just add something unusual to the overall character of the film on the whole.Overall, this is a very fine psychological thriller, with several effectively scary moments. It has fine acting and attractive location photography to boot. A definite success from Eastwood. "},{"Title":"Play Misty for Me is a superbly well-crafted shocker.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A brief fling between a male disc jockey and an obsessed female fan takes a frightening, and perhaps even deadly turn when another woman enters the picture. Roger Ebert wrote, Play Misty for Me is not the artistic equal of Psycho, but in the business of collecting an audience into the palm of its hand and then squeezing hard, it is supreme. He also wrote, The movie revolves around a character played with an unnerving effectiveness by Jessica Walter. She is something like flypaper; the more you struggle against her personality, the more tightly you're held. Clint Eastwood, in directing himself, shows that he understands his unique movie personality. He is strong but somehow passive; he possesses strength but keeps it coiled inside. And so the movie, by refusing to release any emotion at all until the very end, absolutely wrings us dry. There is no purpose to a suspense thriller, I suppose, except to involve us, scare us, to give us moments of vicarious terror. Play Misty for Me does that with an almost cruel efficiency. Play Misty for Me is a superbly well-crafted shocker. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Thriller","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's been a long time since I have seen this film. I remember loving this movie but had forgotten most of the film so I re-watched it. I can tell you now I remember exactly why I loved this film - it is a brilliant edge-of-your-seat thriller. Well worth watching if you are into crime, mystery, thrillers and romance. This movie is creepy right from the start but keeps getting better and better. A real horror movie.Jessica Walter plays Evelyn - she is a very convincing actress and played the role of Evelyn so perfectly well. She kept me afraid of what she might do next. I will admit. I wanted the character (Evelyn) dead about half way through the film... she got on my nerves because the character is very much a psycho.Clint Eastwood is good as usual - and was great in this film. (It's nice to see him without a gun in his hand in a movie). He played the role of Dave, the disc jockey, who ends up attracting the wrong woman in his life (Evelyn). His voice is very sexy in this film - so you can hear why Evelyn was attracted to his voice over the radio. I felt sorry for Dave throughout the movie.Donna Mills plays Tobie - Dave's love interest. Tobie I felt bad for too... she is a completely innocent victim.The entire cast is so good! Everyone is great in this movie - seems all the actors had their heart and soul into making this wonderful film.This is a great late night movie - but watch it without distractions because you will not want to miss anything.10/10 "}{"Title":"Borderline on screen","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Being a man with a life long experience of women with BPD or Borderline Personality Disorder, this picture really made me marvel over Eastwoods true to life depicting of such a woman.I was a bit surprised when watching the bonus material on the DVD, to hear him refer to her mental condition as schizophrenia which is something quite different, with no typical similarities to BPD.Eastwood manage to flawlessly play the persecuted protagonist. He's annoyed by her, he doesn't understand her, he wants to get her out of his life, but doesn't know how. Instead he tries to escape her and that's the least effective move he possibly can do, dealing with a frenzied BPD.I'm sensitive to bad soundtracks and this one's got one the opening scene is dramatic and beautiful, only to be disturbed by a horrendously up-beat pop tune. Why not start it off with Misty? He did get the rights to it and it appears at the end. The Jazz Festival part is quite a longueur, not boring if you like jazz music, but a bit off-topic here.Jessica's attack on the older female business associate of Eastwood's at a seaside lunch restaurant is my favourite scene. It's all very realistic. "},{"Title":"Don't Play Misty...","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays a radio disc jockey(and ladies man) who has a persistent caller to his show request the song Misty for her every night. Clint eventually meets this woman named Evelyn(Jessica Walter) and has(what he thinks) is a harmless fling with her, only to discover to his horror that she is really an obsessive, disturbed woman who will not be brushed off so lightly. In fact, she isn't going anywhere...Donna Mills plays his girlfriend, and there is a memorable love scene between them played to the classic song The first time ever I saw your face. Though an interesting directorial debut for Eastwood, this suspense film is undermined by a highly unsympathetic lead character. Not that he deserved to be terrorized by this clearly insane woman, but his insensitive treatment and general selfish attitude makes things worse, and some back story for her behavior would have been nice(of course, there is none for Eastwood's character either!) Close call for me, but it just misses. "},{"Title":"Despite the too familiar obsessed by scorned lover theme, this film still resonates","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty for Me is about a handsome radio DJ named Dave Garver (Clint Eastwood) who has a one night stand with a female fan of his nightly radio show named Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter). She frequently listens to the show and calls in to request that he play a song called Misty. The no strings attached encounter takes a turn for the worse as Evelyn becomes increasingly possessive of Dave. She believes that the two of them have something special; however, Dave has no romantic interest in her. His heart actually belongs to ex-girlfriend Tobie (Donna Mills). This movie is satisfying; although, one out of place element in this rather dark film is the inclusion of a lengthy romantic montage with Dave and Tobie featuring the classic Roberta Flack hit The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face. It's like it's done just to make sure we see a loving side to Dave and avoid the risk of us seeing him as a jerk that deserves what he gets. Play Misty for Me predates Fatal Attraction by about 15 years but the female protagonist in this film makes Glenn Close's character in Fatal look rather reasonable. The film marks the directional debut by Clint Eastwood which makes it worthy of a look just for this historic value. "},{"Title":"Play Misty for Me ***1/2","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Still another version of a Fatal Attraction hit the theaters in 1971.While Clint Eastwood is rather flat as the music jockey victimized by an over-zealous fan, it's Jessica Walter who steals the movie in a fabulous performance as the sex-obsessed, frustrated, and ultimate vicious person here. Finally realizing that she can't have Eastwood for herself, she embarks on a spree of violence which is most shocking to say the least.Very little to say for a justice system and asylum that frees her to commit more mayhem.There is a scene stealing performance by the maid, the latter later becomes a victim to Ms. Walter. "},{"Title":"Clint's fatal attraction!","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Adrian Lyne's 'Fatal Attraction' ( 1988 ) starred Michael Douglas as a happily married man who has a one-night stand with a woman ( Glenn Close ) who then starts stalking him. It opened to good reviews and excellent box-office. One person who could not possibly have liked it was Clint Eastwood, seeing how it was a virtual remake of his 1971 directorial debut 'Play Misty For Me'. Eastwood is 'Dave Garver', a disc jockey based in Carmel, California ( where Clint later became Mayor! ). His late-night show keeps getting requests for the same song, Erroll Garner's 'Misty'. At a bar, Dave meets the admirer in question, the strikingly beautiful if eccentric 'Evelyn Draper' ( Jessica Walter ). After a night of bed-post rocking, they go their separate ways and that appears to be that. But she becomes possessive, turning up uninvited at Dave's house to cook meals, interrupting business lunches, spying on him, and generally making a nuisance of herself. When Dave becomes romantically involved with 'Tobie' ( Donna Mills ), Evelyn slashes her wrists in his bathroom...Good script by Jo Heims and Dean Reisner ( the latter had worked on the star's 1968 picture 'Coogan's Bluff' ), top-notch direction by Eastwood ( critic Barry Norman later commented that it was the most impressive directorial debut from an actor he had seen ), and a power-house performance from Walter as the psychotic Evelyn. When the picture was chosen to appear in the B.B.C.-2 series 'Moviedrome' in the 90's, presenter Alex Cox wondered why she had never been given as good an acting role since ( thank goodness Clint didn't make it a few years later when he was dating Sondra Locke. Can you imagine her as Evelyn? It doesn't bear thinking about! ).Clint's director buddy Don Siegel has a cameo as 'Mickey' the bartender, and John Larch provides good support as a detective who gets disposed of in a manner which Alfred Hitchcock would have appreciated. The song - 'The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face' - was sung by Roberta Flack and later became a standard. The novelisation was published in the U.K. by Star Books and was still in print well into the 80's.A terrific film - and not a broiled rabbit in sight! "},{"Title":"Very good, with some weaknesses","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty For Me is one of the great stalker films of all time, with some weaknesses to be described later.The idea is a small market DJ (who happens to drive an expensive sports car and live in an affluent area along the Northern California coast near Carmel, not typical among low paid small market DJ's, but I digress) who meets a listener who seems to be obsessed with him. The story develops from there with both the DJ and the stalker both proving to make some major mistakes.Nice location shooting in Carmel and Monterey, CA.Eastwood is quite good in this departure for him. So is Jessica Walter as the stalker. In fact, really good.I like this film a lot, except for some extra footage at the Monterey Jazz Festival that really does not add much to the film. I guess this was the era of adding cool footage, but it really does nothing for the film, and IMO should have been edited severely.Overall, a very good first directorial for Clint, and of course, probably an inspiration for Fatal Attraction. "},{"Title":"Don't Mess with Jess!","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Eastwood was not an actor who was going to be content toiling away in bit parts of B movies or as the star of a weekly television series, nor was he going to be content to simply remain a leading man when that success finally found him. He wanted to direct and with this film, he got the chance. Fortunately, the project was one that had potential for commercial success, being that it deals with suspense and sexual relationships, but his heretofore-untapped artfulness didn't hurt either. He plays a Carmel, California disc jockey who regularly hears from a female caller requesting to hear Misty, a romantic standard. One evening, he meets the female caller (Walter) by chance and indulges in a no strings attached sexual liaison even though he's trying to work things out with his estranged girlfriend Mills. Before he knows it, Walter has attached herself to him like a barnacle and he can't get rid of her. This kicks off a series of disturbing events that include interference with his career, vandalism and even assault. No one seems to be able to contain Walter from her evil-doings and, in time, Eastwood ceases to be her only target. Eastwood does a decent enough job acting-wise, though he is not particularly suited to the part he's playing. His coup here is in helming his first motion picture with style and skill. Walter is a revelation. She has many moments involving quick changes from flirtatiousness to fury and handles them expertly. Some of her outbursts are hilariously inappropriate such as when she tells one of Eastwood's neighbors to go screw yourself or exclaims that Hervey, the mature business associate of Eastwood's couldn't get laid in a lumber camp! It's an electrifying, scary performance that made it a little difficult to completely trust her in later portrayals! Mills role is almost completely decorative, but she was a good one to pick in that department. Eastwood did make good use of her beautiful eyes, especially in one revelatory moment. Larch adds some nice texture to his role of police detective, McEachin plays a doobie-loving fellow DJ and Taylor has some fun as Eastwood's mouthy housekeeper. Frequent Eastwood director Siegel has a small role as a chummy bartender. The film's location is another character, with the shoreline of Carmel being paid striking tribute throughout. Two sequences have, at times, been accused of slowing down the pace. One is a love montage between Mills and Eastwood set to the song The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face. This is actually, though lengthy, a very evocative and well-handled sequence and a necessary one in establishing the relationship of the couple. The other is a digression to the annual Monterrey Pop Festival. This one, while an interesting time capsule of the moment, does slow down the momentum and is too taste-specific and distracting to be as long as it is, serving very little purpose dramatically. The once startling and fearsome plot devices of this film were later ripped off quite heavily in the bigger budgeted Fatal Attraction (as well as in various TV shows and other movies.) Glenn Close was also quite amazing in that film, but Walter certainly paved the way with her eye-opening work here. Thankfully, Walter chose to call in and request Misty or the film might have been titled, Play The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face for Me! "},{"Title":"Clint's accomplished directing debut","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although Clint Eastwood has been acting in films for over 50 years, what people tend to forget is he's been directing them for almost as long. People didn't actually take him seriously as a director until he walked away with the Oscar for Unforgiven, the first of two films that would net him an Academy Award for Best Director. And while that was in 1992, he'd been directing films 20 years before that.His directorial career began way back in 1971 with Play Misty For Me, a fairly modest but surprisingly confident debut for Clint. Especially considering it was his first time out in the director's chair.Play Misty For Me is Clint Eastwood's attempt to make a psychological thriller. Not that he has any interest in the inner workings of the psychotic mind. He's just made a film that comes with all the standard trappings. Nothing else.Clint has clearly studied up on his Hitchcock. All of what you'd expect from the genre are present and correct. The psycho looney. The hapless victims. Manipulative mind games. And the requisite (but surprisingly restrained) amount of gore. But he takes them, polishes them off and dishes them up as if they were all new again.Clint plays Dave Garland, a late night DJ. When a female fan, Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter, superbly scary) calls in requesting he play Misty for her, the two of them get physical, up close and personal. But what was merely a one night stand for Dave was clearly something more for Evelyn. She calls him at all hours of the night. Pesters him frequently. And the more he shuns her, the more clingy and possessive of him she becomes. Becoming increasingly paranoid and vindictive, her obsession with Dave becomes more and more deranged, to the point of madness.Reading that paragraph, I'm sure Fatal Attraction must have occurred to you. In fact as you watch Play Misty For Me, you have to wonder why Clint didn't sue the makers of Fatal Attraction for blatant plagiarism. They have many similarities. Even an attempted suicide as a manipulation tactic. Yet oddly enough, Fatal Attraction was a huge hit and is widely known, while Play Misty For Me is the lesser known film even though it did the theme first.Oh well, that's audience's for you! Though Clint fills out the director's chair for the first time, even at this early stage he shows what a natural talent he is as a filmmaker. His direction is slick and involving. And surprisingly confident too, without a hint of pretension or self-doubt. Much like the man himself!He sets scenes up with lots of lovely little touches. Like an image of Clint and his girlfriend in the background. And the image of Evelyn's hand in the foreground, crushing a twig with it. And that's all before John Carpenter tried similar things with Halloween. He also performs lots of interesting little segues. With varying degrees of lighting. And some of the camera closeups are brilliantly inventive. Even oppressive. Like the closeup on Donna Mills eyes. She sees the cuts on Evelyn's wrists. She knows who Evelyn is, but keeps that to herself. The camera never pulls back. It instead has her voice off camera, acting naturally, telling us all we need to know. That's really quite enough.But as excellent as Eastwood's direction is, he doesn't seem quite as confident in front of the camera as he is behind it. I think I would have preferred if he had stayed in the director's chair, and cast someone else in the role of Dave. He never quite convinces as a smooth DJ, especially one who reads sensitive poetry out over the airwaves. He seems too awkward and restless as a romantic lead.But Jessica Walter is perfectly cast as Evelyn. Her presence lights up the whole film. She's clearly well versed in the psychology of stalker behaviour. Consumed by delusions of love for someone she's only known over the radio. When confronted by the reality, it shatters her illusions. Walter does a superb job alternating her behaviour. Seeming playful and coy one moment, and suddenly irrational and vindictive the next. Hidden away in her words are veiled insinuations. Like when she cuts her wrists, she knows the publicity could damage Dave's career since it took place in his house. Forcing him to remain with her. She communicates moods with the greatest of subtleties. Through a penetrating stare or a significant pause, we can see the calculation. We see how her mind works. Even her knock is intended to be annoying.And yet as nutty as Evelyn is, you do feel sympathy for her. You sense her loneliness. And her longing. Which is a good thing, because Clint is a little vague on the details. We know practically nothing about Evelyn. We don't even know her job. She's given such a curious lack of back story by the film, that if it weren't for Jessica Walter's impressive, embodied performance the woman would be a total blank.Fortunately, Walter is a good enough actress to make up for the fact her character is so oddly underdeveloped. She is always convincing in the role, and the scene where she menaces Donna Mills with a pair of scissors contains a classic lineI hope David likes what he sees when he gets here. Because that's what he's taking to Hell with him!The climax is good, even if it ends a little more abruptly than expected. Couldn't imagine the so-called thrillers of today trying that, but Play Misty For Me is still a quite excellent, attentive little thriller. A few flaws here and there, like an extended love scene between Clint and Mills that slows the film right down, but a very, very good film none the less. Something that would not be an isolated incident for Clint Eastwood. "},{"Title":"Smothered And Stalked","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" We take it for granted now that Clint Eastwood is now one of the great directors, with all the films he has made--and as it turns out, he isn't too bad of an actor either. But such wasn't the case when he made his first film both in front of and BEHIND the camera with PLAY MISTY FOR ME in 1971. Back then, he was more of a box office draw rather than an artist. But the great learning experiences he had had with guys like Sergio Leone and Don Siegel encouraged him. As a result, PLAY MISTY FOR ME must be considered one of the greatest debuts for any director.Eastwood portrays a local DJ on a jazz radio station in Carmel, California (where he would become mayor in real life in the 80s), who at one point gets a call from a mysterious woman to play 'Misty' for me (referring to the famous song by Errol Garner). As it turns out, this mysterious woman (Jessica Walter) has this thing for him, an obsession. But Eastwood isn't the kind to really commit to anything except his work, until an old flame of his (Donna Mills) shows up back in town. And when Walter sees this happening, then her obsession takes a twisted psychopathic turn. Eastwood is suddenly in serious danger, as a local cop (John Larch) sardonically reminds him a time or two; and in the end, he must confront Walter in a somewhat violent showdown at Mills' isolated house, where Walter is holding her hostage.Working with a small crew, a budget of only $900,000, and a film schedule of under two months, Eastwood nevertheless overcame the limitations he had to work with and came out with an extremely effective suspense thriller that manages to work wonders. Besides showing himself to be a very skillful director, he also shows a more diverse acting range than the Dirty Harry roles or the Man With No Name of his 1960's Leone films. Walter makes for an incredible scary stalker, a kind of savage performance that many feminists understandably might see as an example of Eastwood's perceived misogyny. Even if the latter is true, it doesn't take away from the fact that this is an incredible piece of work, particularly with respect to Bruce Surtees' fine cinematography. Of special note are the scenes of Mills and Eastwood walking along the beach with Roberta Flack's The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face playing on the soundtrack.Much has been made about how this film was remade a little more than a decade and a half later as FATAL ATTRACTION; and while that film is certainly nothing to sneeze at, PLAY MISTY FOR ME is a truly original and terrifying piece that is difficult to forget out of hand. Moreover, it marked the emergence of Clint Eastwood, morphing from a tough guy to a great director and actor. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!  The patriarch of stalker films!","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty For Me was a risky gamble for everyone involved but thank goodness someone gave the Hollywood master mind Clint Eastwood the opportunity because if nothing else the film showed exactly what Eastwood was capable of...true brilliance. Nowadays Misty might be considered a rehashed old concept but in 1971 the stalker film was a new concept. Made on an extremely modest budget (in fact Eastwood directed the film for FREE!), filmed entirely on location in Eastwood's town (which he later became mayor of.) Play Misty For Me rivals any Hitchcockian thriller I have ever seen. In fact I think Hitchcock was likely a major influence on Eastwood's style and direction for this film.Clint Eastwood not only directs for the first time but also stars in the film. He plays small town radio disk jockey Dave Garver. This is one of Eastwood's most unique roles. His gritty, rough image is truly put aside to portray a womanizing normal guy who gets caught up in the wrong situation. It's without a doubt one of Eastwood's best portrayals. After a supposed no strings attached evening with a fan of the radio show played brilliantly by Jessica Walter (Golden Globe nominated performance) Dave discovers he can't get rid of his one night stand quite that easily. Walter portrays Evelyn, a seemingly normal nice girl who gradually begins to take her obsession with Dave way too far especially when Dave finally wins back his former girlfriend. Jessica Walter in this role is quite simply insane. She rivals the great Kathy Bates in Misery for the most screwed up obsessed fan ever. She goes from nice to insane in split seconds and looks great doing both. You become almost annoyed with her but not because her performance is bad...the exact opposite, you feel Eastwood's annoyance with this clingy girl who eventually loses her mind completely. Donna Mills plays Eastwood's true love interest Tobie. She's the real nice girl and her and Eastwood have some great chemistry and you want them together. The rest of the supporting cast all do a great job along with the three main stars of the film. The banter and interaction between Eastwood and Walter is just captivating and her gradual loss of sanity is scary. It's the most suspenseful, and riveting film for it's time. Now it does have it's down sides. There are two rather tacked on, overly blatant love scenes and another annoyingly LONNNNG scene at a music festival. So long I fast forwarded it and missed nothing. But everything else is done brilliantly and this is a must see classic. You haven't seen suspense until you've seen Misty. Misty is what everyone says Psycho was for the sixties (although I was never a fan.) This film turned Eastwood into the Hollywood multi-talented star that he remains to this very day. You have to watch every shot to truly appreciate what he does and consider nothing in this film was done on a set or sound stage but rather in real homes, building, radio stations, on the cliffs...everything. It's brilliant and just feels so real and the character progression is equally as impressive. The story is great (although nowadays not new territory by any means) but watch the film remembering that nothing like this existed at the time and you'll see it's true brilliance. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Make your day","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood had been making movies for years before he decided to make the crossover to film-maker as well as star. Smash hits such as Sergio Leone's Dollars trilogy and Dirty Harry had left him with enough financial clout to be taken seriously.Naturally, when he read the script about a superstar DJ stalked by an unhinged fan, Clint knew he would be perfect for the role. As with the later Stephen King thriller Misery, obsession is like rocket fuel for any movie's story engine.Unlike many films which may look great on the surface, closer examination reveals the engine carrying the story forward is about as powerful as a milk float.Here there's enough drive to carry Eastwood's flick toward the close with ease.One of the keys to Misty's success is the simplicity of the storyline Sultry, enigmatic Evelyn Draper phones up a late night DJ repeatedly, asking for the same record to be played each night. The caller soon admits she is obsessed with him and eventually they meet. However, when our hero attempts to break their relationship, Evelyn's eccentricities become more and more dangerous.Finding someone to play the villain of the piece was no mean feat and Jessica Walter delivered arguably the best performance of her career. She was no stranger to the big screen, having starred in a handful of flicks such as Grand Prix and Number One before Clint called her up and asked her to play Evelyn. (She's still going strong now and can be seen in Milla Jovovich's upcoming movie Dummy.)Aside from being one of the most tense movies of the week, PMFM also boasts some of the best backdrops. If you ever get the chance, get a flight to San Francisco, hire a car and recreate Clint's coast road tour seen over the opening titles. Highway 1 may contain more twists and turns than Spaghetti Junction but it's easily one of the best drives in California. Big Sur, Monterey and Cannery Row are perfect backdrops for any movie and Clint wisely makes full use of them, giving his little film a huge scope to begin with before focusing on the claustrophobic relationship between the handful of characters.You can't really talk about a movie like this without mentioning the soundtrack.Roberta Flack's haunting song, The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face, became a worldwide smash after appearing here. Rumour has it that Eastwood was searching on his radio for a decent song, came across this classic and included it in the movie.It turned Flack into a star and she spent 14 weeks on the UK chart a year later. Personally, the first time ever I saw this film, my video ended half way through so if you're taping it, be sure not to make the same mistake. "},{"Title":"Stalking classic but Eastwood's still learning the ropes","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" You know, I always thought FATAL ATTRACTION was the first of the psychological thrillers. You know, the film that kicked off that huge wave through the late '80s/early '90s and which gave Michael Douglas a decade of playing rich-guys-haunted-by-powerful-women. Now I've watched PLAY MISTY FOR ME, a 1971 thriller directed by and starring Clint Eastwood, and I realise that FATAL ATTRACTION is nothing more than a rip-off.PLAY MISTY FOR ME gets there first, and arguably does it better, giving the story more 'meat'. Certainly most of the plot elements &#x96; the initial hints of desperation, the suicide attempt, the climax &#x96; are borrowed wholesale for the latter film. But, although this film came out a good decade and a half before the Glenn Close movie, I have to say I enjoyed the latter one more. PLAY MISTY FOR ME hasn't dated too well, and Eastwood's direction and acting are less than you'd expect given his calibre. His character feels bland and unlikeable, and his direction is pedestrian. It's as if he were learning the ropes, ready for future greatness in the likes of THE OUTLAW JOSEY WALES.Certainly the pacing is as slow as molasses. The characters are mostly stereotypes. Jessica Walter is more of a tragic figure and nowhere near as frightening or disturbed as Glenn Close was. She doesn't really cut it as a villain. Despite some beautiful locations, you never really get a sense of time or place. Characters just drift through the movie and Clint never seems too bothered or surprised that Walter's character is targeting him. I never got a sense of real terror or menace, and in fact I was pretty bored by the whole thing. All right, so it might have got there first and it's an important film for the films it later inspired, but PLAY MISTY FOR ME is one of my least favourite Eastwood movies. "},{"Title":"The Original Fatal Attraction..............","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Bearing in mind this was made in 1971 and was the first directorial effort of Clint Eastwood, its a pretty wonderful thriller. Okay, so it is a little dated in its 70's style, but you will be hard pressed to see a more effective, entertaining, knife-wielding lunatic female- and that includes Glenn Close's turn in Fatal Attraction. The obsessive, Evelyn, who latches onto Clint's free-loving womanising DJ, is superbly played by Jessica Walter. This has a touch of Hitchcock about it to me and was certainly a mature choice of movie for Eastwood, whose career was still in its infancy focused toward the all American anti-hero.My comparisons to Fatal Attraction are inevitable, since the basic premise is the same- F.A. mirrors Misty. Guy thinks he can have sex as he pleases, discarding the woman soon after. Woman has an obsessive screw loose and by the end its a fight to death.Check out the cleaning lady who disturbs the rejected lunatic lover, cutting up Eastwoods clothes.Ouch! "},{"Title":"The film cleverly hides its disturbing themes of obsession and voyeurism underneath a well made character driven narrative.","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty for Me is one of those films that will have some people putting their hand over their mouth in surprise or awe and simultaneously have them shake their head ever so lightly in either surprise or disbelief but not at the film itself, it's characters and this is a very impressive thing for a film to be able to do. When there is a nasty or particularly gory scene in a film, audiences shuffle around or look away from the screen &#150; it evokes a physical reaction similarly when people laugh at a good comedy. This is enough evidence to suggest; at least to me, that Play Misty for Me works not only on this level as it got a physical reaction out of me without being too gory or too funny but also as a raw character study between two very different people.This was Clint Eastwood's directorial debut and he plays Dave, a disc jockey who does a relatively mellow and straight forward radio show from the hours round about midnight through till dawn or something. His voice is soft, almost flat and at one point he even has to replay a previous show over his shift that he only did a few nights ago but I don't think anybody would mind or even notice since the show is so laid back. The film is anything but and descends into a quite chilling yet at times quite brilliant thriller when Evelyn's (Walter) 'fondness' shall we say for Dave grows into an unquenchable thirst since you get the feeling that marrying Dave and spending every single second of your time with him on your own in a small room for the rest of your life STILL wouldn't be enough for the girl.Evelyn is dangerous and it's a danger that is cleverly built up over a period of time. The relationship starts off fairly customary, even harmless as they exchange dialogue and find time to discover that they both like their steaks cooked the same way but this is as close to innocent the relationship comes. Following numerous other things they have in common which at the time, you're thinking could just be coincidence, Evelyn breaks into numerous outbursts at people who don't really do anything wrong thus hinting at perhaps her true persona something so mild and insignificant can start her off into a fit of rage.The film plays out the classic tale of the stalker. There are a few references to modern day films you can make here; most notably The Cable Guy where Jim Carrey scared us and dared us to laugh at his actions as well as One Hour Photo where a family gets the stalker treatment from Robin Williams' creepy and very un-funny Sy Parrish. Evelyn challenges Andy Robinson's Scorpio as 'most psychotic bad guy in a 1971 Eastwood film' whilst at the same time being genuinely creepy and hiding her various personas in the process.What is really impressive about Play Misty for Me is the way it contains a sort of undercurrent revolving around one man's actions. Dave sleeps with Evelyn in a one night stand scenario and it comes back to not only haunt him but threatens his life throw a group of sharks a piece of meat and they'll get the scent for blood. Likewise, I actually thought that the film may have been slightly better had Dave and Evelyn not slept together thus making Evelyn look even more desperate for him. If you think about it, once she'd spent the night with him and continues to hound him then what's her drive beyond that &#150; marriage? I feel her goal could've been played with differently but it did in no way spoil the pleasure, albeit voyeuristic, I got from watching these peoples lives unfold.A film so engrossing and straight forward is hard to come by these days but the film isn't without its flaws the scene in which some characters go to a concert shifts the film into that documentary feel as people looking at the camera, giving 'peace' signs to the camera and the shadow of the camera encroaching on some shots takes away some credibility &#150; maybe this was done to add an avant-garde touch but why, I don't know; either way it didn't work for me. Also, the way in which Evelyn is dealt with following a certain self-harm scene would surely warrant her getting professional help in a clinic or something but with these things aside, Play Misty for Me is an engrossing and well made film that 'entertains' on voyeuristic as well as good film-making levels. "},{"Title":"One Of My Personal Favorites","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty For Me (1971) is one of my personal top 100 favorite films of all time, but one that I'd previously only seen cut up on commercial television. It is rarely screened on cable TV or in revival theatres, for some reason, despite being a superior thriller and Clint Eastwood's directorial debut. The uncut DVD is something of a revelation, thus, and only reinforces my belief that this is nothing less than one of the best horror flicks of the '70s. In it, Eastwood plays Dave Garver, a playboy DJ in Carmel who has a one-nighter with a fan with the appropriate name of Evelyn Draper. Evelyn immediately drapes herself around Dave in a very suffocating manner, and when rebuffed, this woman scorned turns angry and vengeful. Before too long, we begin to realize that Evelyn is a woman who really does put the WHACK into the word whacko.... Anyway, from top to bottom--from script to acting to gorgeous Carmel scenery to that beautiful Roberta Flack montage sequence to a remarkably suspenseful and satisfying conclusion--this film really does deliver. Jessica Walter gives a truly memorable, Oscar-worthy performance as Evelyn, investing her character's psycho personality with a touch of pathos. Any guy watching this picture will soon realize that it truly IS a horror film, albeit an extremely realistic and credible one. (It just might give men who are seeking one-nighters pause to reconsider!) And how nice to see Irene Hervey, from one of my favorite '60s TV shows, Honey West, here in a latter-day major motion picture! Eastwood himself, of course, is now among the upper tier of Hollywood directors, but how great to realize that at his first time at bat, he smacked one right out of the park! All IMDb'ers who have not seen this terrific shocker should certainly pounce! "},{"Title":"The Seeds of a Fatal Attraction","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" One of the scariest moments in Clint Eastwood's excellent debut film PLAY MISTY FOR ME doesn't involve a single moment of Jessica Walter jumping headfirst into a black pool of crazy, but a short scene in which Eastwood and Donna Mills share a moment in a meadow, chit-chatting like the best of nature loving hippies of the time, while a pinpoint image in the distance -- almost a homage to the blink or miss it image in BLOW UP -- is Walter herself, staring at them with sheer, barely contained hatred and lust that seems to be enjoying itself vicariously in its voyeuristic anonymity. Eastwood, however, doesn't employ any of the more technical, progressive zoom-ins that would focus in on her but instead makes her appearance almost casual and at the same time, nearly omnipresent. And that's clever to make this loony female so over the place that it seems no one can escape her.Obsessive love hadn't gotten the treatment it gets here quite like this -- at least, not that I can recall. With the advent of PSYCHO however, all bets were off, and slasher-thrillers slowly but surely emerged as a new wave of horror films, where the monsters were people who simply could not function in society without leaving behind an extensive body-count and delving into self-mutilation. PLAY MISTY FOR ME is such a film. The story of a one-night stand between a DJ from a local California radio station and the woman who is his favorite caller and has a penchant for the song Misty, which takes some incredibly lurid yet believable turns into the macabre, makes for a solid 100 minutes of suspenseful entertainment. The only minor points where it falters is the fact that for a film made in 1971, it looks exactly from that year, warts (i.e. cheesy pop ballads, naturalistic lovemaking scenes) and all. Even so, Eastwood's debut was a solid one and would foreshadow his incursions into the use of jazz in later films.It's also no surprise that PLAY MISTY FOR ME would lie quietly in rest (it spawned no imitators for the rest of the Seventies) until in 1987 Adrian Lyne would decide to up the ante with his own crystal-clear rip off films FATAL ATTRACTION. Now, while the fear factor and sheer unsettling nature of the latter film can't be contested (Lyne uses a technique similar to Eastwood in the cross-cutting of events that build to an explosive, contained climax), the former film is arresting while never employing Boo! tactics or the overused loud crashing noise that is supposed to instill terror in the viewer. As a matter of fact, there is an Asian horror feel to his silent, realistic approach even when Asian horror (as a term and genre) wouldn't come into play until the late Nineties. It's a very unsettling film, and Walter gives an unforgettable performance as the nutty Evelyn who apparently can't be stopped. If only David knew of restraining orders... but they probably wouldn't have worked, realistically speaking.A classic of modern horror and one that also spawned a similar-themed story in MISERY with the equally crazy line, I'm your number one fan. Eastwood has never returned to horror, but that's okay -- he had to start somewhere. "},{"Title":"Good thriller, a bit overrated for sure, and somewhat ahead of its time.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty For Me is a good suspenser - not classic, not excellent, not a masterpiece, but unquestionably GOOD. Some reviewers hail it as one of the great films of the '70s, which is in all honesty a bit of an exaggeration, though it certainly needs recognition on a couple of levels. Firstly, it marks the directorial debut of Clint Eastwood and was received with such acclaim that he went on to direct many of his own films in later years. Secondly, it was way ahead of its time in terms of plot, and pre-dates several films on the same theme (Fatal Attraction, The Crush, Swimfan, etc.) Play Misty For Me is thankfully low-key in approach and refuses to descend into a crude bloodbath of gore; this is actually a good thing, as the credibility is kept in check and makes the suspense real, as opposed to contrived and artificial.California DJ Dave Garland (Clint Eastwood) is likable but no saint; he spends his nights playing music over the airways, drinking at a local bar, and wooing an endless stream of female fans. Sometimes he spends the night alone in his impressive coastal bachelor pad; quite often he finds himself bedding down with an eager female admirer. In spite of this apparent promiscuity, he still longs for Tobie (Donna Mills) - the one lover with whom he felt love rather than lust. One evening, Garland picks up an attractive middle-aged woman called Evelyn (Jessica Walter), who has long been a fan of his show and who regularly phones in requesting that Dave should play her favourite song Misty. After a night of no-strings passion, Garland thinks things between himself and Evelyn are over.... but she keeps turning up uninvited and unexpected, and seems to get worryingly aggressive when he tries to get rid of her. Garland's old flame Tobie returns to the scene, and the pair of them try to rebuild their broken relationship - but Evelyn lurks constantly in the background, burning with rage, and determined to get her man. Finally, passion erupts into violence as the scorned Evelyn takes up a butcher's knife and decides to make certain that if she can't have Dave - no-one can!Eastwood directs the film reasonably well considering that it's his debut - he allows a few scenes to drag on (like the needless jazz concert segment) and has got the completely wrong score from composer Dee Barton, but in other aspects his direction is assured. The actors are marshaled well; the story unfolds convincingly; the suspense is effective; the climax hits the right level of tension without over-balancing into hysterics. Play Misty For Me seems oddly familiar nowadays, but one should remember that back in '71 it had a fairly ground-breaking plot, and some of the developments we might consider telegraphed or predictable were probably quite shocking and heart-stopping back then. "},{"Title":"1971 Clint Eastwood's annus mirabilis","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The same year that he played a certain cop asking punks if they feel lucky, Clint Eastwood made his directorial debut with Play Misty for Me. He plays Carmel disc jockey David Garver, who gets a request from one Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter), with whom he eventually has a fling. After that, he leaves her, but she won't take no for an answer. And she's serious...dead serious.Clint Eastwood brings to this movie the same skills that he later used in movies like Mystic River and Million Dollar Baby. Specifically, it's so good because of how he springs everything on you, and doesn't saturate the movie with gore. You may never be able to trust anyone again after watching this. 10/10 stars.Ready to play Misty for anyone? "},{"Title":"Difficult movie to rate...","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Play Misty for Me is a difficult movie to rate, because to me it felt like two movies.  Like a two act play, the film is cut straight down the middle by the love scenes between Eastwood's character Dave Garver and his girlfriend Tobie (in some surprisingly explicit scenes for the time, this must have been a pretty heavy R rating in 1971), along with Roberta Flack's song First Time Ever I Saw Your Face.The first half of the film I thought was superb, amazingly good... the second half became unfocused, the pacing uneven, and the interesting/complex character played by Jessica Walter became something of a slasher woman who could have substituted for any of Hollywood's stock slasher character in later films to come.  Yet overall, this was a surprisingly good directorial debut for Clint Eastwood... and it was made and took place in an era of American history I find increasingly fascinating these days, the late 60's/early 70's.  It's like the country was waking up from a dream around this time (or maybe just transitioning to a new one... but I digress).  Contains an intriguing mix of old school Hollywood (carefully recited, almost stagey dialogue straight out of the 50's/60's) combined with an emerging new awareness and style not limited only to Hollywood but visible everywhere in those years (I was too young to remember much).Overall, the film is much better than the later Fatal Attraction, which not only paid homage but was virtually identical in all the important ways to this movie.  10/10 for the first half, 5/10 for the second, overall 8/10.  A must see on video, don't settle for the edited for television version unless you have young kids wandering around the house. "},{"Title":"Ahh yes, the original 'Fatal Attraction'....","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's funny; I rented this film after reading the synopsis and said to myself oh OK, another Fatal Attraction'. I stand corrected Fatal Attraction is another 'Play Misty For Me'. I was blown away with Fatal Attraction when I saw it, but I was even more blown away after just seeing PMFM. Jessica Walter was magnificent in her role, simply terrifying...arguably more so than Glenn Close. It was just the 'ordinary-ness' of her look that made her character that much more scary. Clint puts in a good performance here as well; seeing that this was his directorial debut, it just makes me appreciate his directing even more nowadays, seeing how far he's come. He shows promise behind the camera here; he's REALLY come a long way. My only beef with the film is that I felt the overlong love scene and the music festival could've been left out or cut much more; they came off as unnecessary.It was nice to see the precursor to later sexual obsessive thrillers like Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct. The original is always the best, and that is indeed the case with 'Play Misty For Me'.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Beautiful backdrop","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Brings back fond memories having been stationed at nearby Fort Ord during the filming. Was able to view the actual making of this production in what was at the time a very laid-back setting with many good feelings about the time and place. My interest in an occasional viewing is to remember the emotion of that time in my life. The story is okay too but nothing spectacular and the theme has been repeated more than once. I've never considered Mr Eastwood to be at the highest peak in terms of acting compared to some others. But his work here is acceptable. It is very cool though to see all those familiar places captured on film just the way they were back then. The nostalgia factor is very thrilling for me. Wish all could have experienced the area at that time and spent some time there. Carmel was at the time an artist colony with an atmosphere that was very heady for a young person like myself. Not sure how it fairs today but I've read that the atmosphere has changed quite a bit. I rate this movie 8 out of 10 with the above bias mentioned. "},{"Title":"Good Drama/Thriller -- the Original Fatal Attraction","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" 1971's Play Misty for Me was Clint Eastwood's debut as a director. The story features Clint as a DJ in Carmel, the scenic coastal town south of San Francisco. He has what he thinks is a casual fling with one of his devoted listeners (Jessica Walter). When Eastwood starts to see how clingy and wacko the woman is he tries to end it, but she is determined to have a relationship. Things get crazier and bloodier from there. Donna Mills co-stars as Clint's other (real) girlfriend.Play Misty for me is the obvious precursor to the more popular later film Fatal Attraction (1987), but I haven't seen Fatal for so long I can't compare the two.The story and acting are completely realistic, which I find refreshing, as well as engaging. One of the highlights is definitely the gorgeous Carmel coastal locations.Personally, I don't find Jessica Walter very attractive so I can't relate to Eastwood's interest in her in the story, but -- then again -- maybe that's why he just wanted to use her and lose her. Also, I feel he should have caught on a bit quicker that she was too clingy and looney -- I would have.Lastly, I realize that Clint's attitude toward women and sex in the story simply reflects the zeitgeist of that era, but doesn't he share at least some of the blame for the problems that ensue? In the film Clint's character views sex as a mere physical encounter and Misty as a throwaway object in which he can satisfy his lust and pride. On the contrary, Misty is a real person who understandably sees their sexual union as something deeper. Something not just physical, but emotional and spiritual as well. Is it any wonder that she starts to increasingly lose it after Eastwood breaks off the relationship? Not that I'm justifying her actions.I'm not preachin' to anyone here, anymore than the film itself. I'm just pointing out how Play Misty for Me potently illustrates the possible consequences of treating people like throwaway sex objects. In the vast majority of cases, of course, the consequences aren't nearly as extreme, but there are always repercussions, even if it's just a broken or hardened heart. Try as we might, separating the physical from the spiritual is a lost cause.Play Misty for Me is a deceptively quiet film that slowly builds momentum to the emotionally explosive climax. It probably won't blow you away or anything, but it gave me everything I could possibly want in this type of film. Recommended.GRADE B+ or A- "},{"Title":"Jessica Walters Makes This Movie Work","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Without a doubt, her performance is the most compelling reason to watch this. I saw this back in high school when it first came out and have periodically viewed over the years. Just caught it for the first time in at least 10 years and I appreciate her performance more than ever, as the sexy but schizo Evelyn Draper, who is stalking Dave Garver, her favorite DJ. It's really a 2 person film, Jessica and Clint, few scenes without one of them in it. There's virtually no background about either one of them. We know Dave is quite the ladies man, he is in some sort of relationship with the lovely Toby Donna Mills that seems to have hit a rocky spot due to his philandering when he and Evelyn meet at a bar and mutually seduce each other. Actually, you can't hardly blame him. While Toby is beautiful, she seems incredibly boring. Even after Evelyn pops up again a day later, uninvited with groceries, Dave just gives her a weak reprimand and again hits it. And after she completely shown she's a loose cannon, Dave is still unable to just ignore her. There are some weak scenes like the music interlude and the Jazz festival part, but this still holds up as a pretty good thriller. "},{"Title":"A bit too slow-paced for a thriller","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A story about when obsession turns deadly. Clint Eastwood plays the role of Dave Garver, a local disc jockey, that attracts the attention of an amorous fan, Evelyn Draper (Jessica Walter). Things turn ugly when he doesn't want to see her anymore and the rest of the movie follows the rising tension as Garver tries to continue his life without Evelyn.The actors make this movie work. Eastwood is of course a powerhouse actor and it's nice to see him in a role that doesn't require him to break any bones or shoot holes into people. His take on the role is believable and the movie pretty much floats on his charisma alone. Both of the leading ladies do a fine job and Walter especially shines as an unhinged stalker.Unfortunately the film doesn't quite know how to keep up the atmosphere and tension. There are long scenes where Eastwood just hangs around with his friends or other acquaintances, and while one or two such scenes would have been called for, there are too many in here. At times Evelyn is largely forgotten, which causes her eventual reappearances to be that much more chilling, but a thriller of this length would have worked better if the audience hadn't gotten any breathing room. I must admit being bored from time to time, never a good thing, but especially damnable in a thriller.This is an average film. Enjoyable if you want to see Eastwood in an non-action film role, and it has some of that good stuff that most good thrillers have, but it's a bit sluggish and not all that memorable. "},{"Title":"Just one little thing","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I agree when the other users say that's it's a very good film, even not a masterpiece. I also say that's the best Eastwood's film as a director before BIRD, seventeen years later. One little thing that bothers me in this feature is the characters place in the story. Eastwood character is presented as the good guy whom the bad gal falls in love with. So we find here a sort of good vs evil scheme. See what I mean? It would have been better if, on the contrary, Eastwood had been a sort of provocative handsome lover who would have pushed the Jessica Walter to the limit. And then we could have watched the ironical situation for the provocative man overwhelmed by what he just created. A sort of evil lover be face to face with an even greater evil. The female one. I think that would have been great.But that's my own opinion. "},{"Title":"Gripping One-Note Plot","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" No need to recap the gripping one-note plot or echo consensus points. What strikes me is how well done the 100+ minutes are. Even the sometimes draggy walk-in-the-woods interludes have their point in developing the plot. Most of all are the 'shock' moments so effectively staged and conceived. Hard to believe this is Eastwood's first directorial outing, plus being arguably the best of his career. I can't help but think that that foxy old helmsman Don Siegel (e.g. Invasion of the Body Snatchers 1956) had more to do with the results than just offer up encouragement and drinks to his protégé. Be that as it may, Walter makes a heck of a psycho, one who could go nutty giggle for nutty giggle with Widmark's Tommy Udo (Kiss of Death 1947) any day. All in all, the movie remains an uncluttered shocker that delivers the goods in spades. "},{"Title":"Feminist, misogynist or just&#x85; from the 70s?","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A great popcorn-munching, psycho-watching, knife-wielding suburban thriller that precedes and outclasses the bunny boiling Fatal Attraction &#x96; 'cause look, back in the day, who drove women crazier, Clint or Michael Douglas?There's interesting debate to be had on whether it's feminist, misogynist or just&#x85; from the 70s. Clint tries to do the right thing by minorities and the apposite gender as well as the local artisans, interior decorators and haberdashers of Carmel By the Sea, the hamlet which in a later decade he would rule as Mayor.More at moviedump.org "},{"Title":"Stalking Clint","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood's directorial debut about a psychotic dame on the rampage who wants to slay the guy she cannot lay qualifies as a nice change of pace for the genre superstar. As David Garver, Eastwood casts himself as an attractive, lanky, laid-back jazz station disc jockey at KRML in the coastal California town of Camel. Jessica Walter of Grand Prix received second billing, but she makes the movie rewarding as Evelyn. Aside from Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, stalker sagas like Play Misty for Me weren't in vogue back in 1971 the way they would become in the later 1980s. The villainous Evelyn sneaks up on Dave one evening at a local bar, and he takes advantage of her curiosity. She sits at one end of the bar while she watches Dave play a mysterious game called Great Bastion with the bartender, Murphy (Don Siegel), who helps him with this ruse when women are around and our protagonist is alone. The ruse works, but Dave gets more than he bargained for after he goes to bed with Evelyn. She decides that Dave is her own private property. Unfortunately, for Evelyn, Dave has a prior commitment, Tobie (Donna Millis of The Incident), who lives on the beach with a female roommate. Before Dave realizes it, Evelyn has decided to make her own key to his place and she tries to commit suicide in his bathroom. Dave gets his doctor friend Frank (Jack Ging of High Plains Drifter) to patch Evelyn up. Frank suspects that Evelyn wasn't trying to kill herself just make it look like it. Afterward, Evelyn keeps her eye on Dave when he is out with Tobie. Evelyn is the super jealous type, and she hacks up Birdie (Clarice Taylor of Change of Mind), Dave's once-a-week housekeeper. By this time, the local police step into the matter with Sergeant McCallum (John Larch of Bitter Creek) supervising the case. Dave is none too happy to see McCallum and the two aren't exactly friends. Anyway, Evelyn is taken into custody, and Dave patches up his relationship with Tobie, but Evelyn isn't done with Dave.Clint lacks the supreme self-assurance that would characterize his later work. Nevertheless, Play Misty for Me still ranks as effective, above-average material. The staging of Birdie near death experience with Evelyn is almost as good as anything Hitchcock did in Psycho. Eastwood doesn't play an invincible hero like he was accustoming to playing. He is a down-to-earth dude who is struggling to find a better job. Evelyn ruins this objective for him when she drops in on his lunch date with an older woman. The atmosphere of fear and paranoia comes through strongly and the serene setting of Carmel offsets it sufficiently so you think nothing untoward can occur. Think again. Evelyn's late night assault is chilling and for a change we don't feel that this Eastwood character can handle her the way that his usual screen persona would. Eventually, Evelyn and Dave have a showdown and he manages to take her out. The Jo Heims & Dean Riesner screenplay deliver some gripping surprises during an interesting final quarter hour. Anybody who grooves on Eastwood should catch this chiller and remember that it was one of the first of its kind for the star. "},{"Title":"Jessica Walter totally rules in this superb debut by director Eastwood","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is the directorial debut of Clint Eastwood. In this gripping thriller, he plays a DJ who gets involved in a fling with one of his female fans. The fan is very possessive and soon begins to f**k things up for Eastwood. Jessica Walter as the crazed fan completely rules and owns the movie and the viewer can never predict what her next action would be. Eastwood is good as usual. The story which has been seen since in many movies like Fatal Attraction etc. is full of unpredictable turns which keeps the viewer hooked. But ultimately it is Walter's superb performance which elevates this above the usual stalker thrillers. 3.5 out of 5 for this. Eastwood fans should definitely check this out. They would surely love this early outing by the legendary actor/director. "},{"Title":"Discursively interesting movie that becomes anti-climactic","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays David Garver, a local Disc Jockey for a small radio station in the Monterey/Carmel peninsula of Central Coast California. Clint does an admirable job on his directorial debut , but doesn't seem suited for this type of character. Putting this aside, we see a bachelor who pretty much lives a self-indulgent dream life of promiscuity. Sporting a 1958 rag top Jaguar XK150, a cool yet funky beach house overlooking the ocean and a fun job which wreaks him the benefits of self-centered female attention, we see a guy that only obliges himself to those people and other matters that serve his selfish needs. Dave is not a likable character, but his lifestyle is enviable. Since this takes place at the seminal period of the 1970's Me-decade, we can accept these character flaws as the zeitgeist of that era, especially suitable for the laid back attitude of California beach people. He is also lucky enough to have an artistic impression of his likeness displayed at his girlfriend's pad. How much more Narcissicism can we thrust upon the guy?Dave is rekindling a shaky relationship which apparently seems like an on and off flame with Tobie, Donna Mills. it is through their periodic interaction that we see she is indifferent toward his past infidelities while he is eager to patch up his tainted past and abandon his promiscuous ways.After a day at work, David hits his local pub hangout for a drink. He meets a strange, but sexy woman, Evelyn (Jessica Walter). She seems earnest and lovely. Dave accepts her company and drives her home. Their scene at her house is quite brief until they have sex. Dave treats this like a one night stand and she agrees she accepts it for what it is. The next morning he wordlessly leaves in a rush. This scene establishes Evelyn as an obsessed fan who longs for his affections. From here on she won't let it go. She pops up at his place un-announced with food, gifts and affection. He's bemused by this at first, but goes along with the free sex anyway. It doesn't take but one more unexpected advancement from her before Dave brushes her aside to focus on his work and reconciling with his former love, Tobie. Evelyn grows peculiarly cloying while vying for his attention in a most maudlin and offbeat way. She has a serious personality disorder that ranges from sweetly endearing, childishly playful, to downright tempestuous. Being that Dave is the cold-hearted practitioner of double-standards in terms of relationships, we are not sure who to empathize with. But since he is dealing with an erratic lunatic, we forgive him for his rude and callous behavior. The rest of the plot is a series of crazy stunts pulled by Evelyn, Dave's intolerance and a suspenseful climax which will draw your attention.A lot of fans of this film praise it as a great thriller. I didn't find PMFE at all scary as much as I found it frustrating and sad. The character of Evelyn has to be the most salient depiction of a desperate woman and her plight with unrequited love. Being that she was so unstable made me feel more pity than revulsion. And at times I felt more animosity toward the cocky and callous character of Dave. To me, this is what made the movie interesting. A female slasher flick didn't invoke any fear or awe. I knew her character would suffer a tragic ending as her femme fatal persona led to this ill-fate.Play Misty for Me benefits from effective usage of scenic and panoramic footage of the Monterey area with all of its twisted Cypress trees providing arching shades and shadows. Swaths of beautiful beaches circumvent the setting appearing almost ominous and seclusive. There are some clever camera works with dark lighting, segues of brief dramatic intensity to utter quietness and desolation. From a cinematic perspective the screenplay establishes a mood of loneliness, haunting beauty and emptiness.The acting is fairly wooden, unfortunately. Clint still cannot forgo his tawny grins, squinting eyes and blank looks of discontented angst. Often times I enjoy Clint's persona, because they all seem the same and fit his stern caricature. But here he does the same thing and it all seems inappropriate. Clint Eastwood only convinced me that he was Clint Eastwood and nobody else. Donna Mills looks so bland that it seems as if she was told to read queue cards and look pretty. The chemistry between her and Clint is non-existent. Their conversational dialogue seems stagy, flat, and rushed without any undulations of emotion. I can understand Clint's choice to have an understated approach, but even this choice should be remedied with a believable amount of emotional variances. It's choppy. Jessica Walters gives an admirable performance. even though she is overzealous, I give her full credit for her commitment to humility. This was an unflattering role and she fulfilled its promise.Other areas of criticism concern the superfluous scenes of the Monterey Jazz Festival and a scenic stroll through the woods of Carmel by Dave and Tobie. I appreciated the latter to the prior since I am no Jazz music fan and could care less about watching weird people frolic around at an outdoor concert. The eerie walk in the woods is a scene I rather liked even though it appears incongruous with the rest of the film. Was this a narcissistic attempt to display the youth and beauty of sexual freedom? In my analysis it's actually necessary this took place. Sure it looks dated, very 70's and quite corny. But the lovers need to have a personal interlude that helps them mend the fences of their topsy-turvy relationship while creating an overall feeling of despair, anguish and solitude.The ending is anti-climactic for me. We really don't care whether Dave and Tobie survived or not and the denouement was too abrupt. "}{"Title":"It was his first shot as director,and he wasn't going to let anyone down.","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This cinematic tale of obsession was Clint Eastwood's first turn in the director's chair,and it's obvious with every passing frame of this film just how seriously he wanted to be taken.He threw his heart and should into the project and it shows.He passed his first test with flying colors and we have an excellent film here.Directing a film while being in front of the camera can't be easy,especially if it's your first time doing so,but he pulled it off.The story is compelling,the acting is great,particularly that of Jessica Walter as the obsessive lover.In Play Misty For Me,we not only have an excellent directorial debut for Eastwood,we have a classic cinematic thriller. "},{"Title":"Great Debut!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" And there it was Play Misty for Me, a movie to be discovered. Being Clint Eastwood's first experience in direction, the quality of this work strikes us with a demonstration of full command and understanding of the camera and misé-en-scene. That's a thriller that could be compared with any of the Hitchcock's movies, because of its strength and its punch every scene is shot with great personality, balancing the initial romance with an increasing suspense, that culminates in the two awesome scenes one in which Jessica Walters trashes Clint's house and then stabs his maid, and the great last scene, no dialog, no music, only the huge tension in the air as Clint's character walks into his girlfriend's apartment and fights to death the evil in shape of women, Jessica Walter's Evelyn. Pure cinema, with a charming touch that only a genius like Clint Eastwood could get. "},{"Title":"Play Misty for Me (1971)","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood's directorial debut is not at a bad thriller, setting the template for crazy female stalker movies like FATAL ATTRACTION and THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE. It provides some genuine suspense and shocking moments, and contextually serves as an interesting (if somewhat conservative) response to the sexual revolution. But there are some issues. The dialogue is often really hacky, especially when Eastwood takes a puzzling confrontational attitude with the detective for no good reason except to allow for some witty banter. There's an unbelievably cornball Roberta Flack montage that includes, among other laughable sequences, Eastwood and Donna Mills making love under a waterfall. And the film has a rather narcissistic streak and disturbingly misogynistic undertones. Well-plotted and some interesting editing choices (and a pretty sweet soundtrack) but too many shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Eyes&#x85; for only you.","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood might have started off in front of the camera, but the contemporary psychotic thriller 'Play Misty for Me' showed he could also make a name for himself behind it too. With the guidance of fellow friend/collaborator director Don Siegel (who has an amusing small support role in the film), Eastwood churns out a very solid directorial debut with one of the best ever captured femme fatal performances by the foxy Jessica Walter and an influence to many films of its ilk to follow. For most part this cleverly constructed and quickly flighted story remains tightly wounded with well-timed shocks of jarring potency due to Walter's dour-de-force performance. Managing perfectly to insert an uneasy intensity from an uncontrollably obsessive state that's simply compelling in the manipulative actions for total affection and Eastwood while overshadowed, gives a reliably curt performance of a man who just doesn't know what he got himself in with frustration boiling over. However some moments in the story like the romance interlude between Eastwood's character and his old flame (admirably performed by Donna Mills) and the jazz festival footage felt a little out of place and self-indulgent, by taking away from its grinding tension&#x85; but it gets back into gear for its knock-out climax. Eastwood secured direction is straight-forward, but highly effective with Bruce Surtees' sharply poised camera-work and beautifully sweeping photography of the California coastline. Eastwood's taste for jazz music is obvious, with the score giving the air a seducing, but lethal vibe. John Larch also gives a respectable turn as the police detective who enters the turmoil. A tremendous, one-track suspense-driven outing of a one-time fling going pear shape. "},{"Title":"Slipped Disc","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This was a sure-footed directing debut for Clint Eastwood which still holds up close to forty years on. At least one other poster has noted the mood-destroying sequences - the Jazz Festival footage and the lyrical lovers sequence cut to the Roberta Flack recording of The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face - but, hey, this was the guys' first time on bullhorn and it probably seemed a practical solution if, as I imagine, the money men were demanding more footage. Shorn of these two extraneous sequences the movie would have been a much tighter thriller, well-paced and building to a crescendo. If Eastwood was no Welles - but then, who is - he was from the first and remains an actor-director fit to be mentioned in the same breath as old Awesome. "},{"Title":"instrumental sound track - play misty for me","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" What a classic for a first time? directorship for this amazing man. This movie never seems to date (except perhaps for the Monterey pop festival section..). Looking at comments on this site, there is the odd bit of criticism about certain minor elements of the movie, but come on! This was 1971! Most of this movie was years ahead of it's time. (Still is?) Small mistakes=scars in fine leather perhaps? Apart from the unhurried atmosphere created at times, parts of the dialogue are unforgettableDavid's eyes are.... colder (Evelyn, holding coffee & looking at the painting of Garver) I didn't know David and you were friends? (Tobie) Oh no.... not friends......Having never travelled to the California Coast myself, the movie creates an atmosphere, especially at night, that encourages a visit.One of the most moving scenes I found in the movie was when the Police Inspector returned to Dave's house, for a check-up, with a torch. Listen to the background music carefully,at that point. Clint Eastwood chooses his music very well. (I think of Poinciana by Ahmad Jamal in The Bridges of Madison County.)What is this haunting melody? I have never been able to find the source of that particular part of the score, and have searched for years... Can anyone help? Thanks, Bruce (South Africa) "},{"Title":"So, so 70s!","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I just got the DVD of Play Misty for Me. I hadn't seen it in about 35 years. It's so 70s -- the women's big hair and mini-skirts. The men's leisure suits, high-collar big-print shirts and skin-tight double-knit pants (Remember them? They couldn't wrinkle!), and Eastwood's Jaguar XK-150. Its hard to believe there was once a time with no cell-phones and no answering machines, when an ambitious, up-and-coming DJ would have business associates leave messages for him at a bar! Great music -- Erroll Garner, Roberta Flack (was that scene really necessary?), Cannonball Adderly at the Monterey Jazz Festival.But mostly, Play Misty for Me is from a time when domestic abuse and stalking weren't in our vocabulary, female-on-male abuse was unimaginable, and the hero could become the hero because he pushes the girl over the railing and down the cliff. "},{"Title":"pre- cursor to Fatal attraction","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In play Misty for Me,Clint Eastwood plays Dave,a disc jockey at a local radio station who has a fan.but not just any fan.obsessed female fan named Evelyn(Jessica Walter).Dave and Evelyn have a one night stand.Before Dave knows she is an obsessed fan)but Evelyn decides that is not enough.she ingratiate herself into Dave's life and decide they are going to be together.except that Dave already has a woman in his life-Tobie(Donna MIlls)naturally,Evelyn finds out and being the unbalanced person she is,decides to remedy the situation.you probably have a good idea what happens from here.if you want to know more,watch the movie.this movie is Eastwood's Directorial Debut.it is a psychological horror,suspense film.The movie is dated,being over 25 years old,and many movies have copied the formula since.(crazed nut bar becomes obsessed with someone)it is still worth a watch however and is entertaining. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Don't  Play  Misty  for  Anyone !","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a fine suspense film that deals with a disturbed woman obsessed with a guy. With some different ingredients the idea was repeated later in such movies as Fatal Attraction with Glann Close and Michael Douglas (he is a married man there) and the less pretentious The Crush with Alicia Silvestone and Cary Elwes(where the woman is 14 year old teenager).Play Misty for Me is a more than acceptable thriller -perhaps just a bit slow- that has tension and impact and even more valuable if you consider Clint Eastwood had no experience as a director when he entered the project.Eastwood is good as the victim but as usual the psychopathic stalker is a more interesting role and Jessica Walter does very good in the part. The inevitable third person involved is played here by pretty Donna Mills.A fine thriller of the 70's that fans of the genre will surely enjoy. "},{"Title":"Hell hath no fury","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Boy meets girl. Boy bonks girl. Boy drops girl. Girl is really PO'D and sharpens her knives. Watch out, boy. The age old story of a woman scorned is stylishly portrayed in this film by Clint. The movie is scary, atmospheric and shows Clint as a director of much promise. The natural beauty of Carmel is set against the dark menace of an unbalanced stalker, played with intensity by Jessica Walter. Eastwood is OK as the stalkee. Of course the premise of the film is repeated in Fatal Attraction fifteen years later. Both movies are eminently watchable and it is interesting to compare the directorial styles in the two films. "}{"Title":"cavernous views, beautiful Carmel California,","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" artists, writers, and one psycho-killer. Many comparisons have been made to Fatal Attraction, etc. Since this film was made in 1971, it is an interesting commentary on the creative culture of the time, and almost a cautionary reflection on open society as this was after the Manson crimes. While it seems dated, the film is watchable; Jessica Walter is believable as a sort of borderline psychotic ( I don't like the term bunny-boiler, but I guess it fits the bill!). Some of the scenes are over the top, as when she is losing her composure at the Sardine Factory restaurant; a true psychotic would probably be plotting a more precise revenge.Donna Mills is also very good as Tobie, and the views of Carmel, the town and beach are rather stunning. There are some sets which seem intentionally dark, the cavernous forest does remind one of Hitchcock's Vertigo; foreshadowing of something ominous.While the ending is a bit predictable, if you enjoy suspense and psychological drama. you may like this one. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Retro looking, interesting.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A good film- has a few weak spots and filler (The Jazz festival, The love scenes between Eastwood and Mills) The early 70s styles are funny, and I remember now how BAD people actually dressed then. The photography is subtle but nice, with the California coast, and Carmel. Eastwood is understated, and gives a decent performance. Walters is crafty, clingy, dangerous, and explosive. In the restaurant, she yells back at Eastwoods business partner at lunch. 'She couldn't get laid in a leper camp'.... oh my! The music is interesting (abeit a bit hokey at times) A really fun film, because of the subject matter (obscessed and psychotic love) and good all around performances by all. "},{"Title":"A good plug for bachelorhood","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Long before Glen Close boiled her bunny, and that isn't a crude metaphor, Jessica Walter wrote, defaced and burnt the book on psychotic one night stands when she set her sights on Clint in his first self-directed effort &#150; the beginning of an erratic career behind the camera as it turned out. Eastwood is a DJ who puts his mangland on the critical list when he succumbs to the attentions of a fawning fan. If he imagined that she'd be grateful and sod off, the 'let yourself out' note pre-written and left on the bedside, his hopes are soon shattered as she targets his affections with a blade rather than a kind word. Ignoring Eastwood's all too trusting would-be girlfriend, the wanton Donna Mills, and not letting any as slight as the great man's wishes get in the way, the evil Evelyn is professing her undying love before Clint's finished his post-coital smoke and stalking her prey with relentless, self-harming, knife welding efficiency while the ash is still warm.Play Misty for Me is a disturbing effort from wife beater Eastwood, a man who used to sleep around himself and wasn't afraid to discipline Sandra Locke with that long right hook of his. When looked at from this perspective play misty&#133;is altogether a more sinister story. The sociopathic stalker is a man's ultimate nightmare, particularly one who isn't afraid to murder the competition but clearly deranged though she is, Evelyn is a little sympathetic &#150; if emotionally retarded; a lonely woman with an unhealthy attachment to late night radio personalities and clearly in need of some regular rump-bumping. So what if she has no perspective and indeed no dignity and so what if Clint's used her for a bit of stress relief and cast her aside for a better looking, more stable blonde? Does she really deserve her ultimate and inevitable demise? Yes of course she does. With hindsight it might have played a bit better if Clint hadn't dispatched her with his now trademark punch to camera (you never tire of seeing it) but even if he is a misogynist and woman beating disciplinarian, WHAT A PUNCH. If I hit someone square in the face I'd be lucky if they noticed, Clint's propels a woman through a window and over a cliff top. Unacceptable, hard to justify on girl violence or the best climatic bang in movie history? You decide. "},{"Title":"Fatal attraction.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" If Clint Eastwood had not become one of the most prominent directors of the last twenty-five years,his previous works would have fell into oblivion today.I do not think play misty for me is a great film,although it predates fatal attraction -which was not such a great achievement anyway-by fifteen years.There's plenty of fillerendless love scenes with Flack's song (Johnny Cash soon before he died did a better version of the first time...),the concert...Directing is derivative -we are far from Eastwood's brilliant style in such works as Madison County Midnight in the garden.... Unforgiven or Mystic river - and owes a lot to Hitchcock,from the hand which clutches the curtain to the captain's death.Also handicapped by weak supporting actresses ,neither of whom is really displaying acting skills. "},{"Title":"Tense thriller","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This starts off as something of a slow-burner in the first half hour or so, but afterwards the pace quickens and the tension builds. The story concerns a highly possessive and increasingly manic lady having a fling with Clint, who plays a DJ in this. When Clint decides she's not the gal for him and opts to get back together with his former lover, the jilted lass takes it very badly and rapidly turns into his stalker. As the film progresses she makes her presence felt more and more as she tries to win back Clint, but things grow increasingly nasty. By the end of the film, she's responsible for murder and destruction, in the closing scenes matters reach a violent head. On the whole, this is a highly effective thriller. Admittedly its a tad dated, but so what? Worth a look, especially for the final minutes action. "},{"Title":"Comparisons Are Inevitable...","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ...to the other unhinged female thriller Fatal Attraction (1987). Both feature equally effective performances of a lifetime by leading ladies Jessica Walter and Glenn Close, a hapless hero (Clint Eastwood and Michael Douglas), and a frightened girlfriend/wife (Donna Mills and Anne Archer). But then things start to digress Walter is far more lethal than Close, Eastwood is single, while Douglas is married with a small child, but the situation and climaxes are quite similar. Director Clint Eastwood is better at directing than acting in this picture, getting superb Carmel photography and some nail-biting scenes. The First Time Ever I saw Your Face sexual passage is surprisingly sterile, trailed by an unnecessary jazz festival interlude; both slow the action and should have been cut. In that regard, Fatal is better paced, with improved performances by Douglas and Archer. But see Play for its haunting musical theme, horrific scares, and one of the most un-heralded performances of the 1970s, the striking (with an edge), then and still now, Ms. Walter. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's best movie - vastly underrated","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Forget Fatal Attraction - this is the original and the best. A tense drama with a good plot. Eastwood plays his disc jockey role well. However, Jessica Walter gives an excellent and chilling portrayal as his vengeful creepy ex-lover who expected more than just a one night stand. She betters Glenn Close's performance (which was good) in Fatal Attraction. What makes this movie excellent (as with the original Dirty Harry) is the extreme creepiness of the bad character. I can never understand why either Walter or Robinson never featured in very many other movie roles after both portraying such nasty sick characters so well. I regard this as Eastwood's best movie and give it a 9/10.     "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Many people hate Fatal Attraction and call it a rip-off of Play Misty For Me which was the first movie Clint Eastwood directed and is about disc jockey who has a one night stand with a fan who later turns his life upside down and thinking that they have something very serious between them but he doesn´t want anything to do with her. Sure this has been used in numbers of films later on but even though the plot seems good and the story is good the films lacks. The acting is wooden there are very few scenes in the film where you see that the actors are actually trying their best. The script is flawed, there are very few moments that makes you scared and overall the film is uneven and clearly could have been a lot better.The woman who plays Evelyn is more annoying than scary. Clint was awful in this movie. It looked as he wasn´t all that worried what Evelyn might think about next and the woman who plaid his girlfriend was also dreadful. There were many scenes in the movie that didn´t have anything to do with it at all and didn´t need to be shown for example that music festival.If Fatal Attraction is such a big rip-off of this movie then it is but it is a way better film with much better acting, cinematography, music and more exciting and suspenseful. But Play Misty For Me is enjoyable on some levels and there are some scenes that are good but that doesn´t mean it is great. I am though going to be generous and give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Location Filming and Being There","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I was finishing my two year stint as a US Army draftee at Fort Ord when Clint shot this film on the Monterey Peninsula. I was living off-post in Pacific Grove which is a few miles from Carmel. My wife and I would go to the '31 Flavors' ice cream parlor in the Carmel Valley shopping center close by the KRML radio station shown in the film.The sad thing is we never saw or noticed any of Eastwood's filming activity. And we were constantly moving about Monterey, Cannery Row, Carmel and Highway 1 through Big Sur.The movie for me is a permanent and well shot reminder of a beautiful area that never leaves your mind. Jessica though is a little too effective as the psycho girlfriend to make 'Play Misty' an easy watch. "},{"Title":"Play this one again","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood, of all people, attempted to walk in Hitchcock's shoes for his maiden directorial effort, and the result is a beautifully photographed thriller that would later inspire the less effective, if more prominent, Fatal Attraction almost two decades later.  Give Clint credit for not making a western his first time behind the camera, and for making one of the earliest and best music videos out of Roberta Flack's haunting ballad, The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face.  Also, praise the laconic star for making the film less a showcase for himself than for Jessica Walter who delivers an Oscar worthy performance as the homicidal Evelyn, whose stalking of mellow DJ Dave Garver begins when she repeatedly requests Errol Garner's Misty on Garver's late night radio show.  Subtract a few points, however, for his having neglected to prune from Jo Heims's script the less than convincing dialogue given to Donna Mills.  But add a few more in his favor for his willingness to play, even at that relatively early stage in his big screen career, such an unlikable, arrogant, and chauvinistic (expletive deleted).  "}{"Title":"A radio goof","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Anyone who works in radio that has seen Play Misty For Me always laughs at one major technical goof. In the beginning of the film, it's established that it takes Clint quite a while to drive from his house to the radio station to do his night time air shift. Towards the end, when he realizes that Jessica Walter is holding his girlfriend hostage in his house, Clint racks up a reel of tape to play while he drives home to rescue his girlfriend. The only problem is, he puts on a 5-inch reel, which even at the slowest playback speed will only last about 15 minutes. Yet, when Clint gets home, we see the tape still running back at the station.- Vinny "},{"Title":"You should see what didn't make the final cut.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It was as much fun to make this movie in 1971 as it is to watch it today. Eastwood, a real gentleman, doesn't direct movies, he lets you do what you want to do and then says, well, that was pretty good, now let's try this. But I would never do it again. NEVER.   "},{"Title":"stop zooming!!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I was extremely disappointed with this movie after hearing good things about it. While there were a few suspenseful and interesting scenes and a good performance by Jessica Walter (though I kept giggling when her mannerisms reminded me of her character from Arrested Development), it was dragged down by bad direction, bad dialogue, bad fashion and a needlessly long running time.Clint Eastwood made a lot of ...interesting... directorial choices that, to me at least, made the movie unintentionally hilarious. First and foremost, (see my title), the ZOOMS! It seems like every other shot in this movie ends with a zoom in to one of the character's faces. Maybe this was (slightly) more conventional in the 70s, but I've never seen it overused to this degree. It's incredibly distracting and it gets ridiculous fast. Other weird touches include some cross-cutting that goes on for so long it becomes dizzifying, two completely pointless musical montages that take up probably 10 minutes of the film, and at least one jarring jump cut. Storywise, it could have been shorter and I didn't find any of the supporting characters very interesting.Like I said, Jessica Walter's character, and the obsessive relationship she develops with Clint Eastwood are engrossing, and their scenes together are pretty good. But in the end, it's not worth sitting through this odd movie to see them. "},{"Title":"Nice Film","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty for Me (1971) *** (out of 4)Eastwood, making his directorial debut, plays a radio DJ who has a one night stand with a woman (Jessica Walter) who turns out to be a fan of his show. What he doesn't know is that the woman is mentally unstable and soon she begins to stalk him. Needless to say, this here predates Fatal Attraction but unlike that film this one here was made on a pretty low budget. Considering the budget the film turned out a lot better than it could have, although I'll stop short of calling this a masterpiece, which is something a few critics seem to think. While this is extremely well made I can't help but feel there are a few major flaws with one being how dumb the main character is. There are countless times this whole thing could have been avoided yet Eastwood's character does something dumb to keep it going. There's another logical issue with the woman getting released somewhere that happens a bit too easy but even with these problems the film still works on many levels. The suspense level is something Eastwood seems to be playing with a lot during the movie. He never really builds up suspense but instead just throws it at the viewer out of no where. He doesn't let it build up or grow but instead it just jumps out at the viewer just like the female character is constantly jumping out of various places. A lot of the film's success is due to Walter who does a terrific job in her role. There are times that she's so incredibly chilling that you can't help but really think she has a few mental problems of her own. Walter handles all of her scenes very well and comes off quite chilling, which is the most important thing. Eastwood's role is an interesting one as he doesn't play a tough guy but instead just a normal one. He pulls this off pretty well, although I had somewhat of an issue at the end of the film as to how easy he's able to be pushed around. His physical nature makes it a tad bit unlikely but he still handles the material well. His direction is also fairly strong for his first film and naturally his selection of music is right on the mark. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwoods's second film","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty For Me is Clint Eastwood's 2nd film as a director. Eastwood plays a late night disc jockey in Carmel. A female calls to request the Erroll Garner tune Misty. Later she shows up at the studio. Soon Eastwood is sleeping with her. Unfortunately, she's a nut case. Play Misty For Me predates Fatal Attraction by more than 15 years. Fatal Attraction is also about a man who has an affair with a woman who turns out to be possessively crazy. Fatal Attraction is the better film, but Misty is worth seeing. Eastwood's direction is sometimes clumsy and there is an embarrassingly bad long scene with him and Donna Mills, one of those love scenes with music, no dialog, brief nudity, sunsets, hand-holding - it's pretty inept. Jessica Lange is pretty good as the nutty woman. Look for Don Siegel, the director and Eastwood's mentor. "},{"Title":"Fatal Attraction for the '70's","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood made his directorial debut with this thriller, filmed in 1971.Eastwood plays a disc jockey who has a brief fling with a female fan (Jessica Walter). When he tries to end the relationship, she doesn't take it very well. That is when he discovers that this lady is in fact a real psycho who is obsessed with him and will do anything to be with him.Great performances (especially Walter's as the mentally-disturbed fan), a swift pace, thrilling situations, and beautiful photography (filmed in Carmel, California...Eastwood's hometown) makes this movie worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Rainy afternoon fun","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" People are trying to make more out of this than it actually is, just an edge of your seat old thriller. Jessica Walter did an amazing job, which if I remember from her interviews years ago, typed cast her out of many rolls for years to come. I can't get over how much Fatal Attraction copied from this original movie (slit wrist scene, my treat to make it up to you offer, large butcher knife and calling the other love interest dumb. Of course it can't compare to Fatal Attraction in regards to acting credibility. Yes the relationship between Eastwood and Mills falls flat, but the movie is really Walter's vehicle, and she upstages enough to make it a fun rainy day afternoon watch. "},{"Title":"Awesome suspenseful 70's thriller  that I really enjoyed, with a solid story and top notch performances!","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is an awesome suspenseful 70's thriller, that I really enjoyed, with a solid story and top notch performances!. All the characters are just great, and while it may seem a bit dated it still holds up very well in my opinion, plus Clint Eastwood and Jessica Walter are simply amazing in this!. Jessica Walter is really quite creepy as the obsessed psycho, as she went all out, and while I thought it ended a bit too suddenly, I still dug it, plus it gets surprisingly brutal and quite violent in the finale!. Clint does a wonderful job as a 1st time director, and it's very well made and written as well, plus Clint's macho type performances are always welcome!. The music was just great, and it's surprisingly not that predictable, plus I enjoyed the setting very much as well. There is never a dull moment and all the characters are extremely likable, plus I loved how they made Evelyn Draper getting more and more obsessed very slowly, as it made it more suspenseful in my opinion. This is an awesome suspenseful 70's thriller, that I really enjoyed,with a solid story and top notch performances, and I say it's a must see!. The Direction is awesome!. Clint Eastwood does an awesome! job here with solid camera work, cool lighting, great angles some nice close up shots, and while there were a few things that looked amateurish, overall he did an awesome job!. The Acting is top notch!. Clint Eastwood is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is at his best here, as he gives one of his classic Macho type performances, and was like a rock, as I loved how cool and calm he stayed even with that psycho Eevelyn coming after him, he also had some cool dialog, and had me grinning throughout, his chemistry with Donna Mills was also on! (Eastwood Rules!!!!!!). Jessica Walter plays one of the best psychos' ever as far as I'm concerned, she was really quite creepy, and went full out, and I loved it!, she had wonderful scenes with Eastwood, a classic performance indeed!. Donna Mills is pretty good as the love interest, she was cute and likable I dug her. John Larch is good as the Sgt. I dug him too. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"What a debut!","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" And there it was Play Misty for Me, a movie to be discovered. Being Clint Eastwood's first experience in direction, the quality of this work strikes us with a demonstration of full command and understanding of the camera and misé-en-scene. That's a thriller that could be compared with any of the Hitchcock's movies, because of its strength and its punch every scene is shot with great personality, balancing the initial romance with an increasing suspense, that culminates in the two awesome scenes one in which Jessica Walters trashes Clint's house and then stabs his maid, and the great last scene, no dialogue, no music, only the huge tension in the air as Clint's character walks into his girlfriend's apartment and fights to death the evil in shape of women, Jessica Walter's Evelyn. Pure cinema, with a charming touch that only a genius like Clint Eastwood could get. "},{"Title":"crisp and cool thriller","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Jessica Walter plays a nutcase for the ages, Clint looks genuinely disgusted by her actions and the shots around California are quite nice looking. Clarice Taylor as house cleaner Birdie is memorable in only a few short but disturbing scenes. Sure Eastwood slows the movie down in places, like the jazz festival - yeesh - but this was his debut as a director. It comes off much better than Fatal Attraction and more believable, too... Walter's face, hand movements and that scary voice carry the whole picture. "}{"Title":"'and this ones especially for evelyn...'. i love that guy!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  before that 'fatal attraction' rip off there was this much better portrayal of the dangers of one night stands which us chauvinnists should always adhere to. clint does a commendable job in this his first outing behind the camera along with a brilliantly scary performance from jessicca walter who completely overshadows bland donna mills as the nice gal. this is a chilling, effective and well filmed gem that has some marvellous aerial shots of carmel along with a nice supporting role played by the wonderful john larch. this movie should at least be seen to hear that beautiful roberta flack song alone! watch out too for the superb don siegal as the bartender.   "},{"Title":"Beware Of Psycho Lady!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film marks Clint Eastwood's directorial debut and he does a very good job of it too.  Play Misty for Me is the story of a radio disc jockey who has an encounter with a woman who frequently calls the show.  Clint Eastwood also plays the part of Dave Garver the disc jockey, while Jesscia Walter plays the role of Evelyn...the woman he pretty much wants just to have a one night stand with.  Dave sees early on that Evelyn is not really all there and he wants her to go away, but she keeps coming back into his life.  Evelyn starts to get more psychotic as the film goes on and if you've also seen Fatal Attraction...you know what that means(Misty is a better film than Fatal by the way).  Jessica Walter's performance as Evelyn is very haunting and I think she should have gotten an Oscar nod while Eastwood proves that he is a good director and would go on to win the Best Director Oscar for Unforgiven in 1992. Watch for the scene when Clint Eastwood is sleeping by the way. "},{"Title":"Play Misty for Me","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A woman-chaser disc jockey has a one-night stand with an interesting lady who later turns out to be an obsessive homicide and pursues him with her love.Smoothly done, sometimes genuinely scary and much imitated psychological suspenser that is also pretty unconvincing and goes on a little too long. Chiefly notable as Eastwood's impressive director-debut and for a splendidly maniac performance from Jessica Walter. "},{"Title":"Highly Memorable and Scary as Hell","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Way before the term 'stalker' became a household word and way before its good but not as effective 'sequel' Fatal Attraction, this gem not only highlighted Clint Eastwood, but moreso his choice of 'villains' in this case an Oscar worthy performance by Jessica Walter as his psychotic stalker. She was memorable and outstanding.  Note that he followed most successfully on this motif by using Andy Robinson (at that time unknown, but equally as brilliant as one of the most despicable and hateful creeps in the history of filmdom) as the Scorpio killer in the incomparable Dirty Harry.  Later villains included Gene Hackman and John Malkovitch -- the point is that the effectiveness of  'good vs. evil' movie is largely dependent on the quality of the actor playing the villain. --and Clint Eastwood, while objectively not a  great actor, surely has more than enough presence to play well against these villains and is a 'great' director! "},{"Title":"A stylishly cool horror movie","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Clint is probably at his best here, Dirty Harry notwithstanding. Who else this cool could play a jazz disc jockey being stalked by a psychopathic broad who has an obsession for him? One of the things that makes this film stand out is the beautiful West coast setting with its crashing waves playing an important part in securing the movie's chilling atmosphere. The ending is one of the best to be seen in any horror film and the relatively unknown list of supporting cast complement Eastwood's own, no-nonsense delivery. James McEachin is amusing as Dave Garver's pot-smoking colleague. On a passing note, I'm sure that the actor playing Jay-Jay did the voices of the Banana Splits. "},{"Title":"Play scared.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a very interesting flick.Eastwood plays the disc jockey to a tee.The crazy lady who consumes his life is great to watch.Film often compared to fatal attraction.There is no comparsion.The film has a lot of suspense in the end climax. "},{"Title":"Pioneering Stalker Movie","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Play Misty for Me was Clint Eastwood's first film as director, and is unusual for an Eastwood film of this period in that his character is neither a cowboy, nor a police officer, nor a soldier. He plays Dave Garver, a radio disc jockey based in Carmel-by-the-Sea, California, the town where Eastwood himself lives. The title comes from the classic Erroll Garner ballad Misty; its significance in the film is that Garver has a fan who habitually phones into his radio show to request this record.Garver eventually meets this fan, a young woman named Evelyn Draper, and the two have a brief affair, but he breaks it off, fearing that she is becoming too demanding and possessive. He then rekindles his relationship with his former girlfriend Tobie (I thought that was a boy's name), but Evelyn is not a woman to take no for an answer and tries to win him back. When he rebuffs her, Evelyn's love turns to obsession and she begins stalking Garver, who quickly realises that she is mentally unbalanced and that both he and Tobie are in danger.There are some similarities between this film and Eastwood's previous one, The Beguiled, in which he also plays a character in danger from jealous or unbalanced female antagonists. The two films are, however, quite different in atmosphere. The Beguiled was a period piece set against the American Civil War and with a claustrophobic Southern Gothic feel to it. Play Misty for Me, by contrast, is very modern in style, set against the backdrop of some attractively photographed California coastal scenery around Carmel-by-the-Sea and neighbouring Monterey. (Some scenes, reflecting Eastwood's love of jazz, were shot at the Monterey Jazz Festival).One thing I did not care for was that extended soft-focus sequence in which Garver and Tobie wander along the shore, walk through the woods and finally make love, all to the strains of Roberta Flack's version of The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face; this seemed like something taken from a slightly soft porn remake of Love Story. Every cloud has a silver lining, though, and its exposure in this film propelled this beautiful song to number one, providing Flack with her first big hit.The plot of Play Misty for Me is similar to that of Fatal Attraction from 1987 and other more recent stalker films such as Swimfan, but in 1971 this was a more original concept than it would be today. One obvious difference between this film and Fatal Attraction is that Michael Douglas' character Dan Gallagher is married when he begins his fateful affair, and therefore cheating on his spouse, whereas Garver is single. (It is made quite clear that at the time of his affair with Evelyn he is not in a relationship with Tobie). Perhaps in conservative Reagan-era American the makers of Fatal Attraction felt that they should please the moral majority by including a Thou shalt not commit adultery message in their film.Of the two films, however, it is Fatal Attraction that I would prefer, despite its moralising. Indeed, it is perhaps its moral dimension which gives the later film greater depth. Play Misty for Me is a tense and at times exciting thriller, but it lacks this dimension. Garver is simply the innocent victim of a psychotic woman's malice, whereas Gallagher's moral lapse means that he has, to some extent, brought his troubles on himself. Although Jessica Walter here gives a fine performance as the demented Evelyn, the script does not give her as much complexity as Glenn Close's character Alex. Gallagher's philandering has caused emotional harm not only to his wife but also to Alex herself, and she therefore becomes, if not a sympathetic character, at least one who has been wronged and whose motives we can understand. (For similar reasons I preferred Martin Scorsese's remake of Cape Fear, in which the moral distinctions between Bowden and Cady are more blurred, to the J Lee Thompson original in which Bowden is a clean-cut hero and Cady a straightforward villain).The success of Fatal Attraction paved the way for many inferior imitations, of which Swimfan is a particularly egregious example, but some of the stalker movies of the nineties, such as Single White Femaleor The Hand that Rocks the Cradle, are very good ones and approach their subject with a surprising depth. Play Misty for Me may have pioneered the genre but is not, in my view, the best such film. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Play Misty for Me","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The directorial debut from Clint Eastwood is a fantastic film, with similar themes as Fatal Attraction, but sixteen years before. Basically self-centred, popular late night radio station disc-jockey Dave Garver (Eastwood) bumps into fan Evelyn Draper (Golden Globe nominated Jessica Walter). She is the caller who often asks him to play the song Misty, and she tracked him from his mentioning of the bar he goes to. They have what was pretty much a one night stand, but things get complicated when Dave wants to go back with his old love, Tobie Williams (Donna Mills). Evelyn is deluded and believes Dave still loves her, and she is desperate to have him with her always, he of course tries to get rid of her nicely, but slowly he sees that she is nuts. It is after she cuts her wrists that he stays with her a tiny while, but he is still determined to get away from her, she is of course will go to extremes to keep him with her. Things settle a little while with Dave and Tobie happily together, and she gets a new room mate, Dave is shocked to find out it is Evelyn! So it all comes to a head with Evelyn revealing herself to Tobie, and when you think Tobie will be victim to Evelyn's malicious intent, Dave comes in, and Evelyn falls down the cliff to her death. Also starring John Larch as Sgt. McCallum, James McEachin as Al Monte, The A-Team's Jack Ging as Dr. Frank Dewan, Irene Hervey as Madge, Clarice Taylor as Birdie, Duke Everts as Jay Jay and film director Don Siegel as Murphy the bartender, Clint's way of saying thank you. Eastwood does well in the Michael Douglas like role, and Walter is just as nuts as Glenn Close, a gripping thriller, and a fantastic beginning for the twice Oscar winning star director. Very good! "},{"Title":"A bazillion Lifetime stalker movies have jaded me","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Granted, I realize that this is an original. However, I just keep thinking, Why are these people doing what they're doing? It only takes a phone call to the police......yes, they set up the whole I don't want to ruin my DJ career scenario, but COME ON. Psycho Lady COULD have been stopped very quickly.A plus is CE in his prime, with some of the best man-hair to hit celluloid. JW is a bit over-the-top, yet the very fact that I want to hit her with a two-by-four, probably attests to her success in the role.Donna Mills is a blob.The locations are great. HOWEVER, the opening shot CLEARLY foreshadows the final scene, as does the first scene in Murder by Numbers decades later. Actually, the latter film blatantly rips off the opening shot of this 1971 classic. CE's directorial debut is pedestrian.This is no Psycho. Worth a watch, but not worthy of the adoration. "},{"Title":"Before there was Fatal Attraction; Clint's smart directorial debut","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  PLAY MISTY FOR ME (1971) ***1/2  Clint Eastwood, Jessica Walter, Donna Mills.  Predecessor to Fatal Attraction by over a decade is in some ways better than its copycat Eastwood (in his directorial debut) is a cocksure jazz r&b dj in picture postcard perfect Carmel, California whose one-night stand with an avid listener turns into every man's nightmare by invading his personal life and turning out to be a certifiable head case.  Some startling moments thanks to Walter's scary/realistic performance and ingenious camerawork by Clint.  Look for Eastwood's inspiration/mentor director Don Siegel as a bartender. "}{"Title":"Overrated, though with some good material","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's directorial debut is a refreshing change of pace for him, and there are some good things to say about it. Some of these things include Jessica Walter's performance, scenic locations, good music, and some VERY effective attack scenes.However, I thought the movie was too flawed to be effective. The faults I had with the movie are as follows(1) Some amateurish direction and editing. There's the freeze-frame and sudden zoom into the scars, the hokey lighting-up-of-the-certain-passage-from-the-book bit, some connected actions being off by several seconds, etc.(2) It's too long. The love scenes, the jazz festival, and other scenes are either not necessary to the plot or could have easily been cut down(3) Related to (3), the movie at times seems to forget what the plot is about(4) The resolution seems hurried, obvious, and just plain weak "},{"Title":"record breaking silliness","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Oh dear me, in 2008, PLAY MISTY like THE EXORCIST is now a campy comedy. What's so funny? ...well just about everything. Lets start with an absolutely terrible script with inane dialog and OBVIOUS characters. There's Mr Eastwood, snarling and muttering about the place with old pals making 'witty' remarks at him as he downs yet 'nother free drink.... then that dame...eyes like saucers and plonking herself anywhere she likes speaking in some Marilyn Monroe gasp until BIG surprise she goes bonkers and slashes up the house, maid and pillow.... yelling obscenities like Beelzebub. The funniest scene is late one night when Clint hops out of bed startled, wearing only his wrinkly Y-fronts and parades about the room pretending to see if SHE really is there. The expression 'put a sock in it' has never been more apt. Jessica Walter as the cartoon fatal attraction of this silly cruel and laughable horror movie has nothing more to do under the woeful direction of Mr Eastwood than babble hiss and talk dolly talk. There's a sloppy sex scene later under a waterfall with pouting sulking Donna Mills whose mullet blonde hairdoooo is scarier than Jessica's gasping of the title. This ridiculously unbalanced movie itself is as stupefying as FATAL ATTRACTION 15 years later and equally as absurd. Horrible and hilarious. "},{"Title":"Feels basic and dated next to Fatal Attraction but is still worth seeing for it's good points","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Dave Garver is a late night DJ who reads poetry and plays chilled music during the graveyard shift. He picks up a girl in a bar after one of his shows who turns out to be one of his fans who has come there deliberately to meet him. After going to hers for sex, Dave assumes he'll never see her again and is surprised when she comes round to his house the next day to cook him dinner. Putting it down to over-enthusiasm he thinks nothing more of it but Evelyn continues to force herself into his life but the more he tries to get rid of her the more unhinged and desperate she becomes.Watching this film now it is hard not to be put in mind of Fatal Attraction; the plots are quite similar and it is easy to look at Fatal Attraction and think it is better simply because it is more recent. Misty has dated quite badly in some regards but it is still a good film in it's own right. The plot follows the thread we all know having seen it repeated in Fatal Attraction, and it does it pretty well, even if it flags ever so slightly once or twice. The ending is good and was the only way to end it after Evelyn madness had gone so far, and it's impact isn't really spoilt by the dated fake blood. As director Eastwood has clearly been influenced by the style of Don Siegel and you can see plenty of touches that have rubbed off him onto these films. However Clint also uses plenty of gimmicks and shots that really make the film look dated (the freeze frame, some close ups etc) although they really would have worked in the early seventies.The film is helped by a good lead pair as well as interesting, if undistinguished support. Eastwood plays his usual macho self and is actually quite understated for most of the film. Occasionally he lets it show that this macho personae that he plays is actually flawed &#150; but this thread is soon let to go by the wayside in favour of Evelyn's collapse. Walter takes the role like a duck to water and certainly one thing you could never accuse her of here is restraint or subtlety. After a normal start she quickly gets down to the business of becoming a bunny-boiler. It bothered me a bit that she was so crazy so quickly but it certainly was an enjoyable performance that helps the lift the tension. The support cast are all very much in the shadow of these two and the only ones that stuck in my mind were small roles from Siegel and McEachin (who I couldn't help but see as Lt Brock from the Perry Mason films!).Overall this is a good film if far from perfect one. It lacks the intelligence of Fatal Attraction and has dated quite badly in some regards but it still works for what it is. Despite the dated touches, Eastwood's direction is solid enough as a debut and he delivers a film that is far from perfect but still worth seeing.  "}]