[{"Title":"On the other hand, the good book says that this is an excellent film","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"106 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Epic in plot, setting and length, Fiddler on the Roof tells a surprisingly tight and focused story that has universal poignancy--in a nutshell, it's about trying to maintain strong cultural traditions and identity in the face of a continually changing world, partially fueled by the youth, that doesn't necessarily share the culture's values or self-assessment of worth.The plot is based on short stories written around the turn of the 20th Century by Sholom Aleichem, who was often called the Russian Mark Twain. Aleichem wrote a number of works based on his character Tevye the Milkman, who has seven daughters (in the film, this was pared down to five). They live in the fictional Jewish shtetl (village, or little town or city) of Anatevka in Tsarist Russia in the early 1900s. The stories are slice of life stuff. A lot of attention is paid to Tevye's daughters and their potential suitors. One of the prominent conflicts with tradition is a struggle with arranged marriages versus marriages for love, but of course, being set in pre-revolutionary Russia, there are also political changes brewing, some of which have a profound affect on Tevye's family and village.Aleichem's Tevye stories were first turned into a Broadway musical, which began its initial run in 1964 with Zero Mostel as Tevye. Producer and director Norman Jewison, who had had success with films like In the Heat of the Night (1967) and The Thomas Crown Affair (1968), and who was experienced as a producer and director for musical-oriented televisions shows, including Your Hit Parade (1950) and The Judy Garland Show (1960), was asked around early 1970 by United Artists to helm the Fiddler on the Roof film. To their surprise, Jewison wasn't Jewish. He got the gig anyway, and in August 1970, began an arduous shoot--much of it done in a small village in Yugoslavia that refused to cooperate when it came to weather (Jewison couldn't get the snow he wanted). He ended up getting a lot of pressure because the shoot went over time and over budget--this was one of the most expensive films of its time, which was an era of economic woes for Hollywood--but of course we know it paid off in the end.Zero Mostel was out as Tevye, and Israeli actor Chaim Topol, or just Topol, was in, based largely on Jewison seeing him in the role of Tevye in the London stage production of Fiddler. Jewison had said that he was shooting for more realism in the film, as opposed to what he saw as a kind of campy humor in the Broadway production.In my eyes, Jewison ended up with a bit of both approaches in his finished film, but that's all for the better. Sequences like the opening Tradition montage are hilarious in their juxtaposition of a grand operatic attitude and the rhythmic coordination of cleaning fish, hanging slabs of meat, and so on. Yes, a lot of Fiddler is very realistic, but it's equally humorous and surrealistic most of the time.The realism is largely thanks to the authentic settings, the fabulous production and costume design, and of course, the superb performances. The humor is a factor of the above with that Mark Twain-ish aspect of Aleichem's stories and the fine script by Joseph Stine.The surrealism comes largely by way of the cinematography. Some of the visual sense is reminiscent of Marc Chagall's early work and his later, nostalgic depictions of his native Russia, and in fact, the image of the fiddler on the roof comes directly from a Chagall painting. Jewison saw the fiddler as a cross between a metaphor for the Jewish spirit (and this is explained in more detail via a few lines of dialogue in the film) and an actual physical manifestation of a spirit. However we interpret the fiddler, the shots of him and his presence in the film are certainly poetic. Jewison also gives us some fabulous, surreal, wide landscape shots, such as those of agricultural fields and the beautiful wasteland in which the train tracks are set. There are a few scenes set on the banks of a river, overlooked by a bridge, that are reminiscent of particular Van Gogh paintings. And as a more subtle bit of surrealism, Jewison had cinematographer Oswald Morris shoot much of the film though a woman's stocking--the mesh is very clearly visible in some exterior shots. Of course, there are also a couple more surrealistic touches in the plot, my favorite being the Tevye's Dream sequence, which features traditionalist Jewish zombies in an operatic attitude.A musical couldn't be a 10 without great music, and Fiddler on the Roof has it. The songs are a marvelous melding of traditional Russian folk melodies, with appropriate twinges of Orientalism and the expected Broadway sound, but maybe leaning a bit closer to a modern opera. From that description, you might think that the music would be a mess, but all of the songs are inventive and catchy. They are seamlessly melded with the drama, furthering the narrative as they should. The choreography is excellent and it is well shot by Jewison. And Isaac Stern's violin solos are outstanding, of course.Fiddler on the Roof takes an investment of time--it's three hours long, but it's well worth it. It offers great drama, great music, great humor and great tragedy in a beautiful package--you'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll sing, and you just might break a leg trying to dance. "},{"Title":"To life, to life, la chayim!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"84 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I love Fiddler on the Roof so much it's difficult for me to comment on it in a detached way.  I just think about it and I'm filled with emotion. (And I'm not the sentimental type!)  It honestly depicts what it means to be human.  It contains love, faith, family, friendship, humour, violence, hate, prejudice, change, vulnerability, joy, community, anger...everything.  This film is a tribute to the Jewish people, but you don't have to be Jewish to enjoy it.  It's so rich that everyone can identify with it, and learn from it.As for the music, all the songs fit in naturally and stand on their own as classics.  Matchmaker, Matchmaker, Sunrise, Sunset, If I Were A Rich Man - need I say more?  When Hodel sings Far From the Home I Love it's tissue time.  They're all so beautiful!  If you usually find it hard to take when characters in musicals suddenly burst into song, don't worry, in this film it's so seamless you can't imagine them communicating any other way. The music makes it easier for them to say things they normally wouldn't in conversation.The characters are so real and down-to-earth. They're strong, hard-working people, who have their priorities straight. I can't write about FOTR without mentioning Tevye - the centre of this whirling story, and a man who, like all of us, struggles with the pace with which his world is changing.  He clings to the past, yet accepts what the future may bring. I don't think there is another film out there that addresses how insecure we feel with change. But hey, that's life. To life, to life, la chayim!! "},{"Title":"From a Goy One of the best films ever made.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"80 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Let me say up front, I am not predisposed to enjoy a movie like this.  On the contrary, as a straight WASP, the last thing I want to watch is a broadway musical or a bunch of Jews 'kavetching' about how bad they have it. That is definitely NOT what this film is about.  Though the subject matter is Jewish, to say it is a Jewish film would grossly limit it's significance.  It is about the human experience.  Any one who has felt pain and persecution will relate to it.  Therefore I say every human should love this film.  It has an indomitable optimism and remarkable pathos that causes the viewer to empathize with the characters, namely Reb Tevye, played by Topol in arguably one of the finest dramatic performances ever.  Considering the lack of success Topol has had with the rest of his career it would literally seem he was born to play this part. This film will most likely not be enjoyable for those looking for spoon fed, mindless entertainment or titillation, but for anyone who appreciates the beautiful things in life, it is high art. I recommend you set aside an undisturbed block of time, (use the can first, it's three hours long) when you are feeling relaxed, eat some good homemade soup and watch this masterpiece.  Perfect casting, cinematography, pacing, art direction, wardrobe and best of all, an exquisite soundtrack by the great, and very young, John Williams.  Listen to this movie on a powerful sound system and it will sweep you into each musical number.  Especially (my favorite) the bar room dance scene.  Fiddler on the Roof should be on every top 100 list that exists.   Like no other movie I can think of, 'Fiddler' reaches deep into the heart and begs one to look at what things in life are worth living for and dying for.  "},{"Title":"A jewel in the crown of  musical films!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"57 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" 'Fiddler on the Roof' is about a humble milkman who schemes to marry off his pleasant daughters according to his family's 'traditions.''Fiddler on the Roof' is about a simple villager who insists that without their old traditions, he and the other villagers would find their lives as shaky as a fiddler on the roof.'Fiddler on the Roof' is about a firm believer who carries on conversations with God, gently complaining about the afflictions the Almighty had put upon him... 'Fiddler on the Roof' is about a soft-hearted father and his self awakening to a new tradition which he experiences with his three eldest daughters whose actions call for reform...'Fiddler on the Roof' is a powerful statement about the evils of prejudice and the importance of maintaining a warm and communicative family life in the midst of severe oppression...'Fiddler on the Roof' is about traditional values at a time, like today, when there is confusion over those values...'Fiddler on the Roof' is about love and fear, devotion and defiance, persecution and poverty, pride and dignity, sorrow and oppression...'Fiddler on the Roof' takes place in the midst of a hostile and chaotic environment... 'Fiddler on the Roof' could be safely placed in the great tradition of film musicals... The songs evoke happiness and tears... The fiddler's hauntingly beautiful music came from the violin of the world's greatest virtuosos, Isaac Stern... Composer Jerry Bock and lyricist Sheldon Harnick captured the drama and conflict of the story from its incisive opening to, ultimately, the powerfully silent human circle at the very end... Their treatment of the music produced some outstanding hits like 'Tradition.' 'Tradition' is more than a simple musical number... The brilliance of this song is in its ability to introduce the impoverished village and its characters &#150; from the figure of the funny fiddler to the pathos and witty humor of Tevye, to the creaky old rabbi, to the bright-eyed matchmaker, to the sharp-tongued Golde, to the indecisive tailor, to the audacious revolutionary, to the enthusiastic butcher, to the Constable who brings that terrible order &#150; It is the solid center of the film.. Yet one by one, the traditions that the very poor dairyman of Anatevka and his people have cherished and lived are broken during the course of the film, as marriage are no longer arranged by the 'papa,' as men and women dance together in a public place, and, most grievous of all, as children marry out of their faith... The shattering of these traditions becomes even more intolerable to Tevye in the shadow of other dangerous forces which threaten to destroy the very life he is trying to preserve...Under Norman Jewison's direction, the entire cast delivers a depth performance and a spectacular energy that brought smiles and tears to the audience... Few musical characters are so fully realized or so deeply engaging...Topol warms hearts and evokes laughter with his deep humanity, wisdom and humor... He brings his own magnetism and appropriate world-weariness to the role... With his raspy voice, virile appearance, and alternating expressions of compassion and implacability, he reveals his thoughts to the audience, always quoting the good book. He even shakes a czarist soldier's finger rather than his hand, and questions his loyal wife after 25 years of marriage on whether or not she loves him...Norma Crane brings out a concerned mother and a devout Jewish woman...Molly Picon shines as the garrulous Yente, the village matchmaker who fails to arrange suitable marriages for the three strong-willed daughters...Rosalind Harris makes her plain Tzeitel somehow beautiful... She defies 'Tradition' to marry for love rather than arrangement...Michele Marsh is Tevye's second daughter, Hodel, the decisive young girl who follows an activist against the repressive regime...Neva Small is both radiant and pathetic as the delicate middle daughter Chava, who unbelievably chooses love over family...Leonard Frey is Motel, the young impecunious tailor who tells Tevye that he and Tzeitel had made each other a pledge...Paul Michael Glaser is Perchik, the radical student from Kiev with liberal ideas, who asks Tevye's blessing, not his permission...Zvee Scooler is the beloved Rabbi who offers this prayer for the Czar May God keep the Tsar...far away from us!Nominated for eight Academy Awards, 'Fiddler of the Roof' proves to be a splendid achievement with its strongly emotional songs that grows out of the characters' feelings... "},{"Title":"One of the best of all musicals","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"57 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The range and audacity of `Fiddler on the Roof' is stunning.  By comparison today's musicals are timid, quaking things, terrified of frightening their audiences away however much `social relevance' bravado they may assume.  This old musical is older than it looks.  The film dates from 1971; the musical itself from 1963; but even then it was clear that it was the last of its kind, a delayed swan-song from the 1950s.  There's sentiment, but no promise of a happy ending; humour, but not a trace of postmodern knowingness; realism, but and a willingness to indulge in fantasy, too.  Musicals can't really survive without fantasy, and `Fiddler', along with `West Side Story', may very well mark the limit of just how serious it is possible to get without losing it.  The songs are uniformly good.  I don't know if Bock's music was usually so fitting, or if he happened to strike gold just once - not that it matters.As for the film ... I only wish I'll get a chance to see it in a cinema, for the photography is beautiful - and it IS the photography that's doing it, since we're made to realise that neither the village nor its setting is picturesque in itself.  Norman Jewison has assembled a cast not one member of which jars and makes the most of it.  This film is quite long, and feels longer, but neither length nor apparent length is a liability. "},{"Title":"A Musical Tradition!","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler On the Roof is the stage-to-screen adaptation of the famous musical.  It tells the story of Tevye, a poor Jewish milkman in the tiny Russian village of Anatevka.  This role is played by Topol, who played the character onstage in the London production of Fiddler.  We see him as a man mired in traditions, but struggling between his devout faith and the changing times when three of his daughters feel the urge to marry.  The movie is beautifully shot, and tempers the story, which deals with the harsh realities of Jewish life in pre-Revolutionary Russia, with classic musical numbers sure to put a smile on your face.  Between its incarnations on the stage and on screen, Fiddler will be immortal. "},{"Title":"The best musical ever made...","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" ...Fiddler on the Roof stars Topol as Tevye, a Jewish milk man (and father of five) living in a small town in the time before WWII.  The movie follows him over a long period of his life, mostly focusing on his three oldest daughters getting married, and Tevy's opposition towards their new husbands.  Of course, it sounds a little depressing, but believe me, when you here the song If I Were A Rich Man, you'll change your mind.Musicals tend to become boring about halfway through (or at the beginning if they're really bad) because of overly dramatic songs or over acting.  Fiddler on the Roof doesn't fall into this category.  The songs please and warm your heart whenever they are sung, and the characters don't either overact or become boring.Topol is hilarious and dramatic as Tevye, the dancing and singing father who speaks to God (and the audience) out loud.  Topol narrates, sings, dances, and mingles joyfully with the other characters, never even coming close to slipping out of character.  Tevye will go down in my book as one of the most memorable protagonists...ever.The only thing going against Fiddler on the Roof is its monstrous running time.  Not because it gets boring, but because whenever you'd like to watch it, you have to make sure you have about four hours of spare time, 9/10. "},{"Title":"A musical for the ages","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I saw this film during it's initial theatrical release and have seen it many times since. I am not especially a fan of musicals and there are very few that I like but this is one of those few. Fiddler on the Roof ran on Broadway from 1964 to 1972 and received a special Tony Award in 1972 for being the longest running musical in Braodway history. In addition it was nominated for nine Tony Awards for 1965 winning eight of them. The popularity of the plays Broadway run spawned Off Broadway performances worldwide from professional theater companies to high school productions. Joseph Stein wrote the screenplay for the filmed version adapted from his book which was based on stories by Sholom Aleichem. The wonderful music of Fiddler on the Roof is from the songwriting team of composer Jerry Bock and lyricist Sheldon Harnick. Director Norman Jewison had never done a musical before and was best known for the drama In the Heat of the Night and the comedies The Russians Are Coming, The Russians Are Coming and The Art of Love. He would direct another musical after Fiddler in Jesus Christ Superstar but would find more success in Moonstruck, A Soldier's Story and ..And Justice For All. Veterna Cinematographer Oswald Morris who was familiar with musicals having photographed Scrooge and Oliver was known for his cinematography in such films as Lolita, Mobey Dick, Goodbye Mr. Chips and The Guns of Navarone. the film Fiddler on the Roof was immediately embraced b the public and received critical acclaim and received eight Academy Award nominations including Best Picture and Best Director and won three Oscars for Best Cinematography, Musical Score and Sound. the film's setting takes place in the Jewish village of Anatevka, Russia in the year 1905. I interviewed a 101 year old Jewish woman three years ago who was born in a small village outside of Minsk, Russia in 1902 and lived there until 1920. In asking her to describe her village she referred to this film and said it was exactly like what was depicted in the movie. I can't think of a better testament to the production of this film than having someone who lived in a similar village during the time it was set in to see her past in this film. At three hours this runs a little long and it's hard to capture a successful musical stage play on film but this comes as close as you can get. As a musical I would give this a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cultural Divide","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Watching Fiddler On The Roof I couldn't help but think that way back when he was a student, Sholem Aleichem must have gotten a Russian translation of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. It must have influenced him so that I can't believe it was a coincidence that when he created the story of Tevye the Milkman he had five daughters and he was just looking to get them off his hands just like Mr. Bennett was with his five.Of course the difference between Czarist Russia for Jews and being part of the landed gentry in early Victorian England is cultural light years. Still fathers, mothers, daughters and prospective sons-in-law are the same wherever you go.Filling some very big shoes in the lead was Topol who to this day is still appearing in stage productions of Fiddler On The Roof. But in 1971 people still remembered Zero Mostel on Broadway. Mostel was no longer in it, but Fiddler On The Roof was coming to the end of its then record run of 3242 performances. Topol had done the London production though so he was no novice in the part. Topol justified Norman Jewison's faith in him by garnering an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. Leonard Frey who was Motel the tailor who was the only one from the original Broadway cast and not in the role he did on Broadway got a nomination for Best Supporting Actor. In fact I liked him best in the film, a Yiddish version of Willie Mossop, the worm that turned from another English source, Hobson's Choice.The cultural divide is the thing about Fiddler On The Roof that does separate it from a Victorian novel to a story of a perennially persecuted people. The thing that got me was the people's utter resignation to their fate come what may. Paul Michael Glaser, later Starsky on Starsky&Hutch, is the only one who's mad as hell and not taking it any more. For his pains he winds up in Siberia. Many have wondered why the Jews just marched off to the concentration camps two generations later. The answer in many ways is to be found in the characters Sholem Aleichem created from what he observed during his life. Norman Jewison as a director filled the screen with this stage production. Small wonder among the Oscars that Fiddler On The Roof did win was for cinematography. The film also won for sound and best adapted musical score. The original songs were done by the Broadway team of Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick. Bock in writing the music had as keen an ear for the folk music of the culture as Richard Rodgers did in writing an Oriental score for The King And I.If the role of Yente the matchmaker, a name as well as an occupation in Jewish tradition, wasn't in the original play, they'd have to have invented something to get Molly Picon in the film. The movie going public might only know her from such mainstream films like Come Blow Your Horn, but this woman who started as a child entertaining newly arrived folks from places like Anatevka became the First Lady of the Yiddish Theater. It wouldn't have been right to do Sholem Aleichem on the big screen without her in the film in some way.Fiddler On The Roof is one of the best adapted Broadway musicals to the big screen ever done. And this review is dedicated to my late grandfather Isidore Kogan who came from Kamenets-Podolsk, a place just like Anatevka and settled here along with eight brothers and sisters in a watch repair business. I never knew Isidore, he died a week before I made my earthly debut, but he would have so loved Fiddler On The Roof. "},{"Title":"Keeping The Faith","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  *** SPOILERS ***This is a truly great movie that happens to be a musical.  As with any great movie, it is a product that geometrically multiplies the visions and talents of its Director (Norman Jewison) by combining and extracting the best of the talents of his cast together with his technical crew members. As a written play, Fiddler On The Roof, was based on a script that was a true labor of love attempting to extract the best pearls of wit and wisdom from the remarkably rich legacy of humorist-essayist-philosopher Sholom Alechem. The superb musical play was heavy on wit and magnificently composed and choreographed musical numbers capturing-to-a-tee Alechem's spirit and indomitable drollery.  It had steep roots in the Yiddish theater and a perfect musical-comedy farceur to capture that spirit in Zero Mostel.Four years after winning the Oscar for the magnificent In The Heat of The Night, Norman Jewison, a Canadian Christian, had the gall (in many eyes) to attempt to extract still more from his movie.  Rather than embrace the play's Yiddish theater roots, Jewison's movie is more about using Alechem's anecdotes and the brilliant music to capture the essence of the Russian town that Anatevka was at the turn of the century, replete with its distinctly rich Eastern European roots.  In order to do this, he made the bold, albeit unpopular choice, of eschewing Mostel and his New York roots for 33-years-young Israeli actor Chaim Topol who was a smash in the role on London's West End.  This still-controversial choice turned many off and distracted from the movie itself.  This is a pity because I found Topol's performance astounding and at the core of what I personally consider the strongest and deepest movie musical ever made.At its core, the movie version of Fiddler On The Roof focuses on the story of Anatevka first, using the trials and tribulations of Teyve the milkman and his family saga as a mirror to capture what is happening to the town, and as one of the characters notes to Jewish villages like it all over Russia.  As such, this is the story of the unconquerable faith and basic dignity and humility of Job, extended not just to Teyve, not just to Anatevka, but to all the Russian Jews of that era who were forced to flee the homes they loved.  Jewison captures the core and the essential truths of that unconquerable faith coupled with the overwhelming dignity demonstrated by these survivors continuing to smile and persist in humble faith even as their oppressors try to kick their teeth in.To me, one of the most illustrative exchanges is when Motel (Teyve's eldest son-in-law) reflects, We always wait for the Messiah.  Wouldn't this be the perfect time for him to come?  Sympathetically but bemusedly, the Rabbi replies, Of course we shall continue to wait for the Messiah.  We will just have to wait for him somewhere else! All at once, the drama, wit, irony, pathos, faith and essential spirit of Teyve's family and the village leave its indelible imprint on our brains.  Jewison not only captures genuinely and unforgettably all the emotions and essential truths of Anatevka and the 3,000-year legacy it embodies, but creates a vital new legacy as its now inseparable companion.  Yet, at the same time that the heartwrenching story of the oppression and exile of the Jews is evoked, and the indomitable spirit that keeps the culture and religion going is reinforced yet again, it is brought forth in a manner that allows non-Jews to share in the emotions and spirit as well.Since I've given such a long review to a movie and story of great length already and have barely touched upon its many specific gems, I'll endeavor to be brief.  Norma Crane, Rosalind Harris, Leonard Frey, Paul Mann, Louis Zorich (later of Brooklyn Bridge), the female actor playing Chava, the Greek Chorus of Jewish townspeople Zev Schooler, and Molly Picon (the last two being Jewison's concession to the plays Yiddish theater roots) are all outstanding and unforgettable in their roles. The score (yes three good songs were necessarily omitted -- how much longer than 3 hours would you like the movie to run?) is beautifully sung and played, with the instrumentals simply stunning.  The choreography on the Bottle Dance is a standout.  The art direction, sound editing, camera angles, stunning photography, contrasts, virtually every technical aspect of the movie I can name -- and I mean EVERY one -- is magnificently executed to augment Jewison's vision to perfection.As nothing is 100% perfect, I'll pick two minor nits -- unlike others, I thought Glaser missed the essence of Perchik's scholarly radical by half-an-octave and I thought the beautiful and talented Michele Marsh did not look physically like she belonged in that family.  There I said it.  OK, big deal, they were still more than good enough.   I generally loathe movies of more than two-and-one-half hours in length. Fiddler On The Roof and A Man For All Seasons are my two most notable exceptions.  If you enjoy movies made before 1980 at all, and have any sense of the essential spirit of mankind and what the human race is about, you owe it to yourself to see this extraordinary opus -- a true masterpiece that only adds to its relevance with the passage of time. 11/10. "}{"Title":"Jewish Tradition and the New World","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" In the beginning of the Twentieth Century, Jews and Orthodox Christians live in the little village of Anatevka in the pre-revolutionary Russia of the Czars. Among the traditions of the Jewish community, the matchmaker arranges the match and the father approves it. The milkman Reb Tevye (Topol)is a poor man that has been married for twenty-five years with Golde (Norma Crane) and they have five daughters. When the local matchmaker Yente (Molly Picon) arranges the match between his older daughter Tzeitel (Rosalind Harris) and the old widow butcher Lazar Wolf (Paul Mann), Tevye agrees with the wedding. However Tzeitel is in love with the poor tailor Motel Kazoil (Leonard Frey) and they ask permission to Tevye to get married that accepts to please his daughter. Then his second daughter Hodel (Michele Marsh) and the revolutionary student Perchik (Michael Glaser) decide to marry each other and Tevye is forced to accept. When Perchik is arrested by the Czar troops and sent to Siberia, Hodel decides to leave her family and homeland and travel to Siberia to be with her beloved Perchik.When his third daughter Chaveleh (Neva Small) decides to get married with the Christian Fyedka (Raymond Lovelock), Tevye does not accept and considers that Chava has died. Meanwhile the Czar troops evict the Jewish community from Anatevka.Fiedler on the Roof is a wonderful musical for the whole family about Jewish tradition and the new world. The performances are top-notch and this film has been nominated and won several awards, including Best Cinematography, Best Music Scoring Adaptation and Original Song Score and Best Sound. The songs are magnificent and my favorite is Sunrise Sunset (http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=nLLEBAQLZ3Q). The sequence when Tevye asks Golde whether she loves him or not is delightful. Despite the 181 minutes running time with Intermission, the viewer does not fell the time passing by in this marvelous film. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Um Violinista no Telhado (A Fiedler on the Roof) "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful!","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I know people have complained about the length of this movie. Yeah, it is long, three hours approximately, but there are so many things that compensate. Norman Jewison's direction is very good, and the film is stylishly filmed, with some nice cinematography and there are nice scenery and costumes. The choreography is great, energetic in parts and graceful in others. Next, the music is outstanding. The incidental music largely reminiscent of Russian folk music is a real treat, but the songs are outstanding. The beautiful Sunrise, Sunset, the fun Tradition, the idealistic Match Maker and the energetic If I Were A Rich Man, all amazing. Also, Topol, what an absolutely brilliant performance. He put body and soul into Tevye, successfully mixing humour, wisdom and poignancy and the result is one of the most memorable performances in any musical to grace our screens. All the other performances are wonderful, I liked it all five daughters had distinct personalities, and Norma Crane is fantastic as the mother. The story is both tight and poignant, about a milkman of Jewish values, who wishes his five daughters to marry. In conclusion, wonderful and definitely memorable. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Ultimate perfection in a musical, and of course TRADITION","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Although I'm not normally a great fan of musicals...people on the screen constantly bursting into song for no good reason generally irritate me...this one's a masterpiece. Story, theme, characters (especially the main one, Tevye), and of course, incomparable music.This musical is set in the Russian village of Anatevka during the early 1900's of the Tsarist regime. It tells the story of the village's Jewish inhabitants (Tevye's family, in particular), their traditions (and the disturbing trend toward departing from them), their hardships and persecutions, and most of all their optimism, camaraderie, humor, and especially faith in God through it all.Topol is magnificent as the main character, Tevye, the village milkman, who imparts to anyone who'll listen his pearls of wisdom from the Good Book and has conversations aloud (sometimes musical ones) with God, complaining good naturedly about his troubles and of course the importance of maintaining, yes... TRADITION. He's the father of five daughters and much of the story line revolves around the older three, who reject the old customs of the Matchmaker, Yente, and insist on choosing their own most unsuitable husbands... Tzeitel, who prefers the poor, shy, awkward but endearing tailor, Motel, to the much older, wealthy, ruddy faced butcher (Lazar Wolf) selected for her by her father; Hodel, who chooses a student activist, Perchik, even if it means exile in Siberia; and Chava, who defies her father by marrying a Gentile, Fyedka, in an Orthodox Christian Church. Teyve loves his daughters and always tries to see their choices from the alternate, optimistic side (on the other hand...), but some traditions are too difficult to see broken. The issue of Judaism notwithstanding, like all parents of faith even today, Tevye finds it much easier to deal with his son-in-law's economic or political unsuitability than with major religious differences.My personal favorite scenes are of Tzeitel's wedding...the magnificent cinematography, the beautiful candle lit procession, the solemnity of the sacred marriage vows under the Jewish canopy, the bride supposedly plain but absolutely radiant, the traditional breaking of the wine glass by the groom, all to the moving strains (tears fill my eyes even now) of the immortal Sunrise, Sunset which asks the timeless question of every parent at their offspring's wedding...where has the time gone? how did my child grow up so quickly?This film touchingly depicts the close knit village life (where everyone knows everyone else's business) but especially in relation to the threatening external forces, the pogroms of Pre Revolutionary Russia. Racial prejudice against these Jewish villagers is an ongoing theme, and nowhere is this more dramatically and touchingly revealed than at Tzeitel's wedding reception. I won't give away the details, but your emotional response will be outrage. It's a picture that's worth a thousand words. Lots of humor, too, especially in the interactions between Tevye and his devout, long-suffering wife, Golde. Now, this is a couple that knows the true meaning of love. For me, the funniest scene in this movie was the sewing machine, absolutely precious. Wonderful music of course throughout. The fiddler on the roof plays his hauntingly beautiful strains, especially effective during the moving, emotional ending. All the songs in this picture are catchy but, unlike most ditsy musicals, also have deep meaning. Everyone seeing this movie at the theatre left humming the incomparable, lively If I Were a Rich Man. In fact, they're probably humming it still.If you haven't yet seen this musical...and you must be one of the few who haven't...then you absolutely MUST see it. Make sure your kids see it. It's just not acceptable to go through life without the benefit of Teyve's wisdom, and whether you can carry a tune or not, you'll be singing some of these songs in the shower for the rest of your life. "},{"Title":"Fiddler on the Roof","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Strong film adaptation of one of the greatest musicals ever. Jewison beautifully recaptures the essence of the Alchiem stories with wonderful cinematography, editing and performances from Teyve, Frey and Molly Picon. One of the last great movie musicals.  "},{"Title":"Without Tradition Our Lives Would Be As Shaky as a Fiddler On the Roof","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Solomon/Sholom Rabinowitz was probably the greatest Eastern European Jewish writer (his closest competitor is Issac Peretz). In the late 19th Century, writing as Sholem Aleichem, he wrote a huge amount of short stories, novels, and plays. When he supposedly met Mark Twain at the start of the 20th Century, Twain said he was told he was the American Sholem Aleichem. Most people who know of him recall his invention of the character of the philosophical and wry witted dairyman Tevye. Tevye, in his village of Anatevka, is struggling to make a living and raise his seven (not five) daughters with his wife Golde. The short stories not only deal with his philosophical point of view of how God and man (in particular the Jews) coexist, but also how to get the girls married without the financial muscle to give them dowries that are expected.Joseph Stein's play for the Broadway musical this film is based on reduces the number of the daughters to five. Actually only the stories of the first three daughters Tzeitel (Rosalind Harris), Hodel (Michele Marsh), and Chava (Neva Small), are given in greater details - because the other two remaining daughters have stories that don't quite fit in with the film's conclusion. Shprinze (Elaine Edwards) drowns herself when jilted. Bielke (Candy Bonstein) does marry a millionaire war profiteer (the stories went up to the Russo - Japanese War), and Tevye has a brief period of prosperity (though he loathes the son-in-law as a bullying ignoramus) before the son-in-law's fortune collapses. In the movie the two girls end up heading for America with their parents.But Stein's play manages to get the spirit of Aleichem's stories across, so that the changes I mentioned are not too important. Tevye (Topol) can't understand why he is made to struggle daily and never get's a chance for some prosperity. You have made so many poor people., Tevye says to God. I realize it is not a crime to be poor...but it's no great honor either! There is a chance for Tevye when the local butcher, Lazar Wolf (Paul Mann) reveals he wants to marry Tzeitel. Tevye agrees to the offer of Lazar through the marriage broker Yente (Molly Picon), much to the happiness of his wife Golde (Norma Crane). But Tevye learns that Tzeitel is in love with the village tailor Motel Kamzoil (Leonard Frey). How Tevye gets out of the marriage contract is straight from the original story - it shows how useful the supernatural can sometimes be.Subsequently Tevye faces the love affair of his second daughter Hodel with the young revolutionary Perchek (Paul Michael Glaser), who ends up getting sent to Siberia (whither Hodel follows him). And then comes the third daughter, Chava, who falls for Fyedka (Ray Lovelock), which ends in a peculiar tragedy for Tevye - Fyedka is Christian, and when they marry it is in a Russo Orthodox ceremony. Tevye's love for his faith and tradition - the backbone of Jewish existence that Tevye insists on - causes him to renounce his living third daughter as dead to the family.The collapsing days of the old Romanov Empire are illustrated, showing the use of official anti-Semitism as a manner of controlling the situation (it really didn't help much). As the viciousness of the old regime towards Jews ends the film with the forced removal of Tevye and his people from their lands. And the only thing to do is head for America or Poland or Israel - any place but Russia.The play/musical's numbers are well done, as are the violin solos played by Isaac Stern. Topol was a fine Tevye - although one misses seeing Zero Mostel's great performance there are some television sequences of Zero singing If I were a rich man that give us an idea of what he was like in the role. Topol emphasizes the even tempered, realist who is Tevye, who has a heart, sorely injured at times. He is abetted by his wife, a role well played by Crane. Molly Picon has a good time as that yente Yente, who is constantly trying to make a living making arranged marriages. Leonard Frey is fine as Motel, singing Wonder of Wonders. Also note Louis Zorich as the local police constable, who has a decent relationship with Tevye, but who finds it collapse when ordered to force the Jews from the village (Topol puts him in his place quite well here). This film was a brilliant example of how to film a musical classic, and make a classic movie musical at the same time. "},{"Title":"Here's to whatever comes","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Across the 1960s all the movie genres that had developed in the previous two decades underwent massive changes &#x96; the old biblical epics disappeared completely, the Westerns and gangster movies became almost unrecognisable. Then there was a new generation of musicals &#x96; avant-garde, burlesque-influenced, many of them brilliant but in a category of their own. And yet, musicals of the older format clung on for a surprisingly long time, rubbing shoulders with their more modern cousins. Fiddler on the Roof, adapted in 1971 from a 1964 stage show, is one of the last great classic musicals.Of course, Fiddler on the Roof is not as old-fashioned as all that. Although the Broadway musical was long dominated by writers of a Jewish background, the idea of doing a show using Hebrew melodies was only really thinkable in a more flexible era. And the score by musician Jeremy Bock and lyricist Sheldon Harnick just happens to be one of the finest musical scores ever written, with a canny and emotional union of melody and rhythm with words and meanings. For example, in the song Tradition there is a verse &#x96; each with its own different melody &#x96; for fathers, mothers, sons and daughters, respectfully. Then the father and daughter verses play together, creating a lovely harmony while emphasising that this is a story of father-daughter relationships. Matchmaker features some incredibly clever lyrics, moving from dreamy thoughts of ideal men and working round to a consideration of the realities of arranged marriage, with such poetry that combined with the sweet, flighty tune creates a sublime and poignant beauty. There is not a single weak song in the score, and the whole thing is perfectly structured, moving from the mighty Tradition to the delicate Matchmaker, to the bombastic If I Were a Rich Man to the haunting Sabbath Prayer and so on.The director of this screen version is Norman Jewison, always a filmmaker of musical sensibilities. There is a lot of rhythmic editing in Fiddler on the Roof, perhaps a rather facile technique, but Jewison mixes it up with a lot of on-the-beat movement, a kind of choreography of everyday actions, often taking care to make each shot agree rhythmically with the one preceding it. In the scene where we are introduced to Golde and the daughters, almost every time there is a new speaker we get a cut, an angle change and a camera move. By making those techniques occur simultaneously Jewison lessens out the impact of each, getting that hurried, busy feeling without making it look over-edited or artificial. He's also very good at making the action slide gracefully into a song, such as the pan into a close-up that opens the song Matchmaker. He doesn't need a massive shift in technical style when a song begins, so the whole thing flows very smoothly and naturally.At the heart of the movie is of course that gigantic performance from Chaim Topol. He has a brilliant dancing style, a kind of mix of big-armed gesture and a really unrestrained segueing into the song. He could probably not do anything really athletic or precise, but his feeling for the music is clear. During the talking scenes, he's brilliant at bringing himself down to a level of serious contemplation, then suddenly bursting it with a comically angered outburst. Norma Crane manages to match him in presence, and yet with a more natural, sober turn. And Leonard Frey plays the stereotypical gangly youth, believably bringing out some forcefulness during his confrontation with Topol. Those familiar with English sitcoms can look out for before-they-were-famous appearances from Ruth Hi-de-hi campers Madoc hamming it up magnificently as the spectral Fruma Sarah, and Roger Lloyd Trigger Pack in a bit part as the sexton.The music and the people bring to life a story that is wonderfully touching and ultimately rather bleak, as many later musicals often could be. And this is where Fiddler on the Roof really seems to span the trends of the old and the new. The triumph of love has of course long been the preoccupation of the musical, but the triumph of love over tradition does chime in very well with the spirit of the age in which this picture and its stage predecessor were produced. But aside from this context, Fiddler on the Roof's warm humanity, larger-than-life characters and beautiful music make it one of the genre's greats, a movie that can be enjoyed today and by generations to come. "},{"Title":"A Gentile who loves the movie and always sheds tear","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I LOVE this musical but I weep a little always for the Yiddish culture lost forever. The world is so much poorer. I apologise for straying from the artistic merit to linger on the loss to HumanityNevertheless this film is a permanent record of the fact that we enjoyed a wondrous Yiddish culture in our midst in Europe but after a series of Pogroms culminating in the Holocaust the heart was ripped out of our culture here in EuropeThe music, the humour, the humanity, gone forever from the Heart of Europa. Europe's lossIrish Gentile "},{"Title":"Never lost any love for this movie over the years.","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I have had a love affair with this musical movie for over 35 years. Although it came out the year I was born, i saw it for the first time when i was about 5 and even though i was too young to understand a lot of it, i felt a connection with the story, the characters and exspecialy the music. As I got older the movie just kept getting better and i never tired, and still don't, of this masterpiece of cinema. This is not just a Jewish movie, everyone can identify the story and love it. Topol as the poor milkman with five daughters, embodies the part to perfection. He has not only the singing chops but the demeanor and quick wit of the character. The other cast members are fantastic as well, ex specially Leonard Frye as Motel the tailor. Oh and what music! I dare anybody to watch this movie and not walk away from it humming at least a few of the tunes. My personal favorites are If i were a rich man and Sunrise and Sunset. Movie musicals of recent years have been hit and miss. For example Chicago was great but Mama Mia was schlock, pure and simple. Fiddler is legendary! See it! "},{"Title":"A wonderful story","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The story took place in the village of Russia, 1904. It centered around the leading role, Tevya, who was diaryman. Tevya was a enlightened old man, he had open-minded thought and he deeply loved his three daughters. When he looked into the future of the daughters who were unmarried, he always sang the song If I am the rich very kindly, because he fervently expected that they got a bright future.In the beginning, Tevya was trying to marry off Tzietel, the oldest daughter. The matchmaker found her a matcher in Lazar Wolfm the butcher. However, the butcher was much older than Tzietel, and she didn't love him. she loved a poor tailor, and they promised to each other that they would get married. At last Tevya said yes to them. Meanwhile the second child Hodel, and a poor student also fell in love soon, and they got engaged. They informed her father this and he gave them permission to be married. The poor student was arrested for demonstrating, and was sent to a distant prison, Hodel left to join there. Last, the last daughter , Chava and Fyedka fell in love. Chava told Tevya, and he was outraged, because she wanted to marry out of the faith. She got married anyway, and Tevya disowned her. Soon after that, all of the Jewish people in Anatevka got a notice to move out. And that's the end of the play. Ir's a kind of sad ending. "},{"Title":"A Great Musical","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Much was made of director Norman Jewison's decision to cast Topol (instead of Broadway's Zero Mostel)as Tevye, but his performance is the single most important factor that makes this a great film. Topol's portrayal has an earthiness to it that makes the farmer/milkman feel authentic. When he pushes his awkward cart through the landscape, you can feel his exhaustion.Jewison also does a great job integrating the music into the action. Songs like Do You Love Me? and Sunrise, Sunset spring organically from the action. The film's themes are universal in nature. Even in his small village, Tevye cannot avoid a changing world. It challenges his beliefs and threatens his beloved traditions. Eventually, it changes every aspect of his life. Finally, he realizes that what his daughter says to him is true--home is where your love is.Virtually every aspect of this film is excellent, from the dancing to the cinematography. And the cast is wonderful. "}{"Title":"Great film","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" After 43 years, I eventually got to see Fiddler on the Roof and it was well worth the wait! What a touching, beautiful portrayal of life in an exiled Jewish community in Russia (or was it the Ukraine?) around the turn of the 20th century. The star of the film is undoubtedly Topol as Tevye a subsistence milkman, the head of his family of wife and five daughters but there were certainly many others. His wife, Golde (Norma Crane - who died just two years after Fiddler of breast cancer) and his three oldest daughters Yente (Molly Picon), Hodel (Michele Marsh) and Tzeitel (Rosalind Harris) captured the modest yet determined characters of male-dominated Jewish women at a time when traditions (a word yelled by Tevye many times in exasperation throughout the movie) were irreversibly changing. As we learn during the story, Tevye and Golda first met each other on their wedding day and were told that, in time, they would learn to love each other. The scene where they actually admit this is absolutely beautiful.However, starting with Yente, Tevye and Golda's daughters rebel against century-old tradition and choose their own marriage partners - even though old ways don't die easily and, being the soft-hearted, loving father that he is, Tevye succumbs to their wishes until Tzeitel announces her love for a gentile and that is just too much for her father who (initially) disowns her.One amusing (to me) scene was where Hodel and her man, Perchic (played by Paul Michael Glaser of Starsky and Hutch fame) express their love for each other. As I watched the scene I was frequently reminded of Sheldon and Amy of TV's Big Bang Theory. (I guess you need to watch both to see it but it did make me smile!)I won't write about the ending to the movie as that would tend to be a spoiler too far. Just let me say Fiddler on the Roof is a very believable story of love, loyalty and sheer doggedness that is an inspiration to anyone who is experiencing difficult times. As I say, well worth the long wait! "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Great Musicals","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" In pre-revolutionary Russia, a poor Jewish peasant (Topol) must contend with marrying off his three daughters while antisemitic sentiment threatens his home.Let me say this right of the bat while this film may focus on a Jewish family and their struggle to enter the modern world (which may be good or bad), you certainly do not need to be Jewish to enjoy it. I always felt like this film (and Yentl) were marketed towards the Jewish community, but it need not be. It is just a great story with excellent songs.I loved the singing, the dancing, the story, the humor, the characters... there was really nothing I disliked about it. I was a bit surprised the eldest daughter was not Barbra Streisand, because they look identical. But, oh well. And I am also a bit surprised that the director was not Jewish, especially with a name like Jewison... but hey, he did a marvelous job! "},{"Title":"Great music! Marvelous performances!","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler on the roof is that type of movie that brings you a sentiment of content and fulfillment given by the amount of knowledge accumulated at it's final. A movie full of color, art, beauty, naturalness through images and music, acting and screenplay. What makes you reflect a while after seeing this movie is the richness of messages that it transmits. In my opinion, the movie expresses that rules are not always beneficial and that curiosity is good because it allows changing and evolution. More, the movie emphasizes the importance of tradition in the expression of people's devotion towards God.One thing we can learn is that love doesn't take rules into account. And more, it doesn't matter you're poor, it is not wealth that makes us happy. What is the most important thing in our pursuit of happiness is love.The best musical movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"tradition dies, life goes on","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Norman Jewison's adaptation of Jerry Bock's musical masterfully tells the story of poor Jewish milkman Tevye (Chaim Topol) having to deal with the dying out of traditions, as well as anti-Semitism in tsarist Russia. The obvious metaphor is the title character representing the situation of the Jews in Eastern Europe in the early 20th century, but the movie also seems to be alluding to the generation gap. Much like how young people across the world had little in common with the parents generation by 1971, Tevye's daughters want to find husbands on their own, rather than have a matchmaker do it.I once saw a stage production of Fiddler on the Roof, and the movie equals it very well. Overall, the movie shows two things. The first is that musicals like FotR and West Side Story are easily the best of their genre, tackling less-than-pleasant issues (WSS dealt with racial tension). But also, it affirms that Jewison had made the biggest possible jump from his debut (Forty Pounds of Trouble, which I've never seen but heard was vomit-inducingly atrocious). Fiddler..., along with The Russians are Coming, the Russians are Coming, In the Heat of the Night, Rollerball, Other People's Money and The Hurricane show him to be one of the greatest directors of all time.All in all, not only do I recommend this movie to everyone, but I would say that 1971 was possibly the best ever year for cinema Little Murders, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, Bananas, Carnal Knowledge, Shaft, Willard, The French Connection, The Last Picture Show and A Clockwork Orange. "},{"Title":"A dark,dark musical with Topol the shining light.","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This is not a Hollywood Musical per se.Singing in the rain it isn't. There are no virtuoso dancers,extravagant costumes,jazzy orchestrations ,comic misunderstandings or other staples of that genre.Instead of the frankly rather silly clichs that pass as plots to hang a few song and dance numbers on ,Fiddler on the roof says more about real human beings than the entire works of Messrs Rodgers,Hammerstein,Porter,Kern,Gershwin,Henderson da Silva and Brown put together.Only Stephen Sondheim comes close. It is so sui generis that only Rich man has much of a life outside the show,but all the other songs fit beautifully in their proper context. Topol is extraordinary,and I use that term in the full knowledge that most of the time nowadays it is taken to mean merely very good. It is a musical for grown ups .In today's soundbite society where ten minutes is too long ,it would never get made. "},{"Title":"A great musical about oppression, hope and the power of tradition.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" In pre-revolution Russia the Jews are allowed to live in a small enclave village as long as they keep a low profile and serve the general population. In this setting a peasant farmer wants to marry off his three daughters - but he only gets trouble, trouble, trouble...The film musical is a strange fish in that it can be an absolutely brilliant way to tell a story or the worst. However well you to put it- the sight of people suddenly bursting in to song to make a point or illustrate information is quite strange and there are many that can't quite get their heads around it. Certainly it shouts this is not real life more than any device in the history of cinema and you half expect the camera to pan around and watch the orchestra playing the music! The format works far more effectively when the central music is also central to the theme itself. Such as in A Star is Born or Cabaret. We expect music to sung on a stage - but in the middle of a street with people passing by as if this was the most normal thing in the world?The music in Fiddler is only average and strangely dated even for the time it was made. It wasn't a film musical that had to be made. In If I Was a Rich Man we have an all-time classic and in Sun Rise/Sun Set a minor classic - but the rest is mediocre, although sometimes made brilliant by fantastic dance or visuals. We can't go back in time and understand Topol (the poor farmer) any more than we can understand MacBeth. We have had too much education. He sees himself as a man whose only goal is to continue to fight for his traditions and the idea of his daughter marrying a Gentile sends him in to apoplexy. We don't understand him today - indeed we are angry with his for his narrow mind - but this is the spool which his whole life is spun around.This film made me interested in history. To try and understand what is going on off screen. What the politics of the day were. My reading is that Jews were allowed certain plots of land because it was thought that they were hard workers who brought trade to an area - but they were not trusted and became something of a mixed blessing. The cruelty they suffered was often as a result of their own success - because success brings jealousy. I have only positive thoughts on this film. Yes, I wish the music was better and there was more of the fantastic dancing. I also wish that the politics of the day were better explained - although I don't know how.We know what lay in store for them (the Jews) later in life - but the lucky ones got to America a country that has always been their natural home. A place where hard work and success are admired and people don't come round to smash up your wedding - they simply don't let you join their golf club. "},{"Title":"Fiddler brings the Jews back into an accepted light.","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Here in Anatevka, we have traditions for everything how to sleep, how to eat, how to work, how to wear clothes. It's a tradition, and because of our traditions, every one of us knows who he is and what God expects him to do says Tevye (Topol), the Jewish village milkman in pre-revolutionary Russia. He believed that they were still God's chosen people, as God said in Exodus 195b (KJV), &#x85;ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people. A tradition purist, he, prejudiced against the foreign Russians as they intermingle with them in Anatevka, wishes to marry out his three older daughters.But would it be heresy on my part to suggest that Fiddler isn't much as a musical, and that director Norman Jewison has made as good a film as can be made from a story that is quite simply boring? asks critic Roger Ebert. As much as I respect him, I disagree with him here. The story is not about marrying out his three daughters, but instead about Tevye's controversial decisions in those marriages that alter the Jewish life in their village. In the end, the Russians drive out these Jews in a pogrom; it is not a key point of the plot, but an indirect effect of the generations-long Jew discrimination. The truth that it teaches doesn't lie in the history, but perhaps in the way Tevye impacted Anatevka's history.Faithful to the Jewish traditions, Fiddler is an accurate portrayal of Jews that can both entertain and educate without stark preaching. Perhaps the greatest openly-Jewish/Christian movie made by mainstream Hollywood, it deals with the various differences in the peoples and the ignorance of Tevye of the outside world. But Fiddler doesn't preach; it presents the message throughout the entire film's two hours and fifty-nine minutes. The teachable moments don't come in one cheap, blink-and-you-miss-it line, but instead through Jewison's smooth storytelling and direction that sinks the message comfortably in.This gradual separation from tradition comes in the form of his daughters' husbands. First, instead of accepting the village matchmaker's choice of husbands, they love and know their selected mates, an alien concept to Tevye. Second, these desired husbands' ideas and positions push the borders of tradition one at a time, with the eldest marrying a tailor in the village, the second a Revolutionist and the third, a goy. Tevye, quickly though a bit reluctantly accepts the tailor, he is skeptical but consents to the Revolutionist, but he altogether rejects the goy. He feels the change happening. He can't avoid it, yet, at the same time, he still can't fully accept it. Based on the hit, still on-going Broadway musical, Fiddler won three Academy Awards for sound, the clever use of cinematography and John William's adaption of the score. The witty dialogue, catchy songs and the wise-guy Tevye brings the Jews back into an accepted light. "},{"Title":"Rather Strong Musical!","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler on the Roof is a solid musical and is actually a little better than I anticipated. Set in pre-revolutionary Russia, this film describes the life of Jewish peasantry and how their way of life faces off against more modern times. I found the movie to be quite a learning experience, as my knowledge of Russian history really begins at the Bolshevik takeover. This is the earliest film I remember seeing of legendary composer, John Williams. He does a magnificent job adapting the music from stage to screen. I loved some of the songs such as Tradition and If I was a rich man. For the most part, I loved the choreography. However, I was oddly bothered at some of the dancing, especially from Topol's character. It just didn't seem to strike a chord with me. I loved the production design and the cinematography. Despite its advancing age, the film still looks beautiful.Norman Jewison's film is a musical that takes place in pre-revolutionary Russia. A country that is struggling to modernize itself. Perhaps some of the reason is the Jewish peasants, who believe in their traditions. Tevye is a milkman who is poor and lives with his wife and five daughters. As the matchmaker suggests matches for his eldest daughters, Tevye has to deal with changing ways of life as his family attempts to break tradition.If you want to see a popular film that has a no-name cast, don't look further than this film. Until my initial viewing of this film, I have never heard of anyone in this cast. But I feel they all do reasonably well in their roles. Topol does a good job as Tevye. He looks to be an old man, but he was only in his 30's when this film was released. His singing was pretty good too. The pain he shows as he realizes tradition is crumbling all around him is pretty darn heart-breaking. The rest of the cast features unknown names such as Norma Crane as Golde, Tevye's wife and Leonard Frey as Motel, a lover of Tevye's eldest daughter.Overall, Fiddler on the Roof is an often entertaining musical filled with excellent songs and a score that puts the majestic John Williams on the map. The choreography is hit or miss and the film feels a little stretched. But the film does a good job in portraying peasant life during Czarist Russia and how difficult life can be for them, and how tradition unites their people. The beginning and end shots are beautiful, and what gives this movie the title it has. They are my favorite shots of the movie.My Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Slow at first but very compelling story","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The Jewish community in the village of Anatevka live simple lives in Tzarist Russia. Norman Jewison directed this 3 hour grand movie adapted from the stage. Reb Tevye (Topol) is a poor milkman with five daughters. This movie is partly about the struggle between traditional life and the new ideas of marrying for love. All of this struggle takes place with the backdrop of racism and cruelty of Tzarist Russia.This movie does move slowly in the first half concentrating mostly on the daughters' relationships. They struggle against the traditional ideals. Around the midway, the wedding provide a change in tone as the struggle comes to a head, and the outside world tramples in on their world.The 3 hour running time could be tough for some people. They may have trouble with the first hour. There are some great songs in that section. It's a compelling story that's worth the watch. "},{"Title":"To Family ... To Tradition ... To Life ...","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Seeking help from Springfield's synagogue to get a coronary bypass operation, Homer Simpson came to Rabbi Kruftosky and told him Now I know I haven't been the best Jew, but I have rented Fiddler on the Roof and I will watch it &#x85;' I'll complete this quote later but for now, I understand why Fiddler on the Roof is highly regarded in the Jewish community, for it provides the most enchanting and entertaining insights on Jewish traditions, 'Tradition' as the motto shouted by all the villagers of the small and peaceful town of Anatevka, in pre- revolutionary Russia, traditions like an immanent symbol of eternity. Sure, traditions and rituals are the tools that men use to construct a feeling of immortality, as a community, hence to overcome the fatality of death. But this is even truer for a community persecuted for centuries and that couldn't even afford an attachment to a land, so the only land Jews could never leave is the one that could never leave them. Hence the powerful symbolism of the title letting the music speak for the soul of your community on a place that you might fall from. The title offers a poetic vision of a tragic historic reality, conveying the feeling that joy can anytime be followed by tragedy. So, if it can't be eternal, well at least traditions are.Still, the content of these traditions can appeal to every culture, especially oriental patriarchy, life in community, hard work, social status, marriage, and of course, Family. And all these values are incarnated by a poor farmer and milkman with five daughters Tevye, played by Topol with an electrifying mix of authority, charisma, magnetism, self-derision and some vulnerability betraying his penetrative eyes in the most dramatic moments. Topol is the friendly host of that epic journey, breaking the fourth wall to share his thoughts with us, and from the way he apostrophes God, who's like the film's second character, he powerfully embodies both the pride and the doom of being the 'chosen people'. Topol as Tevye is a larger-than-life character, carrying the film with such intensity that whenever he's absent, you feel like something is missing. In a way, he indirectly points out the small weaknesses of Fiddler on the Roof.Despite their narrative significance, I didn't feel emotionally engaged by the growing romances through the story's recurring subplots, although I genuinely liked the first two husbands, Motel the tailor and Pershik, the revolutionary student (good old Starsky). But there was something too predictable in the way it was handled. You could tell the movie's point was about traditions being undermined by modernity. First, a marriage with a non-promised, then a non-religious man with Tevye giving his blessings and permissions despite a first negative reaction ... but the twist was on the third daughter marrying a gentile, too much asking for. This time, no blessing, no permission, no on the other hand reasoning, it was the kind of deathblow to tradition that would have made Grandma Tzeitel roll over in her grave. I wouldn't have minded the predictability, but when a movie, even a light-hearted musical, spans three epic hours, you got enough time to figure out everything, then the feeling introduced by the first act inevitably fades out, especially after the exhilarating Lechaim part. Besides, there wasn't much in these daughters that could really grab me, the part where they were singing was too Disney-like and the best love story in my eyes, was still between Tevye and his wife Golde (Norma Crane). But trusting Jewison's direction, I wondered why such a long film for a a plot that wouldn't present any twists, I guessed maybe it was a deliberate choice in order to 'distract' the viewer from the real dramatic aspect incarnated by the anti-Semitic threat, the persecutions and the pogroms from the Russian empire, 'distract' as a way to elevate ourselves from this inexplicable level of violence, and keep us in a good spirit, on the roof, listening to the sound of this violin, whose notes are getting more melodramatic.After the wedding sequence, the film takes a more serious course until the inevitable happens when people leave Anatevka for Palestine, Europe or America. Tevye invites the metaphoric fiddler on the roof to accompany him for the new exodus, as to reaffirm the obligatory attachment to tradition, with two fingers pointing at the sky. I felt the ending of the film was a downer but the more I thought of it, the more I realized it was a bittersweet ending. In a powerful moment after the infamous pogrom that ruined the wedding, Tevye raises his hands in disbelief; it's hard not to see how this scene foreshadows more tragic events that would face the unfortunate descendants of these people. And while remembering this scene, from Topol's eyes, I understand and I respect how the movie speaks for a whole community.And because I knew I was going to evoke some tragic events, I'll end this review on a more positive note by fulfilling my promise with Homer Simpson's quote I have rented Fiddler on the Roof and I will watch it. Anyhoo, can I have $50,000? This desire for money I will forever associate with the iconic If I Was a Rich Man, one of the greatest moments in musicals history. Topol has such a communicative energy that I wish I could have joined his yubby-dibby-dibby-dums, to a feverish and passionate dance. This whole 'Ya Da' part, and the extraordinary To Life song with the dancing scenes evoke a sense of male fraternity reminding me that I share the same roots of these people if we go till Abraham or the hell with it that we're all part of a same humanity, with traditions, as a clever way to forget about death and raise all our glasses &#x85;&#x85; to Life ! "}{"Title":"Sunrise, Sunset","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Well. I could scarcely believe that I had never seen such a famous movie as Fiddler on the Roof but there it was in the listings, and I indeed had not. So, I took the three hours and invested it in Norman Jewison's rendering of the famous play. I am not really a fan of musicals, but this one had such charm. Especially from the performance of Topol, who played a rough character with utter (well, I have to use the word again) charm. The (Acadamy award-winning) cinematography was excellent, and the direction unobtrusive. I even liked some of the music. I was already aware of the pogroms and other indignities (to put it mildly) inflicted upon the inhabitants of the Jewish Pale, but I cannot recall ever seeing a movie showing any of it. If you can at all stand musicals, you should probably take the time to see this one. "},{"Title":"One season following another/Laden with happiness and tears...","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Russian Jews in a small Ukrainian farming village in the early 1900s are unaware of the political tensions brewing in the city...and how the new Czarist regime will eventually sweep all of them up into an exodus of change. Popular musical entertainment via Broadway, with heartfelt characters and a universal theme--Old World tradition versus the new ideals--resulting in a production which is alternately robust and bittersweet. The confines of the material (as conceptualized on the stage, where this show ran for nearly eight years) occasionally burdens the narrative, though director Norman Jewison keeps a pretty lively pace. The editing is weak and does the filmmaker no favors, and the camera never seems to be in the right place, however most of the performers are intensely in-tune with this story and bring out the jubilant soul of the piece. Topol stars as simple milkman Tevye, watching as three of his five daughters drift away into the arms of romantic suitors; he consults with God on matters of money and the heart, weighing each circumstance with even reasoning, and compares the attempt at living a common yet balanced life to that of a fiddler on a rooftop. The film would hardly be much more than an old-fashioned, sentimental exercise were it not for Topol, who sings and dances and jiggles across the screen like a circus bear. In Topol, Jewison has found an appropriate way to capture this theatrical happening on film--and actually make it mean something. Several sequences feel lumpen, and too often there's no exaltation at the climax of the musical numbers, but it still works a fiery-eyed kind of magic. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Strong Material, Beautiful Score and Wonderful Lead Performance Overcome Heavy Directorial Hand","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Director Norman Jewison does all he can to pound the life right out of this screen adaptation of the phenomenally successful Broadway musical, but thanks to the strength of the original material, he doesn't succeed.There are many better screen musicals, but there are also many that are far worse. Suffice it to say that Hollywood, which had churned out one disastrous musical after another for the last decade, finally got back to producing a musical it could be proud of. This beautiful story about a simple milkman in turn-of-the-century Russia who must come to terms with the loss of the safe and only world he has ever known, succeeds on screen largely due to the performance of Topol, who breathes body and soul into Tevye the milkman and creates one of those characters that for ever after you instantly associate with the actor who played him. You can feel him working overtime to keep Jewison's lumbering physical production on its feet, and his efforts prove themselves to be nearly Herculean, since Jewison can't direct a musical number to save his life. Fiddler on the Roof is not a dance musical, but it does have some rousing dance numbers courtesy of Jerome Robbins; however, you wouldn't know it from this movie, since Jewison almost unfailingly chooses the worst camera angle from which to shoot every single frame of the musical portions.What the movie does boast, however, is a glorious version of the musical's beautiful score, left nearly intact and memorably orchestrated by John Williams. It soars and leaps even when the production it's anchored to just sits like a lump.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Guys...if you don't DO musicals, DO Fiddler On The Roof !!!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Guys, I don't do musicals, but Fiddler On The Roof is awesome baby! Gals, if you and your man have not seen this movie, get a copy on DVD or VCR, prepare a candle light dinner, serve it with a bottle of wine; than kick back with your man and enjoy the show! Grandparents, call your children and grab your grandchildren (if the latter are over the age of 10) and watch a great movie like they used to make! It's a comedy! It's a drama! It's a non-corny, multi-episodic love story that runs all along the gamut from those experiencing their first loves, to those who have grown comfortably old with their mates. The music? Awesome! The plot? Awesome! The acting? Awesome! The scenery? Awesome! It is a must see picture for people of all ages and persuasions. I have only one regret about seeing this picture. I was absolutely furious that Topol did not win the Oscar for best actor! SHALOM! "},{"Title":"One of the last great musicals, what a pity!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  FIDDLER ON THE ROOF (1971) 9/10SINGIN' IN THE RAIN. MY FAIR LADY. TOP HAT. THE MUSIC MAN. THE SOUND OF MUSIC. AN AMERICAN IN PARIS. THE WIZARD OF OZ. GIGI. WEST SIDE STORY. It's easy to name the classic musicals before 1970, but after... what we have of good... CABARET... ALL THAT JAZZ... HAIR... of course, FIDDLER ON THE ROOF. This may be one of the last great musicals, maybe the last, because all the musicals that came after it were really different from the old ones. Coincidence or not, FIDDLER ON THE ROOF, directed with maestry by Norman Jewison and starring Topol, in a joyous performance as Tevye, is about tradition.FIDDLER is about the fight between the traditional values and the new ones. But it's not just an uplifting story; it's bittersweet, even depressing at times. In fact, I like this film so much because I felt every kind of emotion while watching it happiness, fun, excitement, sadness... It's a complete film, one that touches you deep inside.The cinematography is gorgeous, the visuals are great and the songs are excellent. I highly recommend this film. It closed the door for the old fashioned musicals, but it was time. Audiences needed something new, but the musical genre isn't a favorite nowadays. I hope that MOULIN ROUGE, the best movie of 2001 so far, opens the door for a new kind of musical. "},{"Title":"Fiddler on the Roof","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" As Hollywood is a place gathering all the potent and filthy rich Jews, there is no wonder this Jewish drama-musical could become a sensation in 1971, garnered 8 Oscar nominations including BEST PICTURE, DIRECTOR, ACTOR, S. ACTOR and harvested 3 of them (music score, sound and cinematography).Running time is over 180 minutes, I exerted myself quite hard to finish the film. Being an adaption of a success musical, the film version holds steady the same axiom Music is the cure!. The melodies and riffs have a dominating impact so that the shallowness of the corny script (three marriages, specifically encountering money, politics and religion obstacles) should not hinder the sonic amalgam. I'm rather a peculiar person, as usually, musical has never been my cup of tea, let alone a prolonged one, despite of the fact that I'm a true contemporary music aficionado. The only fun I can acquire is from Topol's If I Were a Rich Man, which I just realized is the catchy refrain of Gwen Stefani's hit single Rich Girl. Maybe after 40 years, the didactical preaching through music has been outdated for my generation, also in a Utopian world, Jewish or not is not an issue anymore (the same thing suitable for genders, religions, colors or sex orientations), so bearing the label of a nihilist, I find that John Williams soul-freeing score are much more tempting than Jerry Bock's oldies soundtrack. Anyway, one thing I can not deny is Topol's strenuous but fabulous performance (personally Paul Mann's Lazar wolf is my pick), which will never become bleached through all these years. "},{"Title":"A great musical with a great message","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  (This commentary contains some spoiler information.)  The opening monologue by Tevye sets up the theme of the movie immediately--namely, that certain traditional values rule the population of Anatevka, and the people like it that way.  Then, throughout the course of the movie, these traditional values are slowly stripped away, as represented by the marriages of Tevye's three oldest daughters.  (As Tevye so aptly states, one little time you pull out a thread, and where has it led?)  Tzeitel is pretty traditional, as is shown by the fact that she doesn't want her mother to dance with her father at her wedding.  But she wants to marry the man she loves, instead of going through with an arranged match.  Hodel goes a step further and marries a non-traditional Jew.  (Also, she only asks for her father's blessing, not even his permission.)  And Chava goes furthest when she is married by a priest to a Gentile.  It is interesting to note that unpleasant events follow all of the daughters' choices.  A pogrom interrupts Tzeitel's wedding.  Hodel's fiance is arrested and sent to Siberia.  And the Jews of Anatevka are evicted right on the heels of Chava's elopement.  So IMO, the message is clear tradition must be modified to accomodate the changing times, as well as people's most basic needs and desires, as even Tevye recognizes.  But society should be careful not to throw the baby out with the bathwater, and respect traditional values to some degree (or as Tevye put it, If I bend that far, I will break).  In all, the casting is perfect, the music is uplifting, and the message is very appropiate for our changing times.         "},{"Title":"Essential viewing for parents who always want the best for their children.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Life, the late P.G. Wodehouse once sagely observed, is like a piece of lead piping - he was thinking of the innumerable occasions when, quite unexpectedly, we can be zapped by some sudden and unpleasant situation that knocks us for six.  High on that list of potential pices of lead piping are - unfortunately - our own children!  As this film so splendidly illustrates.The central character (Reb Tevye) has three daughters who each represent some dilemma for their father.  One wants to marry a poor tailor; another (unthinkable for Tevye) wants to marry a gentile.  And so on.  How can these demands be squared with tradition? wonders Tevye.  And if this isn't bad enough, there are additional worries for him to think about such as the problem of personal survival amidst increasing anti-Jewish pogroms.  In other words, it is a stressful situation for Tevye and his family.  And faced with stress, a strong-minded parent can so easily (but mistakenly!) try to solve all these problems personally.But no Tevye has the ability to stand back and see BOTH sides of the problem, and ultimately, he has the emotional courage to let go, so that each of his daughters is free to solve the problem as SHE thinks best.This is a warm, compassionate film.  If it is too long - as some users have suggested - this is to allow the full story to emerge in all its rich, cultural complexity.  The music considerably enhances the mood - sometimes sad, sometimes more jaunty.  A shorter film could not do justice to either the cultural background or the nature of the problems.The person of the fiddler is perhaps better understood not simply as a minor musical distraction, but rather as a symbol of survival or empowerment. Lehayim - TO LIFE!  "},{"Title":"Laughing and crying, time after time","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The story of a man steeped in tradition living in a world where traditions are being thrown out the window (Unheard of -- absurd!)  As many times as I have seen this movie, I never fail to laugh and cry and sing along.  My favorite moments include Tevye's song If I Were a Rich Man, the scene where Fyedka introduces himself to Chava, and at the end of the movie, the song Anatevka, which invariably reduces me to tears. "},{"Title":"I like Fiddler on the Roof....","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  okay, this movie is awesome! It's got humour, romance, funfunfun!! And dancing, OH!! The dancing! A marvelous film, I must say!! Best music, EVER! perfect for singing in the gym locker room! "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Great movie, watched it again today. Music is excellent, you are bound to know at least some of the songs. Weird to see Paul Michael Glaser in a role of this kind (in the movie his name on the credits is Paul Glaser).   "},{"Title":"A playful musical blanketing religious and historic conflicts.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the Roof is one of those movies, similar to an opera, which presents itself in a playfully entertaining medium- while exposing deep seeded conflict of religious faith and historical political persecution. The protagonist is Tevye, is brilliantly portrayed by Topol.  Tevye embodies the old guard traditions of his Orthodox Judaism.  He always covers his head with a hat, and wears a prayer shall under his outfit.  Living in a closed traditional Jewish village, Tevye accepts his social caste as a farmer, by trade.  He sings, If I were a rich man..., but his conflict lies not with material or social standing, but with the traditions of ancient Russian-Jewish living.  You see, tradition is the thesis of conflict in this story.  Tevye notes that they have traditions that tell them, how to eat, how to sleep, how to work...  His closely held values are attacked throughout the whole story.  First, his daughter Yente fights the matchmaking system of the father choosing a husband for his daughter.  For she loves a poor tailor, but Tevye and the matchmaker have an older wealthy butcher eyed up for her.  Love is the key.  Marriage out of love was not a luxury in their society, as we have today.  However, Yente challenges the institutions of Tevye's world .  He eventually gives in to her, but not after cursing out loud, What ever happened to tradition!  As the story moves on, Tevye faces a hardship unlike any other.  His third daughter wishes to marry an outsider- a Russian farmer.  They love each other.  Tevye is at a crossroads.  He won't give in any further, as he has eroded the traditions enough.  In a sad moment, Tevye disenfranchises himself from his daughter for her behavior.  All the while this is going on, the harsh reality of the Bolshevik Revolution comes into play.  The village Constable, a Russian, turns on his old Jewish friends- terrorizing Yente's wedding party.  The evident persecution of Jews in East Russia is captured in this story, as Tevye's family must eventually leave their village by an edict from Lenin.  A short time after, in real life, Lenin and Stalin murdered and persecuted more Jews than Hitler, a point the story implies.My conclusions to the themes of this movie are as follows.  The author of this story smoothly advocates a change from strict Orthodoxy to Western modernism.  Marriage out of love, as opposed to arrangement, is more desirable.  However, he also implies that some traditions are too grandiose to part with.  One being inter-cultural marriage.  For as they were a small village of Orthodox Jews, the culture and religious faith must be maintained.  This is only possible with intermarriage among the Jews.  Tevye strongly opposed his daughters love for a Russian farmer, as he was not one of them.  Whether for good or bad, the author of this story valued highly the sacred culture of Judaism; having it intermingled or watered down by outsiders is to be opposed.  Finally, the historical reality of persecution of Jews comes alive in this film.  When I saw the film as a youth, I asked my father, Why are they being mean to those people?  They didn't do anything wrong to the Russians.  Having been educated on Nazi Germany and Stalin Russia, I now understand the answer to that question.  Whether you are a Jew or non-Jew, the Fiddler on the Roof paints a portrait of one historic time when Jews were persecuted against greatly- and you must acknowledge that as a viewer.  A truly great classic.  To parents  this movie should only be seen by children who are mature and understand the concepts of political and religious history, as this is NOT another Disney musical.  The intense religious, moral, and historic concepts of this movie are not to be wasted on the blanket image that Fiddler on the Roof is a happy and simple musical movie.   "},{"Title":"Classic musical","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  If you like musicals, this is a must see.  About a poor Jewish man, whose daughters all get married away, taking place during WWI.  Great music, and Topol is wonderful.  Even if you don't like musicals, definitely see this one "},{"Title":"One of the best Musicals ever made!","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This Movie is so popular I even knew the Songs before I'd seen the Movie. It's seriously lives up to its expectations and much more... I feel Modern Movies lack the ability to create so much tension and drama without the use of dialogue or soundtracks. Much the same as The Sound of Music, I had no idea this Film had such a dark Storyline and it's rare to see a Movie breaking the Hollywood Mold for a Happy Ending. Chaim Topol's acting of this Character had the perfect balance between being a Strong Mans Man and the humour of always doing as he pleases but at the same time backing down to his Wife. One of the best Musicals ever made. Absolutely Brilliant!! "},{"Title":"Memories Of My Passover Dinners","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler of the Roof was one of the earliest films I remember watching. Almost tradition (no pun intended), Fiddler on the Roof was viewed on nearly every Jewish holiday, giving me the reward of all the great songs and dances that this film had to offer. But besides the great music, Fiddler on the Roof was actually a great extraordinary film. The story was Captavating and the acting was unbelievably good. A film that is so educational that you can learn everything about the fascist era by just watching this film. On of the greats. Whilst musical films aren't really my thing, Fiddler on the Roof is an exception to that rule. Truly entertaining and fantastic, Fiddler on the Roof gives you enough good story, coupled with amazing characterisation that you could watch this endless amounts of time and never get bored. "},{"Title":"If I Were A Rich Man...","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" ...I would watch this every day. And, I do watch it a lot. It is an amazing musical and my personal favorite. Topol is fantastic! While i admit the ending is sad (when they leave Anatevka), it is totally realistic. The songs are amazing, and I listen to them all the time. Tradition' is my favorite, but there are other good ones as well. The movie is really long, over three hours, so you will need to set aside time to watch it. It probably doesn't need to be as long, but that is my only complaint, What a great movie! Totally worth watching in my opinion. If you get the chance, watch it. Believe me you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Tevye's Daughters Question Traditions","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" TRADITION! Well actually the movie is about changing, bending, breaking traditions. The Fiddler on the roof as described by Tevye in the opening of the movie is symbolic for existentialism. It is a metaphor for the challenge of balancing your life and knowing your place in the world. Traditional religious rituals and customs give the community where Tevye's family lives the supposed comfort to get through the balancing act. However, Tevye's three oldest daughters challenge tradition in their romantic lives and the outside world is entering into a time a extreme turmoil. The ways of the older generation clash with those of the younger generation. And through it all Tevye is really pretty progressive for a man in his society.The story is serious and humorous. The film is shot beautifully. The songs are great, some more catchy than others. Tevye's constant dialog with his best friend, God is thought provoking and often funny.Since it is based on the book Tevye's Daughters, it is appropriate that his daughter's romantic awakenings be the main concern of the plot. The oldest daughter challenges tradition a little by pledging her love to a man of her choice, but he is a (soft-spoken) tailor from the same village and they still have a customary wedding. The middle daughter bends tradition by falling for a progressive teacher and budding revolutionary. I love that in the existential crisis he claims humankind must take much more responsibility for balancing on the roof and that traditions are not going to keep us safe up there. The youngest of the three daughters of marrying age meets another intelligent reader, but he is a Russian Kazakh and Christian. This is breaking the tradition entirely by having a marriage of two faiths. It is because the relationships of the three daughters and the father-daughter relationships are so well rendered that this story is more than a Jewish story. "},{"Title":"You'll be a richer man for having seen this.","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Anti-Semitism has been an issue of the world for millenniums, and as one character here describes the life of a Jew, Our fore-fathers have been kicked out of many places. Maybe that's why we always wear our hats, Topol's Tevye gently replies, a touch of irony hidden behind his wisecrack. Tevye is a poor man, but he is a man of the world who understands humanity, both Jewish and Gentile, and he has no issue of socializing on occasion with the Gentile Russians he is surrounded by. He longs to help keep the peace, and for good reason He has eight daughters who must find good husbands, and a tough wife who keeps him in line. It's all about Tradition!, though, and Tevye is having a difficult time in accepting the changing times, especially the independence his three oldest daughters throw his way as his ideals of traditional matchmaking are thrown out of the window.Wife Golde (Norma Crane) surprises him with the news that Yente the Matchmaker (Molly Picon) has come up with a match for their oldest daughter, Tzeitel. It's Lazar Wolfe, the widowed butcher, a man Tevye despises, but after downing a few shots thanks to the rich Lazar, Tevye is convinced that he'll be perfect for the namesake of Golde's beloved grandmother. What he doesn't count on is the fact that Tzeitel and the two daughters next in line all have their own ideas as to what makes a perfect match, and after the rousing To Life!, Tevye learns the truth when he breaks the news to the love-lorn Tzeitel. Leonard Frey, who had a small role in the original Broadway production, takes over the role of the tailor Motel Kamzoil and sings the beautiful love song Miracle of Miracles, showing a lot of heart and life in this presumably straight-laced young man.From there, the two other daughters show their own rebellion, and Tevye's frustration grows. Topol is outstanding as Tevye's traditions are threatened but he finds conflict in his own heart because of his great love for his daughters. He must then confront his own past with Golde, an arranged marriage which introduced them on their own wedding day. While Golde is a bit hard on the surface, you know she is filled with love, at first obvious for her daughters, and even more begrudgingly later for the husband she was seemingly forced to spend the rest of her life dedicated to serving him. Barking at the servants day and night!, Tevye sings in the show-stopping If I Were a Rich Man, describing his seemingly harpy wife who has more dimensions than meets the eye.Molly Picon is adorable as Yente the Matchmaker, and as in everything she ever did on screen, she makes you just want to hug her, even if she is a bit of an unromantic in the way she manipulates every young person's love life. The shot of her at a wedding during the profound Sunrise, Sunset is truly revealing as she too can't deny the power of young love, even if it potentially means the end of her life-long profession. Then, there's Tevye's Dream, the fantasy sequence where Tevye must convince Golde that Lazar Wolfe is not the right match for their daughter. Extremely lavish and slightly camp (especially with the vision of Lazar's late wife Fruma Sarah), it is both a comical and scary nightmare, like something out of a British Hammer horror film.The long Broadway run featured many Tevye's (most famously the original, Zero Mostel), and Topol, who headlined the British production, is outstanding in every sense. It has been revived many times on Broadway, most recently as 2003 (for a two-year run), and will soon celebrate its 50th Anniversary. The wonderfully sentimental and witty lyrics of Sheldon Harnick (still around as of this writing at the spry age of 90!) and the gorgeous score by Jerry Bock surround a brilliant book, and the production values on this movie are simply breathtaking. Director Norman Jewison and his crew provide many details into the traditions of the Russian Jews of this era that are simple for us Gentiles to catch onto, and you may find yourself engulfed in the culture of these passionate people who would find even more serious struggles in the decades to come. Books on this history of this show and movie give more detail as to the meanings of certain words and phrases, and open the eyes of us who want to reach beyond our own lives and embrace the different cultures of the world. To Life, indeed! "},{"Title":"topol a genius","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A beautiful film, every scene perfect, and Topol is unbelievably amazing. How can something so perfect be created...I try, in my own craft, but to see something so faultless, so perfectly manifested...I am in awe of such talent and ability. The art direction, stunning, But really, Topol carries it. A man of faith with intelligence enough to accept change, compassion enough to love through difficult revelations/revolutions.Was a very significant film from my childhood, for some reason, for a nice Irish-catholic boy, but I remember it well, finding again in my fifties, with a better sense of history, aesthetics, morality, sentiment, religion, tradition, it touches me in a deeply emotional way "},{"Title":"One of the Best Musical Adaptations of All Time","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" You can tell by the reviews just who is watching this film. Young people don't understand it. Although you don't have to be Jewish to appreciate it, at least being from Eastern European or Russian heritage surely helps.That being said, it is a lot like the Sound of Music in the fact that it totally fictionalizes what really happened under Tsar Nicholas II in 1905 when this movie takes place. Fifteen hundred people died that year in pogroms which are the ethnic cleansing of minorities. The Jews were literally forced out of their homes by the Tsar's edicts. Anatevka is a fictitious settlement in rural Russia. The Jews, as always, were forced to live apart from the Christian settlement of the town, which was obviously Russian Orthodox. Like Sound of Music nobody dies in the film. The Russians are mean but not murderous. If only real life was like that.As an adaptation of a musical, it is almost flawless. The songs are wonderful and carry the storyline, yet do not impede it. Topal, in the best film role of his life, surpasses even Zero Mostel, who did the stage version. Topol plays middle-aged Tevye yet in reality he is only 38 years old. His accent is occasionally wrong as he pronounces several words with a slight English accent, although he is Israeli. The soundtrack is wonderful and the scenery makes the story seem real instead of just a filmed stage production. It was filmed in Yugoslavia. It is the best film that Norman Jewison ever produced and directed. The only faults I can see are in the DVD video transfer (done in 2001 by DVCC) which perhaps has been redone since and better(?). The sound is a good transfer, but the video suffers from video noise, minor scanning errors, and some film dirt and wear. (The master was degrading.) It is a one disk copy of what should have been at least 2 disks, and shows some compression, as the film is 3 hours.Like Gone With the Wind, The Ten Commandments, Sound of Music, Kings of Kings, and other great films, it belongs in your collection although it will only be watched occasionally. The last time I watched it, I mostly used scene selection and viewed the great musical numbers.The many dance sequences (the Russian Bar Dance, The Wedding, Chava's Ballet) equal those of 7 Brides for 7 Brothers in complexity and beauty. Tevye's Dream is hysterically funny. Stunning, joyful and jubilant-quote from the NY Daily News. To life! "}{"Title":"Tradition","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This movie definitely packs a lot into it and it definitely packs a punch. Set apparently near the end of Czarist rule in Russia, it's the story of one Jewish family living in a small Russian village, and of their relationships with those around them. The story is basically told through the eyes of Tevye, the patriarch of the family, who was brilliantly portrayed by an actor named Topol.Opening with a wonderful song about tradition, that becomes the overwhelming theme of the movie - the role of tradition in the community - and perhaps, as the ending of the movie seems to make clear - the most uncompromising tradition is that nothing stays the same. We see this battle over tradition largely through the eyes of Tevye's three eldest daughters. The oldest of them was arranged without her knowledge to be married to the local butcher - a much older man - but was already in love with someone else. Faced with his daughter's refusal, Tevye gives in and allows her to marry the man she loves. The second daughter then falls in love with a revolutionary who has been staying with the family in exchange for teaching the daughters - a match her father disapproves of (partly because the groom is on his way to St. Petersburg to be part of the coming revolution) but then again gives in on. Then tradition is challenges once more, as the third daughter falls in love with a local Russian official - and a Christian. Tevye refuses to give in on this point, but the two marry anyway and are cut off from the rest of the family. Arranged marriages and the role of the matchmaker are thus dealt with, and the role of the faith in the lives of the Jewish people of the community is humorously reflected upon throughout. The localized idiosyncratic traditions of such a small community are also delightfully brought out. The story also doesn't shy away from anti-semitism, shown in scattered scenes throughout, and then the cause of the major disruption in the end as the community scatters widely (from Jerusalem to Chicago to New York, etc.) because of an anti-Jewish pogrom that drives them away. In the history of Judaism, though - a people often scattered; driven from one place to another - such an occurrence also seems to have the feel of tradition, and it results in a bit of a reconciliation between the family and their third daughter.It's an exceptionally well constructed story. While the song and dance routines are all excellent, I might suggest that some of them went on just a bit too long, but that's one of the few criticisms I would make of a generally excellent story. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I saw this film when I was 10 and I hadn't liked it. Okey, I said me a few weeks ago, I'm gonna try again. And was beautiful, a magic film, full of charming. Very beautiful.The movie is the history of the classic Jewish family on the East of Europe in the XIX century. But is not only a history of a single family in a single village, is the history of the Jewish people. Show you the ideology of the classic Jews, how was changing his minds, how they lived and coexist (and not) with the non Jewish people (they belonged to the Orthodox Church). And finally, how they had to go, how they were expelled from there land.And the characters are charming to. Tevye, Who nobody obeys him, and he seems dominated for his wife, Golde. The daughters of Tevy symbolize the changes, the first got married with no matchmaker, and was hard to admit. The second with a crazy Marxist Jew, who fought against the classical values and tradition. And the younger, Chava, with a Non Jew. That was terrible for Tevye, he couldn't admit that. All his values going to hell. The songs are really nice. And even if the movie show you something terrible (how was the pogroms), the movie has to a positive message, give you hope. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Musicals of All Time!","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" When United Artists hired the Toronto native Norman Jewison, they thought that he was Jewish. When Jewison met with the producers for the first time, he informed them You know I'm not Jewish . . . right?Fiddler on the Roof qualified as the first commercially successful English-language play about Jewish life in Eastern Europe. The story takes place is in Tsarist Russia in 1905 in the Ukrainian village of Anatevka. Tony Awarding-winning playwright Joseph Stein wrote the Broadway musical as well as the screenplay, and Stein drew his material from the story Tevye and his Daughters (or Tevye the Milkman) and other tales by Sholem Aleichem. Aleichem has the distinction of being the first to write children's literature in Yiddish. The story focuses on Tevye, a poor dairyman with five daughters, and his tireless efforts to preserve his family and religious traditions against a changing world. Tevye must deal with not only the strong-minded exploits of his three older daughters&#x97;Tzeitel, Hodel, and Chava--each embraces a husband who represent a departure farther away from the customs of her faith&#x97;but also with the Tsar's edict that evicts the Jews from their village.The poster for the Jewison movie comes from Russian artist Marc Chagall's painting entitled 'The Dead Man' and it depicts a wily violinist perched atop a roof during a funeral. Tevye (Topol) uses the 'fiddler on the roof' metaphor for his efforts to survive in a rapidly changing world. Tevye refers to the instability that ignoring traditions would create when he observes Our lives would be as shaky as a fiddler on the roof. United Artists hired Israeli actor Chaim Topol to play Tevye, partly because he had originated The film was eventually shot on location in rural Yugoslavia in what is now called Croatia.Fiddler relates its story through narration addressed to the audience. The protagonist Tevye (Topol) breaks the fourth wall and talks to the audience. He explains that the equanimity that the Jews of Anatevka have acquired from obedience to their ancient traditions is what keeps them going. We know that Tevye is a religious man because he speaks to God regularly. According to Tevye, the welfare of the Jews is as precarious as a 'fiddler on the roof.' In other words, it is no picnic playing a winsome tune while no breaking their backs with work. This figure steps in and out of the action over the course of the three hours to remind us about the eternal obstacles that confront the Jews. Despite the vast differences of time and setting, Fiddler on the Roof qualifies as a Jewish version of Gone with the Wind. Change assails the characters here as they do the families in the antebellum South in Margret Mitchell's masterpiece. Like the Gone with the Wind's Rhett Butler, Tevye discovers new inner strength in spite of the toll that these overwhelming changes exact on his life.Initially, Tevye arranges for his oldest daughter, Tzeitel (Rosalind Harris of The Cotton Club), through the village matchmaker Yente (Molly Picon of Come Blow Your Horn) to wed wealthy butcher Lazar Wolf (Paul Mann), who is considerably older than Tzeitel. Instead, Tzeitel has fallen in love with her childhood friend, Motel (Leonard Frey of Finnegan's Wake), who is a lowly tailor. Motel pleads with Tevye not to marry his daughter off to an older man. Tevye hatches a crazy scheme to rescind his original plans for Tzeitel. He tells Golde (Norma Crane of Tea and Sympathy) that he has had a nightmare. In the nightmare, Golde's dead grandmother advised him that Tzeitel ought to become Motel's wife as Heaven has decreed. Tevye reveals that Lazar Wolf's dead wife Fruma-Sarah has warned him that should Tzeitel marry Lazar, Fruma-Sarah will make sure that Tzeitel dies three weeks after marriage. This nightmare scene is about as surreal as Fiddler on the Roof gets with Tevye and Golde in their big bed in the middle of a graveyard while zombified relatives warble tunes. Predictably, Lazar Wolf is happy with this reversal of fate. Meanwhile, the specter of anti-Semitism rears its ugly head in the same scene that introduces us to Perchik (Paul Michael Glaser of TV's Starsky & Hutch) as he meets Tevye near the town square. The Jews are discussing a recent edict that forced Jews to abandon their homes in a distant town. Essentially, Perchik is a young Marxist, anti-monarch student from the university with noble ideals. He argues that the rich prey on the poor. Tevye hires him to tutor his daughters and he pays Perchik off with food. Later, Model and Tzeitel are married. Tevye later learns that Hodel and Perchik have pledged themselves to each other. Shocked, Tevye gives them not only his blessing but also his permission. Tevye is quite so liberal when he disowns his third daughter, Chava (Neva Small of The Laser Man), for marrying a young Russian Gentile, Fyedka (Ray Lovelock of The Cassandra Crossing) outside of her faith. Fiddler on the Roof illustrates the tenacity of the human spirit as the Jews, particularly Tevye contend with the ever-changing world. Several Fiddler songs have become classics, such as Matchmaker, Matchmaker, Miracle of Miracles, If I Were a Rich Man, Sunrise, Sunset, and Do You Love Me. Jewison summarized Fiddler on the Roof as the story of a man and his God, and his problems with his five daughters. "},{"Title":"Breaking free from cultural dogmas","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" We could count the years on our fingertips and realise that even only 38 years ago, we, the masses were oblivious to the beliefs, customs, and the like of the Jews. True, our knowledge of them goes back to the Old testament, and Christ, and Jews, but this musical pulls our minds out of the quagmire that holds them down, and relights our minds to see what we should have understood a long time ago. Anyone with a limited-understanding mind would have been given a solid jolt and wakening in a New York minute.Truly this movie is worth more than its salt, brought to it by the 3 Oscars added graciously to its portfolio.For starters, the feeling of antisemitism that prevailed against the Jews in Russia at the dawn of the 20th Cenntury. Here we have Tevye spelling out for us the strict orthodox values which we non-Jews are possibly, or were not possibly, aware of. The matchmaker concept gives birth to a strong turning point, early on in this film, for the concept of love affairs had not even seen the light of day in the Jewish universe. And the Jews themselves could not comprehend a marriage not arranged by the parents. We see that this sleaze is given a solid blow in this film, when 3 love marriages take place.And with each marriage of the daughters of Tevye, we see the binding chains of the orthodox beliefs surrounding the Jews, given more weakening blows which eventually break them completely.Breaking away from the dogmatic society. We see three daughters of Tevye burn it into their minds that only true love, as opposed to the choices of the matchmaker/parents, can really bring happiness on its wings - wings which could also signal hardship, ostracism from the family. Crucial elements that helped reshape our idea/ignorance about the Jews. Elements that were worth the bargain with sacrificing your beliefs/dogmas for a more liberal practical approach.This success, won by this film, flies against the flow of Jewish conventionalism. This is one comedy romantic flick which nicely plays up the dogmatic side of the Jewish conventions, and simultaneously juxtaposes it with the practical side of the Christian beliefs, and shows determination at breaking out of that shell of thought.A truly touching film for all to see. "},{"Title":"It has aged but improved","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" An old film of the double feature time with intermission music but no exit music is a great pleasure to reminisce about these old days. But has that film aged well or just grown old? The story is well known and the problems it contains and deals with are extremely serious. The anti-Semitism of the beginning of the 20th century in Russia, in fact next to Kiev, which makes it the Ukraine but under the Czar anyway. The various approaches are all the same in the end traditions are the normal rule in this small community but the world is changing and many of these traditions are flying away like pollen in the wind the matchmaker is waning out under the pressure of love, the exclusive community that does not allow any mixed activities, particularly love is breaking up on these very rocks named love, the fact that men dance with men and women dance with women falls down like a sand castle under the tide, etc. The first daughter marries within the Jewish community to a hard working young tailor she loves, against the first agreement negotiated by her father to get married with the rich but at least middle-aged butcher. The second daughter runs after a young communist who is arrested and deported to Siberia to get married there, with her father's blessing&#x85; and permission .This second daughter was already difficult but the young communist was a Jew. Quite different is the third daughter. She gets married outside the community, outside the faith, in the orthodox tradition because she falls in love with a young orthodox Russian. She will get her father's blessing in extreme conditions. The last two daughters are too young still to get married, and even to fall in love.The film is rather interesting in the way it shows poverty within dignity or dignity within poverty, the way it depicts all kinds of traditions like the matchmaker, Sabbath, a Jewish marriage, bottle dancers, a very tamed pogrom episode during the marriage celebration, with some surprising anachronisms like pumpkins and corn, I mean Indian corn. These were imported from America and it is surprising they had reached the Ukraine so early and as the dominant crops of a Jewish community in a small village. But after all why not? We can and may believe in miracles.But the best part of the film is the music, the songs, one long and haunting tune If I were a rich man that comes back over and over again. That's maybe a good song, though a little surprising and in some way a clich about the dream of all Jews to be rich one day. The constant asking God to do something for these Jews, for this one in particular speaking now hence always coming from the concerned person sounds slightly like begging for God's help and favor. This is too much centered on faith. The Jewish attitude is action first that has to be in obedience to God's commands and rules, and faith in God of course and in the knowledge that God is not at the service of the elected people who have to help themselves first, and we are back to action. When the community gets the order to leave within three days they accept their lot, pack and go. Apparently it did not go that easy in many cases. Maybe the final images of this exodus and the very final image of the poor milk farmer and his wife and the three daughters who are left, the tailor who is the husband of the eldest daughter and their baby, the milk farmer pulling the cart with their few belongings and behind them the Fiddler who has come down from the Roof, a mythical vision the milk farmer has in his mind's eye all the time, is no longer an exodus but rather a new Diaspora of a scattered community that has become isolated individuals or families. That makes this film mythical if not mystical and yet slightly old. We do not look at this period and at this situation with such clichs in mind. Things were hard, very violent, bloody but also collective and with a deep inner sense of resistance in the name of survival, as if God could only go on existing if the Jews did not die all of them the survival of the elect to perpetuate God. That inner resistance is not really captured and shown and the synagogue is vacated and the rabbi goes away with the sacred artifacts without any protest, without any help from the community and he disappears in the crowd in no time.Too bad because the film has great qualities.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Why Is This FIlm So Good?  One Word Tradition!","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler on the roof is one of the best musicals I have ever seen along with The King and I. Acting, music, and the story all are awesome and lead to this film being so good.Tevre is a great character. Really funny and inciteful and that is great to have as a lead character in a film. Also his wife Golda is the typical nagging wife type who is never at a lack for words. Other great characters are Motel the tailor, Lazer Wolf the butcher, and Perchek the teacher. Also all of Tevres daughters add a lot to the film in a different way. So overall a great cast of characters, one of the best in film history.The songs in this film are classic. You gotta love IF I were a rich man, Matchmaker, Sunrise Sunset, and my personal favorite To Life.THe story works because you can sympathize with the situation the characters are going through. After all it must have been tough on the Jews with all they went through from the Russians and later on the Germans. The way in this film that the Jews are seen being treated makes you feel sorry for them and it is well depicted on screen all of the bad things that they had happen to them.Also the conflict between characters is great. Like how zietel wants to marry Motel despite the fact that it goes against Tradition. And how Chava wants to marry a guy who is not Jewish. SO the conflict between characters is just as good as the conflict that all of the jews are facing in this film.Also there are a lot of funny parts as well. THis film is a pretty funny film at parts like when Tevre thinks Lazer wants to buy his cow but Lazer really wants to marry his daughter. And how Tevre must tell his wife how he gave his daughters permission to marry without consulting her.Great film. Classic. Masterpiece. Entertaining. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Fiddle on the Roof coming to Durham NC in 2009","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler on the Roof is coming to the Durham NC Performing Arts center in March 2009. Click on the link to see details. It will have Topol as part of the cast. He is now 73 years-old and still performing. This is a great opportunity to any musical, drama, performing arts lover and also a cultural experience on Jewish traditions and history. I saw the movie back in the 1980's. i had friends doing the play at school. However, having the opportunity to see Topol is unique. The music is great and already a classic. Many of the original movie cast members already died. http//www.dpacnc.com/broadway/2008-2009/fiddler.html Luis "},{"Title":"Fantastic film that just happens to be a musical!","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This film has been a favourite of mine since a child. It is my favourite film musical. In my opinion is has it all, good acting and great songs and above all an important story to tell. At over 3 hours it is a long film but like all good stories, doesn't seem that long when you are watching. Topol is just magnificent in his role, although a little young at the time of filming (36, I believe) he carried off the part to perfection. I was lucky enough to see him several years ago re-enact the part on stage in Manchester, England (funnily enough he was probably the right age for the part then). He was just as fantastic and I feel extremely privileged to have witnessed him in the flesh. All in all I can't understand why it is never even in the top 5 of all time musicals whenever they are listed. It should be!! "},{"Title":"The best movie of all time","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I don't know how to begin, I've just finished watching the fiddler and I can't explain how magnificent this movie was, Good script, Superb acting, amazing music, wonderful editing... I could go on for hours, I am surprised it's not on this web site's top 250, A shame, this is true film-making, it doesn't matter what kind of religion you're in, the importance of this film is underrated, must open your eyes to this beauty, a truly jewel of the crown. This movie made me think of the importance of making excellent film, not just to entertain for a couple of hours but to make a statement that things can should be done at the best of our abilities, truly a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"* * * * out of 4","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Film version of the stage musical, based on the stories of Sholom Aleichem. Tevye the Milkman is a Jewish peasant in pre-Revolutionary Russia, coping with the day-to-day problems of 'shtetl' life, his Jewish traditions, his family (wife and daughters), and state-sanctioned pogroms.A masterpiece of a film this is! The concepts, so brilliantly performed, provide an excellent opening for the teaching of values, principles, and morals. The masterfully composed tunes will stay in your mind to the point where you will find yourself humming selections from 'Fiddler' well after you've finished watching the movie. The acting is well made and the ending is a WOW!!!!! Tradition!!!! "}{"Title":"Tradition!","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A truly superb musical, Fiddler on the Roof is a delight to watch. I found myself humming along to the repeated song Tradition while watching it, and along with other superb songs shows a dramatic, yet also comedic side to this musical. Indeed, despite all the comedic asides by Topol, and the happiness of many scenes, there is also a vivid display of the plight of the Russian Jewish population of the time this movie is set, adding a darker tone, although not one that in any way damages the film, as light and dark sit well with each other. All the musical performances are top notch, particularly that of Topol as Tevye, a role he fits so well and manages to bring alive.An intriguing plot shapes this movie, helping to elevate it above just another musical along with the aforementioned performances. A film that shouldn't be missed, even if you're not a big fan of musicals. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" If you are a fan of the Great Movie Musical, then stop reading this review and rent this now, because it just happens to be the best movie musical ever. Topol (in my opinion, better than Broadway actor Zero Mostel), excels as Tevye, a meager Jewish milk man trying to make a living and marry off his daughters while facing religious persecution in Czarist Russia. Doesn't exactly sound like material for a musical, but that's what makes Fiddler so amazing. From the colorful, joyous opening number Tradition, to the last lonely strains from the title instrument, and everything in between, this film is a flawless exercise in energy, mood, and pace that cannot and will not be outdone. "},{"Title":"The Songs Make It Happen","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Opening with the wonderful song Tradition which is the overriding theme of the entire musical, with its comedy and its pain, this film is a charming, sentimental telling of the lives and tribulations of a family. The beauty of it is that despite occasional violence against a people, they maintain their spirit through the ages. It's about what every father believes, There is no one adequate to marry my daughter. Things happen and people get knocked down, and eventually everyone gets to his feet once more. There is the combative relationship between Tevye and his wife, and their love (but do you love me) that goes pretty much unstated. In the end they continue to stand tall together because what they have put into the world is true love, not the overly dramatic, silly love that permeates our world today. See the movie. See the stage play. You will always leave with an optimistic spring in your step, and wonderful songs in your heart. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater when I was 17 years old. Topol was excellent. It was amazing to me after watching this movie so many times that I had not noticed Paul Michael Glaser. I thought the casting was marvelous, the music unforgettable and the scenery beautiful. I grew up with my mother watching all musicals. I don't think I missed one. My children also grew up with musicals and I have shared this one with all 5 of them. I am a technical trainer and site some of the lines from this movie. When I was raising 5 children by myself, I recited the line I know it is no shame to be poor, but it is no great honor either often.... "},{"Title":"One of the Very Best Adaptattions of a Stage Musical to the Screen","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Norman Jewison had a directorial triumph with the 1971 film version of the Broadway musical FIDDLER ON THE ROOF, a beautifully mounted screen version of the classic Sheldon Harnick-Jerry Bock musical about the Jewish milkman and father of five daughters, who has his entire belief system challenged and thrown back in his face during this turbulent period in Jewish history. Tevye is a poor milkman struggling to keep food on the table for his wife and daughters but finds his whole way of thinking and the way he was brought up turned on him as his three eldest daughters have men come into their lives and his inner struggle as to whether honoring his own belief system is more important than the happiness of his daughters. His hardest challenge comes when his third daughter chooses to marry a man outside the Jewish faith. The Broadway musical made a star out of Zero Mostel, but I think Tevye turns in an electrifying performance as Tevye, that did earn him an Oscar nomination for Best Actor. His rendition of If I Were a Rich Man is a classic. Other musical highlights include Tradition, Tevye's Dream, Do You Love Me? and the rousing To Life, which features most of Jerome Robbins' original choreography. One of the best transitions of a musical from stage to screen and a joy from start to finish. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies/musicals ever","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler on the roof is one of the best movies ever made. It is not just because of the amazing acting and singing, but also because of the essence of the story. If there is one word to describe what this movie is about, then it is obvious that the word would be Tradition We are losing tradition each and every year. I am an Orthodox Christian and tradition plays a big role in our faith. Losing tradition is like losing my way of life. The movie explains that feeling in many ways and the acting of Chaim Topol and the others associated with this picture adds to the greatness. This is a great musical that will go down in history for many years to come. May it never be forgotten. L'Chaim! "},{"Title":"Tradition!","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler on the Roof is one of the great adaptations of a stage musical. It never feels staged, but perfectly fitted for the screen. With some incredibly beautiful cinematography, every moment of Fiddler is enchanting. We begin with soft colors and a shadow of a fiddler. Topol's first appearance in the film as Tevi, immediately shows us how personal this film will be. We get to know Tevi as he describes what it means to be a fiddler on the roof, as he talks to God (in a very personal manner, yet a manner that shows his lack of knowledge of the Torah that will be attacked by his wife and Rabi throughout the movie and his personal wit that dominates the whole wonderful film). Tevi is very much like a father of a Jane Austen book, desiring against the will of his culture, for the best of his daughters, while his wife and others involved in the family's life are concerned only about marriages for the girls that will leave them finacially secure. Like Jane Austen's female characters, Tevi's daughters are also non-traditional in their desires to marry only for love. Each of them do so, changing the lives of the family, and the community. Though Tevi is concerned primarily of his daughters' happiness, his highest priority is his faith. Though he may compromise traditions, he never compromises his beliefs. This fight then, between the happiness of his family and the traditions of Tevi's faith, bring forth the primary struggle of Tevi's character. Throughout this struggle, we see many different manifestations of it, some that are very humorous, some heartfelt, some heartbreaking, all enchanting. "},{"Title":"This is a classic!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler On The Roof has all the great music and great actors! It's a classic, too. Topol plays Tevye, the father of 5 daughters who sings and prays. Fiddler On The Roof is one of best films ever created! It won 3 Oscars including Cinematography. Everybody should see it, if they have not seen it. My dad likes it, too! And by the way, I have the Special Edition DVD for my DVD collection. It's fantastic!10/10 "},{"Title":"Great stories; great involvement BUT","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  As a nation of immigrants many of us can identify with this film which was tops in acting, directing and story line. Unique devices to call our attention to the father, trying to keep up traditions in a changing world, --on the other hand! with camera perspectives suddenly changed were excellent. However, with a home theater system, no doubt you will be disappointed in the laser disks and VHS versions!  Why?  Because often their 'stereophonic' channels were quite crippled with phasing problems.  That is, some mics or mixers used in the final mix-downs were themselves out of phase. What this does is to destroy the 'stereo acoustical immaging of LEFT RIGHT CENTER BASS AND REAR channels.  We noticed this at a radio station when we first got the PHONOGRAPH & TAPE CASSETTE versions.  A terrible shame.  I've not listened and watched the DVD version, but unless MGM/UA technicians have not discovered this and corrected it, the problem continues. Nonetheless, the audience is so involved that for most folks they'll likely not notice.   "},{"Title":"Something for everyone","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This movie has something for everyone. There's some action sequences for the men. The women will love the wedding scene. The children NEED to learn the history lesson - we must stop the hate (ALL unreasoning hate) from ever happening again. And there's the songs like, Sunrise Sunset that keep you humming after the movie goes off. "}{"Title":"A tale worth knowing but it tests our patience.","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A tale worth knowing but it tests our patience.I got to know of this through a friend Abhijeet Kulkarni (a big fan of singer Kishore Kumar) who I like it because its my idols favorite movie and watched it nearly 3 years back for first time. When I revisited it now I am just all over in love with it for the first hour, the second hour seemed dragging and I had to sit through 3rd just to finish it. Over three hours long, this tale of a family of Tevye (playe by Topol) becomes too sardonic and too painful by the end. Had it been a tad shorter, it would have just right up there as a great movie. Now, still its definitely a good movie and worth watching for many reasons. Top most reason being there to see Topol playing Tevye, the family runner, a man for a family. Topol is just so fine and brings so much more to the character Tevye is that there is no escape form empathizing, falling in love with Tevye and embracing him for the way he dealt with his things. Setup in 1900's Russia, this is a tale of a family of Tevye who has 5 daughters and he has to get them married, now tradition is what he believes in sticks to and he has to fore go a few beliefs too for his own family and he does that too and becomes so very humane. Now, did I ever mention that its a musical and oh wow, the music is so good, 'Matchmaker' and 'Do you love me' are two songs that are my favorites and will listen them over again and again. John Williams for sure has produced a supreme soundtrack and worth a collection. So is the cinematography and art direction which are simply superb.Now, editing is not up to the mark and this being a musical I agree it has less scope and it needed a large landscape to take us and make us delve into the niceties of such place and also its grave atrocities. It's great if looked at as a play for its completely performance oriented but as a movie, I wish it was just shorter by say half an hour.It's 3/5 for a good movie and definitely worth a watch for TOPOL and surely thanks to Kishore da and Abhijeet for making me watch this. "},{"Title":"Tradition? What tradition? Welcome to Tevye's world.","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This movie attempts to recreate the story that most appropriately belongs on the stage. This is because the story is a play and is pure theater. To present it as something else does a disservice to the story. Showing the trials and tribulations of a Jewish man in Czarist Russia can inspire feelings of empathy; put it to music on the wide screen and it attracts attention but seems a little out of place. Technically the movie is excellent; most of the cast give credible performances, but the dramatic punch just misses the mark. Now, this movie contains the song Tradition which is song by Tevye and his family. If there is one thing this movie is not about, it's tradition. If anything, this movie is about change, relentless change, that totally sweeps tradition aside. By the end of the movie, Tevye's life is completely changed and all the landmarks of his life have been swept away, like what happened to Scarlet O'Hara in Gone With the Wind, except in the latter movie no one sings about it; there's nothing to celebrate. Tevye is lucky to be leaving, or rather fleeing, from Anatevka alive; it's a good thing he was friends with the local Cossack sheriff. Tevye's wife is so shrill that it's a wonder that he didn't leave sooner. As further evidence that tradition is dead, his daughters get married and leave, leaving him to ponder why. It's sad because for Tevye his world is changing and he cannot stop it. Welcome to Tevye's world. "},{"Title":"The *Real* Best Picture of 1971","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" The Oscars are run in a most peculiar way. Occasionally, the right film (Ben-Hur, Amadeus, Return of the King, and more) is given the top prize. More often than not, total incompetence is rewarded (Around the World in 80 Days, Titanic, and Crash). And then you have those times when a great movie is snubbed because of a film that's not horrible, but still not in the same league. Classic examples Slumdog Millionaire swiping Milk, and The French Connection coming out on top of Norman Jewison's incredible Fiddler on the Roof. Well, Fiddler will always be the 1971 Best Picture in my mind. By far the best-acted movie musical of all time, it is also one of the most genuinely affecting and universally accessible. The story follows Tevye (played superbly by Topol), a wealth-challenged Russian Jewish milkman with a lot of faith, as he tries to survive a world in which so many people hate him for that faith. He also faces the courtship of his three oldest daughters-- the lovestruck Tzeitel, the feisty Hodel, and the shy Chava.Also incredible to think of is the fact that movie musicals were effectively dead when this was released. Gone were the glory days of Oklahoma, West Side Story, and so many others, replaced by audience indifference to perfectly capable offerings like Camelot and Doctor Dolittle. This film could have been one of the most horrendous flops (until it would have been dethroned by the magnificently underrated Howard the Duck), but it became something much bigger and better a completely deserving success.The art direction, cinematography, costume design, acting, and screen writing are all plenty admirable here. But what really deserves most of the credit (besides Jewison's direction) is the score adaptation by none other than John Williams, the man whose iconic themes for Star Wars, Superman, and Indiana Jones will never leave people's heads.Still, the movie does have its faults. The film's ending is a slightly confusing mixture of downer and there's hope for a better tomorrow, kind of like Battle for the Planet of the Apes. And in the titular Fiddler's few in-focus moments, he's not really given a good performance by Tutte Lemkow. But all things considered, Fiddler is rich, bewitching entertainment. "},{"Title":"A Moving Jewish Musical With A Lot of Heart","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Starring Topol, Norma Crane, Leonard Frey, Molly Picon, Paul Mann, Rosalind Harris, Michele Marsh, Neva Small, Paul Michael Glasser, Ray Lovelock, Elaine Edwards, Candy Bonstein, Shimen Ruskin, Zvee Scooler and Louis Zorich.Before 1971, Fiddler On The Roof was a popular Jewish stage play/musical in America, and evocative of old Yiddish plays. No Broadway actor can top Israeli-born Topol as the proud patriarch Tevye, who is the head of a large family of girls in old Russia. I am never certain it's pre-World War II Russia (Communist Russia) or turn-of-the-century Russia before the Bolshevik Revolution. Topol narrates the film with a voice of tradition and old-time Jewish values and traditions. While the musical is innately Jewish, its heart-felt humanity makes it universal in its theme of love, loss, man's inhumanity to man and family values. The musical has memorable and hummable songs that have become part of our American musical heritage - If I Were A Rich Man was just recently made into a pop song vocalized by Gwen Stefani. Matchmaker, Matchmaker is full of sweet girlish exuberance and has a big gay following to it (what musical doesn't have a gay following ?). The acting is actually good for a musical and this really is more of a dramatic film anyways. The fiddler is none other than world-renowned classical violinist Isaac Stern who produces beautiful, Aramaic sounds mixed with what appears to be Mendelssohn. The cinematography is gorgeous- the small Russian town is charming in both winter and spring. We feel for these people, we experience life through their eyes, we cry with them, laugh with them, love with them. The most moving part is toward the ending. The youngest daughter Chava (Neva Small in a great performance) decides to break tradition and marry a non-Jew, a Russian intellectual who was won her heart. This warrants her father's fury and he disowns her, a very difficult thing that happens even today among some hardcore zealous Jewish conservative folk or for that matter Muslims or Hindus. She represents the new generation. When the Jews of the town are forced out of their home by national edict, this is also very sad. This musical is neither sugary and sentimental the way Sound of Music or South Pacific is but is instead a musical with a lot of heart and soul. It is quite possibly the best musical ever made. "},{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I read almost all of the comments b/c I just wanted to keep experiencing the movie! I love Fiddler on the Roof. I think it is brilliant. It is a testament to life and trying to make sense of the crazy world around us. So many times a day I say to myself...on the other hand. I don't know whether or not the roles should have gone to other people but I do know that the characters are so real and great. It was more like watching a home video than a movie. The words were realistic and the love between family members was very real. The songs in the movie are all so good. I cried during Sunrise/Sunset and laughed during others. I love seeing the father dance. It's so real. Watch this movie. You will love it. "},{"Title":"If I Were a Rich Man...","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" My name is Tevye and if I were a rich man, I wouldn't have to worry about the five beautiful daughters I have...three of them of marrying age. Their dowry's would interest handsome young Jewish men of wealthy backgrounds to take them as wives. My wife, Golda and I would live in continual comfort with servants to care for us. But that would be only if I were a rich man.That is not how life is for us in our little Jewish community. The world around us is in an uproar. We do the best we can to survive. Thanks to the traditions of our beliefs we keep our lives together. We do not stray from them. No matter the upheaval that exists, we must follow tradition. Nothing must be allowed to change us and our little village of Anatevka.....This is a beautiful musical and wonderful story line. It tells how Tevye and his wife of twenty-five years, Golda, survive the changes that will take place in the lives of their community and family in pre-revolutionary Russia. If you want to see how, grab the popcorn and soda for a great evening 'out'.This is a must see musical production that combines facts and fantasy to delight the audience for all times. "},{"Title":"A great story to mull & reflect in a quiet solitude and you shall find...","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A great story to mull & reflect in a quiet solitude.. you shall find.. may be... just may be.. your such Mullins may sooner or later, find a unique perspective on the universal ages-old human condition, essence & meaning of human life in general... The story contains none of that explicitly, per se, but is the greatest catalyst for a human mind to churn its own life experiences and in reflection discover some great truths.. More one has seen in life, more one benefits from such Mullins and churning when reflecting with the aids of any one of a variety of catalysts on runs into in the journey of life (and this movie is certainly a great one but surely not the only one either!) as this gem of a story so well brought to life with living faces of its great actors and direction... And, by the way, I use the phrase in reflection because, may be in some ways, the greatest ultimate truth & essence of life and universe etc. its face is probably a bit like proverbial Medusa's face... It just may be too much for us mere mortals to stare at it directly even for a brief moment! After all, may be there is a good reason why we weren't designed to easily & completely learn & comprehend it in our lifetime, right?.. "},{"Title":"You want hair? Marry a monkey!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" You want hair? Marry a monkey! Always good advice from a mother. I know Zero Mostel really wanted to revive his role as Tevye for the movie but really, Topol was a much better choice. I am a huge fan of Zero Mostel and I love his work in The Producers and A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum but for a casting choice, Topol is a much more believable Tevye. I have to admit that Topol's dancing rivals the dancing of Gene Kelly and Fred Astaire. (Joking) I have a live recording of Zero Mostel on Broadway in Fiddler on the roof and the cast was not in time with Zero on most of the songs. Sunrise Sunset was horribly off time and it wasn't the fault of the recording. They just didn't have it together. The movie is much cleaner in the songs due to the benefit of dubbing. The saddest thing about this movie is when I realized the time era this movie is set in and I thought about the future of the characters in their final locations and what they historically would have had to deal with being Jewish. Not only is this a great musical, but it is a great movie and a great character study. Definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I think this movie is excellent. The reason that I like it so much is that it was very well-done. I watch it frequently ever since I got it. It is my favorite movie, so far. It is about a poor Russian Jewish milkman named Tevye who has a wife named Golde and 5 daughters whom he is trying to find suitable husbands for. The songs are wonderful, mainly Matchmaker, Matchmaker; Tradition and Far from the Home I Love. I can hardly recommend Fiddler on the Roof enough....but I will recommend it as much as I can; I think you should watch it. "},{"Title":"Laughter and tears","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Based on the stories of Scholem Aleichem, this musical describes life in a Jewish shtetl in the Ukraine(?) around 1900 (?).  It is filled with the joy of living a simple life -- an Orthodox Jewish life -- where the most important religious events are (not centered around the synagogue, but) centered around the home and life cycle events  birth, marriage, and (most important) the Sabbath.  This movie distills the essence of Eastern European Judaism.  Interestingly, the stories were written before Hitler almost completely wiped out Eastern European Jewry --- which adds to the nostalgia of the piece.  But Hitler failed in one respect  many Eastern European Jews succeeded in transplanting themselves to the US, where, in spite of overt antisemitism, they and their Judaism flourished because of our wonderful US Constitution and an American spirit that fostered individualism and rewarded hard work.  So it is not surprising that Americans Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick created this homage to Scholem Aleichem and the Eastern European Jews Hitler tried to destroy.  Many of the songs in this musical are now part of an American culture that is (now) willing to accept Yiddish phrases and Jewish concepts.  Now, everyone knows that L'Chayim means To Life.  All young girls can identify with ... and laughingly reject ... Matchmaker, Matchmaker.  Every American that has had to work hard every day enjoys singing If I Were a Rich Man.    And songs like Sabbath prayer and Sunrise, Sunset have become staples of Jewish liturgy as well as songs with which every parent can identify.  My favorite song is Far from the Home I Love.   Could this film have been any better?  Perhaps.  If you have not heard it, you must listen to the audio recording of the 1964 Original Broadway Cast of Fiddler on the Roof (from RCA), which has Zero Mostel (singing the part of Tevye) as well as Julia Migenes, Bert Convy, and Beatrice Arthur.  I would have loved to see Zero Mostel in the movie, but Topol does an excellent job.  Final note  my mother was born in, grew up in, and emigrated from a small town in the Ukraine.  Her father had died there.  She had several older brothers who did not emigrate and were completely lost by 1945.  The memories must have been terribly painful for her because she vehemently refused to speak of them.  But she was must have been deeply affected by her childhood -- because she was a hard-working and dedicated mother -- willing to sacrifice her self in order to give her children the best possible future.  She was even willing to sacrifice some of the sacred Jewish traditions -- in order to assure that her family survives and thrives.  And that is just one of the movie's themes.  Another theme  in the midst of pain and loss, there can still be hope. "}{"Title":"A Long Film which is a Joy to watch every minute off","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  From the first moment, when you feel the fiddler on the roof.. right until the tearful departure, I am gripped by this film. Topol's role just has a feeling that makes you smile. The kind of smile that makes you feel, yea.... I understand... its a life... and so... you live it. After all, its the only one you get. So with that feeling, I leave the end of the film I view, feeling an optimism that keeps a smile on my face too. "},{"Title":"You Don't Have to be Jewish!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  No, you don't have to be Jewish to love this musical treat!  I saw this again on TV last night.  The story of a Russian Jewish peasant and the trials and triumphs of his family and friends; the loves of his daughters, and the love of his wife.  The music is superb and the dancing is extra fantastic.  I was once invited to audition for the part of the rabbi of the village; but had already committed to another show.  The oldest daughter, I believe her name is Tzeidel, I met one time when she was in a show called Narnia at the Santa Maria PCPA Hancock College Theater in 1987. "},{"Title":"A beautiful masterpiece","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the Roof is a moving musical about a Jewish milkman trying to cope with his daughters deciding to break the tradition of his ancestors. The film illustrates a brilliant combination of John William's lavish adaptation of the famous songs (i.e. Sunrise, Sunset and If I Were a Rich Man) and Topol's outstanding performance as Reb Tevye, the film is a dazzling and spectacular telling of the harships of a Jewish family living in Russia during the Russian Revolution. However, the only thing that brings this film down is the fact is that they sway away from some of the smaller scenes that were in the original story. Director Norman Jewison has deprived some of the actors to display their talents more frequently and in fact, even cut out a song entitled The Rumor. In spite of this, the film is filled with laughable comedy and terrific music and was able to garner 3 Academy Awards in the year 1971. I recommend this to anyone whom while watching forgets that the film is in fact three hours long.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This Broadway musical is brought alive on the big Hollywood screen.  The movies are not always kind to stage productions but in this case they have done an outstanding job in besting the original production. Wonderful cast with Topal giving the performance of his career.  I rated this an 8.  Recommended for all the family. "},{"Title":"Topal plays a wonderful Tevye","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Topal plays the role of Tevye very well in the 1971 musical Fiddler on the Roof.  Humorous, passionate, and intriguing as Tevye, the poor milkman with five daughters,Topal is wonderful with movement, facial expression, and singing throughout the play.  He gives one of the best performances of all time showing all the dimensions to his character.  He is a brilliant actor, who should always be commended for this work, along with the other actors and actresses who made this production possible.  Topal brings floods of emotion to the set, painting our minds and faces with happy thoughts and sad tears. "},{"Title":"An unchanging man in changing times","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Although a musical, Fiddler is not just another cutesy musical.  It is an in depth look at a man dealing with his traditions in changing times in pre-Communist Russia where he is persecuted as a Jew.  Others in the story are also dealing with duty and expectations while trying to deal with the changes around them. The musical format unfortunately has had a bad rap in recent years, but it helps to make the story less harsh and more palatable. In the end, Fiddler leaves viewers, who take the time to listen and watch, asking questions about themselves, such as their own ability to be tolerant of others and their ability to hold on to their identity in the midst of chaos.  Fiddler is a real entertaining and intellectually challenging few hours that are well worth it. "},{"Title":"As rich and full and complete a movie experience as it is possible to have","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fabulous photography, marvelous music that you'll remember for decades, choreography that you'll babble about to your friends, casting so perfect you'll never imagine anyone else in any role. Humor both gentle and witty, and uproarious through razor-edged perfect timing.  And great heaving sighs and tears as the world presses relentlessly on the shoulders of Tevye the Milkman.  Topol's performance is the great rock on which all this is built, as rich and full and complete a movie experience as it is possible to have. Compare the phony terror of The Sound of Music (the real von Trapps just took a train and didn't go back) with this story that still echos every time you hear the words ethnic cleansing from yet another part of the world. And on top of it all, the playing of the greatest violinist of our lifetime, Isaac Stern.  Not to be missed?  Not to be seen less than twice! "},{"Title":"A timeless masterpiece; an all time favorite","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I can't think of another movie that endures as well as this one.  It is, first, a splendid musical.  Most will recognize the majority of the tunes, and be haunted by the ones that aren't familiar.  And the instrumentals and dance are powerful.The story takes place just after the turn of the 20th century in Russia, but you never feel like you're watching an old movie.  The story is very strong, with a focus on timeless themes of family, love, cultural differences, and -- of course -- tradition.One of my favorites, this movie won awards for music, sound, cinematography and acting, including the Golden Globe for best musical/comedy.  The version on DVD is especially high quality picture and sound, and includes a commentary by the director and star both nominated for Academy Awards for their contributions to this film.See it if you haven't; watch it with your kids (7+?) if they haven't. "},{"Title":"A Must-See Movie!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  When I first saw Fiddler I was in a theater. It was and still is marvelous. I am struck by the realization that this movie brought out every emotion in me I could think of. That in itself  is amazing. When Tevye sends his daughter away to Siberia, I could feel his anguish, and also the anxiety that this might be the last time he sees his daughter.When Tevye had to make up his dream to Golde to cover his deceit about his other daughter's engagement, it truly was amusing and crafty to watch how his elaborate dream came into being. I could go on and on about the various emotions I could feel, but one can get the picture, I think, through my descriptions.I am so happy that this film was made and that it is a treasure to view over and over, to remind us that life is precious! If you haven't seen it, by all means, rent it to view in the VCR. It will be well worth your time and money. "},{"Title":"An insightful and delightful offering of the steadfastness of a soul","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Why not watch this film with your children, discuss at the finish of it, watch the special features (on the re-released DVD), and then watch it again? The concepts, so brilliantly performed, provide an excellent opening for the teaching of values, principles, and morals. The story is based on factual situations and includes the opportunity to 'feel' life from a point of view so rarely practiced now. Do not deprive yourself, or your children, the chance to watch this film simply because of the setting--mankind deserves to be examined no matter the differences of the generation.For lovers of musicals, this is a film not to be missed! The lyrics provide additional storyline, as well as insight, to the plot. The masterfully composed tunes will stay in your mind to the point where you will find yourself humming selections from 'Fiddler' well after you've finished watching the movie.The serious tones of this story are well balanced with humour and music. Hollywood found the magic recipe of warmth and excitement in the production of this film; the richness of the human spirit is worth watching. "}{"Title":"Sheer, unadulterated JOY!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" How could I give Fiddler on the Roof anything less than 10/10 when it is the closest thing any musical has come to perfection! Without a doubt, Topol's portrayal of Tevye, the Jewish peasant desperate to find good Jewish husbands for his daughters, is one of the greatest performances captured on film. He puts 100% into every little bit giving as perfect a performance at the end as he does at the start. For me, the highlight is still the ever-so-singable 'If I Were A Rich Man' which you almost can't sing without feeling the urge to shrug those shoulders in time with the music! But that sounds like I am dismissing the other wonderful songs which I most certainly am not. How could I when such beautiful melodies as that in 'Sunrise, Sunset' live long in the memory while the funnily desperate sentiments expressed in 'Matchmaker' just make you thankful we don't go through all that palaver to find a marriage partner these days... well, I didn't! o) 1971, 35 years ago, not that far short of my entire lifetime, yet this musical feels as fresh and vibrant today as it did the day it was first released.I love musicals, I have a wide collection and play many instruments myself but nothing I have elsewhere in my collection nor anything I could ever produce on an instrument could ever come close to Fiddler. The greatest musical ever made into a film. Who cares that it goes on forever? Long may it do so! Cheers, Rob Barron "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film!","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I have seen this film several times on DVD in widescreen, which is the only way to see this film. It would be ruined cropped and 'Pan & Scanned.' Norman Jewison shows here that he truly has an eye for filming musicals. It's wonderfully edited as well.The film mixes humor, heavy drama, and sadness in the fate of some of it's characters, into a film that is truly riveting to watch. The musical score is wonderful, arranged and adapted to the screen by John Williams.This film was very popular when released to theaters, worldwide. It was a smash hit in Japan. One may find this odd, until you consider that the film is about the confrontations by old and young generations of matters of tradition. This is the soul of the film, and one of the reasons it played so well in so many countries. Everyone can relate to it's basic message.Jewison relates on the DVD how United Artists had pressured him to sign Zero Mostel for the role that Topal eventually got. Mostel was playing him on Broadway, and his performance was reportedly very good. But once Jewison saw Topal's performance on the London stage, he was convinced that he was the right man for the part. I must admit to agreeing with this, even though I'm a fan of Zero Mostel's work.The entire cast is good, and convincing in their roles. Jewison cast this film very carefully. Considering that it took 18 months to film, Norman Jewison was truly dedicated to this film. And it shows. I recommend this film most highly! "},{"Title":"Fiddler on the Roof","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I am always on the lookout for good films with a good actor, or a good musical, and this has both. This is telling the story of a man and his family. Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Topol plays Tevrre, the father who is quite a strict man. All his children are getting married to men who are not that rich, and his wife is very happy for them. He is happy too, but he wants to make sure the weddings are perfect and they get some money. Topol, I have seen in Flash Gordon and For Your Eyes Only, is a great star for this very good musical. The best song, from him, is If I Were a Rich Man. It does not show The Fiddler on the Roof that much, but that's not important. The ending is a bit sad as well, but it is still a classic. It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Music for John Williams and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Supporting Actor for Leonard Frey as Motel Kamzoil, Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Director for Norman Jewison (Moonstruck) and Best Picture, it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing and Best Sound Track, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy, and it was nominated for Best Director and Best Supporting Actor for Paul Mann as Lazar Wolf. It was number 82 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Musicals. Very good! "},{"Title":"a musical that has universal appeal","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I saw the next to the last performance of Zero Mostel in New York, I saw other shows with Theodore Bikel. I saw the movie when it was released in 1971. Last night, it was shown on TCM on television. In my estimation, it offers a timeless message. The themes of tolerance and understanding are as applicable today as when it was written.There are areas in the world, where people of different religious believes. cannot live together in the absence of a dictatorial authority. Despite what some may say, the music and the lyrics were great forty years ago,and are still memorable.The dance sequence in the bar and also at the wedding were as good as anything that is offered today. There is a message that everyone can understand and appreciate. "},{"Title":"Fiddler keeps his balance on the roof","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler keeps his balance on the roof Fiddler on the roof is a very successful movie, which wines several medal of Oscar in 1971.The whole movie is full of great enthusiasm and decent singing skills. It is really more than enough to make it highly enjoyable. Fiddler on the roof takes place in Anatevkaa small Jewish village in Russia. It centers around a dairymanTevya and his five daughters. As a Jew, Tevya attempts to preserve his familys traditions in the face of a changing world. And he must do hard work everyday without any comfort from his wife. Meanwhile, Tevya must choose between his own daughters happiness and those beloved traditions that keep the outside world at bay. Tevya is real a good tolerant father. When he and his neighbors are forced to leave their homes by the subordinates of Czar, the traditional Tevya is aware that he must change his original living idea in face of new condition.Of course, the name of the movie is very significant when I meet it firstly. A fiddler on the roof. Sound crazy? But in our little village of Anatevaka, you might say every one of us is a fiddler on the roof, trying to scratch out a pleasant, simple tune without breaking his neck. It isnt easy. You may ask, why do we stay up there if its so dangerous? We stay because Anatevka is our homeAnd how do we keep our balance? That I can tell you in one wordTradition. Indeed, that is the real reason for the name Fiddler on the roof. However, time changes. Man should change. Tradition? In other word, it means no development. It is no wonder that Jew have to go back to Jerusalem inevitably and helplessly.On the whole, Fiddler on the roof deals with serious issues such as persecution, poverty and the struggle to hold on to ones beliefs in the midst of a hostile and chaotic environment. In my mind, the movie has its weakness such as its very slow rhythm. It is so long that I felt little patient when I saw it firstly. "},{"Title":"Reasons why Chicago wasn't the musical comeback.","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  (spoilers?)Mom always loved the movie.  It's always been sitting in her videotape collection.  But for some reason I never watched it.  Well thanks to Netflix again, I managed to get a good look.  It's always nice to watch a dvd 180 minutes long without having to flip it or going to disc two.  (sure the special features are on side 2 but it was a smart choice.Chicago is a horrible musical.  With very little plot or anything original.  However Fiddler on the Roof, over 30 years later is still original.  I've never seen the play, but the movie deserves all the attention.  180 Minutes really do fly.  Thanks in part to Topol.  (whom some of us know in For Your Eyes Only.  And frankly that was in 1981.  Ten years earlier, he looks older.  I recognize his motions, the way his hands movie.  But he hardly looks like the guy in 007's movie.The movie while not a total tear jerker, does leave you emotionally exausted.  To leave the town they knew.  Not knowing if they'll see each other again.  Lazar Wolf even hugs our hero at the end.  Everything pretty much patched up by then.  Simply a classic.  Love the 50 minute making of.  Looks like a really old documentary too.  Glad they preserved it.10/10Quality 10/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of all time.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the roof is one of the best movies of all time. It delivers everything you could want in a movie. Brilliant people, brilliant acting, brilliant singing, brilliant dancing, BRILLIANT everything. I  LOVE this film. The soundtrack is really great too. 20/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but be prepared for its slowness","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The plot of this movie is told very well without one lyric or note, and so while the songs are all great, they slow down the plot and rhythm of interest. I grew up around community theater so it is still enjoyable for me, but for the average viewer it may induce sleep. Try to stick with it, though, as it gets really better halfway through.The best musicals carry on the plot for you during at least some of the songs if not all. Fiddler does have a handful of songs that add info, but since there are SEVERAL numbers, I yearned for either less of them or for them to tell me more. It does move the plot along with enough songs to still be a good, if bulky, musical.A good number is after Tevye discovers that his eldest daughter and the tailor pledged their love a year prior, and he's struck a deal for her with the butcher. That number was perfect. Next, though the number in the woods between the two lovebirds was nice and gave them a performance, but I got up and did something else, it bored me.Also, in the beginning, Tevye's barn number, while long, explains his love for knowledge. And the clothesline number with the daughters was pleasant and showed me how they all really felt about getting a match. And, the dream scene where Tevye explains to Golde about why the tailor should get Tzeitel instead of the butcher this is IMO the best example in Fiddler of how the plot is enhanced by a musical number. Sunrise, Sunset, Tzeitel's wedding, was my most favorite number. I loved the dance part.Those are some examples. In exchange for your perseverance, you will see excellent performances from everyone. A very young Paul Michael Glaser is really good and he amazed me, since all I knew of him was Starsky & Hutch.The serious subplot of Jewish persecution is also intriguing. It ain't all about just matchmaking.One more thing, it leaves you feeling very good. If you enjoy watching things like the Godfather Trilogy in one sitting, then you can handle Fiddler. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A fiddler on the roof. Sounds crazy, no? But here, in our little village of Anatevka, you might say every one of us is a fiddler on the roof trying to scratch out a pleasant, simple tune without breaking his neck. It isn't easy. You may ask, 'Why do we stay up there if it's so dangerous?' Well, we stay because Anatevka is our home. And how do we keep our balance? That I can tell you in one word tradition! That quote sums up the genius of this film. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The urge to just walk away almost got me a couple of times. But, in the end, this is an excellent character study. "},{"Title":"To life and Topol...","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This lovely musical is set in turn of the century Czarist Russia (near Kyiv). The Jewish section of the village is beautifully created (it was actually a Yugoslav village). Look at the houses will shingle roof tops and long chimneys, the emphasis on agriculture and tradesmen.What are the best songs To Life is probably the best (and shortest unfortunately). There is also If I Were a Rich Man which comes early on in the movie and is actually what hooks you with Topol doing a lovely dance with the dust flying off the balcony. I understand that in various musical performances over the last three decades, Chaim Topol has performed this song hundreds, perhaps thousands of times on stage. All I can say is, it looks fresh and he looks full of vitality when performing it in the movie. It really gives a burst of energy to the movie. I loved Sunrise, Sunset which is a little emotional.Topol gave a superb performance which unfortunately typecast him for the rest of his life. I do think he did more than his fair share of scene stealing though! The actor who played the butcher (Lazar Wolf) was really good as well (especially in To Life and the wedding scene). The middle daughter was really hot!!! I don't think people who don't enjoy musicals should watch this even though the plot is good. But, the songs are an important part of the appeal. I'm a sucker for King and I, Guys and Dolls, My Fair Lady etc. and I see this as the last great musical of that bygone era. Chicago was hit and miss..... "}{"Title":"Great Comic Moments","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This movie, although generally noted for the touching story and musical numbers, is also an entertaining comedy. For example there is a wonderful frim in which Tevya believes that Lazar Wolfe wants to buy his milk cow, but in reality Lazar Wolfe wants to ask Tevya for the hand of his daughter in marriage. Lazar Wolfe says, Why shouldn't you give her up, you have a few more. All in all, this movie deserves recognition for its wonderfully entertaining comic moments, as well as for its touching story and great music. The cinematography is stunning and the acting is a joy.The sequence in which Tevya recounts his supposed dream about the consequences of a marriage by their daughter to Lazar Wolfe, the heart of the story from the wonderful Sholom Aleichem book, The Old Country is wonderfully done. "},{"Title":"How did this tradition get started? I'll tell you... I don't know.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This movie was required viewing for my family. I remember seeing it at my grandparents' house when I was not yet three. My father said when my grandmother saw the play, she was moved to tears. With the movie, she only had one standard complaint - no Zero Mostel. I can see now what she meant. Don't get me wrong, Topol is great as Tevye, but I can hardly imagine what Zero Mostel must've brought to the role. Besides that one small thing, I am also in love with Fiddler. How many young people even know what a shtetl is nowadays? Probably not many. And the sad truth is, unlike many other European immigrants who can go back to explore the villages of their ancestors, Jews cannot. Of course, Fiddler is heavily romanticized, but it gives us a small picture of the old country. Without this movie, the idea of the shtetl might've been lost to future generations. The fact that it was superbly directed (by aptly named Norman Jewison - who by the way wasn't Jewish), acted, choreographed, and adapted to the screen, is just non-dairy icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"One of the best around","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" It's most differently top 5 in the best musical movies around! It's a bit of a drama story that has humor to love and enjoy. The first thing that comes to my mind whenever I think about this movie is the little dance Topol does while singing If I was a Rich Man. And I remember how I almost wished for a match maker when I was younger. And seeing how even though I'm now older and still single a match maker still at times doesn't seem like a bad idea. It shows events that could have really happened and it just tugs at your heart. A movie that can make you react to it like you are watching it for the very first time each time is a movie worth watching. And that is what this movie does to me. It deals with events that many people don't want to deal with but went on and it shows how some people may have dealt with it. It's in a class of it's own and worth while movie to see. "},{"Title":"excellent movie, not just a musical","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Don't be fooled for those of you who hate musicals. This one actually has a story and some deeper themes including preservation of one's faith and culture.The songs are nice and fun in the first half. The 2nd half the mood turns much more sombre and the music also beautifully reflects that.The star of this show is Topol and he plays it so genuinely you almost forget he's acting. Norma Crane does a great job as his wife Golde and the two have fine-tuned the old married couple routine. A must see, especially for fathers with daughters.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This movie truly brings the life of theater to the TV screen. The music, the scenery, even the acting are all truly magnificent. This movie portrays the many struggles of the Jewish people as well as their many joys in life in a symbiotic relationship.It was perfect. For those who have not seen this movie yet, you really should. It is the story of a father living in a strongly traditional village. He does not believe that the world around him is being modernized. He eventually agrees that times are changing, therefor tradition must be altered to fit the times. I wont spoil anything more for those of you who are planning onseeing this movie. However expect lots of classic songs and dancestaken directly out of the play.It is a shame to see that FOTR only got a 7.7/10 on IMDb. Truly a shame. "},{"Title":"More than a classic, it's a way of life","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Topol plays Tevye in one of the greatest acting performances of our time. His continual praying monologue throughout the film is a perfect depiction of a devout religious man. Though raised to strictly follow traditions, he bends a little to allow the happiness of his children. Yet he doesn't bend enough to violate his religious obligation. He can accept the trends of change in society, but he will not deny his fundamental beliefs. Though he could bear the sadness of poverty or exile to Siberia, he cannot endure the loss of religious belief, and he counts his daughter as dead to him when she marries a catholic. Because of the great acting in this version of the movie, the emotions are real, and the great music helps bring that emotion out. This movie shows the sadness and the happiness of life. It's a real-life experience that I've enjoyed watching over and over again. "},{"Title":"A touching, wonderful story","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I grew up loving this musical. It's the story of the town of Anatevka as seen through the eyes of Tevye, a milkman. It is touching and funny and somehow real.Topol is a wonderful Tevye and Norma Crane makes Golde his equal. We get to laugh with them, and cry with them. We laugh when Tevye tricks Golde into letting their daughter marry a Tailor instead of the older rich man Golde had in mind. We feel the joy at the wedding, and sadness as the wedding is crashed and ruined.In the end, as the entire Jewish community in Anatevka is told to pack up and move on, you feel sadness they feel at leaving the only home they've know and yet you feel the hope and anticipation of what is to come.I love this movie! "},{"Title":"Must see musical","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" After defeating Grease as my all time favourite musical, Fiddler on the roof now has top spot. This capturing tale lives up to it's name.Set in a Jewish village of Antevka, Russia around early 1900's, the small village is about to make some gigantic changes for traditional Jews. Balancing life between god and man, the local Jewish population has to deal with the changes of modernizing Russia as well as daughters wishing to follow their hearts instead of the trusted method of tradition.Tevye, The main character is well played by Topol as well as his wife Golde played by Norma Crane. The supporting cast is as solid as all film-makers wished theirs would be or should have been.I found most of the songs very entertaining as well as exciting. Catchy tunes as well as solid storyline make this a movie people would like to see again and again. I sure do!If you think Grease, Sound of music or Mary Poppins were good...don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Greatest musical ever","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is simply the greatest musical ever. While the music of some of the great musicals of the 1930's (several of the Astaire/Rodgers, Eddy/MacDonald, etc. films) is equally great or greater, the story line of Fiddler is exceptional. It says more about tradition, bending of tradition, family, husband-wife relationships, father-daughter relationships, the relationships of the powerful to the weaker, intolerance, etc., than most any other movie.If you don't laugh at Tevye's conversations with God or cry when he is so torn between his love for his daughter (who marries a Christian) and his own tradition, then you must be comatose. Although some may have been disappointed that Mostel did not get the role, I feel quite the opposite. Whereas Zero would have been equally great in the comic parts, he could not have carried out the pathos as Topol did.There will not be another musical such as this in our lifetime.  "},{"Title":"I can't write enough good things about it.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This brilliant film adaptation of the Broadway and London musical is one of the finest silver screen musicals and is a triumph of the cinema.Fiddler on the Roof is somewhat different than the blockbuster musicals of the 1940s and 1950s, lacking flash, but making up for it in emotion.  It has great vitality, though of a different kind than one would experience with a musical such as Oklahoma! or Singing in the Rain.  The memorable songs don't have the flair of Rodgers & Hammerstein or Cole Porter, but they have deep meaning and evoke poignant reminders of both the wonderful traditions of the old world and the hateful, destructive behavior of man.  Favorite numbers include If I Were a Rich Man and Sunrise, Sunset, but the emotive Do You Love Me? and the wistful Matchmaker are great songs as well.Chaim Topol's big screen reprise of Tevye (Topol played him in London, but the character was played on Broadway by the great Zero Mostel) is superlative.  It seems as if he were born for the role. "}{"Title":"My favorite play","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is my favorite play ever. I have seen and been in many plays and no matter what I would not change my mind. When I was in the seventh grade my school put on this play and I was casted as Shprintze. This play taught me a lesson in life and it taught many others who have been in it and who have seen it. If you ever have the chance to see this play I would recommend that you do. I gave this play very high ratings. Other plays I would recommend are Fame and Guys and Dolls.  "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC !!!!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I just fell in love with Tevye (played by Topol). For him to allow his only known way of life ('Tradition') to change out of love for his daughters shows the true unconditional love we all should have for one another.I have the LP sound track to the movie and I jam on it just like my rock & roll. This movie definitely deserves the highest rating possible !! "},{"Title":"Magnificent production, with true to life characters","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I don't agree with johnm_001's comments. I have seen the live production including Topol in the lead, numerous times over the years & love it. BUT a live production is always different and more lively compared to a movie, as you are there. There isn't any distractions etc. So you get enveloped into it like you are there and part of it. It is a lot harder to do that with watching a video of it at home. Also I wouldn't say this is a comedy. It is a musical drama. And I give it 10 out of 10. I own the video, & bought it as soon as it became available. Prior to purchasing it, I watched it every time it came on TV. It is a brilliant production, the set is well done, showing a poor tired village who is regularly being harassed by their non-Jewish counterparts in Czarist Russia. When you consider the story, this can't be a comedy. If it was as bad as johnm_001 states, why was it nominated for so many awards? "},{"Title":"Like good wine, this movie improves with time!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  When I was thirteen years old my high school did FIDDLER ON THE ROOF and I immediately was hooked on Jewish tradition and Russian history.  When the movie came out I was probably the first to see it in Philadelphia.  Back then big movies like FIDDLER were still shown on enormous screen movie theatres which looked like opera houses, all adding to the entertainment.  Norman Jewison succeeded in bringing the taste and feel of 1905 Russia to the story; no detail was overlooked either in Jewish culture or Russian background; even more, he combined laughter with tears in so many of the scenes.  At the time, the movie was considered a bit long (The ending sequence of the heart-breaking eviction of the Jews from Russia comes to mind), but not by my standards.  The academy-award winning score and orchestrations by John Williams is excellent and this was not an easy task, bringing the Broadway show to screen.  All-in-all, I am hard pressed to find flaws in this movie and each time I see it it's better.  I have had FIDDLER nights where I show this movie to friends and the reward is to hear how much the movie is loved by everyone, no matter how many times we see it over the years.  Please, rent it, buy it, WATCH it, and love it.  And let yourself be lost in this masterpiece of an epic.  "},{"Title":"One of the best musicals/movies around.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the Roof is one of the best musicals/movies around. It is the movie version of the musical play about Reb Tevye (Topol, Oscar-nominated) who lives with his wife, Golde (Norma Crane), and his five daughters. One of his is Tzeitel, the oldest one. I love to sing along with those wonderful songs, including If I Were A Rich Man, Sunrise, Sunset, and Tradition. I have this movie on DVD and I am happy to own it.10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Easily the best musical movie ever created.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the Roof is easily the best musical movie ever created. It is the movie version of the stage musical. Tevye (Topol, Oscar-nominated) is a poor Jewish milkman in pre-Revolutionary Russia. He has a wife, named Golde (Norma Crane), and five daughters. One of his is Tzeitel (Rosalind Harris), the oldest one in the family. Leonard Frey is excellent, in his Oscar-nominated and supporting role, as Motel, a poor tailor. The music is wonderful and the direction is very good. I have this movie on DVD and I am glad to own it.10/10 A+ "},{"Title":"A great story with wonderful singing!","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the Roof has a superb cast featuring Isaac Stern as the fiddler (his violin playing is always terrific), Topol, who has a fine voice and who is also a splendid actor, and a very fine supporting cast of good singers and actors.  This is one of the best musicals ever transferred to the big screen.  You will enjoy the great story as it unfolds.  Allow three hours. Mazeltov.  "},{"Title":"To life!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is a wonderful musical set in the backdrop of the Russian Revolution. A Jewish man, Tevye (Topol) deals with changes to basic traditions as he sees his 3 oldest daughters fall in love and get married.The songs and dances are among the finest I've seen.  My favorite is the To Life! segment.  But I can find a million reasons why I like each song. Yes, it is a very long movie (nearly 3 hours long), but I would hate to cut out any scene.  It all fits.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable piece of Great Film-making!!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  To sum up a critical appreciation of this film in however long or short a review is close to impossible. It's one of those films that cinema was created for. Indeed, its depth of content and characterisation, its sincere effort at chronicling Jewish life with music and humor are all aspects that have each contributed in their own way to the enrichment of cinema as a whole. When it was performed as a play, I am sure it did the same for theatre. That said, this film is special to me because of my sense of identification with the three daughters, especially Chava. Since, I myself happen to be the youngest of three sisters, I know from experience the friction caused between daughters and fathers because of  differences over issues like marriage and free-will. I even come from a culture that assumes Tradition to be of paramount importance, before everything else... I felt deeply for what Tzeitel, Hodel and Chava felt in the film and at the same time, I knew well the predicament that Reb Tevye was in. His discussions with his self, his eventual acquiescence to their marriages was both humorous and heart-warming. Topol's rendering of Reb Tevye was amazing! He seemed absolutely natural and convincing in the part.Part of the success of this film(apart from the music), is definitely because of the way that era in Soviet history has been recreated - from the sleepy little village where our protagonists live(their costumes and occupations) to the towns where signs of unrest and revolution were more conspicuous. Everything has been very convincingly portrayed. The turn of events in this film is akin to those in 'The Sound of Music'. A good part of both films goes in songs, courtship and family interactions and then things take a turn, the drama reaches a climax or a crescendo. In 'SoM' it is because of World War II and here it is because of the Russian Revolution.Needless to say, but the music is this film's trump card. It is what adds realism and that all-important element of authenticity. I doubt if the beauty and the little nuances of Jewish life have been more aptly portrayed in any other feature better than they are over here. I enjoyed all the songs - the one that Hodel(Michelle Marsh) sings before leaving Tevye to find Perchik in Siberia is especially beautiful. My only small grouse is that they didn't have enough of the fiddler and his music. The tune he plays is so good, more of it would have been perfect!Still, 'Fiddler on the Roof' is an unforgettable gem of a film - the best that ever was made!    "},{"Title":"Masterpiece!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the Roof is one of the best films I have ever seen! My dad and my brother likes it, too. How come the User Rating give this movie a 7.5? They should give it a 7.8, 7.9, 8.0, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, or more! Because there are good reviews on the comments section. Topol stars as a poor milkman whose love, pride and faith help him face the oppression of turn-of-the century czarist Russia. The film also stars Norma Crane, Leonard Frey, Molly Picon, Paul Mann, Michael Glaser, and other cast and crew. Fiddler on the Roof is a movie that is a classic for all ages to watch and sing along with those actors who star. Excellent!10/10 stars! "}{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I found Fiddler on the Roof to be an excellent, entertaining film.I like broadway musicals and this one's adaptation to the screen is great. (I have not seen the stage show)I liked the music, the comedy, and the drama.  It was sadder than I expected it to be, but did have its funny moments.I highly recommend the film!   "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Fiddler on the Roof is the finest musical ever filmed, but it is not just a musical. It is an excellent film and a musical for people who don't like musicals. Topol is outstanding. The movie would be worth watching just for Isaac Stern's violin.Fiddler on the Roof is arguably the best work of cinema ever produced.It is the ONLY movie I have rated 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"To Life!  This movie has life!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I had no idea what was going on because I was nine at the time.  When I finally had it explained, I finally got it. This movie is great.  I could watch this movie a million times if my family would let me.  Topol is hysterical as Tevye.  He unconciously obeys his religion, he has trouble coping with change, and he wishes life were better.  Tevye is a pure example of a person who is obedient without question. One of my favorite scenes in the movie is the bottle dance.  It is timeless.  I also like the barroom dance scene.  I have always enjoyed the dance numbers that are very athletic.   I also think that Norma Crane's Golde is wonderful.  You see, she is a cold woman on the outside, but if you get to the center of her personality, you can tell she is an insecure but a loving woman who only wants the best for her family.  That voice too, what woman has that deep and beautiful of a voice? I thought the songs were wonderful, and I didn't know they had to cut out thirty minutes.  My high school put on Fiddler on the Roof and they included these songs.  I agree they were very dumb, and the movie functions quite well without them. The movie also gives us a good history lesson and a lesson in ethics.  We should not persecute someone because of their faith, skin color, anything.  I am not Jewish but I am of a religion that has also suffered persecution and still does; I am Mormon.  Mormons and Jews seem to get along because we are fellow sufferers. Fiddler on the Roof is one of my favorite musicals, along with The King and I, The Sound of Music, Mary Poppins, My Fair Lady, The Music Man, and West Side Story. I think Fiddler deserved more Oscars than it got.  But it seems the Academy doesn't enjoy movies that are actually good.  Topol deserved an Oscar, so did Leonard Frey, and I think that Norma Crane should have at least been nominated. I also enjoy this movie because it's appropriate for everyone to watch.  It doesn't have graphic violence, sex, nudity, or anything objectionable. See this movie!  It's too good to miss. "},{"Title":"An emotionally moving, captivating movie.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This movie had me wrapped up in the life story of this family.  You wept when they wept, and grew angry at the pogroms against them.  This is the story of a Jewish family, at the very beginning of the communist revolution. One sees the troubles they go through, as three of their daughters get married off.  Very emotionally engrossing. "},{"Title":"A Terrific Musical Under-rated","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This is the best musical that I have ever watched. Great music, great story, great acting, etc. It sucessfully absorbs its audience into various types of emotions and feelings.It is certainly a story about the conflict between traditions and modern ideas, practices and values. Traditions are traditions and culture is culture. It is unfair to judge any of these as stupid or nonsense.This story is a wonderful portrait of such conflict, as well as family, love, marriage, parenthood, relationship, God, etc, and much more. "},{"Title":"This movie is about history and has become history.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I don't think that anyone involved with this movie had any idea about the impact on Jew and gentile alike.  It's a story that needs to be told over and over.  The singing and production make it the perfect package.  I share it with anyone who hasn't seen it that I can so that I get a little of the excitement of rediscovering it all over again.  If you haven't seen it you're missing so much!  In a few hours you will laugh, cry, sing and want to dance.  It's infectious and the music stays with you.  Watch it with friends and family and get into the spirit and celebration.  It's really great!  And this message is from a gentile, so anyone can enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Good Film Adaptation of Great Stage Musical","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  The New York criticsdamned with faint praisethe screen adaptation of one of the best musical comedies of the 60's.They would all have preferred to see Zero Mostel recreate his Tevye on-screen.Friends who had seen him in the part have informed me that he was truly unique,but insisted that he had to be experienced live in order to savor his performance.I feel that he would have been overwhelming in this show,as seen in a movie.(If you have any doubts,just see him in Great Catherine.It's like watching a typhoon.)Jewison did a good job in casting the parts with faces relatively unknown to the majority of the American public,as this would lessen the problems of identifying actors with roles with which they had gained some fame.There are some criticism of the camera work,as the To Lifesequence and the wedding dances focus of heads and upper torsoes,and we don't see the bodies in movement.And the 2nd act DOES drag.Nevertheless,it's really a lot of fun,and one of the best screen musicals of the 70's.  "},{"Title":"More serious than the play","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  In the Broadway recording, as the characters are introduced the beggar has a great wisecrack.  In the movie, nothing but a pitiful whimper.  And the tradition we see on the screen isn't just lovable old-world eccentrics but also breathtaking ritual art.  The movie seems to have been undertaken as amore serious-minded consideration of the shtetl than the play was.  An unusual direction for an adaptation to go in.And yes, as everyone says, the casting was perfect... after all, who could know in advance that the officer in control of the pogromists would return to us on TV as Burt Buchman? "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Fiddler on the Roof is so fun! A big milkman who's continually bursting into song or dance, girls wanting to get married, but not wanting to have a match made, a small town community with no problems suddenly bombarded with the outside world, Russians, Jews, cows, horses, song, dance, more song, more dance, the cool guy from starsky and hutch...the list goes on and on. I love this movie, and if you like musicals (or even if you don't!), you'll probably feel the same way about it. It's such a good movie, showing seriousness, comedy, romance, and even thriller. (When Motel and Tseitel are running through the woods singing Miracle of Miracles, that's pretty thrilling!) You'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Trivia on Fiddler","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I understand that Mr. Jewisson wanted to film Fiddler in Russia. The film crew was denied permission because the story of Tevye is unsympathetic to the Russian people. The film hints at anti-Semitism in Russia. One of its themes is that many family members have left Russia and immigrated to America. It also hints about the upcoming Russian Revolution, as well as the Holocaust. As a result, the film had to be mostly filmed in Croatia. Several indoor scenes, such as the dream sequence, were filmed in England. It also is interesting that Mr. Jewisson is a non-Jew himself despite his name. Several songs from the movie soundtrack were performed in a different order than from the Broadway production. The film also got several Oscar nominations that year but faced tough competition, such as French Connection. "}{"Title":"one of the few Jewish musicals in America that are popular","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  This movie was good. I loved all the songs and it was a perfect cast. I particularly liked Topol's portrayal of Tevye. Excellent. Also there are not so many Jewish/Yiddish musicals (or plays or movies or TV shows that I know of) as there could be here in America. I for one am Jewish, and my friends are not Jewish, and they saw it and loved it as well. My point is this You don't have to be Jewish to like this movie...you can be a very religious Catholic and still like this movie. When I say Catholic, I mean everyone. This really should be more popular. A stellar performance from Topol. You could tell alot about Tevye from him. I loved the songs. ) "},{"Title":"Goys And Dills","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This is a fine adaptation of a successful Broadway musical. Several better Broadway musicals - Guys And Dolls, Can Can - have come off worse on celluloid but this one succeeds admirably, possibly because as the many productions/revivals have demonstrated, the leading role of Teyve is so well constructed that virtually any competent actor can take it on. Whilst several 'serious' themes - oppression, racism, tradition in a changing world - are tackled the 'entertainment' element is always present, sugaring the pill of propaganda. The score also provides a fine balance of songs that delineate character, move the story along and wouldn't work as 'stand-alone' songs, with the traditional (sorry about that) 'Broadway' element (If I Were A Rich Man, Matchmaker, Matchmaker, Sunrise, Sunset). On the whole a satisfying late addition to the Hollywood musical canon. "},{"Title":"Who Fiddled With Oscar?","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" FIDDLER ON THE ROOF is a magnificent film.It was nominated for Best Picture in 1971. The other nominees were A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, THE FRENCH CONNECTION, THE LAST PICTURE SHOW AND NICHOLAS AND ALEXANDRA. Academy voters shocked many of us by picking THE FRENCH CONNECTION. In my opinion, FIDDLER should have won.As I got older, I realized why FIDDLER ON THE ROOF lost the coveted Best Picture Oscar. It was too orthodox for the taste of the Academy voters. In addition, many of the voters could not bring themselves to vote for a picture where Tevye would never accept a gentile son-in-law despite the fact that Orthodox Judaism forbids interfaith marriages. The Jewish academy voters, many of whom are not religious at all, didn't want to be reminded of these prohibitions.What a great ensemble cast! Too bad that Norma Crane (nee Anna Bella Zuckerman) and Leonard Frey died at the peak of their careers.Topol gave a terrific performance and was Oscar nominated only to lose to fellow Jew Gene Hackman (THE FRENCH CONNECTION). Molly Picon, as Yenta, deserved a best supporting actress nod but did not get it. To me, Leonard Frey was a surprise Oscar nominee in the supporting category; whereas in the Golden Globe awards, Paul Mann, (who portrayed butcher Laser Wolf), got a supporting nod.The musical numbers are staged with grace. The wedding scene, where the awesome Sunrise, Sunset is performed, is memorable and poignant. The Russian dancing sequence, and Tevye singing If I were a rich man are done with finesse.As is depicted throughout Jewish life, the Jews have become wanderers but will never give up their heritage and musical traditions. Fiddler on the Roof does not foresake anything in providing great entertainment, much history and music that is forever etched into our hearts.Films like FIDDLER ON THE ROOF are terribly missed. **** "},{"Title":"Good Family movie to watch by Indians","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Match Maker Match Maker match me a match... Do you love me? Today I watched this movie Fiddler on the roof at RTNL 7 Channel in Netherlands at my HTEL room at Amsteveen. Really good Musical movie and it reminds you of Indian Bollywood movies(Good bollywood movies only ) While watching this movie I found,India is not the only country who believes in Arranged marriage.It is very true in past and now also in some part of India that rich old/ugly guy can marry a young girl if girl is from poor family. But things are improving so enjoyed the movie after a long timeAvinash Shitole Netherlands "},{"Title":"That Touch of Shmutz","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" In Tsarist Russia, a Jewish milkman steeped in tradition faces a rebellion in both his daughters' marriage choices and world politics. Fiddler on the Roof is a great musical filmed as an endurance test. Going for a lower performance key, they replaced original star Zero Mostel with Topol (as Tevye). The latter won praise from voters giving out Academy Awards (a nomination), Golden Globes (an award) and even the New York Film Critics (eighth place). Nothing against all of this, but once Topol raises his hands on the dirt road and steps around in a circle, Mr. Mostel is missed. Lacking Mostel's movement and phrasing, the song If I Were a Rich Man is a noticeably lesser highlight. So much for tradition...Also didn't care for the grainy cinematography, village women's wigs, frightening dream wedding, and battle scene. And, film adaptations of theatrical plays should usually run shorter than their counterparts. Still, Topol and the cast do their best to fill the originals' shoes in the manner stipulated by Norman Jewison. Matchmaker Molly Picon's Yente is one-note, but what a note; why didn't she receive a Best Supporting Actress nomination? The suitors - tailor Leonard Frey (as Motel), student Paul Michael Glaser (as Perchik), and gentile Raymond Lovelock (as Fyedka) - are perfect. Much of the soundtrack, composed by Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick, is thrilling - especially the magnificent Sunrise, Sunset.******* Fiddler on the Roof (10/21/71) Norman Jewison ~ Topol, Leonard Frey, Molly Picon, Paul Michael Glaser "},{"Title":"Fiddler on the Roof--2010","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I thought the movie sentimental and treacle. I regret never having seen the original Broadway production with Zero Mostel as Tevye. I give the movie eight stars; the play I give ten stars.San Francisco now has the production on stage at the Golden Gate Theatre from Jan 27 to Feb. with Harvey Fierstein as Tevye, and Susan Cella as Golda; directed by Carole S. Hays. It was an excellent production. The live performance went beyond the sentimentality of the movie. Something is lost in that movie.The audience walks into Golden Gate Theatre, takes a seat, and sees a curtain depicted with a picture of a birch meadow. And immediately the viewer is expected to evoke the word and place Birkenau which means 'birch meadow.' Birkenau, also known as Auschwitz II.So by this simple aesthetic device, the musical shifts from 1905 Czarist pogroms to prefiguring the future Nazi atrocities. At the end of the play Czarist decree demands that Jews leaves their homeland. In defiance of Tradition, Chava has eloped with goy--non-Jew--Fyedka and at the end of the play they are on their way to Kracow--a scant 60 miles from Auschwitz. The viewer ends up with hope that as an assimilated Jew in Poland, she could be the one who survives the Nazi maw. At the time she leaves her city of Anatevka for Krakow, she would be about twenty--maybe younger--so in Poland, 1939, she would be a relatively young 59. Survival of Tradition and life expressed through the marriages, births, dances and one season following another laden with happiness and tears. The fiddler playing in a minor key, a key of mourning, underscores the prefigured tragedy.Sholom Aleichem (1859-1916)--Sholom Rabinovitch--wrote his stories about Jewish life in Czarist Russia of the late 1800s. Marc Chagall--1887-1985--evoked Jewish life in a Russian long gone with the Bolshevik revolution--but an evocation of Russian Jewish life, non-the-less. This San Francisco production very much used Chagall inspired scenery. While Hollywood no doubt used Chagall inspired scenery, the techno-mechno of Hollywood dilutes the impact; an impact that gets underlined, emphasized in a live theatrical performance.The very techno-mechno Hollywood reduces the impact; understatement is not the way of Hollywood. The 1940s noir-drama succeeded because of this understatement. The Hollywood musical relies, requires over the top and consequently something is lost. The live Stage Production can do something that escapes Hollywood and the San Francisco live performance produced excellence in their interpretation of Fiddler on the Roof. "},{"Title":"Heavygoing","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" A popular film adaptation of the stage musical, although I think this has more to do with the fact that Jews run Hollywood than its quality as a movie. For FIDDLER ON THE ROOF is a long, slow and extremely heavy-going movie, for which the lengthiness of its story is never offset by the quality of the music.Topol - the only actor in the film to give a notable performance - gives a solid performance as a poor Jewish man struggling to bring up five daughters in 19th century Russia. The various sub-plots that follow involve him pairing off his daughters with varying suitors (along the lines of PRIDE & PREJUDICE) while a growing pogrom against the Jews is developing in the background.Some of the songs are very good, particularly Tradition and If I Were a Rich Man, but in between these are simply lots of long, drawn out sequences of nothing much happening. In fact, despite the extreme length, I found this to be a fairly empty film, without a great deal of depth or, indeed, substance; everything you see is on the surface, and that's it. This is why I didn't like it very much and it's certainly not a film I can envisage sitting through again when there are so many better, more vibrant musicals out there. "},{"Title":"Fiddler on the Roof on Reel 13","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" FIDDLER ON THE ROOF has been a beloved musical for decades and the movie, which aired this past Saturday on Reel 13, was enormously successful when it first came out in 1971. I, however, have never been interested in the show. Though I do like some of the more famous songs (Matchmaker is catchy, If I Were a Rich Man is universally appealing and Sunrise, Sunset is beautifully written), I have always found the overall show to be pretty dull and very frustrating in terms of its repetitive nature.Director Norman Jewison (who also directed last week's THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING, THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING) did manage to do some interesting things in his adaptation, however. I liked how, on several occasions, he opted out of having characters sing out on screen. Instead, he used their voices non-diegetically, as if they were thinking the song in their heads. Even though the song itself is incredibly annoying, he turned the Tradition number into an effective montage introducing us to life in Anatevka. I also liked how Jewison handled the iconography of the fiddler itself. In the show, it's a bit heavy handed, but Jewison shoots it just right, keeping the fiddler mostly in background or shadow and cutting to him infrequently enough that he is an effective symbol for their way of life &#150; subtle enough while maintaining its accessibility. To be honest, I wasn't a big fan of the talking to the camera device (has any film been able to pull this off except for FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF?). Additionally, Jewison employed the zoom lens several times throughout the film, a common tactic in the late 60's/early 70's, but it felt out of place in a period piece such as this.I was surprised at how weak many of the performances were &#150; much of the cast had an air of theatricality about them, as if they were plucked right off the stage and never got accustomed to screen acting. The mother and the eldest daughter (a dead ringer for Barbra Streisand) are two exceptions. The primary exception, of course, is Topol as Tevye. Tevye is one of the most iconic characters is musical history &#150; the male equivalent of Mama Rose &#150; and Topol knocks it out of the park. He is funny, charmingly foolish, boisterous without being obnoxious, extremely caring and tender with a booming, powerful (singing and speaking) voice that perfectly fits this larger-than-life character. It ranks as one of the all-time best movie musical performances.In spite of all these positive qualities, FIDDLER the film still doesn't seem to overcome the flaws of FIDDLER the play. The second act is mostly strong with many emotionally impactful moments, but the build-up to get there is way too long and too slow. Several scenes in the film drag on mercilessly and some seem superfluous altogether (I don't think we needed the Wonder of Wonders number, for example). I imagine that Jewison and his team felt some pressure to include everything so the stage fans wouldn't be disappointed, but their priority in adapting the musical has to be to the film itself. When it's transferred to celluloid, it's a new animal and there are a different set of rules. More than anything, what FIDDLER really needed before relocating from Broadway was a good diet &#150; to trim all the fat.(For more information on this or any other Reel 13, check out their website at www.reel13.org) "},{"Title":"Live play much better than movie version","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  I saw the play, then went and rented the movie. Me and a friend, who had seen the play, both agreed that the play was much better. In my opinion the movie was boring and Fiddler on the Roof is much better on stage and live, and not reinacted behind a camera. The camera took the excitement out of it, and the bottle dance is MUCH MUCH MUCH more enjoyable live with real people in front of you, knowing theres no way they can cheat or mess up without you knowing. If you had not seen the play, the movie might cause you not to want to see the play, with a fear of boredom. (i use the term fear loosely). if you have not seen either, my advice is to go see the play, you'll love it "},{"Title":"Don't be afraid","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" I avoided watching this movie for years because of the content. I was thinking I can not relate with the subject matter or people .... turn of the century Russia.I bought it for a dollar at a garage sale and found it quite tolerable and then some. The characters are much more lively then I had judged them to be by looking at the pictures and the dialog is quite humorous at times.Topal made the movie as the sweet yet stubborn father and husband and if you like music I guarantee you will be humming If I were a rich man a day later! And a very nice addition was Paul Michael Glaser the original Starskey from Starskey and Hutch! Enjoy! Little Gold Woman (Oscar's Wife) "}{"Title":"Fiddler on the Roof without Zero Mostel is not Fiddler on the Roof","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" What a terrific disappointment. The legendary Broadway show with Zero Mostel was a joy to behold--beautiful, heartbreaking, extremely funny, and at its beating heart was an actor so sublime, so comedic, wise, brilliant and riveting, that the audience was swept away. This was captured to some extent on the legendary Broadway Album--listen to how his voice jumps octaves as he expresses the emotions of a song, how he growls, how he soars, how his timing is absolutely impeccable. What in the world were the people who made this film thinking? What could have been a classic film performance like Yul Brynner in The King and I' or Rex Harrison in My Fair Lady instead loses its very soul. The film version is OK--with the setting and the music by and large intact--but where is that dynamic core--the very reason to see Fiddler on the Roof? Where is Zero Mostel? For those of us remembering a performance that lingers in the imagination forever, this movie is painful to watch. "},{"Title":"To Life?  Fiddler A Bit Lifeless","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Norman Jewison takes an almost too natural approach in his direction of the stage mega-hit. The results are somewhat unsatisfying, and the film lacks the spark, excitement and fun of its stage counterpart. It's as if all involved treated the material like the Dead Sea Scrolls, instead of musical comedy. Fiddler On The Roof, does contain some fine performances, and almost all of the original stage score is intact (beautifully orchestrated by John Williams). The serious moments work well, but with a running time of about 181 minutes, which flies by on stage, 'Fiddler' on film, merely plods along, and never matches the stage experience. If you are a fan on musicals, I would still recommend seeing it. It's just a shame that, like so many filmed versions of Broadway hits, this one never quite succeeds. "},{"Title":"Religion kills","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  One of the best musicals around. Good portrayal of the clan mindset of people and how they are unwilling to accept anyone different. Here we have the Jewish fraternity who will never go against their stupid tradition and the other peasants who refuse to bend and accept the Jews, therefore they are completely at odds all the time. Lots of good songs and fiddle playing, dancing, and a great story. "},{"Title":"Loud, lively but too long","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":"  Musical about the life of Jews in pre-Revolutionary Russia.  Well-done with good acting (especially Topol) and some good songs and incredible dances...but at 3 hours it's way too long.  Some of the songs are real duds and should have been cut and some of the dances go on forever.  From what I've heard, this was never a big hit--in fact it was reissued in 1981 cut by 30 minutes!  I'm usually against editing films but in this case it needs it. So it's good but overlong. "},{"Title":"Third-rate Fiddler","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" If you have never seen this on stage, or heard the justifiably famous original Broadway cast album (with the legendary Zero Mostel as Tevye), then maybe this will pass muster. The cast is generally good, it's realistically filmed on location (or close enough) in Yugoslavia, etc. However, there is something really lackluster in the whole production.The big disappointment is Israeli actor Topol as Tevye. He's younger and handsomer than Mostel, but doesn't sing or emote nearly as well, and he has one of those rather odd Israeli accents that are partly British -- certainly NOT Russian -- and that comes off as awkward. Tevye is the prime role, he has the major songs, like Tradition and If I Were A Rich Man, so having a so-so leading man here is fatal to the film. He's also too old to play Tevye on screen -- on the stage, it's OK to have an older actor, but Tevye's oldest daughter is 18 and he was supposedly married at 18 himself, so realistically he is supposed to be about 37. Instead, Topol appears 50 or more with gray hair. (This is also true for the actress who plays his wife.)The larger flaw of the film is that like a lot of other musicals (the recent Rent comes to mind), the film director felt that it had to made on location and as realistically as possible. This just doesn't work well for most musicals, which are intended for the more stylized presentation of a stage and a theater. Forced to look at Tevye's actual barn and animals is very distracting. Plus, with the action staged out of doors, the singing (which is obviously done in a studio) sounds absurd -- where's the echo chamber? LOL!Despite everything looking real in the physical sense, the art direction has gone way overboard in the sense that all the peasants are depicted as living far too grandly for Jews of that time and place. Tevye's house is a multi-story Ralph Lauren summer home, and sits on many acres of land -- in those days, he would have REALLY been a rich man if he had all that. When Tevye sings about being rich and owning chicken, I believe its meant to imply that he's too poor to actually own any -- not an excuse to cut to photography of his flock!That being said, if you like the music and general story, it's all here, and reasonably faithful to the theatrical production in terms of plot, resolution, etc. Since there is no bringing back Zero Mostel, this is what we have! and probably a bit better than the typical community theater productions that still are around.In conclusion, I see a lot of reviewers talk about the sadness of the ending, as the Jews are forced to leave Anatevka. Personally, I have never considered this as sad. The film distorts things a bit by depicting Tevye as a landowner with lots of farm animals, furniture, a house, etc. In reality, peasants this poor had virtually nothing. The reality -- as experienced by my own paternal grandmother, who left Russia in 1920 -- is that these Russian Jews came to America to lead vastly better lives in a free country. Not to mention that their children and grandchildren became successful doctors, lawyers, business owners. This is not a sad ending, folks -- it's the happiest ending of all time! "},{"Title":"Disney meets progrom","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Mel Brooks probably made the best comment on Fiddler On The Roof by casting the original study (of the stage musical) Zero Mostel as the lead of his seminal parody, The Producers. Here, Mostel, in the role of bankrupt producer Max Biyalistok, tries to pull one over The Fiddler and turns the Nazi rgime into a musical, Springtime For Hitler. Apparently, even Brooks had his limits and so he didn't take the ultimately logical step of musicalizing Auschwitz.Brooks must have felt what I felt when I saw the depiction of orthodox Jewish life, poverty, forced marriages, progroms and eviction through the means of a musical my jaw hit the floor at so much brazen presumptuousness.The shame about The Fiddler On The Roof is that it has a likable if conventional story at its heart. A simple but spirited father has to come to terms with the changing times, that his daughters will pick their own husbands rather than having a marriage arranged for them (which mostly meant being married off to rich, old men). I suspect it's that part of the story (along with lead actor Chaim Topol's congenial charisma) that many people like best about The Fiddler. Fathers, mothers and daughters can all identify with this situation. Sons'll just have to sit it out, I guess.But that aside, wow, what a stinker. I've heard that some Jews consider this to be their musical / movie. For example I have read about one father who showed The Fiddler umpteen times to his daughters to explain Judaism to them. After having seen this movie, I think that guy is out of this world. This movie is just so damn trivial. Poverty is fun, orthodox Judaism means lots of singing and dancing in funny clothes, and that progrom, as far as progroms go, was certainly a bit on the farcical side, especially when those three hoodlums inhumanely tore that table cloth apart. Oh, the humanity.I couldn't work out what the eponymous fiddler character was about, so I googled that it was an image from Marc Chagal which had originally been incorporated into the stage design. As a graphic motif it probably made sense, but this effect is lost when we actually see the guy jamming away on his roof, and lead character Reb Tevye extols A fiddler on the roof -- sounds crazy, no?. Hell yes, Tevye. Crazy. Clich. Forced. Gag me with a tongue depressor. He makes about as much sense as a euphonist in the cellar. Don't tell me you named the entire film after this sorry freak?This musical bored and upset me for almost three solid hours. And I didn't even dig the songs. Even in this aspect The Producers is superior (Love power ... the power of lurrrrrve!. "},{"Title":"Too Long & Generally Overrated","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" This disappointed me mainly because it looked so promising in the beginning. At first this appeared to be an enormously-entertaining story and solid religious one with the main character talking to God all the time.However, after 90 minutes of viewing this, I wondered if only God could sustain enough interest to keep going. Man, it was b-o-r-i-n-g!Since I like Israeli songs with all the violin music - and the title infers that, too - I hoped to at least hear a lot of that. Wrong again. Most of songs didn't feature that and they weren't anything to write home about. When they did have some dance tunes that were lively, they - like the movie - went on forever. To be fair some of the songs were good and a few of them became famous, thanks to this stage play-turned-movie, but not enough of them to suit me.Another thing that turned me off was the typical '60s-70s youth culture propaganda in which the message here was that the old traditions and the people who believed in them are shown to be of little value while the younger man with his new views is shown to be enlightened. This is such typical Liberal baloney. However, it was nice to see a made-for- adults early '70s movie that was not sleazy. Hallelujah! If they had cut this from three to two hours, it might have been a lot more watchable. This is way too long and way too overrated. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Musical","Review":" Sadly, this is my dad's favorite movie. The songs are more than annoying. I can't stand them! Now we have the soundtrack, and I have to put up with that so-called music. If you want a rally good musical, watch The Sound of Music. (1965) **Possible spoilers ahead**Fiddler on the Roof is about a Jewish family who is being forced out of their homes via Hitler. I am not Jewish, but that's not why I don't like this movie. I just don't think the singing and dancing are that entertaining. The story is a bit weak, too. One of Tevye's daughters is converted to Christianity, and he denounces her for it. Being a Christian myself, I object to that.If you must see this movie, skip the Miracle of Miracles song. It's more than unbearable. This movie is among my bottom ten movies.My Score 0.5/10. "}]