[{"Title":"A fascinating study leading into the strange world of a complex call-girl&#133;","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute was a mixture of lone cop and private eye a police officer who was hired privately to investigate somebody's disappearance&#133; The trail led him deep into the world of New York call-girls, pimps and drug addicts&#133; It was all shown, the vice, the degradation, but with intelligent compassion and honest humanity instead of the leer that so often sits on the face of the Seventies&#133; Although barely more talkative than Dirty Harry, Klute emerged as a whole human being rather than as a robot programmed to shoot and hit&#133;And as a high class hooker Bree Daniel, Jane Fonda achieved a characterization that has never been surpassed in all the abundant literature of tarts with hearts&#133; Klute was a modern, as honest and unflinching as any fanatic for realism could ask; yet it was never curious about sexuality, never needlessly violent, never brutal&#133; And for complete, entertaining suspense, it was up there with the great ones an enormous tribute to the producer-director Alan J. Pakula&#133; "},{"Title":"Good-as-Gold Hooker Story","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe that only one user has had a comment on this film after almost 34 years. I remember seeing this film as a undergraduate in 1971. As far as anything goes in 1971, this was as erotic as a film got in that year without garnering an X rating. God, life was simpler then. I just watched this film for the first time since 1971 (34 years ago) and every ounce of suspense was still there. Donald Southerland was new to film then and had not yet earned his reputation as the consummate character actor. Jane Fonda had not yet earned the epithet of Hanoi Jane. And Jean Stapleton was not yet known as Edit. Although this film seems a little dated as far as acting styles go. The creep factor is still there. Anyone who has viewed a few episodes of Law and Order will see the obvious villain in the first 30 minutes of this film but will also appreciate the strenuous character development that is evident in the film. Although it is obvious fairly early on who the bad guy is, it's interesting to see the expository effort that is expended in order to flesh out the characters. I am so glad that most of the actors involved in this endeavor went on to greater glory. I thank DARPA for the internet for my ability to inflict my opinions on more than a small circle of friends. "},{"Title":"This Is New York, And You Are Not A Statistic!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"76 out of 124 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jane Fonda plays a prostitute or call girl (The difference being about $75,000.00 a year) and runs into Klute ( a detective,who is investigating a murder)...Jane Fonda's role is whereby she is emotionally neglected, and her inability to cope reflects her socially adverse environment!! Jane Fonda's mental resolve is broken down in bits and pieces, one moment is devoted to confusion, the next to raging anger, all of her actions are due to unexplained frustration and discontentment!! Bree's (Jane Fonda's) intransigence with rational thought intensifies throughout the entire film, and Klute (Donald Sutherland) is blasted with red light district depravity from all sides.. New York City evokes a natural callousness by being extremely disconcerting to everyone's situation!! For a prostitute to have any subjectivity by way of feelings is just not taken into consideration!! What choice does a venue like New York City really have when heinous crimes are ubiquitous in how they accompany a second hand on a clock?The acting is compelling in this movie!! The early seventies spread out a welcome mat for all the diverse, stigmatic, cultural stereotypes!! Movies about sub level poverty, minority dilemmas, and prostitutes, invoked a sense of intellectual awareness that these groups of people had about conscious stricken-ed ideas and doubts, hence, they engaged in a situational pontification just like everyone else!! The dreary scenario of prostitution and violent crimes provide pathos for the overall despondence everyone is victimized by, and capitulation to what appears to be the least ugly choice out of many catastrophic ones!! This wry insensitivity is what compounds the underclass' fears about how they are not even considered statistics!! Expenditure involving prostitution delves into the element of psychological nurturing!! Viewing this whole rigmarole very clinically, you would be given this very pragmatic advice from Bree (Jane Fonda) Do not squander your money for an hour long excursion with a psycho whore, buy a used dishwasher instead!! The movie audience has not missed the point!! In this movie, life does not make any sense for anybody!! "},{"Title":"Are you a button freak?","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"53 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What an awesome film. A good movie to contrast this with, is the film Devil's Own. Both were directed by the late, great Alan J. Pakula, but were products of vastly different quality. You couldn't pick up a paper, and not read about how much Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt hated each other, and the end product suffered because of it. You had the core of a good movie torn apart, because the Pitt part, and the Ford part didn't co-exist.No Such problem with Klute. Here, all the pieces fit together. Scheider's suave, non-chalant pimp, Sutherland's lonely, enigmatic pseudo-gumshoe, and Fonda's basket case call girl all fit wonderfully. In fact, there are no slackers in this cast. Michael Small's creepy score also deserves mention, as does Pakula's masterful use of gritty, realistic New York City.It's almost depressing to watch the raw talent at work in films like Klute. Nowadays, films are so much the result of magazine polling, and the ever-present bottom line. It's true, we still have independent films, but even they are getting co-opted by big money. Still, I suppose there still are the John Sayles' of the world holding out. God bless 'em. "},{"Title":"Artless and surprisingly delicate","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the rough-edges reputation of Pakula, he always manages to give us some beautifully shot, almost fragile images. Like Fonda pondering an envelope full of money and a blank invoice while surrounded by clothing-store dummies; or Sutherland choosing apricots by feel; or even Roy Scheider's silent acknowledgement that he is being used. And Fonda's artless performance is so unbelieveable, I couldn't believe it was her.Terrifically acted - everyone takes just the right tone. My only quibble about the movie is how the mystery is solved. It's much too abrupt given the meandering pace of the rest of the movie. But the plot means nothing in this surprisingly delicate character study. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda is brilliant!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I agree with the commentator(s) who say the title of this film should be 'Bree' instead of 'Klute.' No offense to Donald Sutherland who is undoubtedly effective in his role, but it is Jane Fonda's wonderfully nuanced performance that really carries this film. What an incredible range this actress has and what an impressive résumé she has put together throughout her career! I can't wait to see her in Monster In Law. Jane Fonda definitely deserved the Oscar she got for this role. Her portrayal of Bree Daniels, a tragic heroine wracked by inner contradictions is one of cinema's most haunting characters not only in the context of the story but as the embodiment of the immediate post sexual revolution as well. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A Classic Film-Noir With Awesome Performance of Jane Fonda","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Pennsylvania, when his old friend, the laboratory engineer Tom Gruneman (Robert Mili), vanishes, detective John Klute (Donald Sutherland) is hired by Tom's colleague Peter Cable (Charles Cioffi) to search for him. The unique lead is an obscene letter written by Tom to a call-girl in New York called Bree Daniels (Jane Fonda), and Klute moves to the Apple city to investigate the disappearance of Tom. Klute blackmails Bree to help him to find other prostitutes that might have been with Tom using some tapes of her phone calls that he had secretly recorded. They realize that some is stalking Bree, while Klute falls in love for Dress, and she has some sort of feeling that she can not understand for him.In 1971, Jane Fonda was a muse worshiped by many teenagers like me, and I was particularly following her work through the sexy and cult sci-fi Barbarella and They Shoot Horses, Don't They, an excellent adaptation of Horace McCoy's novel of the same name that had impressed me a lot. Klute was considered erotic in those times and the scene where Dree fakes an orgasm while looking at her watch was a sensation. Later I saw this movie many times on VHS, and now I have just bought the DVD.Klute is really a classic film-noir, one of my favorite movies ever, with an engaging story with thriller, crime and romance, magnificent direction and stunning performances of Jane Fonda and Donald Sutherland in the role of very believable characters. Jane Fonda deserved the Oscar perfectly playing a very complex character, strong and insensitive with her clients, fragile and confused with love. It is amazing how this movie has not aged and how much I like it every time I see it. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Klute, O Passado Condena (Klute, the Past Condemns) "},{"Title":"Klute is a terrific showcase for its leading lady, but it isn't much as a thriller...","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Permeated by a kind of haughty, stoned decadence, Alan J. Pakula's Klute concerns a sexy, shaggy prostitute in N.Y.C. who is the only real link to a missing family man from suburbia; a close friend of the man asserts himself as detective on the case, and after questioning the girl and trailing her, he finds himself drawn to her. Billed as a mystery-thriller, Klute is more of a dramatic character study, with preconceived plot threads devised by two screenwriters who can barely keep their secrets from spilling out. The final moments which piece the story together don't ring true (starting about the time Jane Fonda attacks Donald Sutherland and runs out into the street), but until then it's a dandy show-piece for Fonda, who gives an Oscar-winning performance. The ins-and-outs of the hooker-biz aren't really explored, but we get all we need just by listening to Fonda's dialogue (her complaints to her psychiatrist, her need for Sutherland's companionship) and by seeing her living alone in her apartment. For the actress, it's stellar work; for director Pakula, it's a bit thin around the edges. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, essential, unforgettable.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is without a doubt the most intensely atmospheric film I've ever seen, and certainly the best, tied perhaps only with Chinatown. Pakula's eye shows us the true grit and grime of the city that never sleeps. Klute was packaged as a suspense thriller, but it is so much more than that. It is also a character study (either of Bree herself, or the city itself). It is a love story. It is a study of urban stereotypes. And did I mention the music? The eerie scrapes, nervous marimba and fearsome humming will really creep you out, but the warm trumpets and delicate strings on the flipside are warm and enveloping. Anyway, back to the film. The slow scenes are equally crucial as the action scenes; the gorgeous sequence of Bree and John Klute shopping for oranges in the city market at night is a powerful statement that love can exist between opposites. Fonda's brilliantly improvised therapy scenes are explosive as they are heartrending. No actress, living or dead, can touch her. As the beautiful and confused Bree she is both vulnerable and in charge. The unraveling of her psyche is fascinating to watch, as is John Klute's repulsion and fascination with the city folk. The final confrontation will disturb and haunt you for days. Bottom line, essential. No film will take you into its world quite like this one. They just don't make 'em like this anymore.   "},{"Title":"Creepy, defining classic of the 70's","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Accented throughout by the late Michael Small's unsettling piano-&-stoned-soprano soundtrack, Klute is one of the defining films of the 1970's.  Fonda plays an NYC call girl named Bree Daniels attempting to break free from her sordid past who is being stalked by an ex-john into S&M sex.  Sutherland is her hero John Klute, a very decent guy from Pennsylvania who works as a private investigator looking for a missing man who may have been this very client.  Naturally, they fall in love, but it is an often brutal experience emotionally because Bree is a cold-hearted tart who has been in the business so long she is incapable of having an orgasm.  Jane is phenomenal throughout, including her sessions with a psychiatrist (which have the feel of pure improv) and auditioning for a play (I thought she was pretty good) and Sutherland lends solid support, even if his face remains pretty much poker. "}{"Title":"A masterful work","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alan Pakula created one of his most memsmerizing and hauntingly beautiful pieces with this film. The love affair between Donald Sutherland and Jane Fonda is nothing less than one of the most realistic and touching developments put onto film. Watch this movie for just one scene and you'll be amazed - when the 2 principals shop for fruit, watch how he selects a melon, and when Sutherland casually puts his hand on Fonda - it's enough to send shivers down the spine of any woman. This is when we see that great acting is an art too subtle to define and limit with categorical definitions - it simply IS art. "},{"Title":"He Lets It 'All Hang Out'","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadI know, given the distance from its Zeitgeist, the message can seem inscrutable. It is on that tape you hear Peter Cable playing. It is the ethos of the CounterCulture. Nothing is wrong, I think a person should just do whatever they want, F it! You hear Cable refute this before the final attack on Bree,There are Dark corners of every person that were better off left undisturbed. See, unlike the happy, narcotic induced, humanistic optimism of this sad group of people, most human beings are Night with a sliver of light. The movie follows the rural born Klute with his foray into the seedy side of New York City's prostitution business seeking for his missing friend Tom Grunnaman. Tom disappears and Klute volunteers for his boss Peter Cable to go to NYC and search for him. His last known contact was a prostitute named Bree Daniels played well by Fonda. Pakula has always been quite a moral filmmaker; this movie is no exception. Fonda's Bree is hard as nails, with a thick shield about her real personality. You will see her come into a john's hotel room and dominate him completely while complimenting him effusively for his sexual skill. Right in the middle of a simulated orgasm, she looks surreptitiously at her watch. Bree is being shadowed; we see him looking at her as if we were behind him. We cannot make out who he is, but, with the incredibly creepy music, it will really scare you.I love the use of the camera and music together here. My favorite scene is where he is on the roof. Klute, wordlessly, sits Bree down on her bed; when he tells her someone is on the roof, watch her whole body go rigid with fear. Hey, I am not a Fonda fan, believe me, I am a conservative but I own this performance. As Klute goes up on the very dark roof, the music begins to crescendo very slowly. SPOILER Watch for Peter Cable in the doorway when Klute goes into that darkened room, if you look over Sutherland's shoulder, you will see Cable in the shadow of the door. This has one of the scariest scenes in film. Bree, at the very end, lingers too long in a deserted dress factory. All the lights are out, all the workers have gone home for the day. We hear the elevator slowly come back up, so does Bree. She begins to walk through the deserted factory floor; she stops suddenly, there is Cable staring at her through a piece of plastic. In the theater, clouds of popcorn went flying through the air. Pakula's best movie after Parallax View; this movie's scares, with the music, photography and acting are one of a kind.Like Ridley Scott, Pakula uses our imaginations to provide more terror than today's movies. Cable plays an audio tape of his murdering one of Bree's fellow hookers that is just horrifying to listen to. Fonda is so good in this scene that she let's her nose run because she is so frightened by what she hears. His attack is sudden, deadly and unexpected. The point Pakula is making is a refutation of the ontological naiveté of the Counter Culture. 'Let it all hang out, baby.' Well, trust me, Cable let's it 'all hang out' unfortunately he finds that due to his deep misogyny he enjoys beating women to death. That little speech Cable gives about the dark parts of everyone's natures, that is Alan Pakula speaking. The movie came out just after the Manson Family's killings, which I have always thought prompted this response to the optimism about hippies and their ideology of 'love.' Sutherland and Fonda have a romance in the movie but, to Pakula's credit, it ends realistically. These two could not be more existentially disparate a hooker and a Bible-belt deeply moral man. There is some intimation that Cable and Klute are similar. When Bree chooses her pimp, Scheider, over Klute, watch for the similar style of volcanic attack that Cable repeats later on Bree. Bree, by having let Cable's Darkness loose, unleashes a murdering, woman-hating monster that is, with great difficulty, stopped. The movie is as much a study of the insides of the human psyche as it is a very scary, suspenseful movie. Fonda gives her best performance in any movie as does Sutherland. One Of My Favorite Movies. Q.E.D.There Are Dark Shadows Upon The Earth But Its Lights Are Stronger In The Contrast. Charles Dickens "},{"Title":"Bree & The Square From Cabbageville","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute begins as a missing person investigation and develops into a romance, a character study and a murder mystery. The tone of the piece is set by Alan J Pakula's careful style of direction, Gordon Willis' dark cinematography and a steady pace which is very much in keeping with the rather cerebral and emotional nature of many of the developments which unfold as the story progresses.When family man and research engineer Tom Gruneman had been missing for six months and the FBI had failed to locate him, his wife and his boss Peter Cable (Charles Cioffi) hired John Klute (Donald Sutherland) to carry out his own investigation. The FBI had discovered an obscene letter that Gruneman had apparently sent to a New York prostitute called Bree (Jane Fonda) and they had interviewed her but she was unable to help as she couldn't remember having met Gruneman.Having been given Bree's address by the police, Klute rents a room in the building where she lives and after she refuses to talk to him he tapes her phone calls and starts to follow her. His second attempt to get her to cooperate is more successful and they then begin a dialogue. She confirms that she doesn't remember Gruneman but she'd had one client who was a sadist who'd beaten her up and nearly killed her. It also emerges that she'd been receiving breather calls which unsettled her and one night when she hears sounds from the skylight above her room, it convinces her that she's being stalked.Her fear and vulnerability make her more appreciative of the protection that Klute provides and an uneasy attraction develops between them. She tells Klute about the way in which her meeting with the sadist had been arranged and their subsequent pursuit of further information about this, brings to light the involvement of her ex-pimp Frank Ligourin (Roy Scheider) and two other prostitutes called Jane and Arlyn (Dorothy Tristan). What Klute learns during this process leads him to the view that the sadist is someone who knew Gruneman and this proves to be the critical piece of information which enables the culprit's identity to be confirmed and the mystery surrounding Gruneman's disappearance to be solved.At various points throughout the movie, Bree is seen discussing her troubled emotional state with a psychiatrist and these sessions reveal that she enjoys the control that she's able to exert over her clients and this, to some extent, provides an antidote to the regular demoralising rejections she experiences when auditioning for modelling and acting jobs. She's also a woman who's developed a tough exterior but in reality she's also intimidated by the belief that she's being stalked and uneasy about her feelings for Klute because they represent a potential loss of control. Jane Fonda conveys the intensity of her character's feelings very skilfully in a magnificent performance for which she understandably won the Best Actress Oscar in 1972.John Klute's background as a cop in rural Pennsylvania didn't include any experience of dealing with missing person investigations and he had no knowledge of New York but these drawbacks were regarded as being of minor importance to Peter Cable and Mrs Gruneman because they felt that, as a friend of Gruneman, he would have the drive and commitment to pursue the search through to its conclusion. As Klute, Donald Sutherland shows his character's unwillingness to be distracted from completing his assignment efficiently and also the disdain with which he regards the sleazier side of life in New York. He's a sober and rather reticent person but also reliable and trustworthy. Sutherland's portrayal of this man is extremely subtle and accomplished and worthy of great praise.Many of the characters featured in the story are victimised or feel that they are. Three people are murdered, Mrs Gruneman is widowed and the perpetrator considers himself a victim of the call girls who exploit the dark fantasies of their clients and bring out dangerous responses which cause great harm. Furthermore, Bree is a victim of extreme violence, obscene letters and phone calls, Jane's betrayal and also the constant threat she feels under when being stalked. An atmosphere of threat is also generated visually by a preponderance of heavily shadowed areas which suggest that danger is being harboured in their midst and also by the way in which the visible areas of the screen are shrunk by various means suggesting an oppressive sense of entrapment.Klute is a thoughtful and memorable movie in which the exceptional contributions made by Fonda, Sutherland and Willis are very significant. Its ambiguous conclusion also neatly avoids a Hollywood type of ending and in so doing keeps faith with the uncertainty which is such an inherent part of Bree and Klute's relationship. "},{"Title":"The one that took Jane Fonda from sex kitten to respected actress","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fine gritty dramatic mystery that gets the pulse of NYC in the early 70's just right. It becomes another character in the film which only strengths the picture and adds a certain creeping menace to it. While the movie pivots on the disappearance of a man it's really a character study of alienation with the investigation a peg to hang the main action on. Sutherland is fine as the inquiring detective John Klute but the film lives and dies on the character of Bree Daniels and Jane Fonda owns that part. Bree wants the world to believe she's one tough hard customer but as the film progresses it becomes more and more obvious that the bravado is a front. She displays raw, honest emotion in all her scenes but particularly in her therapy sequences. She shows so many layers to the character, including flashes of humor that Bree comes across as a real woman. Usually I try not to let appearance factor into my appraisal of a performance however that shag hairstyle is integral to the audience's acceptance of her as a tough call girl. Having moved forward and away from her initial image of the blonde cutie with her previous film, They Shoot Horses, Don't They?, she completely transforms herself in this. The soft blonde Jane Fonda of Barefoot in the Park or Barbarella of only a couple of years before would never be believable as Bree Daniels. The film was a major hit and she won her first Oscar for it. She was up against some excellent performances that year but she was the correct winner.Expertly directed by Pakula in his usual observant style this is a classic of '70's cinema. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Maybe The Film Should Have Been Called 'Bree'","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The question Klute ultimately asks is can a high priced call girl from Manhattan find happiness with a small town private detective from Tuscarora, Pennsylvania? Of course it asks more than that and probes the human psyche quite a bit.Though the title role of John Klute the detective is played by Donald Sutherland, the central character is Jane Fonda the call girl. Which begs the question why the film wasn't called Bree. It was her performance as Bree Daniels that got Jane her first Academy Award for Best Actress. That and sympathy from Hollywood for being an avowed member in good standing on Richard Nixon's enemies list.Despite Nixon and his trashing of the Constitution, I never liked the idea of Jane Fonda broadcasting from Hanoi while our soldiers were fighting in Vietnam. That was taking anti-war protest way too far. But forgetting the politics she gives quite a performance as the psychologically deep and troubled call girl who has a stalker on her hands.Sutherland as Klute is hired to trace the disappearance of business executive Robert Milli from the main corporate employer in Tuscarora, Pennsylvania. Apparently Milli was leading a double life, on business trips he'd hire call girls and had a tendency to get rough while frolicking. There's a note found threatening one of them and of course it's Jane Fonda.Fonda is an aspiring actress and model who does this to pay the bills. It's given her quite a cynical attitude on life. It takes a while, but Sutherland kind of grows on her and when he solves the disappearance, he proves to be her benefactor.Other performance to note are Roy Scheider as her pimp, Rita Gam as the brothel madam and Charles Cioffi the CEO of the company who hires Sutherland to find the missing Milli. Still it's Fonda who dominates the proceedings.I'm still hoping that Peter Fonda gets a role that will land him an Oscar so we have a father-daughter-son parlay of Oscar winners in one family. Klute as a film has stood the test of time and hasn't aged a bit. It could easily be done today with those awful Seventies fashions replaced by today's. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda at the Top of Her Form","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" We grab from the top drawer for our descriptive words nowadays. We call a really good movie awesome, leaving ourselves at a loss when a movie truly does inspire awe, such is the case with Jane Fonda's performance as Bree Daniels in Klute. And not for the same reasons as we're normally awed by performances. She doesn't have big, tearful breakdown scenes or fiery cross-examinations on a witness stand. She simply interacts, tries to figure out her own feelings and lack thereof, and experiences them. She makes all the right choices, from the workings of her walk and her vocal nuances to the infiltration of the girl's rampant mind. It's an uncommonly exceptional performance. She has a kind of anxious concentration that keeps her so resolutely in sync with a film character that the character truly seems preoccupied by things that happen in the story. You effectively get the sense that Bree had other things on her mind and was just about to pursue them when whatever it is arose.Klute is one of the paramount films in which director of photography Gordon Willis, more than any other cinematographer, circumscribed the cinematic look of the 1970s sophisticated compositions in which gulps of light and black put the decade's vague philosophy into harsh release. He imbues Klute with shadow and underexposed long takes with a delicacy and expression rarely before seen on color film stock. He has an unaffected sense of unconventional but formal configuration and dark beauty, using a shadowy painterliness to characterize not only the look but the precise meaning and atmosphere of a film.Nevertheless, more than just a neo-noir or detective thriller, this initial installment of what would unofficially come to be termed as quite incredible and quite overlooked director Alan J. Pakula's paranoia trilogy is about a practiced, clever, cynical and self-contained New York call girl without a heart of gold. She never feels anything when she's with a john, yet she does undergo a sensation of satisfaction with her skill when she pleases them. And some of them have very complex desires, which test her character's own inspired acting capability. One old garment industry magnate, for instance, romanticizes an optimistic bygone Europe life, and Bree depicts it to him in calm, tender descriptions while she undresses. He in no way touches her.Bree is at the heart of a movie whose title character is a cop who's come to New York, ad hoc, to resolve a missing persons case. It seems that the missing man may still be alive, and the cause of obscene notes and phone calls Bree has been getting. Bree at first rebuffs Klute, though she ultimately does talk to him, mainly because she's scared by late-night stalkers and wants his safety. This, rather than the thriller aspects of the plot, is more or less where the film's theme becomes paranoia. It's a romantic relationship based on it. Paranoid thinking tends to incorporate oneself. Distinctive from dogma or stupidity. And it's fascinating to watch two actors, one of whom having only four or five lines in the entire film, develop their largely intuitive rapport on a basis of Bree's feelings of a seeming menace towards her, and what we can only sense is a gradual building of trust in her from a point of associating suspicion with his being alien to her lifestyle.But how do you build a relationship between a neurotic prostitute and an upright milquetoast cop? This genuinely psychological dramatic thriller does it by making the cop, in one of Donald Sutherland's strongest performances, into a person of moderation and formality, a man sincerely worried about this girl he's encountered. Sutherland's manner is a large part of what makes their relationship so engrossing. Customarily, in the movies, it's simply implicit the lovers were drawn toward one another because the script has a vague understanding of reductive audience demographics.The scenes between Fonda and Sutherland are extremely accomplished, then, and Bree is further expounded on in scenes showing her trying to escape the vocation and into something respectable. She takes acting lessons, she auditions to model for cosmetics ads. She speaks with her shrink in scenes that literally, truly, absolutely, feel like documentary and put on permanent display Fonda's irrefutable brilliance. That's why the story, otherwise done many times in less interesting ways, works with such freshness and realism. In Klute, you don't have two pretty acting voids narrating stock phrases and running from henchmen. With Fonda and Sutherland, you have actors who comprehend and relate to their characters, and you wish all filmmakers felt their material entitled to this degree of dramatic ingenuity. "},{"Title":"Restrained, filled with delicate ambiance, and yet gritty and unapologetic. A special film.","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute (1971)Director Alan Pakula's willingness to slow the pace down and let the grimy reality of 1970 New York City creep in is a trademark of this now-classic. The main crime plot itself is a twist on a twist, and in reality isn't much to hang on to, unless you realize right away that the plot is about a relationship, and the detective stuff, in good Hitchcock fashion, is a vehicle for the romance.But what an original romance this is, and pulled thin and taut, depending equally on Jane Fonda and Donald Sutherland, an unlikely pair who, by the end, almost define the feeling of the movie as endlessly incipient. They, too, are always waiting to happen.Klute is a necessary piece in the bubble of great films of this late 60s early 70s period. Compare its feeling to something like Billy Wilder's The Apartment for how ordinary New York is handled. The fact that Fonda plays a prostitute is another issue altogether, and a sign of America's willingness to have frank and formerly forbidden subjects for their films. Of course, a closer comparison is the 1969 Midnight Cowboy with its own grittiness and prostitution, and Klute holds up pretty well against that more intense and moving breakthrough film by Schlensinger.This is Pakula's second film, and a long career follows with some great and varied movies, but in a way it gels here, and feels nicely resolved and mature (he is in his 40s when it was made). It's not sensational by any means, a small victory in itself. Very much recommended, a suck you into another milieu kind of film, with more sweetness than you expect. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda As A High-Priced Call-Girl","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Donald Sutherland plays John Klute, a small town private investigator, whose search for a missing man leads him to a high-priced New York City call-girl named Bree Daniels, played by Jane Fonda. Bree keeps thinking she hears noises and has the feeling someone is following her. This story element combined with spooky music conveys an air of mystery, a sense that an unseen character lurks in the background.It's an interesting premise. But the story is thin, and the film's payoff at the end is disappointing. The weak story transfers responsibility of entertainment to the two lead characters Klute and Bree. And with Sutherland's character so reticent and stoic, Klute turns out to be mostly a character study of the call-girl, and therefore a cinematic vehicle for Fonda.Although I'm not convinced she deserved an academy award for her performance, she does do a fine job. But there just isn't that much else to this film. It is very, very slow. Scenes are long and drawn out. Stylistically, Klute reminds me of The Conversation (1974). The film also is vaguely similar in style to some of Dario Argento's giallos, minus the horror element, and minus Argento's fantastic cinematography.Most viewers like this film because of Fonda's performance. And that's certainly a valid criterion. Far fewer people recommend the film for its story or plot. If you are a Jane Fonda fan, Klute will be a real treat. If you are looking for a chilling mystery with lots of plot twists, you might want to look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"The Zenith of Pakula","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The films is excellent on so many levels. My favorite is how bree and klute are exact psychological opposites. She represses what he expresses and vice versa. Notice when she is alone she sings a religious hymn while publicly attacking him when he judges her. As a thriller it is exceptional with the same ridley scott Alien touches of shadowing and hiding the killer. The use of imagination with the tape recorder playing back her friend's murder; today we would be shown a gory scene. Pakula uses the viewer's imagination to supply the horrible more frightening images. The great thrillers use this technique. Again, in Alien we here lambert scream when she is killed off screen a true sign of a great director. We could use this more today believe me. I love the film sociologically because it is anti counter culture. Notice that Peter Cable line that there are dark parts of all of us that were best left undisturbed. When he plays her tape she spouts the counterculture line nothing is wrong it is best to let everything out. Cable is the embodiment of why the philosophy has terrifying consequences. Klute is not far from being cable as we see in his violent outburst directed at scheider. Pakula is very busy critiquing the 60s within this also great suspenseful intense thriller. The ending defies the usual mawkish happy stereotype and adds believability to the film. The contrast between Klute and Bree is between rural traditional moral America and the burgeoning counterculture that it directly rebels against. I cannot recommend this film higher other than ALIEN it is a true American masterpiece. "},{"Title":"KLUTE is haunting.  Fonda is brilliant.","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jane Fonda was honored this month with the American Film Institute's 42nd AFI Lifetime Achievement Award at a gala event in Los Angeles. In tribute to Fonda, AFI showed a retrospective of her works. At the AFI Silver Screen Theatre and Cultural Center in Silver Spring, MD (a Washington, DC suburb), I sat in its smallest theatre to watch my favorite Fonda film, KLUTE, the 1971 mystery/thriller for which Fonda won an Academy award for Best Actress. KLUTE is an enigma. Dark, in its cinematography and its subject matter. A thriller/mystery whose mystery is revealed midway through the film because it is not the 'who done it' that is at the heart of this film. At its essence KLUTE is an invitation to witness a lifestyle we would never want to inhabit but piques our curiosity and titillates. Fonda's character, Bree Daniels, is an aspiring actress and an experienced call girl. Her three-act plays performed in hotel rooms where anonymous men are her appreciative collaborators. She confides to her psychiatrist that these dalliances with men are better than her acting auditions because in the former she always gets to play the part. Fonda gives flesh and complexity to her character. She is physically, emotionally and mentally agile in this role with moments of brilliance that are startlingly effective. Donald Sutherland plays her foil and later protector with a sameness that makes him charming. The word 'nerd' had not come into fashion when this movie was made but Sutherland's John Klute is just that. A moral square from a small Pennsylvania town who is thrust into New York City's seamy scenes of drugs, prostitution and free love. His straightness is not hypocrisy. He is not like her other Johns. His steadfastness is the lure that eventually catches her. The two other stars of the movie are the cinematography by Gordon Willis and the film's use of audio. Best known for his work as Director of Photography on the Godfather trilogy,Willis didn't receive an Oscar nomination for his work on this film but he should have. KLUTE is his palette for contrasting scenes of flat color, silhouette and neo-noir realism. Martin Scorsese says of Willis' work in this film There are movies that change the whole way in which films are made, like Klute, where Gordon Willis's photography on the film is so textured, and, they said, too dark. We hear a lot of Fonda's voice in KLUTE. At the psychiatry sessions, in the acting auditions, in the one-sided conversations her character has with men who call to introduce themselves and set up dates. The murderer in KLUTE likes to audiotape his interactions with women and he seems obsessed with Daniels. We watch the tapes twirl on a small recorder as he listens to her come hither chatter over and over, her words inadvertently giving him permission to confuse his acts of violence against prostitutes as free-spirited nonconformity, &#x85;there's nothing wrong in what you want. Private Investigator, Klute is also listening after he wiretaps Daniels' apartment to acquire information that will help him solve what he thinks is a simple missing person case. In KLUTE we are eager eavesdroppers and voyeurs. Fonda makes us want to watch. She strips off her clothes with deliberate nonchalance. Her seventies bohemian haute couture and bob hair style brings a smile. Her vulnerability in the riveting, minutes-long, close up scene at the film's climax is powerful. She has become Bree Daniels and we feel her pain. If this film were made today, Director Alan Pakula would likely elongate the climax by adding slow motion or slowing the cuts and putting more light on the subject to extend the fear. Yet, he makes KLUTE interesting to watch throughout. Sutherland's pouty lips and placid eyes make him as adorable as a beagle. The panoramic shot of models lined up for a cosmetics casting call is fascinating. Roy Scheider's easy meditation on pimpdom is at once sexy and dangerous, and fun to watch. The scenes of the late 60's/early 70's disco culture are spot on. Do yourself a favor and give KLUTE a viewing. AFI will celebrate Jane Fonda at its tribute which will be shown this month on both TNT network and Turner Classic Movies (TCM).DIR/PROD Alan J. Pakula; SCR Andy Lewis, Dave Lewis. US, 1971, color, 114 min. RATED R. "}{"Title":"Excellent Character Study","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just watched Klute for the first time in years...WOW! If this movie was made in 2014 there would be bloody action scenes, crashing cars, tight skirts and cleavage all over the screen cause that's what movie makers tell the audience we want now. Not me! Much prefer the more subtle approach used in Klute and think it comes off more gritty and realistic because of it. This character study with a background thriller theme gets into the head of a woman who somehow doesn't even realize until it's shoved into her face what a dangerous environment surrounds her life. It makes us look at and compare our own feelings in a new way, even though we may live in a completely different place. I find it didn't suffer from the years it has been on the shelf like most 70's movies. I'm not a big Jane Fonda fan but love her in this movie and can see her talent shine through this role. Disagree with earlier reviewers that it should be called Bree instead of Klute because the first time you view the movie without any knowledge of its direction you get to think through the process yourself what the movie is about and that adds to the viewing pleasure. I also think this applies to the little chinks in solving the mystery reviewers were bringing up because it isn't about being a mystery about murder but about the mystery of life. To me those chinks were intentional to make you think, talk about the movie later with friends and ponder what you got out of it the next few times you watch it. To me that's the beauty of movies. "},{"Title":"Top notch thriller with brilliant acting","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a classic thriller but with characters so deeply inhabited by everyone in the film one can almost forget it's essentially a genre film. Jane Fonda NEVER better (except in THEY SHOOT HORSES, DON'T THEY) gives a master class in film acting in this movie with her guarded, vulnerable performance of Bree. She runs the gamut and you believe every frame. Donald Sutherland absolutely brilliant as the contained title character. He imbues the character's reticence with a humanity that is profound and makes Bree's attraction to him make sense. Sutherland is a master film actor who is able to delineate subtle and often underwritten characters in a way that few others can match (Ordinary People is a prime example as well). The film is populated with wonderful NY actors and offers rich rewards in small parts. It is rare to see a female character as the focus in a thriller and certainly never one that offers such depth of character as Bree. She is not a hooker with a heart of gold but a real living breathing woman trying to live her life as best she can. There are so many pleasures to be had in this movie among them a virtual tour of demimonde of NYC during the 70's. "},{"Title":"Impressive delivery from Pakula, a solid mystery and an impressive performance from Fonda","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When Tom Gruneman goes missing, the FBI can offer no solutions to his wife other than a handful of obscene letters he had previously written to a New York call girl. With no progress, the family decide to employ Tom's friend, John Klute, to act as private detective. Klute's first step is to seek out the call girl, Bree Daniels who unsurprisingly cannot remember this specific one trick. Klute sticks with her though and finds her a confused character. As he gets drawn into her, his simple missing persons case grows into something much more deadly.With a delivery that is unmistakably Pakula this is a strange mix of a film that works in some ways and could have been better in others. As a detective mystery it could have been stronger and have more a sense of urgency and those looking for the usual bad guy/good guy stuff may find themselves a bit frustrated by the apparent slow pace. However after taking a minute to get into it I found it convincing that we didn't know that much about what was brewing &#150; in the same way that Klute didn't. Pakula delivers the story with a sense of slightly paranoid foreboding that befits the city setting and the fragile state of our main character.I say main rather than title because although Klute has the billing, the film is as interesting because of the character of Bree as it is because of the detective story. This is helped by an Oscar-winning turn from Fonda, who is very much the heart of the film. The mystery is still the mystery but she fills so much silence with her convincing character, full of nervous energy and contradictions. Whether or not she is representative of the call girls she spent time with before the film doesn't really matter but what is important is that she feels like a very real person. By surprising contrast Donald Sutherland plays his part as if someone had forgotten to plug him in; he is flat and rather dull but perhaps he was directed to not distract or compete. The rest of the cast sees some nice support from Cioffi and Scheider but in the acting stakes Fonda owns the film.A slow film perhaps but one that draws you in if you preserve with what at first appears to be very cold and dull. The mystery aspect gives the film a direction while Pakula's cold and close direction gives it atmosphere but it is Fonda's performance that has the biggest impact and is the main reason the film works. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Neo Noir; Moving Love Story; Fonda and Sutherland Superb","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is a sleek neo-noir thriller, a moving, troubling love story, and a showcase for one of cinema's most gripping performances, that of Jane Fonda as prostitute Bree Daniel. Donald Sutherland as Klute, a small-town cop on a mission of the heart in the big city, is the perfect foil to Fonda / Bree. The film is also a time capsule of hippie attitudes, styles, pleasures and paranoias. It is at times quite scary, creating an atmosphere of twisted menace. Like noirs of old, it offers glimpses into the lives of the rich and the fallen, and crackerjack dialogue.Fonda's multiple award-winning performance in Klute is, alone, reason enough to see the movie. You can't take your eyes off her. She is, second-by-second, fascinating. Look away for one eyeblink, and you miss something, something spectacular. I don't know if there has ever been prostitute anything like Bree Daniel, but I know plenty of less colorfully-employed women very much like her. Fonda plays Bree as a sort of live-action, post-Friedan, feminist essay. Fonda / Bree is, by turns, convincingly terrified, vulnerable, invulnerable, vicious, tender, powerful, weak and victimized, manipulative, bruised, flush, hungry and sated. Fonda externalizes the combination of attraction and revulsion that heterosexual women have been feeling for men ever since Eve. She also creates a convincing character you can fully believe hick Klute would fall for &#x96; and would eventually break his heart. She's the bright, shiny object and he is the hypnotized puppy. Watching him fall for her, you rejoice for her &#x96; a good man will rescue her! But you worry for him. Bree can be quite the merciless headcase.Bree's profession as prostitute is not the film's only avenue to commenting on what it means to be a woman; Bree is also an actress. Before we see her service a client, we see her on a call for an advertisement for cosmetics. We see that society condones the objectification of women as models and actresses and manikins in cosmetic ads. We see how utterly brutal and dehumanizing that demand for female flesh is. The ruthless objectification of actresses and models makes the regard a john shows Bree when she goes on a date seem benign by comparison. In commenting on women by commenting on acting, Klute would make a great second show in a double feature with All About Eve. Fonda isn't just something to watch, she is something to hear. One of the recurrent themes of the film is surreptitious listening to recordings of voices and surreptitious study of others' written words. Several characters do it, some with benign motivations, some with quiet evil and twisted ones. I've never been as aware of Fonda's spoke voice as in this film, and her voice is jewel-like in its precision and allure. This isn't just a great movie to watch, it's a great one to *hear.* Michael Small's score is perfection. Klute is a small, sometimes claustrophobic, urban film, and Small's score never overwhelms; it is, in its quiet way, indispensible to the film's sense of perversion and menace, and then, subtly and believably, when the film becomes a love story, the score eases and enhances that transition. Just listening to the jazzy, low-key, intimate trumpet, you know you are hearing the soundtrack of two troubled people who are falling in love and whose love faces a rocky road. During one scene Bree services an elderly, Ashkenazi client, and the score comes right along, sounding like the cimbalom an inn in Mitteleuropa.Donald Sutherland, as Klute, plays the fixed foot that makes no show to move to Bree's glitter and drama. Both Sutherland the actor and Klute the character are willing to stand back and let Fonda absorb the audience's attention. That's quite remarkable; how often in recent films has a male actor / character allowed a woman so much spotlight? Klute's quietude and stoicism are no accident, though. He is playing a strong, good, old fashioned man, one more about actions than words. He is a hero in the Gary Cooper mold.That old fashioned heroism is a great surprise in this movie. Klute wallows in, and celebrates, post-censorship, post-Woodstock freedoms and indulgences. We see naked body parts, prostitutes and madams and heroin addicts and perverts, and, in a cameo, Candy Darling, Andy Warhol's star. We couldn't see this world with such detail back in the old days &#x96; but the film's heart *is* back in the old days. The good guy, Klute, the hero who rides into the wild west &#x96; hooker and drug addict run Manhattan &#x96; is a very straight, white, male cop. In this hippie, let it all hang out world, where the rich white man is utterly corrupt, the small town, working class guy is the hero.Klute is rife with small performances by character actors, and small moments, that make every minute worthwhile. Charles Cioffi is frighteningly convincing. Vivian Nathan, as Bree's shrink, comes across as a real shrink. A narcissistic casting director who childishly and maliciously toys with Bree sets your teeth on edge. A black cop is solid. Roy Scheider is the pimp you love to hate.There are priceless small touches that show intelligence and care with which director Pakula made the film. Betty Murray, as a loving wife, looks at her husband across a dinner table with such a look of love that that husband's disappearance becomes a real tragedy. Bree's apartment includes a sketch of John F. Kennedy; that sketch tells us something essential about Bree that nothing else in the film does. A group of powerful men discusses a missing person's case; Klute is the rube at the table. We know because, in a brief shot, we see that though he's wearing a suit, he's also wearing white sweat socks, visible as his slacks ride high up on his calves. "},{"Title":"Wow, what a pix","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Certainly this 1971 movie did what it expected to do. Not only bringing a terrific suspenseful film to light but giving Jane Fonda a chance to show her histrionics as an actress. Bravo, Jane! And what a cast to work with. This masterful film was directed by Alan J. Pakula who also gave us THE PELICAN BRIEF, SOPHIE'S CHOICE, TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, INSIDE DAISY CLOVER and LOVE FROM THE PROPER STRANGER (which I also appeared in) so you know you're in good hands. The screenplay was written by Andy and Dave Lewis. Shooting this in New York was a wise choice and added the reality and drama to the scene. Dark halls in dingy rooming houses and apartment rooms were just the right atmosphere setting for our story line. Fonda was superb as the hooker who was desperate for cash. Donald Sutherland, as the man who was trying to help her was a perfect co-star. You could tell these two worked well together and had that mutual respect actors have in trusting the other's intentions in a scene. Their scenes together were the best in the picture. Now the supporting cast were no strangers to the screen. Roy Scheider as the pimp was wonderful and certainly played the role with gusto. I liked Dorothy Tristan as the poor drug victim. She only had a few scenes, but she was great in them, holding her own. Charles Cioffi also was wonderful. In one of the scariest scenes of the movie when he and Fonda confront each other is brilliant. Seeing his clouded face through the plastic clothes covers was frightening. Then seeing Vivian Nathan, playing the psychiatrist, a New York actress, who I loved in TEACHER'S PET, as the mother of a young boy working for the newspaper, and seeing Rita Gam in a small role, far from KING OF KINGS and NIGHT PEOPLE, where she played leading roles, was really strange. And if you look hard you'll see Jean Stapleton, of ALL IN THE FAMILY fame, as the secretary in a clothing warehouse near the end of the movie. Get this DVD and watch good actors do their stuff. Well worth it. "},{"Title":"Riveting...","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" KLUTE is a riveting thriller from beginning to end. Donald Sutherland plays a small town detective searching New York City for a missing friend. His investigation leads him to call-girl Jane Fonda. Fonda, all neurosis and sarcasm, may or may not know the whereabouts of the missing man and may or may not be the target of an unknown killer. Fonda is mesmerizing in a career-defining role. It's hard to find a better performance by an actress during the 1970s. Director Alan J. Pakula and writers Dave and Andy Lewis manage to make good use of the New York locations while at the same time creating a very creepy, very claustrophobic thriller. Sutherland is terrific and Roy Scheider is great as a pimp. Pakula would later direct THE PARALLAX VIEW, another seminal '70s thriller. "},{"Title":"Almost a masterpiece","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Alan J. Pakula's intelligent and thought-provoking character study about the life of high-class prostitute/struggling actress Bree Daniels and her emotional unraveling as private investigator John Klute(Donald Sutherland)  probes the seedy world she lives in while searching for his missing friend.  One of the '70's finest due in part to a high level of craftmanship in every department  Pakula's deliberate pacing and treatment of the script, Michael Small's tingling music with the soft-screaming voices, perfectly cast supporting players who are riveting even in the smallest of scenes and, most importantly, superb cinematographer Gordon Willis's dark and shadowy look that almost always presents somebody lurking in the fore-and-backgrounds in nearly all of Fonda's scenes giving Klute a disturbingly intense complexity that is absent in most thrillers.  There are a few film performances that I would say rank as great art  Falconetti in The Passion of Joan of Arc, Louise Brooks in Pandora's Box, Brando in Streetcar, Pacino in The Godfather, Gena Rowlands in A Woman Under the Influence, DeNiro in Taxi Driver, and Jane Fonda in Klute.  Even if she brings a sneer to your face these days, Klute shows she was an artist at the height of her craft her obviously improvised therapy scenes, her use of silence and stillness in the film's climax, her body language whenever Bree is alone on screen, the long uninterrupted takes where she and Sutherland interact, and especially the sequence where Bree shuts down and goes to a club to relieve the mounting tension only to wind up curling in her pimp's lap show a beautifully studied and carefully crafted exploration of a human being trapped by her environment but who oh-so-desperately wants out.  Pauline Kael said at the time about her work here that no other American actress can touch her  nobody has since either.    Donald Sutherland is a consistantly strong actor who compliments Fonda quite well;  his John Klute is a quiet skeptic who's both repelled and fascinated by Bree's world and when these two are alone on screen, a unique intelligence is displayed and it makes for compelling viewing.  It's a testament to the director and the actors that in spite of the shag haircuts, street slang, and funky '70's wardrobe the 31 year old film holds up as well as it does.  An almost perfect adult thriller that is still powerful, scary and penetrating and makes most other character-driven pieces look amateurish and clumsy.   F.T.R.- watch for a sexy, pre-Knots Landing Kevin Dobson as the tablemate of the young man Fonda seductively teases in the club. "},{"Title":"A 70's Gem","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily one of the best films of the 1970's. Jane Fonda gives her deservedly Oscar winning performance as a troubled, introspective prostitute. Her character is made real in a way few other movie roles have been. Donald Sutherland, with his stoic confidence and the quiet, voyeuristic camera work are compelling. The movie is low keyed and intelligent and doesn't resort to the sensationalist, overblown climatic finish that is so common in the mystery thrillers of today.  There is an even, measured beat to this work that draws one in, the way a similar hypnotic, brooding piece of music would. I like the way it  leaves you with enough loose ends regarding the central characters to keep you wondering and imagining about the course their lives might take from here, as opposed to the common tidy little ending which again is common today. If it's true that directors in Hollywood were being influenced by the European style of film making during this period, this is a true case in point and not to be missed by any true lover of great cinema.           "},{"Title":"Great NYC Flick","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not only were the Seventies a great period for the American Cinema, but the decade was a great time for New York Location filming. I'm convinced that this was the main catalyst for the maturation of American filmmaking. Alan Pakula's KLUTE is no exception. Working with the cinematographer Gordon Willis (ASC), Pakula paints a modish but bleak picture of Gotham, a city still hung-over from the heady excesses of the swingin' sixties, and the effects of the Great Society. A bygone New York, and, in some respects, a better one.KLUTE stands along the all-but-forgotten PARALLAX VIEW as Pakula's masterworks.   "},{"Title":"Not As Good As I'd Hoped","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I didn't enjoy this movie as much as I thought I would. Filled with brilliant performances that papers over the slow plodding pace of the movie.Plot In A Paragraph Following the disappearance of Pennsylvania executive Tom Gruneman. The police reveal that an obscene letter was found in Gruneman's office, addressed to a prostitute in New York City named Bree Daniels (Fonda), who had received several similar letters from him. After six months of police work turns up nothing, Peter Cable (Charles Cioffi), an executive at Gruneman's company, hires family friend and detective John Klute (Donald Sutherland) to investigate Gruneman's disappearance.Jane Fonda and Donald Sutherland are both excellent here, although for this reviewer it was Roy Scheider as Pimp Frank Ligourin who stood out. I also spotted Teri Garr in an uncredited role as Fonda's Psychiatrist's Receptionist. Sylvester Stallone is also Sylvester Stallone is also uncredited as a Discothèque Patron. "}{"Title":"Cool and intelligent","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alan J. Paluka made a trio of taut conspiracy thrillers in the early 1970s; 'Klute' was the first, to be followed by 'The Parallax View' and 'All the President's Men' (the latter being the true story of Watergate). In places, 'Klute' is a bit clunky, and Jane Fonda is utterly unlikely playing a call girl, but what strikes one more than anything is the film's cool maturity. The motivations of Donald Sutherland's eponymous title character (and indeed, of just about everybody else) remains hidden throughout the story; the film makes little attempt to establish its characters as likable (though this may be an unfortunate by-product of Fonda's failings) or the plot as clear. As with Paluka's other movies of this period, we're left feeling that this is a movie that never quite leaves its introductory phase - but only because we've been taught to expect that after 20 minutes, everything is spelt out, the hero is clearly identified, and so on. 'Klute' isn't my favourite film; but it is an interesting reminder of how much more intelligent Hollywood once was than it now is. "},{"Title":"Has its moments...good suspense..","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is worth viewing for the time period, it has however evolved into more of a curiosity for a NYC 1970's grit film, there are the clichés here, but at least it is not portrayed as glamorous. Bree's life is a chain of unproductive modeling interviews, appointments with clients so she may pay her rent, and acting classes in which we do get to see some of Fonda's angst.Considering the period in which this film was made, kudos to the writers for developing the character of Bree as a bitter, but integral and surviving woman in a man's world. She is still trying to make it, despite the users, pimps (Roy Scheider , excellent as usual as Lougourin is very real) and hostile stark reality that a sadistic killer is following her and her former friend Arlyn Page.There is a side narrative as Bree attends therapy and voices her confusion regarding Klute (Donald Sutherland) a detective who cares about her, but does not treat her as disposable.Overall intriguing story and soundtrack by Michael Small, this film is a must see, although a bit over-rated now because NYC has turned into a commercialized tourist trap, and no longer looks, or feels as it did in this film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Vice,pain,vulnerability and fear","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alan J.Pakula's best known for being the man holding the directors reins on such iconic films like All The Presidents Men and Sophie's Choice.He was also the producer of the beloved To Kill A Mockingbird which tackled racism in the South and won Gregory Peck the best actor Oscar for his performance as kind and morally upright lawyer Atticus Finch.In 1971 Pakula made Klute, a film that's all about the lack of trust the average person at the time had for authority figures, as well as taking a hard hitting look at the desperation and pitiful existence of those who have turned to drugs.In Klute vice,pain,vulnerability and fear are on display in abundance. There's also a look at the growing surveillance age(the title sequence is a perfect example of this).Honest and decent country Private Detective John Klute(Donald Sutherland)is sent to New York to search for his close friend Tom Gruneman(Robert Milli)who's gone missing.Tom's also the main suspect behind a series of frightening telephone calls and obscene letters that have been received by tough,aspiring actress/model and part time call girl Bree Daniels(Jane Fonda).There's never really any suspense to this thriller as the real culprit behind Bree's harassment is revealed early on in the film listening obsessively to a tape recording of a sexually explicit telephone conversation of himself and Bree.Instead the film becomes Bree's story as she tries to figure out the non corrupt Klute, and comes to realise that for the first time in her life she must trust a man and that it's OK to ask for help and confess your fears once in a while to someone.It's then down to Klute to draw the culprit out into the open so he can catch him leading to a terrifying showdown.Through the photography and locations there's a strong sense of authenticity and like Klute we get to take a good look at the desperate men and women in the city, with quiet pity and a strong sense of helplessness.After all Klute is powerless to help any of them,even Bree.She has to want to change herself,he can't force change upon her.Fonda's raw and strong performance was rewarded with the Best Actress Oscar and there's strong support from the underrated Charles Cioffi(best known to X Files fans as a sinister FBI chief).Fans of the late and much missed Roy Scheider will be delighted to see him appear as well,usually playing nice guys or the everyman here Scheider gets to turn cold and sickening as Bree's abusive pimp Frank Ligourin.One of the best films of the 1970's it's a tidy mix of thrills,romance,fear and big decisions all helping to make this a very human and universal experience.We have all been low at some point or seen someone who's had to make tough decisions in order to survive, so in that respect we can relate to Bree and the people surrounding her at the time with ease.Both Sutherland and Fonda shine here but without a doubt this is Fonda's film just as much as it is really Bree's. Klute is one to watch. "},{"Title":"The sin, the glitter, the wickedness","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For the most part, the advent of sound was utilised simply to accompany the on screen action. In 'Klute (1971),' director Alan J. Pakula does something very interesting he uses audio to layer one scene on top of another. Call-girl Bree Daniels (Jane Fonda), held at the whim of a desperate sexual deviant, is forced to hear the tape recording of a murder. The camera never leaves Bree's face, but the viewer barely sees her. Instead, the mind conjures up an entire scene that was never filmed, the sickening final moments of a drug-addled prostitute at the hands of a disturbed man. A less-assured director might have used video footage, or even a flashback. Pakula understood that the audience would provide its own flashback, and his merging of disparate visual and audio streams allows him to tell two stories at once. In this respect, I wouldn't be surprised if the film was the partial inspiration (along with Antonioni's 'Blow Up (1966),' of course) for Coppola's 'The Conversation (1974).'Though the film takes its title from Donald Sutherland's small-town detective John Klute, the character himself remains oddly detached throughout. Instead, Pakula is most concerned with Fonda's reluctant call-girl, an aspiring actress who keeps returning to prostitution because it involves an acting performance during which she always feels in control. Fonda brings an acute warmth and vulnerability to a film that is, by design, rather cold and detached. Pakula deliberately distances the viewer from the story, placing his audience &#x96; not in the room where the action is taking place &#x96; but on the opposite end of a recording device. His accusation that the viewer is himself engaging in voyeurism runs alongside such films as Powell's 'Peeping Tom (1960),' Antonioni's 'Blow Up' and many works of Hitchcock. It is Fonda's performance that gives the film its core, more so than the mystery itself, the solution of which is offered early on. However, the extra details we glean from Bree's regular visits to a therapist could easily have peppered more subtly throughout the film. "},{"Title":"A Little Tale of Human Evil","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute started a successful run of thrillers for director Alan Pakula, who would go on to make The Parallax View and All The President's Men. In this simple thriller we can already find a talent for creating atmosphere through darkness and silence, and building suspense as scenes filled with tension develop before our eyes to an eerie score by Michael Small, similar to the style that would make Dario Argento's collaborator Claudio Simonetti famous in a few years.The movie follows John Klute, the most decent detective in a movie ever, travelling from his small town to New York to discover the whereabouts of a missing friend. The FBI tried it to no avail, and the only clues are some obscene letters, tapes and a prostitute. Bree Daniels doesn't like him at first but eventually comes to assist him in his quest as she realises that his case may be connected with the feeling of being watched and the anonymous calls she receives.So we journey with these two through a New York of pimps, night clubs, and drug addicts. No other decade before or after the '70s knew how to use New York so well as a character in itself, how to portray its bleakness and the loneliness amidst millions of lost souls. I don't doubt that for 1971 Pakula was really plumbing the depths of what was acceptable in cinema.The mystery disappears halfway along the movie not only because Pakula reveals the killer long before the climax but also because the story begins revolving more and more about the relationship between Klute and the self-destructive Bree, who has mixed feelings about him; coming from a horrible world, she can't deal well with the honourable feelings he has for her and does her best to corrupt him.Although I love Donald Sutherland, his portrayal of the kind-hearted and wholesome Klute left me cold; his character was one-dimensional. The true soul of the movie was Jane Fonda's Bree, a woman who lives with hard choices and fights the urge to degrade herself. She won an Oscar for her performance and I'd say this was one of those rare instances where the Oscar was well deserved.The resolution came too quickly and neatly, although the villain had one great scene at the end which showed just how sick he truly was. A slow pacing also hurt my complete enjoyment of the movie, as if they wanted to stretch a very short story. But as a study on Mankind's worst side it was fascinating. Bree Daniels is one of those characters you don't forget. "},{"Title":"A gritty and truthful film","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jane Fonda plays a prostitute in New York, who is trying to quit being a prostitute and become a model and actress. Her and Donald Sutherland's paths cross when he wants to ask her questions about the disappearance of a man he has been hired to find. A twisted web of lies and deceit, as well as murder, unfold when John Klute (Donald Sutherland) tries to uncover the truth in the underworld of a city that is ugly and veiled by sex and drugs. Jane Fonda's performance is wonderful, the fact that I didn't expect her in this role, and that she handled it so well, impressed me even more. Donald Sutherland is the anchor of the film though, and provides such a powerful performance as the determined and tender John Klute that it is easy to understand why the films called 'Klute'. This is definitely one of the best 70's thrillers I've seen. "},{"Title":"Works more as a drama than suspense","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed Klute mainly for the relationship of the leads, characters (played by Fonda and Sutherland) with sort of opposite personalities - and the opposites attract type story. A lot of these scenes were pretty well done and compelling. Also good was the character insight we are given through Fonda's character as she visits a psychologist and thinks aloud. It's a pretty old production, but manages to add a lot of interesting visuals and cuts - music is a little bizarre but doesn't really detract from the movie. The mystery is pretty much given away quickly, but there are some good suspenseful shots. All and all the movie does a good job at building the friendship, acceptance, and trust between the 2 leads and that's it's strength really in that tale and dynamic. Pretty good. "},{"Title":"Fonda's Peak","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jane Fonda gave the greatest performance of her career in Klute as Bree Daniels, a high-class call girl.  She does it all here, a gutsy soul-deep performance that seems to express every thought and feeling  effortlessly and penetratingly.  Prior to this in her career, she often seemed callow and unformed and in most of her later performances she seemed more intent on image-making and message-making rather than reaching deep into her soul and delivering a great performance. This one, however, is a treasure where everything seemed to come together beautifully.  She is vulnerable, intelligent and real every step of the way - there are moments you will never forget from her performance. "},{"Title":"What's your bag, Klute?","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A small-town detective (Donald Sutherland) is looking into the disappearance of his friend. It leads him to a Manhattan call girl (Jane Fonda). Together they investigate his friend's disappearance and whether it has anything to do with a mysterious person stalking Jane. Interesting that the title of the film is Sutherland's character's name when the movie spends far more time on Fonda's character. Interesting but not surprising as Fonda's character, Bree, is the most enjoyable to watch. Great performance from Fonda, obviously. Sutherland is very good in an understated role as Klute. Roy Scheider has a small part. Well-directed by Alan J. Pakula with a memorable climax. "},{"Title":"Once Bree breezes into Klute's life, things will never be the same.","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is directed by Alan J. Pakula and written by Andy and Dave Lewis. It stars Jane Fonda, Donald Sutherland, Charles Cioffi and Roy Scheider. Music is by Michael Small and cinematography by Gordon Willis.When businessman Tom Gruneman (Robert Milli) mysteriously disappears, private detective John Klute (Sutherland) is hired to find out what happened. Travelling to New York, Klute follows a lead to high class prostitute Bree Daniels (Fonda), who is known to have had much correspondence with Gruneman. An uneasy relationship forms between Klute and Daniels, but when it becomes apparent that she is being stalked by someone sinister, Klute gets in far deeper than he ever could have imagined.Alan J. Pakula, a purveyor of 1970s paranoia infused cinema, lends his astute sense of screw tightening to make Klute a taut and menacing neo- noir. He gives us a New York cloaked in urban claustrophobia, a place populated with lost souls, of emotionally stunted abusers, and sexually charged murders. Right in the middle are John and Bree, two people in search of meaning and direction in life, brought together by way of a miserable scenario. Their respective psychological make-ups suggest complexities, yet this chapter in their life is not.The mystery element to the narrative is not particularly strong, but it doesn't really need to be, such is the strength of the lead characterisations and the atmosphere rung out by Pakula's sparse direction and Willis' spectral photography. Fonda is terrific, a ball of emotionally conflicted fudge, sexy, feisty but ever so fragile, she deserved her Academy Award. Sutherland is equally ace, masking John's inner anxieties with stoic outward bravado. While Scheider and Cioffi offer firm and telling support. A very strong neo-noir that is an ode to great film making techniques, where story and characters are chosen as being more important than visceral shocks. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a while since I've watched one of the classic films from the early '70s.  I had never seen Klute before.  Jane Fonda gave an incredibly good performance in this film.  Since she hasn't acted in a while, it's easy to forget what a good actress she can be.  Donald Sutherland was also excellent, but Jane was the center of the film--Films from the '70s can seem very dated now, and this one is no exception.  There is a tension running through the film that has a very '70s feel to it.  Don't know the source of the tension-- but the relationship between Fonda's and Sutherland's characters was the heart of the film.  Did anybody really care what the solution to the mystery was?  "},{"Title":"Bree","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alan J. Pakula directed this mystery yarn as Donald Sutherland plays John Klute, a private detective hired by a businessman to find his missing employee, who also is Klute's best friend(Tom Gruneman) His investigation leads him to a mysterious call girl named Bree Daniel(Jane Fonda, Academy Award winner) who doesn't remember him, though she has been receiving obscene letters that eventually help lead to the killer. Meanwhile, Bree & Klute start an affair...Dreary and empty film has good performances but characters it is difficult to understand or care about, and a most unsatisfying conclusion to the mystery. Some potential here, but mishandled. Still, this was popular in its time, and is something of a time capsule. "},{"Title":"Sutherland wonderful, Fonda not quite there.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love Jane Fonda. I see that others found her acting in Klute artless. I found it - not quite there yet. For me, it's Sutherland who has really found his character. Fonda seems to be getting there, but doesn't quite have it. I never forget, not once during the movie, that Bree (her character) is Fonda. Part of it is that accent. It screams California to me. Maybe the movie would have worked better set in LA? I suppose Bree could be supposed to have moved from CA to NYC, but I don't pick that up as part of her story. I'm not saying that they should have spelled it out. The accent makes me really curious about Bree's journey. It seems so out of place in NYC squalor too California, too rich, too cultivated. She's come a long way; chasing something, escaping something? She gets into this a little with her therapist. But somehow, I just find Fonda's portrayal not nuanced enough. The movie revolves around Bree's toughness, despair, unfocused hope. But Sutherland's performance is the one that seethes with these things.What really makes that sad is that Fonda seems to get all the good lines, while Sutherland's character is underwritten!The cinematography is great. The writing is sometimes brilliant, though the story seems rushed; it doesn't quite seem to know whether it wants to focus more on the mystery or more on giving us insight into the characters' separate journeys as they join together.This could have been a great movie. It's certainly a good one. "},{"Title":"Intensely intimate murder mystery","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Romance and peril come together in Fonda's delicate and searing Oscar winning role. Her every line inflection is a gem. Paired against Sutherland, who brings out her vulnerability as well as her fear, the 2 embark on one of cinema's most grown up love affairs. The 1970's produced a wealth of long lasting classics, back when character studies and gritty stories ruled the box office. You couldn't make a film like this today. The editing here is excellent and almost matches the seamless acting. I like how Fonda isn't afraid to look completely destroyed in her big crying scene; the tearfall is almost as disquieting as the killer's creepy voice.   "},{"Title":"Good acting but overall disappointing to me!","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For a movie that is all about the main character there is not much we learn about her. There are only these tapes and conversations she has with a shrink that sort of give insight in her thought process. Had this movie been advertised as drama I would not have such high expectations of this movie. The thriller/mystery element just didn't cut it for me. As a matter of fact there isn't much of a mystery although is has the appearance of. In stead it is more a portrait of the character Bree who has to deal with some issues. For me they weren't interesting enough. The performances however make up for the lack of plot. "},{"Title":"Klute","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gripping crime-thriller from the late great Alan Pakula. Fonda expertly portrays a sophisticated call girl who meets small town cop Sutherland, excellent also, who is in search of a missing friend. He falls in love with her and tries to protect her. The film is a gritty, realistic story that ranks up there with French Connection and Midnight Cowboy, for their deep richness of reality. Fonda won a much deserved Oscar for her performance.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent, chilling psychological drama highlighted by Jane Fonda's incisive, Oscar-winning performance.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jane Fonda's best acting roles came soon after her silly Roger Vadim Barbarella phase, a time when she did an about face and started to take her craft seriously.  She excelled at playing flawed, brittle characters consumed by an unerring hostility and engulfed in deep pessimism.  Her portrayals of Gloria in the Depression-era drama They Shoot Horses, Don't They? and Bree Daniels in the psychological thriller Klute were the crowning achievements of her highly formidable movie career.  Whether her controversial politics had anything to do with the suddenly complex, sharp-edged roles she attracted at the time is of little concern.  With these two roles she stopped being Henry Fonda's daughter and became Jane Fonda, superstar. And while her acting intensity toned down as the 70s wore on (along with her radicalism), every now and then she would get the chance to show off that exquisite bad side of her in movies like The Morning After.   But, for the most part, she was called upon to play wimpy, well-meaning heroines (Julia, On Golden Pond, Agnes of God, even her Oscar-winning Coming Home), which too often exposed her stylized acting technique.  Most definitely, her characters lost a lot of their caustic bite when she switched from radical to fitness nut.In 1971's Klute, however, Fonda is nothing short of brilliant as a tough, cynical,  been-there-and-back NY actress and model who must support her nowhere career as a call girl (a nice word for hooker).  A fine character study as well as spine-tingling suspenser, Alan Pakula's voyeuristic camera intrudes pervasively into Bree's stark, sordid world.  We not only find ourselves sitting in on her intensely personal therapy sessions in which she invariably questions the uncertainty and direction of her life, but we become eyewitnesses to a couple of her appointments, as she steers her tricks into living out their kinky sex fetishes.  Fascinating stuff.Dour Donald Sutherland plays the taciturn but surefooted John Klute, a private detective hired by a scientific research firm to investigate the disappearance of one of their scientists who never came back from a trip to NYC.  In his hunt for clues, the dogged Klute, who was also a personal friend of the man in question, zeroes in on Bree Daniels, who knew the man professionally and may or may not hold a key to his disappearance.  At first trailing her from a distance, Klute soon becomes Bree's protector and eventual lover when it becomes quite evident that she has become the target of a homicidal pervert.  A remarkably lowkeyed Sutherland shows quiet strength and reserve as the titular character who finds himself both strangely attracted to and repelled by this extremely complex dame.The intense cat-and-mouse game is underscored superbly by the growing relationship of this diverse couple.  Bree, emotionally scarred and sexually unresponsive after so many years plying her trade, ever-so-slowly begins to let her steely guard down with the reposed, down-to-earth detective.  One simple, remarkably subtle moment occurs during a shopping scene where the newly vulnerable Bree casually slips her hand into Klute's back pocket as they stroll down the street with a bag of groceries.  One gesture says all.Pakula keeps the suspense going on all four burners.  A slew of florid, often unappetizing characters flow in and out of the proceedings as the puzzle pieces slowly come together, including Charles Cioffi as the head of the research firm, Dorothy Tristan as a strung-out prostie, Roy Scheider as Bree's pimp, and Rita Gam as a madam, all aiding immeasurably to the film's murky tone.A large share of the credit must also go to Michael Small's alternately eerie and chilling score which is enhanced by these strange Enya-like vocal moans.  The music not only pervades effectively throughout the film but accompanies one of the most shattering, emotionally spending climaxes ever.  An absolute nail-biter for sure!It's all a dark, depressing, pretty tawdry head trip but it's well worth the ride, and Jane is truly unforgettable.           "},{"Title":"Fonda's Performance Saves This Film","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The only thing making Klute a mediocre film rather than a dismal film is Jane Fonda's stellar performance. Her character study of a New York prostitute is superb acting. Fonda really shines in this role, giving the audience a glimpse of the complex workings of a call girl's psyche.The rest of the performances were run-of-the mill to lame. Sutherland has done much better work in other films, as he kind of lumbers along. The rest of the cast is forgettable.The story is rather boring and moves at a snails pace. This could be a good candidate for a remake in that the concept is interest; yet, it simply doesn't deliver. Rating should be 3 stars, but Fonda catapults it to 5 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Wildly uneven, with one standout performance","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute tries to be two different things, is better at one than the other, but does neither amazingly well.When the movie begins, it's a thriller about a policeman going freelance to help track down a missing family friend. The only lead he has to go on is a connection the missing man seemed to have with a New York prostitute, Bree Daniels (Jane Fonda).When the policeman, played by Donald Sutherland, encounters Fonda, the movie becomes a strange love story, bolstered by a character study of the Fonda character. She's a hooker who wants to quit and become an actress, but is addicted to the sense of power and satisfaction her day job provides her with. She acts, flawlessly, with each man, discovering what they want and becoming it. Scenes with a psychiatrist reveal Fonda's hidden vulnerability, that her aloofness and cynicism mask a fundamental need she has that prostituting herself addresses and acting for the screen may not.This is, indeed, another great performance by Fonda, similar to her earlier turn in the classic They Shoot Horses, Don't They? So why is the movie called Klute? We find out very little about Sutherland's role. It is clear that he is an honourable man who wants the best for this woman he is entrusted to, but we don't find out very much else about him.The movie is only a thriller in the way it begins and ends. At the end I was past caring; the thriller aspect seemed foreign to Bree Daniel's story.It is superior as a love story, simply because we get more Fonda that way. But it's still not perfect aren't love stories supposed to be about two people? Klute is too distant, we don't see enough of him to understand why Fonda would really develop feelings for this man.There are reminders throughout the movie that we are supposed to be watching a thriller. They take us by surprise because they are so out of place. Fonda's performance is worth the price of admission, but be prepared to sit through some extraneous content before you get to it. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda? nay!","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A small-town detective (Donald Sutherland) searching for a missing man has only one lead a connection with a New York prostitute (Jane Fonda).Jane Fonda won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in the film. And she is alright, and still receives such great praise. But come on... Donald Sutherland! That guy turns everything he touches into gold. Perhaps one of the most under-rated performers of the 20th 9and 21st) century.This is a great detective story with twists and turns. Alan Pakula is not a name that many people know, and I have to wonder why. He consistently made great films. Yet, you rarely hear anyone sing the praises of Klute or The Parallax View. Shame on you, movie lovers! "}{"Title":"Knight in Shining Armor Saves the Sorry Hooker","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" We all like stories with happy endings, and what better ending could there be than the reclaiming of her life and dignity by a working girl, a prostitute who slept with thousands of men as a source of income while renouncing the very notion of true love? One fateful day, a dashing detective arrives on the scene to investigate a missing person case and changes her life forever. The plot is suspenseful and well-paced, but more than anything else, Klute offers a very positive view of a prostitute, played by Jane Fonda, who we learn is really an aspiring actress. She hasn't had much luck scoring modeling or theater gigs, so what's a girl to do? Why become a prostitute, of course! Is this how it happens? I know that aspiring actresses are sometimes lured into making porn flicks, tricked into believing that doing so might open doors to the mainstream movie world. But do thespians become hookers? Maybe a few of them do. My impression is that they are more likely to become waitresses and the like. It's true that prostitutes earn more money, but is that enough of a lure to forsake the prospect of intimacy in a normal relationship?No matter. Dreams do come true. Knights in shining armor exist who will overlook years of a woman's turning tricks in exchange for hooking up with them. Donald Sutherland seems pretty sincere, but does this ever really happen in reality? I have to ask. "},{"Title":"What kind of party did you have in mind?","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So I'm pondering the resolution to the murder mystery here and it leads me to the sixty four thousand dollar question - what the heck was Peter Cable (Charles Cioffi) thinking? Unless I'm missing something here, Cable hired private detective John Klute (Donald Sutherland) to essentially find himself, who admitted near the finale to Bree (Jane Fonda) that he killed three people. Why not just give himself up instead of making a cat and mouse game out of it? I guess he wanted to jump out of that window.Oh well. I recall this film coming out with some fanfare back in 1971 because of it's subject matter. Fonda and Sutherland were breaking out as legitimate stars and the culture was beginning it's nosedive with movie treatments about free love, prostitution, drugs and you name it. It was epitomized here when Bree defends her lifestyle in a taped conversation with Tom Gruneman - There's nothing wrong, nothing. Nothing is wrong. This all led to 'let it all hang out' and from there society continues in free fall to this day.In it's day the picture was pretty daring but it would hardly register a ripple today, which is when I saw it for the first time. I'll admit grudgingly that Fonda's performance was pretty good; as for Sutherland, I'll have to blame the director for his lifeless portrayal here as the title character. One could make an argument that this is one of those early Seventies films that are must see, but once it got under way I thought there would be more of a mystery to the story. "},{"Title":"dark, and I'm talking literally here","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is part of Pakula's Paranoia Trilogy which includes the Parallax View and All the President's Men. Someone on this board compared Klute with The Devil's Own and said the latter was a bad film because Ford and Pitt didn't get along. I hope he was kidding. But you can read my review of that thing some other time.I saw Klute on TCM and will have to get it from Netflix and watch it again. It was so dark I could barely see a thing. And in reading the message board, there were scenes described I never saw due to losing my cable signal. So why review it - well, because it is an excellent film without what I missed, with a perfect performance by Jane Fonda.The plot concerns a private detective (Donald Sutherland) searching for a missing man who winds up working with a part-time call girl (Fonda).Pakula has the atmosphere down pat - dark, murky, low class, and seedy, filled with users and drug addicts. Bree is a fascinating character. Once a full-time call girl, she left the lucrative business after taking a terrible beating from a john. She is now an aspiring actress, using an Irish brogue for a Joan of Arc monologue, auditioning for commercials, etc. She takes hooking jobs because she needs the money. She likes the control she has when she's with paying customers. What she fears is a real, intimate, close relationship. Underneath the hard shell is a vulnerable woman afraid of the dark.Klute (Sutherland) rents an apartment in her building as part of his detective work. He tapes her encounters and follows her, finally approaching her to ask about the missing man, Grunemann. The two become lovers.Sutherland and Fonda give very natural performances, realistic and powerful ones. Both characters in a way have hard shells - Klute seems dispassionate, Bree can be abrasive and angry.There was suspense, but Klute succeeds more as a character study than as a thriller, in my opinion, and as the story of two people from two different worlds being drawn to one another, and what that means for the future.A disturbing film with a thought-provoking ending. I look forward to seeing it again, and let's hope I can make out more in the scenes the next time. For a film that took as long as three hours per day to set the lights, there isn't much. "},{"Title":"Fonda.  Willis.  70s'.  Scheider.","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jane Fonda as the call-girl/wannabe actress Bree Daniels, with a superb hair-do and a (mostly) take-no-s*** personality is the reason to see Pakula's Klute, despite being named after the male main character. It's such a performance - and a character - that is risible and powerful in its confidence, dynamic, occasionally frightened, occasionally VERY sexy, volatile, and gives a lot in those psychology sessions that are basically to the camera/us. She looks like she's constantly THINKING even as she is reacting with a cutting remark or a cut-the-BS moment. And when she makes that talk-seduction of the old man, it's one of the most memorable moments in any 70's film.Sutherland is very good as well, though he has the trickier role as he has to downplay everything as the straightforward cop. The final monologue is gripping and intense from the villain, and yet it's one of those handful of villain monologues that really not just hold up over time, but show up so many others in its wake. It's terrifying in how simple the actor speaks the words and Fonda listens. Klute isn't all great, but it's all of a cool, rocking-but-eerily-jazzy 70's period piece too (think of it, in a way, as the East-Coast sister to Dirty Harry).I wish the plot were just a little stronger, but as a film that relies on its characters it fares quite well. Luckily, Gordon Willis - on the film that likely got the ball really rolling with his nickname The Prince of Darkness - is there to make things look unique in the noir-frame of the style. It's so dark you might be left in the dark... until you're not.And Roy Scheider is here, intermittently only (sadly) as a pimp. Chief Brody as a pimp. Need I say more? "},{"Title":"Fast Becoming a Period Film","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Donald Sutherland's break out role was Mash - just a short time before this one. This film did not hurt. His role as John Klute is intriguing complex and sort of strange in a way. Jane Fonda might be in her best role as a lady in the oldest profession. This 1970's film sticks out as that period as Jane's straight hair style here is definitely that period. The world is more innocent here than it is NOW as this story is in the AT&T phone world. Things have changed since.Fonda's aspiring actress who goes into hooking as an expansion of her acting role whenever she needs a fast $50 bucks which rhymes with what she does for $50. This is the world before AIDS/HIV , the world during the empowerment of women. Except in 1971 these were current things and Fonda character is portrayed as a woman in control of her making a living and loving.She dates mostly older men as an escort and only does the guys she chooses too. She fakes orgasms with the best of them. Nothing disturbs her straight hair except John Klute who is trying to find out if she is involved in a series of gruesome murders . "},{"Title":"Corporate misdeeds","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is a gritty early 1970s thriller with an Oscar winning performance by Jane Fonda. She plays a small time actress but makes end meet as a prostitute in New York City.Donald Sutherland plays an investigator John Klute hired to find a corporate executive who has been missing for some months. Klute who is from a small town finds a city with sex, drugs, murder and deceit and you might think he may be over his head but Klute is the dogged sort.Klute needs Fonda's help and they form a touching if spiky relationship, however it soon becomes clear that they are in danger especially as Fonda's fellow working girls have disappeared or died. The film makes use of a narrative device by Fonda which offers clues in unfolding the mystery.The film is gritty, adult and harsh for the times as it bridges the time between the late 1960s and early 1970s and the liberalisation of the censorship laws. "},{"Title":"New York, I Love You","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Alan J. Pakula is best known for his conspiracy trilogy (Klute, The Parallax View, All the President's Men). What people forget are his other conspiracy movies, The Pelican Brief and Rollover, which somewhat prophetically deals with far reaching oil scandals, economic conspiracies, banking cartels and market manipulation. All these films have one foot in film noir, and highlight how genuine noirs morphed into the conspiracy come the 1960s, noir heroes now navigating a far larger canvas and now battling a now larger range of murky forces. Indeed, the kinds of paper trails, leads and dead ends Pakula's heroes - often newspaper reporters - are asked to deal with would stump even the greatest noir detectives or PI's of the 40s or 50s. The world's changed. The plot has thickened.Klute, to my mind the least of Pakula's conspiracy movies, opens on a tape recorder, thrusting us quickly into a world of late 60s, early 70s paranoia, electro-surveillance and distrust (see The Conversation, Chinatown, Manchurian Candidate, Polanski, Frankenheimer, Gavras, Pontecorvo etc). The film then revolves around John Klute, a wonderfully atypical noir detective (played by the bug-eyed Donald Sutherland) who is busy tracking down a friend who has mysteriously vanished. His search takes him to New York, where he is quickly immersed in a dangerous, seedy world of sex, prostitutes, murder and vulgar letters. Here he meets Bree Daniels (Jane Fonda, taking her sex-kitten image into method territory) a prostitute who aspires to be an actress. The film's main interests are the way Pakula teases out the noir hero's misogyny and re-writes the femme fatale (Bree) as a defenceless, vulnerable figure. Far from pulling strings and knowing more than she lets on, which is how Klute perceives her, Bree is a fragile girl whose insecurities have made her prey to all manners of people. The film's villain (and his motivations) remains the stuff of early noirs a power hungry business executive. The film uses the lazy trope of having a character repeatedly talk to a psychologist in order for the character's psychology to be divulged to the audience. It also too self consciously wallows in post-censorship, post-60s freedoms and indulgences, proud of Fonda's disrobings and pleased that it features a hooker as a main character. Such things don't shock today.The film's cinematography, wonderfully moody, was by Gordon Willis, perhaps the cinematographer who most defined 70s American film-making. He was responsible for the look of all of Coppola's Godfather movies, a number of Woody Allen's films, and all of Pakula's first three conspiracy flicks.It is with his subsequent conspiracy movies that Pakula would move into more interesting directions. His later films begin to ditch dark noir landscapes in favour for brightly lit, banal, but strangely ominous locations (All The President's Men, Parallax View and Rollover are wonderful for how, in their best moments, they conjure up menace out of sheer, silent architecture). They also ditch outright murder and stalkings for more ambiguous, uncertain events, and begin to move violence away from corrupt figureheads and into more elusive, amorphous directions.The cutting edge of the conspiracy/noir genre (the two genres are by definition now inseparable) are fare like The Wire, Twin Peaks, Inland Empire, Eyes Wide Shut, X-Files, Mulholland Drive, all virtually incomparable to neo and classical noirs, positing far larger worlds, global narratives that are always in flux and never resolved. Here, even the conspirators are conspired against, the conspiracy paradoxically engenders emasculation and is upheld as a means of wrestling order/control, the noir hero's autonomy is robbed as much from systemic and cosmic forces as from evil figureheads, man is at the mercy of a now globalized, larger world where conspiratorial forces spring from all directions (nature, DNA, family, society, technology, business, politics, inside, outside, capital, a malevolent cosmos etc), and, as is beautifully done in Eyes Wide Shut, we're not even sure who has been murdered, if anyone has been murdered, whether crimes have been committed, what crimes have been committed and whether indeed a conspiracy is even taking place; conspiracy as a product of a gap in both knowledge and desire, and conspiracy/power as being actively sought (I seek to retain information from you).The mark of a great noir is that it initially leaves one angry and confused, welcomes re-watches and, as is the case of the aforementioned modern noirs/conspiracy movies, gets more complex, interesting, labyrinthine, mysterious and prompts more questions when returned to (hard to do, as it requires the director to model whole worlds). Klute can't do this. It's a case of case closed.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See All The President's Men, The Parallax View and Rollover, the last two, despite their flaws, being Pakula's best work in this genre. All The President's Men is special too, but is ultimately too easily resolved. See also Jane Champion's underrated In The Cut. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let me start by saying that the atmosphere of the film is something I find very attractive. Jane sitting in her apartment late at night smoking grass under the skylight, Jane walking through New York City before it became unbearably crowded and the people that Jane interviews searching for an old friend-these are just scenes that are full of color and texture. These scenes are interesting even if a bit rehearsed.There is a bit of melodrama here with the strange phone calls. Can't deny that. But Jane makes it work because she is interesting to watch.If the film had starred anyone else beside Jane and Donald it probably wouldn't be as popular as it is. These two actors are what make the film. The other actors in the smaller roles were perfectly cast as well and we get sucked into the atmosphere and what is happening. We are pulled into the search for someone who may have information about the killer.Small sections of the film are laughably dated. You'll know these scenes when you see them. These are unmistakably 1970's techniques! But aside from a few little mistakes here and there this is quite an interesting film to watch. "},{"Title":"Stalk and talk...","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Another gritty, very adult drama from Alan J Pakula, using a plot device, (the invasion of privacy and surreptitious spying) which would be integral to at least two more of his succeeding 70's classics The Parallax View and of course All The President's Men.As someone has rightly observed on these pages, the only justification for entitling the movie Klute is that it's a funky charismatic name as the beating heart and soul of the piece is clearly Jane Fonda's streetwise but still vulnerable call-girl, who finds herself inveigled into a private missing-person's enquiry taken on by family friend / private eye Donald Sutherland, the eponymous (John) Klute.An engrossing if at times difficult watch, the movie is particularly explicit in its use of frank sexual dialogue, if ultimately kow-towing to the censors in its physical depiction of same (Last Tango in Paris was just around the corner). The movie uses stock Pakula trademarks of static shots of scenes or objects from unusual angles, often in semi-darkness, drawing in the viewer to the seedy world New York prostitutes inhabit and at the same time heightening the related sense of discomfort, anxiety, indeed paranoia which the stalker here conveys. A similar methodology was used successfully in the modern French classic Cache which I thoroughly recommend. The film wraps up with a violent death solving the less important whodunnit question but more relevantly runs onto an ambiguous sort of spiritual redemption for Fonda's Bree Daniels character. It's no more than she deserves. Fonda is terrific in the lead, wholly deserving of her Oscar plaudits, in character from the start and conveying her character's at times savvy, at times neurotic traits. She seems to be in almost every scene, her voice a constant atmospheric, accentuated by the constantly replayed tape recording of her getting into character for a client (Nothing is wrong...).Sutherland has less to do as the stoic, unfeeling straight who despite himself finds himself drawn to at first protect and then in fact fall for Fonda's character. He would get more to do (and do it well) as a protector-figure in Roeg's brilliant Don't Look Now which followed a year or two later. That said, there's genuine chemistry in their scenes together. After a first cold, sexual liaison born of Fonda's high anxiety under duress, there's telling subtlety at work as we see them coming together naturally as the film progresses, as seen in the almost silent scenes where he sits her down and bows her head at the site of her ransacked apartment and the surprisingly tender scene where he buys her fruit at a street market, to her great bemusement. The rest of the support is generally fine, including Roy Scheider in an early role as Fonda's sometime pimp.Mention should be made too of Gordon Willis' muted cinematography, all dark greys and browns, even when on location in the streets of NYC - no sunlit exteriors here and also an excellent soundtrack, the surveillance scenes in particular heightened by a keyboard motif which falls on the ears like sharpened icicles.In the end though it's Pakula's directorial vision which imposes the necessary sense of ugly realism, distasteful as it is, in the seamy underworld of a big city in which the characters here play out their murky, seedy other-existences, they hope, in private. Where that privacy is lost or compromised, as the film makes clear, corruption, exploitation and often danger soon follow... "},{"Title":"fruit shopping list","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't agree more with the earlier comment. A few weeks ago i saw the movie for the first time in ages and then i realized how much i liked it when i saw it first. I was also very touched by that fruit shopping scene. Jane Fonda acts with incredible beauty. Suddenly she senses that some sort of warm feeling is growing in her towards Sutherland, and the whole thing is portrayed in such cool manner. I like the fact that the film shows a beautiful love story but the scenes are not cheesy or conventional, but elegantly raw, silent and subtle. The whole movie is so classy, it has many of those long quite scenes that only the seventies seemed to allow. And Fonda...how glamorous and gorgeous! "}{"Title":"I think this played better back in 1971","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the late 1960s and into the 70s, a lot of Hollywood films tried very hard to upend the old notions of movies. Instead of the nice old Production Code, the late 60s brought in all sorts of deliberately unsavory things--things meant to challenge traditional morality. Think about it...films like Bonnie & Clyde and The Wild Bunch brought violence to a whole new level. Additionally, films like Sex and the Single Girl, Midnight Cowboy and this movie, Klute brought sex out of the closet and right into the audience's faces. Because of this, back in 1971 this film really had a big impact and brought Jane Fonda an Oscar for playing a prostitute. But is it good? I would say yes...but certainly not great. While Fonda's performance is very good, the story itself seems almost like an episode of Law & Order Special Victim's Unit. It was novel then but today it doesn't seem quite to groundbreaking. Overall, I'd score this one an 8 back in '71 and a 6 today. "},{"Title":"Two Great Performances in Nice Thriller","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute (1971) *** 1/2 (out of 4) A small town detective (Donald Sutherland) goes to New York City after a friend of his goes missing and it appears that he might have a connection to a prostitute (Jane Fonda). Once in the city, the detective forms a relationship with the prostitute as they try and figure out where the missing man is and whether or not something more sinister is going on. KLUTE is best remembered today for it getting Jane Fonda her first Best Actress Oscar and there's no question that's she's excellent in the film. Due to her political issues, quite often she gets overlooked when people discuss great actresses but it's always amazed me at how many different roles she could handle and make you believe her in them. There's no doubt you'll believe every frame of this picture as Fonda is simply wonderful in the role of this hooker who has a lot more going on. There are certain quiet scenes where Fonda really gets to shine including one where she explains to the detective her various fears. Another wonderful sequence is the aftermath of her character finally getting the detective to let go of his morals. As great as Fonda is, Sutherland is just as good. He has never really gotten any attention for his performance here, which is too bad because he really helps balance out the film and I really enjoyed his laid back qualities to the character. The supporting players include Roy Scheider as a pimp and Dorothy Tristan as another hooker. The music score by Michael Small is quite minor but very effective. Director Alan J. Pakula does a very good job at the slow pace of the film and he helps keep it moving and never lets it get boring. KLUTE is a nice, quiet little thriller that features two great performance and that alone makes this worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Where's the Chablis?","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This seems tame today but it was pretty hot stuff when it came out. I vaguely recall suffering a parasympathetic reflex while watching it in a drive-in movie in Red Bank, New Jersey. Fonda is Bree Daniels, a cynical, high-end call girl, clad mostly in what looks like plastic gear to the untutored eye.She became an icon after this film. Not an icon of the silver screen but an icon of the feminist movement. Bree became a common name in certain niche venues. Fonda's hair style, resembling a twelfth-century Norman basinet helmet, was seen everywhere. And she is mighty cute and sexy. Her speech is a bit of a stumbling block because it sounds as if she'd been educated at Vassar.She explains to her shrink that she enjoys hooking because it puts her in control. She manipulates the man, not the other way around. In other words, the woman gets to exploit the man.But never mind all that. A man has disappeared and it turns up that he's been dating Fonda while visiting New York City and before his disappearance he'd begun writing her obscene letters. The cops are helpless, so the family hires Donald Sutherland to sniff out the details of the disappearance and Fonda's possible connection to it.But Fonda had dated the man two years ago and doesn't remember him, although she's still getting threatening letters. Sutherland presses her, so hard in fact that they both wind up naked on the floor.Sutherland's character, acting as a private detective, can best be described as earnest but dumb. He serves as the audience proxy, in that he pries out of Fonda the quotidian dynamics of a whore's life. We're supposed to be shocked.The private eye, though, is something of a mope. All of Sutherland's features seem oddly configured and his ears are outlandish, flaring out from his head like twin radar dishes. And he's hardly given enough lines to carry the story forward. A poorly written part.Amid the threats, the puzzles, the missing tapes, the confessions, the creaking footsteps on the roof, two scenes stand out, and it's Jane Fonda who makes them stand out.The first is when she's at the end of her tether, barricaded in her untidy flat, helplessly drunk and stoned. When Sutherland appears at the door she gets to her feet and walks clumsily toward him, looking like hell, glancing off a piece of furniture, but still wearing the frozen smile of a whore.The second is when she's trapped in an office by the revealed murderer, who now knows that she can expose him at will. I know you're scared, he tells her soothingly. No, I'm not scared, she replies, and I'm sure we can work something out. But the audience knows there is nothing to work out and that Fonda is in the grip of the kind of terror that can only come from knowing you're about to die horribly. And yet she deploys her practiced whore tactics -- cheerfully matter-of-fact, reasonable, and wearing that whore's smile -- trying to postpone the attack until, maybe, help arrives.It's pretty dated now, but Fonda and Charles Cioffi stand out in their parts. "},{"Title":"chemistry","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The plot might have been about a detective searching for a missing man and the twists and turns getting to the real story of prostitutes' deaths, but the totally engrossing part of this movie is the chemistry. The scenes between Southerland and Fonda are incredible. When they move from adversaries to intimates, it is breathtaking. The slow waltz they do for 2 hours is like few other films. The poignant scene, with almost no dialogue, in the produce market is beautiful. Watching a man do such an ordinary thing, Fonda is moved from abhorring commitment and all its trappings, to seeing beauty in the mundane. It is scenes such as this that make this movie more than a who dunnit. "},{"Title":"Weak narrative, but a great character study.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute starts off with a familiar premise, but what it does with it is something truly unique. John Klute (Donald Sutherland) is a private detective who goes to New York searching for a missing man, with his only lead being a prostitute (Jane Fonda) who has received letters from the man. It's a basic idea and the actual narrative ends up being relatively thin and predictable, but the film sets itself apart by not being about that case at all really.Instead, it's more focused on exploring Fonda's Bree Daniels, and this is where it absolutely shines. Through the narrative there are some impressive scenes thanks to Alan J. Pakula's hypnotizing direction, along with a wickedly effective score, but the film marvels when it comes to the character study into Daniels. She's a prostitute trying to get work as an actress and the excellent writing brings us straight into her mind, helping us to understand why a woman would actually want to turn tricks for a living. The exploration into her need for control through whatever means necessary is fascinating, and Fonda delivers a performance for the ages. It's a mostly internal work where you can always see so much more under the surface than what she is letting herself expose. She shuts herself off from the world, using her body to manipulate men, but inside there is a woman breaking.Donald Sutherland is great as Klute, impressively stern and compelling, but this is Fonda's movie and she owns every second of it. There is a scene where they track down an old co-worker of hers, now a junkie living with her boyfriend. At first this seems like a typical moment of the junkies being hopeless and vile, but when they hit a misfortune they turn to each other and embrace one another. They are at their lowest point, yet they still have something because they have each other. Daniels watches this and you can see her heart breaking because she doesn't know a love like that. She is so affected by this, but Fonda doesn't say a word or make any outward expression. Instead, she is forced to convey all of this emotion simply through her eyes and she delivers in every way. The case narrative leaves a lot to be desired, but Fonda's performance and the exploration into her character is truly superb. "},{"Title":"Set controls for the heart","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Pakula was really one of the most interesting directors to watch for a while. It was the early 70's, he had been deeply affected by Antonioni, and it was the time when the American narrative had turned bitter and paranoid, a tab of acid slowly dissolving in the public mind. The time was perfect for film noir and Pakula grasped this, since noir was a paranoid type of film for a new type of paranoid life in the big city.So even though we have come to know these films as 'conspiracy thrillers', that is only a noir offshoot, one of many. The basic idea is that we find ourselves caught in some inexplicable part of the world - aren't we all? - and begin to look for the mechanisms that move us and that world. Our insight, if we're fortunate to be at the hands of an adept filmmaker, is something that we'll be able to align around the life we know.Why do we act a part? Why do we keep looking? Who is casting reflections that we see around us? This is the exercise here. Our man is a private investigator looking for missing persons. He finds her, a talented actress who only allows herself to touch the world from inside an illusion she can manipulate. She controls sex, and that lets her anonymously penetrate others from the safety of fantasy. He enters the illusion eager, fresh in the big city and his first-time doing this, so everything is coated with danger and mysterious allure. New York has scarcely looked as elusive as we have here. She's been there all her life, is weary and looking for someone to wrestle that control and mask away. Meanwhile she has woven another illusion around her where she is victim with the world out to get her, this is another part that we'll have to discern whether or not it's an act.So one layer of the abstraction is that he comes to know that he's really looking for her. From her end, that she's the one gone missing. Our primary text here is not hardboiled noir but L'Avventura, the disappearance being only our premise for connection.It makes sense then that the actual investigation would seem aimless and frustrating. It's meant to be a little mundane as we snoop around, a part of routine. It's meant to involve us simply watching, looking to see will the world unveil itself. Unveil some part that is missing and throws the whole off balance. Remember the first part of Vertigo? We had to be the shadow for a while before anything could be outlined.The second layer involves a conversation caught on tape. It plays for the first time over the opening credits and missing bits are added over the course of the film that we didn't know were missing. We listen a bit earlier. We listen at the other side of the conversation. The twist, as we come to know it; our actress speaks of letting everything out in the open as the only means of achieving happiness. Of couse nothing is let out and everything is kept in. An ongoing conversation with a therapist played over intimate but wordless bits back home underscores this.So when these two layers are made to spin together, we have a delicate caress in the dark between souls. Butterfies in the stomach. The effort is for shedding the self that clings to the controls of life, desperate to steer somewhere. We let the other person have it, trusting he will set controls for the heart of our being. Isn't this what love is all about? I don't know of a more urgent and poignant depiction of love in the movies.There is another layer about political conspiracy half-heartedly woven throughout and most prominent at the last moment, but that is not the point here. It's nothing, and if we apply an investigative eye we'll be able to easily sweep off the picture. Watching here also reveals the actual context of the subsequent Parallax View, on the surface a film more alarmingly about shady powers controlling the plot.In both cases, the 'parallax' is our displacement from the status of observer into the place where observations are assembled into a view. The view is of internal mind, and taken together these two are a powerful experience that you should not miss. The political angle was just an effective way of addressing the time and a lot of people anxious to hear. "},{"Title":"Character Driven Story","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A memorable film, thanks to two talented lead actors, Donald Sutherland and Jane Fonda. Sutherland takes a quiet, understated character and gives him an unforgettable presence. So many fictional detectives seem to talk a lot, and he turns this on its head. Fonda takes what could be something of an irritating person, and makes her an interesting mixture of bravado, street smarts and vulnerability. The dynamic between these two makes for such an engaging foreground, that the potentially more compelling part of the story, the stalker threatening Fonda, almost recedes to a background element. This makes for a unique feel to the suspense. "},{"Title":"Effective, Well Acted Thriller","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is one of the true classics of the 1970s, a thriller that is both suspenseful and intelligent. It combines a well crafted plot with an involving character study of Jane Fonda's character, Bree. Although the film is named after Donald Sutherland's detective, Bree provides the film with an emotional depth that takes it above the traditional thriller.Revolving around a missing person investigation, Klute follows the efforts of straitlaced detective John Klute as he explores the sexual underground of New York City, with an obscene letter and a recalcitrant prostitute as his only guides. What follows challenges not only Klute's skills of deduction, but also his morality.The ultimate center of the film is Fonda's performance. She takes what easily could have been a simple romantic lead and transforms it into a study of what motivates a woman to become a prostitute, and how she deals with that lifestyle. This performance not only lends the character depth, but prevents the film from sinking into exploitation.The film's other performances are also top notch. Donald Sutherland gives an understated performance as Klute, while Roy Scheider is good in an early role as Fonda's pimp. Charles Coffi also gives a excellent performance. "},{"Title":"Fonda Brings Sparkle to a Dark Film","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't think there is a lead character in any A-List movie duller than John Klute (Donald Sutherland). For that matter, there may not be a more plodding A-List film. Not that the plot isn't suspenseful; it does have its moments, especially as Klute, aided by prostitute Bree Daniels (Jane Fonda) closes in on the man behind multiple murders whom Klute is tracking.The film is shot in dark, moody lighting, with interesting use of light and shadows to denote the dark as well as sensual side of humanity. The music is a perfect accompaniment. The sound track ranges from hushed to sudden bursts of loud sound effects, which at times produces a chilling effect, but is often just plain annoying.The characters are played well by an excellent cast; however, they are extremely grim; rarely does a smile escape anyone's lips. The exception is the character of Bree Daniels, which Ms. Fonda portrays as a stunning and complicated woman who carries the film. For Ms. Fonda's tour de force performance, which won her an Academy Award, the film is a must-see. In this role, Ms. Fonda solidifies her place as one Hollywood's finest film actresses, with the ability to master dramatic as well as comedic roles reminiscent of of Katherine Hepburn and Diane Keaton. "},{"Title":"Fonder","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute has the idea but not the execution; the foreplay but not the sex; and the self-referential notion acting as prostitution. Klute bounces off Bree, who is the focus, and so Sutherland isn't asked to give too much away. Fonda acts, Sutherland reacts.This could have been really good.For the time it was made, this is conventionally unconventional. Late 60s and early 70s American cinema was in an experimental phase, and many European art-house techniques were finding their way into American films. Here we find a pleasing visual schema through the use of expressive lighting, lots of shadows and contrast (particularly in the culminating scene with Bree and her stalker), and claustrophobic compositions that enhance the appropriate atmosphere for the genre.But it falls down because the story is incoherent.There are reportedly two versions of this film floating around. In one of them, a crucial scene has been omitted. I'm not sure which version I saw, but I don't think it matters. There are a number of scenes that don't seem to integrate together, and the pacing feels wrong throughout.I wonder how much influence the studios had on this. And if that was the killer.Would make sense. "}{"Title":"How Did John Cable Find Bree Daniels at Goldfarb's Garment Factory","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film had a darn good script - a riveting and intelligent murder mystery happily free of the tiresome red herrings that so many 3rd rate TV writers use on those feeble efforts WGBH Boston televises ad nauseum. A true landmark film of the genre - head and shoulders above most of the early '70s fare. One thing puzzles me howeever, how was John Cable able to find Bree Daniels at Goldfarb's Garment Factory? Unless I was inattentive I don't recall any shot of John Cable following her there. Also, Klute only managed to get a forwarding number by pretending to be a policemen how did he trace it to the garment factory? Did reverse directories exist in 1971? Please leave a comment if you can shed light on this. "},{"Title":"Entertaining character-driven thriller","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My favorite film in director Alan J. Pakula's co-called conspiracy trilogy (which also includes 1977's ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN and 1990's PRESUMED INNOCENT), KLUTE is a very unorthodox, but extremely entertaining combination of suspense and honest character study. I will admit right up front that KLUTE is not entirely successful as a mystery. Most of the suspects aren't properly defined for a successful whodunit, and the killer's true identity will likely come as no surprise to most viewers. The film's attempts at sustaining suspense are also somewhat botched, with far too many shots from the killer's point-of-view that prohibits the audience from engaging in the characters' fear.Despite all of this, however, KLUTE is still a great movie and it is anchored by a fabulous, Oscar-winning performance from Jane Fonda. Fonda has always struck me as a fairly limited actress, with anger being the only emotion that she seems truly comfortable expressing. Not so here, as her refreshing unsentimental portrayal of a seedy prostitute is brimming with bitterness, hurt, confusion, and (most surprisingly) depth. Donald Sutherland (always underrated) is also exceptional in this tight little thriller that successfully puts more importance on it's lead characters' relationship, and winds up being a better film because of it. "},{"Title":"The Klute-Bree Relationship Is The Engine That Drives This Movie","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ostensibly, Klute is about the search for a man who's gone missing, with the seedier part of New York City being implicated in his disappearance. Donald Sutherland plays Klute - a private investigator hired to look into the man's disappearance, and Jane Fonda plays Bree - a call girl who apparently had some connection with the man. And, to be honest, as far as that story goes, this movie fails. I never really became drawn in to that story - perhaps because we were never introduced to the missing man. He was just missing right from the movie's beginning. So, frankly, I really didn't care if he ever got found.Where the movie worked well, though, was in the development of the relationship between Bree and Klute. Jane Fonda won an Oscar for her portrayal of Bree, and she was quite deserving. Bree was an interesting character - one who had goals, but who only seemed to be able to succeed as a call girl, where she was totally in control. But she develops an uneasy bond with Sutherland's Klute. Perhaps she even falls in love with him. Which takes her out of control. Sutherland was not as good as Fonda, and - to be honest - I'm not a huge fan of Donald Sutherland in any event. He was passable here, but nowhere near as good as Fonda. But their relationship was intriguing and well developed by director Alan J. Pakula.In the midst of the movie there are lesser roles for familiar faces like Roy Scheider and Jean Stapleton. Apparently Teri Garr and even Sylvester Stallone make minor appearances in this, although I have to confess that I didn't notice either of them.This isn't a bad movie. It's just a bit disorienting, because the basic plot around the story of the missing man doesn't actually drive the movie; the relationship between Klute and Bree is the engine. (4/10) "},{"Title":"A(nother) '70s gem.","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A truly wonderful exercise in creating an inescapable atmosphere that moves back and forth between raw drama and haunting thriller. Jane Fonda plays a magnificent, very intense role (check out that free spirited lingo!) which even outshines the part played by the great Donald Sutherland. Maybe even Charles Cioffi outshines him (or better said his part) by playing a well-dressed, well-mannered but innerly deeply disturbed man. Of course all this works so well because of Alan J. Pakula's fantastic artistic vision, who knows just how to capture a sphere of fragile intimacy that can suddenly change into one of unrelenting terror.Although the killer may be obvious to most viewers quite early on, it hardly takes the edge of the suspense. Klute does save the day in a quite convenient way in the end, which is on some level a relief of course, but how realistic is it? I think also that, logically, Klute could have done more and been more thorough in checking certain things out. For instance the fact that the killer had to be known to Tom Gruneman; Klute could simply have gotten photos of most people surrounding him and shown them to Bree for identification.But the points of critique kind of drown in the atmospheric gem that Klute simply is, working its way through themes such as love, obsession, madness, loneliness, dependency, control, curiosity... I could go on, but I'll leave it at that.A true classic; almost 10 of out 10! "},{"Title":"Fonda and Sutherland Better Than the Movie They're In","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jane Fonda plays Bree Daniels, lonely New York City call girl, who becomes one of the key informants in the investigation surrounding the murder of one of her tricks. Detective John Klute, played by Donald Sutherland, who leads the investigation and gradually wins Bree's trust, ends up as her lover and protector when her life becomes endangered.Klute has a deeply unsettling quality in that hard to define way that characterizes so much of the best film-making from the 1970s. It's a portrait of urban isolation, a popular theme for the time, and it plays like a kind of female version of Midnight Cowboy. It's worth seeing for the performances of Fonda and Sutherland, who do terrific work as this unlikely romantic pair. But the screenplay leaves something to be desired. Fonda's performance is subtle, but the script too often is more obvious than it needs to be (like a scene with Bree and her therapist where Bree tells her doctor that she continues to trick because she's hooked on the feeling of being in charge....well, duh!) And the ending is especially disappointing, collapsing into a conventional pot-boiler climax that doesn't deliver on the fine character study that preceded it.Still, a worthwhile viewing experience and yet one more example of why the 70s are considered to be a golden age for challenging cinema.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"One of Fonda's Best","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jane Fonda is superb as the New York City call girl trying to go straight but caught in a web of danger because of an old trick. Donald Sutherland is Klute, a private detective from Cabbageville who helps Fonda and falls for her. Excellent thriller with great music and several haunting a memorable scenes. Jane in that blue sparkle dress talking to an old man who is her trick, but only seen through a partition window as tho we are voyeurs. Jane also in that amazing crying scene toward the end when the bad has has her trapped and he's telling his story. Just a wonderful and atmospheric films with solid performances. Charles Cioffi and Roy Scheider bot play creeps, Jean Stapleton is the secretary, Rita Gam has a great scene in a bar, Dorothy Tristan is Arlyn, Jane White is terrific as a madame, and Lee Wallace is old man Goldfarb. Fonda and Sutherland are a great team in a great film. Tough and gritty, for 1971 this is an amazingly honest film dealing with the tough subject. Jane Fonda deserved her Oscar for Klute. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite deliver as a thriller but deserves another look ...","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While this film does lack any palpable, sustained intensity, it offers a wonderful glimpse into the early 70's scene of NYC. The fashion and styling are inspired and (if this appeals to you) will hold your attention until the end. Think of the early shot of those models--including an amazingly beautiful Veronica Hamel. As the camera pans each one, their hairstyles, clothes and jewelry are such throwbacks that they bear a rewind. The interior of Frank's mod apartment is also a stand out--all shag carpeting and beige tones--so wonderfully hip and sleazy. There are some well-acted, raw moments as well. The disco scene with a spaced-out Fonda as she winds through the crowd and sits submissively next to her old pimp (to the dismay of new lover Sutherland) is wonderfully devoid of dialogue but evokes an every time I get out they drag me back in feeling. While the script sorely needed some major reworking, the director did a good job of providing a voyeuristic view of the characters' lives, however pathetic and rough. This film offered no apologies (for drug use, prostitution or fringe sexual indulgences) and for 1971 provided a shocking and honest look at a world known to only a few. "},{"Title":"Another dark gem of the 70's","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"      If you only remember Klute from edited network viewings ofyesteryear, you might be in for a shock if you check out the film today;especially in the proper letterboxed format.        This is another dark gem of the 70's, when movies for grown-upswere not big surprises. Paluka's considerable skill here just makes hislater stinkers about crazed wife swapping more disheartening. What awaste of talent.     Jane Fonda, never a favorite actress of mine; is indisputably greatin this film. Her total command of this role reminds me of George CScott in The Hospital; or any truly great movie acting, really.      Essential, and worth a second look.  "},{"Title":"Worthwhile mystery-cum-character study, marred only by a flawed ending","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute provides a worthwhile mystery, a wonderful study of its two main characters, and a memorable evocation of its early 70s' origins. Private detective John Klute is hired to look for a family friend who disappears from small-town America into the big, bad city of New York. There he encounters Bree Daniels, the call girl with whom his friend apparently consorted shortly before his death -- and who fears that someone may still be watching her and following her.The film gradually sheds the mystery that brings these two together, focusing instead on how Sutherland, and especially Fonda, reveal the many shadings and layers of these two lonely, complex characters. It's a paradox these characters would not be as interesting to watch without the mystery swirling around them; and, as the story begins to concentrate on the relationship and less on the disappearance/stalking case, one senses that, if the mystery ever gets solved, there'd be little to keep them together.Nevertheless, both Sutherland and Fonda turn in carefully-etched performances -- she, by turns confident, self-absorbed, and manipulative, yet also lonely, empty, and self-loathing; he, rigid, instinctive, and inscrutable, yet just brittle enough that the calculating Bree might be able penetrate the veneer of self-control. Fonda's performance certainly deserved the Oscar that she won (a remarkable feat considering that, in 1971, she was already a pariah for her antiwar activism), but much of her success was due to playing against Sutherland's understated presence -- he hits just the right note of strength and self-assurance to balance Fonda's talkative neurotic.There are lots of interesting, small touches here -- the photography, clothing, and New York setting evoke the early '70s with crystal clarity; Bree may be a hooker, but she has a sketch of John F. Kennedy on the wall and sings Gospel hymns to herself; the camera-work is inventive and disorienting; and the chilling score is punctuated by vocals that sound vaguely like distant screams. Unfortunately, the mystery that started the plot rolling becomes secondary by the mid-point, and the film is marred when its careful storytelling gives way to a villain who suffers from the talking killer syndrome -- a long soliloquy fills in all the missing plot points and hammers home the villain's motivations (just so that there's no mistaking what made the bad guy tick).Despite that, there's the unexpected pleasure of Jean Stapleton in a tiny part near the end, shortly before she began to play the most famous dingbat in America. Klute was made just months before Stapleton created Edith Bunker, but Edith's already there in Klute -- that same shrill, high voice and New York inflection, almost as if it really *is* Edith, working at a part-time job to help out a little with expenses -- and to get some time away from Archie. It's a delightful bonus in a movie that, more than almost anything else, is the perfect evocation of its era. "},{"Title":"Bravo for Fonda","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" John Klute (Donald Sutherland) is a small town detective who has been sent to New York to find a missing man. Bree Daniels (Jane Fonda) is a New York prostitute who may hold the key to the man's whereabouts. If Bree is to help Klute unravel the mystery, he must first protect her from a deranged stalker who seems to always be one step ahead.I've always found it difficult to watch Jane Fonda and not let my personal feelings towards her get in the way of enjoying her work. I had no such difficulties while watching Klute. Fonda brings such life to Bree Daniels that it's easy to forget your watching a movie. It's one of the more convincing pieces of acting I've ever seen. While I've probably not seen all of the great performances from 1971, it would be difficult for me to imagine anyone deserved the Best Actress Academy Award more than Fonda.Klute is also one of the more smartly written thrillers I've seen. Pakula uses the well written script to create believable characters who face realistic danger around every corner. The atmosphere and tension are almost palpable. There are moments that are as frightening as any horror movie. But Pakula refuses to go too far or over-the-top. I can well imagine that in the hands of a lesser director, Klute might have easily become a cheesy, throw-away slasher. Well done! "}{"Title":"A very good suspense-thriller with Fonda in top form","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is about a detective (Donald Sutherland) searching for a missing man, and his single lead points towards a prostitute named Bree (Jane Fonda), who had been the missing man's mistress.However shortly after contacting her seeking information on the man, the detective Klute realizes someone is trying to kill Bree to silence her - so they flee together and try to uncover a web of lies and deception leading to the answer.Klute is one of those films you always hear about but never really watch. It's rarely on TV and seems to have more of a reputation than a following. However I was surprised that it really is a good film and lives up to its status as a classic. It's not one of the great, great films of the 1970s, but it is one of the better ones.Fonda as the prostitute Bree is an absolute stand-out and delivers the finest performance of her career. Sutherland is equally good as the detective, but Fonda steals the show.Director Alan J. Pakula has made a lot of great films and this is one of his best. "},{"Title":"Clued In","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jane Fonda won her first Academy Award for her role here as aprostitute. Say what you will about her politics, she certainly hadscreen presence.Donald Sutherland is Klute, the title small town detective fromPennsylvania. His best friend, Tom, disappears and a year later heis hired by a mutual rich friend to go to New York City to find themissing man. He stumbles upon Jane Fonda, a wannabe actressand call girl. She may have been with Tom but cannot remember-too many johns and faces. Sutherland begins watching Fonda,and someone begins watching both of them. Soon, Fonda warmsup to Sutherland and the two begin slumming the seedy  underground looking for other people who may have come intocontact with Tom.I do not want to reveal too much, as this is a mystery, but eventuallyFonda and Sutherland discover the killer's identity. A plan to trapthe person backfires, and Fonda is terrorized in a garment factoryin the film's best scene.Alan J. Pakula died in a freak car accident a couple of years ago.This was a shame, and a great loss to the film world. I would rankKlute right behind All the President's Men and Sophie'sChoice, as one of his best films.Although the film is named Klute, the obvious focus here is onFonda. While she is good here, I was a little miffed by the constantback and forth in the screenplay. Is this a murder mystery or acharacter study of Fonda? Scenes in the call girl's therapist's officeare offset with scenes involving the investigation, and the twosides never seem to merge together. Both branches of the storyare interesting, maybe they would have made two good butdifferent movies.This New York City is not the city we know today. There is garbageon the streets, the apartments are dark and disgusting, andheroin chic does not exist. A couple of night club scenes aredated, as is Fonda's slang dialogue.The villain here is a psychopath, but not the serial killer we allknow and hate to love today. The fact that the killer does not have abody count numbering in the dozens and weird Hannibal  Lecter-type behavior makes them all the more terrifying. There areno murders shown onscreen, which is almost refreshing.However, watch for the scene where Fonda listens to a taperecording of an acquaintance's horrific murder. Fonda's reaction isincredible, as is Pakula's skill of letting sound (and not goryimages) let us know what is happening. Also, crafty viewers willcatch Veronica Hamel and Jean Stapleton in early roles, and RoyScheider is slimy as Fonda's former pimp.Klute was an original screenplay, and would have made a gooddetective series, either in TV or novel form. I would have liked tosee more Sutherland and the mechanics of his investigation, butthe ending scene lets us know this is all Fonda's film. A missedopportunity, but still a fantastic film. I highly recommend it.This is rated (R) for physical violence, profanity, some femalenudity, sexual content, sexual references, drug abuse, drugreferences, and some adult situations.   "},{"Title":"Excellent mystery/suspense film that explores the duality of good and bad in all of us.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jane's performance was a surprise. She clearly did her homework. Plot, admittedly, was a little thin for me. Psycho kills for no apparent reason--they never explain it. But the focus is not on the action, it's on the reaction. Ultimately we all have a choice between taking the high or the low road, and this is an exploration of the potentials of that pathway. Chemistry between Sutherland and Fonda is excellent. Scene where she checks her watch in the midst of a seemingly ecstatic moment is unforgettable. Realistic portrayal of a mismatched relationship. Powerful and rewarding. "},{"Title":"glossy and curiously empty","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jane Fonda's Oscar winning performance in this weird and emotionless thriller is the best reason for watching it.  In her portrayal, Bree Daniels is a damaged and nervy woman who is struggling to cope with falling in love, and being stalked.  Donald Sutherland plays a weary, sad-eyed detective who starts by helping her and ends up playing the same mind games.  'Klute' (why is the film named after him, and not her?) is one of those seventies flicks which looks great, appeals to the eyes, but has no substance outside of the gloss.  We don't care about John Klute and Bree Daniels, we are just 10 cent spectators vaguely interested in what is going to happen to them. "},{"Title":"Donald Sutherland is the man!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really  enjoyed this movie. I loved the screenplay, the acting, and the wardrobes. The movie was a cross between a thriller and a drama. Jane Fonda really puts it down in this one. I thought she was amazing, I couldn't take my eyes off of her for one second, except for when I was drooling over a young Donald Sutherland. Donald is a wonderful actor, I've seen him play almost everything. I'm 20, but I still find him attractive even today. Whenever I watch one of his films, I am always drawn into the plot. even if the plot isn't so good, because he's such a grand actor. This movie is sexy, VERY sexy.   "},{"Title":"Pretentious Stinker","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Did you ever wonder if there's such a thing as too much Jane Fonda?  I though not.  As her carear has endured, so has the freshness of this picture.  She delivers an endless assault of very dated street talk in this creeper of a film.  To make it more pallatable to an audience of faux sophisticates, her character is frequently shown explaining herself to a very cliched Ayan Rand knock-off of a psychiatrist.  These scenes push the dialog from a well-intentioned but failed attempt at being hip to an excruciating exercise in pretention.  Trust and suspicion, power and dependency, status and lowliness are all thrust in your face in a futile attempt to gain legitimacy.  It seems the only point of this film is to offend mores that are already extinct.  I have to wonder if it ever worked. "},{"Title":"A true nail-biter","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The compliment of a thriller is not only have you grabbing onto your seat during the entire time you are watching a thriller, but does the movie work for you? Klute is one of those movies that did it for me. This is a very atmospheric thriller at its best. It has some of the best actors in it. It is handled with extreme care from a director that really does know how to make a thriller work. And it is very well written with rich and sharp dialogue.Jane Fonda plays Bree Daniels. She's a struggling woman, trying to live a double life. In the daytime, she's a person, struggling to be an actress or a model. At night or during her free time, she's a call girl. Donald Sutherland plays John Klute, the title character. He's a small town detective who's assigned to look for a man that went missing for a couple of months. His only hope is Bree. But, one thing stands in their way. There's a anonymous man, stalking Bree. On several occasions, she gets a telephone call at night and when she picks up the phone, she can hear nothing. Most of the time, she can hear the man breathing through the phone. Knowing that she's in danger, Klute decides to protect Bree from the pervert who has already killed two women. There's isn't really any background information on the killer. But, one thing is for sure. The man that is stalking Bree is a lot closer than she thinks. In my opinion, the movie is more focused on Bree rather than Klute. I believe the movie's title should have been called Bree, instead of Klute. Because after all, the movie does a very good job creating a slice of life feeling of Bree. She is alone and also desperate since she lives a double life, both as a prostitute and as a single woman. Her pimp, (Roy Scheider), is a lowlife who gives little to no information on Klute's investigation. But even though this is Bree's show, Klute soon starts to care and also falls in love with her. The relationship between the two lead actors is a very interesting aspect to the story. We really do sympathizes with these characters because we know that they are in danger of being seen or stalked.The movie has a uneasy atmospheric feeling to it, especially in one scene, where Sutherland's character hears noises on Bree's roof and he goes to check it out and notice just how dark this movie is lit. It is almost as if the dark is use as a camouflage to the killer. While I was watching that scene, I realize that I was grabbing onto the edge of my seat, trying to figure out what is going happened. It's that kind of feeling that I get from thrillers that make them so watchable. The director, Alan J. Pakula, certainly knows how to keep his audience at ease with the growing sense of dread. It is not at all predictable. There are terrifying shots of a hand, squeezing onto a chain-linked fence. And when I saw those shots, I held onto my breath in suspense.Jane Fonda has never given an better performance than this. She definitely deserves winning the Oscar for Best Actress that year. I truly believe in her character's willingness to be a victim of being stalked. I like how Pakula is able to have a strong actress played Bree because in the best thrillers of this kind, the stronger actress is, the more believable the character is. Fonda is perhaps, the most strongest actress out there that can really tackle this role. I was amazed just how real her character was. In addition to that, I also want to give Donald Sutherland credit for playing the title character. He is sort of a protector for Bree. He is also trying to fit in with the culture aspects of New York City. You might think that the back half of the story is a fish out of water story. But it isn't. The two lead actors are very good together and their stories are very well written with authenticity.Pakula certainly does know to photographed New York City very vividly. With the help of cinematographer Gordon Willis, these two can really bring New York City to life with its location settings. The way the city looks at night. The way the lighting is inside one of the nightclubs that Bree goes into. The movie captures what the early 1970's look like. People back then can go into these clubs and there were interracial relationships inside these place and even outside. That entire look really illustrates what New York City was back in the early 70's, with its portrayal of urban landscape.Going back to Fonda's character, I love the scenes where she goes to her therapist and she talks about her relationship with Klute. Those scenes are skillfully written with realism. People might think that those scenes were thrown in to describe just how desperate Bree is in life. I object that statement. Those scenes are the best parts in this movie. Aside the thriller aspects involving the killer stalking Fonda's character, I was amazed by how open she is toward the audience and it isn't done because it has to be done. It is there to give more about what Fonda's character is all about. That creates more of a slice of life feeling to Bree. It is rare to find that kind of creation in a thriller like this one.With a suspenseful score by Michael Small, Klute is one thriller that will stay with you as long as you admired it for what it is. It is certainly a film where characters are locked up in a world where the coldness of the real world will keep them inside for good. ★★★ 1/2 3 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"It could have been better","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The edge has worn off a bit. But when I went to bed last night, I had just finished watching KLUTE (for the first time) on TCM. As I walked upstairs and turned off the light, a wave of cinemotion overcame me. In a brief moment, I realised 'I don't like KLUTE.' A pause, and then another realisation 'I think it's okay not to like KLUTE. I can't like every motion picture I see.' And I tried to shrug it off and went to bed.It is morning now. And I still don't like KLUTE. And I am trying to figure out why. ***possible spoilers ahead***First major thought. It tries too hard to be a romance. I think it would have been better if they didn't hook up (the characters played by Fonda and Sutherland). I also would have made Sutherland's character impotent, or else some sort of religious guy who did not believe in sex outside marriage, so that Fonda had more of a challenge. He was easy pickings for her and this bored me.Second major thought. The film and Pakula's direction is too self-conscious. It keeps trying to remind us how hip it is, whether it's Fonda's costuming or the spicy dicey soundtrack or the agonizing self-recriminations that Fonda undergoes inside her therapist's office. The whole thing seems like laying down naked on a lonely stretch of beach and expecting a cool wave to engulf you, but the tide doesn't really come in and only vultures swoop down and start to pick at you. Third major thought. The story itself is weak and clichéd and dragged out. The characterizations are supposed to keep us riveted in those moments when the plot has come to a screeching halt. Sometimes that works, but most of the time it is tedious and we just want the story to move forward, to pick up the pace.Fourth major point. What I enjoyed most in KLUTE was the editing. And I think it is because there were so many dull spots that the editors had to work some magic to create the illusion there was action when there really wasn't any.Fifth major point. I think she should have died at the end. And I think if they had not physically consummated the relationship, it would have been even more powerful and haunting if he walked the streets thinking about her and what maybe could have been. As it is, the ending tries to be a bit tongue-in-cheek ironic, with her leaving town with him and getting a call from a john-- but I really don't think we should be smiling when this picture ends.Sixth major point. I read some user reviews here on the IMDb where people complained the film's title was KLUTE (as opposed to BREE). But I do think this is correct. In the context of this story, she comes to be defined by him. But too much goes undeveloped. The name KLUTE, the mere presence of KLUTE, should be both an impediment and her potential salvation. She should be haunted by this word, this guy, and how it is threatening her own independence-- as much as she is haunted by the demented john who is stalking her. So some of this is not fully fleshed out.Seventh major point. I think she should have been even more shocking. My favorite scene is the one that takes place in the club-- we do not see Klute right away, but we can guess he is watching her. This particular sequence is complete voyeurism and fun to watch. We the audience are made to feel like we are on some sort of footing with Klute, watching her as he watches her. But I think she should have played it up more-- she should have taken one of those guys, even her pimp, into a dark hallway to toy with Klute, and she should have pretended to have lesbian tendencies flirting with another woman, to toy with Klute. In short, she should have owned that scene by playing into his own frustrated fantasies which I am sure she understood inside and out. "},{"Title":"Cold character study","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Businessman Tom Gruneman disappears and his friend private detective John Klute (Donald Sutherland) goes in search of what happened. The only clues are letters and tapes of phone calls to Manhattan call girl and actress Bree Daniel (Jane Fonda). She's also getting obscene phone calls. She's more successful as a call girl than an actress and she's addicted to working as a call girl. She can't remember Tom as one of her Johns but there was a violent John two years ago that could be him. Frank Ligourin (Roy Scheider) is her former pimp. There is also a prowler stalking her.This has a cold voyeuristic feel to it. It's a slow moving mystery and doesn't work that well as such. It's more of a psychological character study. It's about the relationship between Klute and Bree Daniel. She may have been a compelling character when this first came out but she's nothing special today. There is a lack of chemistry and a coldness to it all. It's an interesting work from these two actors but not much more than that. "},{"Title":"Klute (Alan J. Pakula, 1971)","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Starring Jane Fonda, Donald Sutherland,&#x85;Klute is a very impressive drama film, masquerading as a rather simple thriller. Although the film starts of as any other detective story about a disappearance would, it slowly develops into a compelling tale about lonely people finding each other through a mutual cause. Jane Fonda won several deserved awards for her lead role as Bree in the film, among which an Oscar and a BAFTA Film Award. Special credit should also go to the music by Michael Small that - like any soundtrack should, but only so often actually achieves - drags you further into the film, enhancing the eerie atmosphere surrounding the mysterious disappearance, but just as easily reflecting the desperation of Bree's life.ConnectionsBarbarella (1968); They Shoot Horses, Don't They? (1969) both starring the gorgeous Jane Fonda, one a campy but very entertaining science- fiction film, the other a decent and at times even quite intriguing allegory about a dance marathon that lasts for weeks.Last Tango in Paris (1972) another gripping drama about lonely and lost people finding what they need in one another. "}{"Title":"The start of the Paranoia Trilogy...pretty good...but also pretty average","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Whenever I think of Alan Pakula I think of the 3 films he's mainly known for...his Paranoia Trilogy. This is the first in line with it and it's another good example of the 70's gritty landscape type of thrillers.There were so many films in the 70's that were based in New York they all seem to blend. To me though, that's a good thing. They all have that dark and bleak feel about em. This was right around the time that p0rn was coming out and drugs were starting to be a big thing in film and the time was ripe for a suspense/thriller to fit right in with it.Basic premise is a loved husband/friend mysteriously disappears and know one seems to know what happened. They find strange/graphic letters in his work desk that even further confuse the situation. These letters wee addressed to Jane Fonda's character. From there it's a guessing game of what's going on and why this guy just vanished. Enter Donaled Sutherland, the guy who works for the company the missing man disappeared from decides to take it upon himself to find out what has happened.Jane Fonda plays a once prime Hooker who's now just doing basic tricks to get by. She has an attitude that all men are doable and can be fooled. She obviously has issues with men and self esteem because in the process of her career, she sees a therapist. In walks in the guy who's looking for the missing friend. From here on it's a mix of cat and mouse between the 2 and finally trust between the two in the end.I figured out the the angle not too far into it. Needless to say by the end I wasn't surprised. This is a solid film from the 70's. It's got that Blow Out feel to it. Taped conversations and all. IMO though, for the same kinda feeling...go and see The Conversation....a way better example of the best the 70's had to offer. "},{"Title":"The only responsibility you have to me is to enjoy yourself","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" (Some Spoilers) It's when Tuscarora Labs top research engineer Tom Gruneman, Robert Milli, failed to return home to Pennsylvania from his business trip to New York City that it was suspected by his friend as well as boss Peter Cable, Charles Cloffi, that he was a victim of foul pay.Getting local private investigator and friend of the missing Tom Gruneman John Klute, Donald Southerland, to track him down in the Big Apple he finds that Tom liked to have his action away from home, and his wife, in him picking up priced-classed hookers who turned him on, in doing everything he asked of them, like he was never turned on before in his life. Klute soon gets in touch with call-girl Bree Daniels, Jane Fonda, who spent two month in the can-prison-for refusing to cooperated with the local police and FBI in what she knows about Gruneman who was a regular customer of hers. Bree wanting to get out of the business, and out of future jail time, is trying to both become an legitimate, not porno, actress as well as spending almost all her money hooking, estimated at between 30 to 50 thousand dollars a year, by getting psychiatric help from her friend and personal shrink Vivian Nathan. It's when Klute contacts Bree at her loft apartment that her past suddenly catches up with her; In one of her Johns threatening Bree with obscene phone calls as well as murder!As things soon turn out Bree was once brutally attacked and beaten unconscious by a John, or customer, of hers two years ago. This sicko is now determined to shut Bree up forever in fear of her exposing him to both the police as well as his friends and associates in high class and wealthy circles. Leaving no stone unturned he had now murdered two other hookers and possibly even Mr. Gruneman in order to keep his deep and sick secret from seeing the light of day. Even though it's a given, with Bree turning 600 to 700 tricks a year, that she'll very probably never recognize the creep and even if she did, with her job as a hooker demeaning totally anonymity for her customers, she'll never report him to the police still Bree's former John is now determined to shut her up just to play it safe! Like he already murdered two other hookers who suffered through and survived the extremely rough sex that he demanded of them!There's no real surprise in the movie since we get to see the psycho long before the film ends. Klute soon finds himself falling in love with Bree who also finds it difficult to respond to his feelings for her since sex is only a business not a personal pleasure or emotional attachment for her. It's Klute's falling in love with Bree that has him go out of his way to stop her potential murderer from doing her in more then he normally would have. And it was that what brought the killer, who already murdered three persons, out into the open in order to murder Bree before she opened up in, unlike with the police and FBI, trusting Klute and coming out and identifying him!A bit talky with very little T&A that you would have expected from an adult subject-prostitution-film staring the 1960's and 1970's sex kitten Jane Fonda but the acting by everyone in it, especially Miss Fonda, made you overlook all that. There's a number of actors-Roy Scheider & Sylevester Stallone-in the movie who had since become famous. There's also an up and coming and soon to be major porno star-Harry Reems-who was trying to cash in on his new found publicity and name recognition, by him going legit, in the movie as well. That besides Klute's very good screenplay directing, by Alan J. Pakula, and acting is an added attraction in watching the film. "},{"Title":"Good Movie - A Bit Dated","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  I suspect the perversity of the plot was much more shocking in 1971 than it is in 2001.  It seems a bit tame by today's standards.Regardless, the plot is good.  Donald Sutherland and Jane Fonda turn in fine performances as the detective and the trying-to-reform call girl.  I am a fan of Alan Pakula's direction.  There are some good dark shots and nicely balanced mix of long and close shots that add visual appeal to the movie.If you are looking for a good character-driven movie, this is an enjoyable enough one to watch and it has an ending that modern movies seem to have forgotten how to accomplish. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda And Donald Sutherland Excel In Klute","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is a film that tells the story of a prostitute who assists a detective in solving a missing person's case. It stars Jane Fonda and Donald Sutherland together with Charles Cioffi and Roy Scheider. It was the first installment of what informally came to be known as Director Alan J. Pakula's paranoia trilogy that included The Parallax View and All The President's Men. It was written by Andy Lewis and Dave Lewis.Investigating the disappearance of his friend Tom Gruneman, rural Pennsylvania private eye John Klute follows a lead provided by Gruneman's associate Peter Cable to seek out a call girl who Gruneman knew in New York City. The call girl is Bree Daniels,an aspiring actress who turns tricks for the cash and to be free of emotional bondage. Klute follows Bree's every move, observing the city's decadence and her isolation, eventually contacting her about Gruneman. Bree claims not to know Gruneman, but she does reveal that she has received threats from a john. As Bree becomes involved in Klute's search and realizes that she is in danger, she reluctantly falls in love with Klute, despite her wish to remain unattached to any man. When she finally comes face to face with the killer, however, she is forced to reconsider her detached urban life.Jane Fonda came into her own with this Oscar-winning performance as an insecure high-class prostitute who can't make it as a legitimate actress or model yet can't give up her addiction. She loves the control too much. But when she's stalked by a killer, she's forced to confront the darker aspects of her nature and profession. It's a complex and authentic performance and Fonda plays it cool and smart.She makes all the right choices, from the mechanics of her walk and her voice inflection to the penetration of the girl's raging psyche.Indeed,it is a rare performance. While Sutherland is either an excellent sounding board for this nuanced portrait or he's a big zero, probably both.With Fonda and Sutherland, you have actors who understand and sympathize with their characters, and you have a vehicle worthy of that sort of intelligence. So the fact that the thriller stuff doesn't always work isn't so important.Obviously,both are at the top of their game in this mystery/thriller that also provides a fascinating look into the mind and soul of a top NYC call girl that definitely erases all the flaws this film has.A must-see indeed!!!!! "},{"Title":"Klute is some sort of loot","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is mostly worth seeing, although the ending is a little anticlimactic. Jane Fonda plays New York prostitute Bree Daniels, who starts getting stalked. Det. John Klute (Donald Sutherland) comes into the scene to protect her, and what they find out sure isn't what anyone would expect.Did Jane Fonda deserve Best Actress for this movie? That's debatable. Since this was the era when she was making a name for herself by protesting the Vietnam War, Klute probably would have helped her cause (and Donald Sutherland was also staunchly against the war). Still, how many stalker movies can there be? I guess that a noteworthy point would be that director Alan J. Pakula creates the same feeling here that he created in The Parallax View and Sophie's Choice the feeling that there's something that we don't really know about certain things until the shocking truth gets blown open.Anyway, this is worth seeing, if only to understand why 1971 was such an important year for movies (it also saw the releases of La noche de Walpurgis, A Clockwork Orange, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, Shaft, Willard, The French Connection, The Last Picture Show, Play Misty for Me, Dirty Harry and Harold and Maude). Maybe this movie isn't exactly a masterpiece, but it's pretty interesting. I can't help but wonder whether 1978's The Eyes of Laura Mars was a remake. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda is sensational","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The way I found out about this movie was by watching Terror In The Aisles. There were a few clips of it that looked interesting.  I rented it and was satisfied just like I thought and hoped I would be.  Jane Fonda gave the performance of a lifetime.  It wasn't just one of the best ones of her career, it was the best of her career and gave her the Academy Award in 1972.  Others have said that this movie failed but I just can't see it. Donald Sutherland was a hit, not as good as Fonda, but really good.  I can see him in real life actually  being in that line of work, can't say the same about some of his other roles.  Him and Fonda were both young in this movie.  Also them two were excellent together, like Al Pacino-Michelle Pfieffer in Scarface and Ray Liotta-Lorraine Bracco inGoodfellas.  It is kind of slow a few times, but every movie is at least once.  If you're a fan of either of the two, you would probably enjoy this one.  I give it a 9/10 due to a few minor slow parts.  Jane Fonda is hot. "},{"Title":"Want a great mystery? See Klute!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have never seen nor heard of this film before until recently on cable.  This is a great film!  Not only is it an intriguing mystery(kind of noirish if I may say so), but it is also a love story.  Both John Klute and Bree Daniels, played superbly by Sutherland and Fonda, respectively, are real, dynamic characters whom we sympathize with through the film. Out of all the memorable scenes, one that I found worth mentioning is when Daniels enters a discotheque and dances with a couple of men before heading off to her pimp and Klute sees her being consoled by him--I just found that very symbolic, but that's just my two cents.  Also noteworthy are its direction (courtesy of Alan J. Pakula) and its screenplay--there are some great lines spoken.  I personally recommend this! "},{"Title":"Lost in art","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Klute is essentially a good film which is not undeserved of the praise it has received but it seems to have almost gone too far. It is almost too arty and although this is admirable it makes the film a difficult watch. Sutherland and Fonda do a good job of it but the film is too conscious of the suspicious seventies and this makes the film slightly dreary and dull.  "},{"Title":"At best, an average thriller-drama with fine acting by Fonda.","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is quite an over-rated movie. I am a bit surprised too by the words of lavish praise by some other users on this forum. And some seem ecstatic by the fact that Fonda plays a hooker (oh wow!). That is not a good enough reason to be impressed. I don't discount the fact that she acts very well in her Oscar worthy performance here. But there have been other outstanding performances On Golden Pond, Julia, Coming Home, China Syndrome, etc.I feel the movie has some shortcomings 1. Structurally, if the culprit is identified already with over 30 minutes still remaining in the movie, it can't be that suspenseful as people make it out to be.2. There just isn't enough depth in the relationship between Bree and Klute, the way it has been shown, for us to really believe that she will get together with him in the end and move out to another town.3. And then as someone said, the movie should have been titled Bree and not Klute, because Fonda really steals the show from Sutherland, who plays his typical wooden face and is not very believable as a private eye. Sutherland has played enough neurotic types in his lifetime, and somehow his personality fits that as well, so that he might have been better cast as one of Bree's clients rather than as the good detective.4. Klute threatens Bree with revealing tape recordings of her conversation if she does not provide him information and surprisingly, she willingly tries to comply. Now why would she do that? It is clearly illegal to wiretap on someone without a court order. And that too is given only to law enforcement agencies, not to private dicks!Don't get me wrong. It is a decent movie, no doubt, just not good enough as the flurry of comments on this forum. Cheers! "},{"Title":"Character study of a call girl, memorable but troubling","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of a number of movies that I saw some time ago, where my opinion has changed somewhat over the years. It's a suspenseful thriller, but notable mainly for Jane Fonda's brilliant Oscar winning portrayal of a successful but vulnerable high class call girl named Bree. My complaint is that even though Bree is obviously a very troubled woman, involved with drugs in addition to prostitution, I'm afraid it might glamorize the concept of the high class (?) call girl. Please read the remainder of my commentary with the knowledge that I do not advocate or condone prostitution, whether a classy version or not.The story revolves around a Pennsylvania small town detective, John Klute, who seeks out a New York City call girl named Bree Daniels as his sole potential lead to a friend who is missing. After taping her phone for blackmailing purposes, she reluctantly agrees to co-operate, and Klute discovers that she is being stalked. Suspense and thrills follow as he tries to ferret out all the deception going on. The two are wary of each other at first, then begin to form a fragile relationship.Fonda brings the character of the hooker vividly to the screen. Bree is an intelligent, articulate, and manipulative individual; she is, however, also lonely and in therapy. She has built an emotional wall around herself, striving to always be in control of the situation and especially her emotions, hence her business where she can avoid allowing herself to experience love or feel pleasure. She fears involvement as it threatens her independence and desire to always be in control. Bree has dual aspects to her nature. In her business dealings with clients, she is strong, competent, and confident. However, in her personal relationships, she is frightened and vulnerable.I recall few plot details, but this is not really a suspense thriller as much as a character portrait. Donald Sutherland competently plays Klute, but though the movie is named for the detective, it is really all about the call girl.I found this to be a rather 'dark' movie overall and, as far as hookers go, I infinitely preferred the romantic comedy Pretty Woman. The hooker, Vivian, in that film also had problems dealing with intimacy but it was portrayed optimistically and hopefully. In any case, whether Bree or Vivian, prostitution left both these hookers with feelings of emptiness and a need for genuine love. "}{"Title":"I found the movie lacking","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER!! I usually do not waste my time renting and watching a movie unless there has been some considerable raves.  Hence, I expected a satisfying viewing experience with Klute, but unfortunately I was disappointed.  To me, the movie was predictable ( I figured out the killer at the very beginning of the movie), hackneyed (as expected, Klute comes to Bree Daniel's rescue at the last moment, and the two fall in love...).  Also, I did not like the part of Roy Scheider as the sleazeball in the movie.  He didn't seem right for the character.  Overall, I was not moved by the story or sympathetic with the characters.   "},{"Title":"Keeps trying to the end, but never makes it.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've never liked Alan Pakula movies, never, not even one. The best I can offer is indifference to titles like `Presumed Innocent' and `All the President's Men' two of the absolute BIGGEST books, turned into ordinary films. For my money he's a director that starts with a &#145;sure thing' book or script, then by the time he's done it is something less. Often times dramatically so.Klute is a movie that in time and tone is similar to Coppola's &#145;The Conversation' but where `The Conversation' tends to be mysterious, subversive, this film is vacant. It simply lacks the invention and backbone.Jane Fonda's Academy Award performance here, is probably the best of her career, but although informative, is, like many of her performances, emotionless. Donald Sutherland's job is merely to stand in the center, while Fonda dances around him, and he does that well enough.In  the hands of another, this might have been an action thriller, though unnecessary.  Pakula's attempt at a psychological thriller is mindless.  "},{"Title":"Keeps trying, but never makes it.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've never liked Alan Pakula movies, never, not even one. The best I can offer is indifference to titles like Presumed Innocent and All the President's Men two of the absolute BIGGEST books, turned into ordinary films. For my money he's a director that starts with a 'sure thing' book or script, then by the time he's done it is something less. Often times dramatically so.Klute is a movie that in time and tone is similar to Coppola's 'The Conversation' but where The Conversation tends to be mysterious, subversive, this film is vacant. It simply lacks the invention and backbone.Jane Fonda's Academy Award performance in this movie, is probably the best of her career, but although informative, is, like many of her performances, emotionless. Donald Sutherland's job is merely to stand in the center, while Fonda dances around him, and he does that well enough.This attempt at a  psychological thriller is mindless.  "},{"Title":"Talk, talk, talk","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ambitious goals can still produce bad movies. Follow the decade that made a valiant attempt to remove the stigma from both sex and drugs; stir in a generation that actually claimed the unexamined bromides about freedom provided by any American childhood, and you'll get this movie, where the individual (always in the form of an actor) is moved into the pole position so they can show off their ability to convincingly emote; and achieve the deepest American dream of making your work 100 percent about yourself. Nearly every frame of celluloid here is sacrificed on the altar of individuality, the baby boomer ethos. Plot, character and structure all suffer (They're out back &#x85;in a dumpster) so an actor can pretend to achieve some unnamed goal. Miserably, this is still the recipe for accolades in Hollywood. In Fonda's case, Klute was a chance to conclusively reject her father's values* and pretend her ascent was not about nepotism (she won an award).Klute is the enfeebled, self-hating place drama went in the 70s. This was supposed to be deep psychologically. I give you five minutes to find the big ideas in it, degraded as they are from overuse.Though I am fine with her politics, I cannot stand Fonda as an actress. Here, she can't swear without sounding like a brainiac co-ed whose read everything Simone De Beauvoir ever wrote, which is not the Bree character at all; a call girl with acting ambitions. No need to come down on Fonda though; any actress in this role would come across as a self-admiring diva. I also can't stand a movie whose dramatic structure is disposed of, to have a parade of flat 'others' stand next to Fonda, for the sole purpose of allowing her to tell us her back-story and reveal her emotions. (an investigator, a john, as always a psychologist - the laziest script idea ever devised - &#x85;even a tape recorder will do) in unlikely self-disclosing, self-hating, self-righteous soliloquies.In abandoning the uptight values of the past, Klute becomes just as uptight, about being perceived as with it, man! With a flat affect, off-putting verbosity, and a two hour running length, I found this to be quite a slog. And the solution is stupid.(*Henry Fonda could conceive of no greater use for film, than to have his characters continually spout his own conventional moral beliefs.) "},{"Title":"Jane is, well...believable.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jane Fonda in her Oscar-winning role as 'Bree'; a prostitute being stalked by the bad guy.  Donald Sutherland plays the good guy a private dick who, initially, is out to find a missing person.  For my money's worth he plays it way too dead pan.  He probably wouldn't have played it any differently if he was acting in his sleep.  Quite a departure from his excellent job in Kelley's Heroes, for instance. Jane, on the other hand, really kicks butt.  She has this nervous energy that pretty much became her trademark.  You believe her, you sympathize with her, you sort of fall just a little bit in love with her.  She may be a prostitute, but she doesn't come off like a slut.  She's kind and sympathetic with her tricks, and she's damn good at her job.  You get the feeling her customers couldn't help but get their money's worth.  As they say, you go, girl!stanhejl@netscape.net "},{"Title":"Distinctly average","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Six months after the disappearance of one of his employees boss Peter Cable (Charles Cloffi) hires a private investigator John Klute (Donald Sutherland) to investigate his disappearance. However, John's only links to the employees disappearance are some seedy letters and a call-girl Bree Daniel (Jane Fonda) who has a connection to the missing person.Klute is one of those films that does hook you in at the start (as indeed any good mystery film does), but sadly it's an example of a film where I found myself gradually losing more and more interest as it trundles along. The film is very poorly paced and simply isn't exciting, suspenseful or compelling enough to make it truly stand out from the crowd. The film is OK when it focuses on the mystery, but loses focus far too often with some unnecessary scenes - examples of this include Bree's psychiatry sessions and although they offer insight in to her as a person they also seem to focus on her feelings towards Klute. To me, it would have been better if more time would have been focused on the mystery at hand as opposed to their clichéd and contrived romance. I note that Jane Fonda won an Oscar here and whilst I don't mean to discredit her (I did think she was very good here), I couldn't help but feel that she perhaps stood out more here because of how poor everyone else was - Donald Sutherland was lifeless here and I'm unsure whether this is his fault or down to how the writers have asked him to portray his character, but either way he was dull. I wasn't expecting a crazy performance here, but I thought that there may have been a bit of a rapport or a bit of chemistry between Sutherland and Fonda, but it just wasn't there and it left the film feeling a bit flat and unfulfilled.As I've mentioned the mystery element is OK, but it isn't what I'd call compelling or edge of your seat, but it has just about enough going to make it worth watching (although I thought the final act was terrible). The only other really good thing about this film (other than Jane Fonda) was Michael Small's score which did help to create tension and suspense where the script was failing to deliver the same.Klute is a film that pretty much does everything right, but it always felt like it was doing it in a half-hearted way. Aside from Fonda's performance and Small's score everything else felt rather mediocre and distinctly average across the board. "},{"Title":"Slow, Mannered, and Overrated","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite Fonda's ace performance, the film is overrated. The main problem is Pakula's attempt at an intellectualized style. Too bad it's one that ends up competing with the storyline instead of complementing it. He's clearly intrigued with light and dark, which he appears to demonstrate for its own sake rather than for the narrative's. Trouble is the pictorial mannerism calls attention to itself instead of the story. In short, it dominates instead of underlining, thereby intruding on what's already a rambling screenplay. Speaking of the screenplay, the whodunit part is clumsily layered upon Bree's confessional inner life, such that concentration is scattered rather than focused. Moreover, Pakula's pacing is as languorous as is the plot development.Now, all of this may have been cutting edge in 1970, including Bree's explicit sex life. But now the movie looks slow and mannered, and suffers, for example, in comparison to 1960's unheralded, but efficient, Girl Of The Night. That earlier film also dwelt on a call-girl's experiences, but in a more concentrated and moving way. Perhaps I've watched too many of these 40's and 50's B-movies to appreciate Pakula's intellectual approach (check IMDb's bio). But I still think movies are primarily for story-telling, and if deeper levels can be revealed in the process, then that's well and good. Looks to me, however, as though this overrated exercise has the priorities of story first and technique second exactly backwards. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Jane Fonda's Terrific Performance!","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a film, 'Klute' works in parts. It has some interesting moments, that are truly arresting & compelling to watch. But, the biggest merit of this 1971 film is -- Jane Fonda. The Legendary Actress delivers a Terrific Performance. Her Oscar-Winning Performance alone, is worth giving this film a watch.'Klute' tells the story of a prostitute who assists a detective in solving a missing persons case.The film begins ably, but gathers momentum only in it's second-hour. The climax, though not great, it still works & is nicely put-up. However, the film is too slow-paced. especially in the first-hour. The film definitely could've been faster, in terms of pacing.The Writing Material is steady. Alan J. Pakula's Direction is top-notch. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are fair. Performance-Wise As mentioned, Jane Fonda delivers terrificly and is the biggest merit of this film. Donald Sutherland is very impressive. Roy Scheider, like always, is dependable. Charles Cioffi does well. Others lend support.On the whole, 'Klute' is a good effort, but it's mainly Jane Fonda's performance that stands out from start to end. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric but Too Deliberate","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A Pennsylvania detective goes to NYC in search of a friend who has disappeared. Sutherland is fine in the title role of a no-nonsense detective who's only clue is that the missing man wrote letters to a NYC prostitute. Fonda is sexy and believable as the call girl, a mesmerizing performance that garnered her her first Oscar. Pakula creates a suspenseful atmosphere, helped by the excellent cinematography and an eerie if repetitive score. Unfortunately, the pacing is too deliberate, with the film nearly coming to a standstill in the middle. Also, after the nice buildup, the denouement is rather disappointing. "},{"Title":"straight town detective meets freak city hooker","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this is how i could summarize Klute - it has a good cinematography, good acting (Jane Fonda excels) and an effective soundtrack. The film was released in 1971 in a time in which everything was changing fast, so Klute doesn't pass judgement or try to deliver any moral message.Simply told the story runs like this A detective, Klute (Donald Sutherland) is engaged to find a man, Tom Gruneman, that disappeared mysteriously. No one knows if he's dead or alive. The only link Klute has is Bree (Jane Fonda), a high class hooker that apparently Tom Gruneman was frequenting before his disappearance. Klute goes to see her. His investigations progress but soon it's clear that someone is after Bree's life. I think that in spite of its sophistication, Klute falls short. It doesn't work as a thriller and it hasn't really involved me. The film is good, but the detached look that Pakula gives to characters and places, makes the film lose the emotional impact it could have had if it had a more personal touch.Klute seems to be a film that was carefully planned and executed. Pakula is a good director - visually Klute is a beautiful film, and it is also an interesting period piece (better anyway than the majority of thrillers made nowadays), and Jane Fonda is very good as Bree - it's thanks to her that Klute managed to keep my interest. "}{"Title":"Klute-Sexual Sickness **1/2","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jane Fonda won an Oscar for playing a neurotic, sick, call- girl, aspiring to be an actress, yet her addiction to sex causes her to lead the sleazy life.When she becomes involved in a missing person's investigation, she meets up with Donald Sutherland, an investigator with a cold veneer if ever there were. Sutherland is Klute, and with the expression of his eyes, we're looking a rather depressed person. Naturally, physical contact occurs between the two.While all this occurring, Fonda visits her female psychiatrist dutifully recalling the events of her sexual escapades.Wait until you see who the guilty party is.Jean Stapleton appears briefly in one scene as a secretary to one of Fonda's older clients. She comes across just as Edith Bunker. "},{"Title":"Mellow mystery drama with an amazing Jane Fonda.","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" KLUTE is an interesting film that got Jane Fonda the Oscar for Best Actress, and she thoroughly deserved it. Her character is a street- smart, intelligent prostitute that shows herself to be a complex being; her confidence, effectiveness and coolness towards customers contrasted to her little-girl tendencies of crunching up in bed, scared of the dark when off duty, is a brilliantly realized role, by director Pakula, and off course Fonda. Donald Sutherland plays a private eye investigating a disappearance case, and she (Fonda) saw the man in question. The film juggles two balls with slight ease; the eerie, suspenseful stalking thriller scenes, accompanied by creepy music and darkening corners, with the emotionally laden character study of Fonda as she gets through her day. It starts off immediately, and as Pakula leads us through the mellow, jazzy middle parts of the film, we're always reminded of the tingling thought of mystery that surrounds the case and its developing murderer. These are elements of classic investigation plots, but the film feels much more fresh and alive with Fonda's character, a character that's modern, and real. "},{"Title":"Classic movie, giant stars","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Klute is a good movie classic that is best enjoyed by 30 and older crowd. With stars like Jane Fonda, Donald Sutherland and Roy Schneider, there is no reason why you should not enjoy this film. However, I have just seen too many Jane Fonda movies. The movie is a typical suspense, thriller, drama movie of the seventies. Klute is a prime time movie, that is, it is to be watched between 6 pm and 10 pm. It was so amazing to see such a young Donald Sutherland in this film. I normally remember his acting as a gray haired man. It is also amazing to see the Edith Bunker star (All In The Family) in this film. I had not remembered seeing her in films before, but she is in this movie. Popcorn and chips are the recommended snacks in this movie. "},{"Title":"Keeps trying, but never makes it.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've never liked Alan Pakula movies, never, not even one. The best I can offer is indifference to titles like Presumed Innocent and All the President's Men two of the absolute BIGGEST books, turned into ordinary films. For my money he's a director that starts with a 'sure thing' book or script, then by the time he's done it is something less. Often times dramatically so.Klute is a movie that in time and tone is similar to Coppola's 'The Conversation' but where The Conversation tends to be mysterious, subversive, this film is vacant. It simply lacks the invention and backbone.Jane Fonda's Academy Award performance in this movie, is probably the best of her career, but although informative, is, like many of her performances, emotionless. Donald Sutherland's job is merely to stand in the center, while Fonda dances around him, and he does that well enough.This attempt at a  psychological thriller is mindless.  "},{"Title":"I guess I missed this one.","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I guess this movie is dated to me, some of the concepts that were so revolutionary for the 1970s are just not enough today. The world of prostitution isn't enough to really intrigue me anymore, let alone the horrific Jane Fonda, who is so annoying to me, I look at a great actor like Henry Fonda, and I wonder why she didn't learn anything from him, and apply it to this movie? I can understand for the time a woman being so non-chalant about sex and the fact she is a prostitute was very unheard of, but that was then, what you have left is a Jane Fonda movie, and you have to watch her, and it is so annoying to sit there and try to watch her.Also in the movie is a great actor, Donald Sutherland, who adds a lot of class to this movie as he does to almost any movie. Also watch for Roy Scheider in an interesting part, and Jean Stapleton in a 5 minute part. The movie is a murder mystery, with so much seventies style that the quality loses something. The murder mystery is lost in the so many contrasts, the big corporate world to the gritty street world, big city vs. small town, ethnic culture vs. wasp culture, by the end of it there is no real telling what the movie is, there is too much non-essential story telling to be a goo murder mystery, and too much of Jane Fonda to make the movie good.The movie is slow, the characters generally are unappealing, and the acting is not natural, there is no fluidity to the movie. As I said the movie is supposed to be revolutionary for the time but today it looks very awkward, not dated but very awkward. I just wish Donald Sutherland,a great actor wasn't in such a movie, he looks out of place here, he doesn't seem to mesh well with this unusual movie, and considering some of the movies Sutherland has been in that's kind of surprising. "}]