[{"Title":"Can you Dig it?","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can.  Because this is not only the greatest black-exploitation film ever, but also one of the best films of the 70's era.  Richard Roundtree brings out Ernest Tidyman's John Shaft like no one else can (not even Samuel L. Jackson in the new shaft can compete) as the ultimate bad-a** who must investigate a kidnapping.  One of the most memorable films ever made, especially by the Oscar winning song (and nominated score) by Isaac Hayes, which made his breakthrough as his funk thing grew.  A+ "},{"Title":"Roundtree's performance","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is not a great film, but it is one of the most important films in American history.The film suffers primarily because Parks isn't sure whether he wants to direct a 'relevant' black crime drama - for which he doesn't really have the money - or a film of the genre that became infamous as blaxploitation, which had at that time not yet achieved definition. In other words, Parks is breaking new ground, and he wasn't sure exactly what ground he is breaking. So the film tends to amble, and sometimes even stagger, as it tries to define a goal for itself.Nonetheless, this is the first film where a strong black man in a truly heroic role - without the props of white liberal social blather, and without being borderline criminal - is portrayed without excuses or apologies. Shaft is truly a hero of his time, part Sam Spade (& no jokes here, please), part James Bond - and all man - intelligent, fast to act, direct and always true to himself - he's nobody's boy.Although these qualities are in the script, the communication of the message depends entirely on Richard Roundtree - one of the truly great action actors of Hollywood history - hey, I'm a white boy, and I still want to be this John Shaft! he's that cool. The marginalization of this savvy and witty actor, due to the racism of Hollywood, is a real crime.Well, for now, never mind; his performance alone carries this film, and makes it a treasure; and no matter how badly Hollywood marginalizes black action cinema, Roundtree's performance will continue to stand tall, for many generations to come. "},{"Title":"Shaft was/is/will be the man","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am an old-school man from Motown, and I was at the premiere showing in June of 1971 at the Palms Theatre. The impact and impression that is left in your mind dictates how one feels about anything. Shaft, starring Richard Roundtree, made it's mark on me then, and does now. From the opening scenes in the streets, to the end theme, when John Shaft came through the window...at the time, no Black man exercised such a strength of will and character as he did. the music score of Issac Hayes did/does/will be as timeless as the movie. The storyline was compelling, characters well-developed and colorful, the direction of Gordon Parks set a new standard, and even the fashion and wardrobe made a statement. Can you dig it? "},{"Title":"There is a good deal of the Bogart characterization in Richard Rountree's portrayal...","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft is a black private eye in the sleazy, downtown part of Brooklyn, and of all the new gumshoes trying to fill the Marlowe shoes, he probably comes nearest to the type of character devised by Dashiel Hammett in The Maltese Falcon and sharpened by Raymond Chandler in The Big Sleep.He is the kind of man of whom Chandler wrote But down these mean streets a man must go who is not himself mean, who is neither tarnished nor afraid.If Shaft is ever afraid, he does not show it&#133; He moves through city streets on foot with the slim grace of a panther&#133; He can hold his own with black man or white&#133;To the white police detective who looks sardonically at him and comments 'You ain't so black, Shaft is quick to pick up a white coffee-cup, hold it alongside the cop's face, and reply And you ain't so white either baby.The mood of the film is set in the beginning when Shaft, striding along the pavements, is asked where he is going. To get laid, he says without pausing&#133; At the end, almost the same situation recurs&#133; He is asked Where've you been, man? and he says 'I got laid. The real point about Shaft, however, is that though the character does happen to be a black man, he could just as easily be white, red or yellow&#133; Yes, some of the dialog would have to be altered if he were turned into a Charlie Chan, but that is not at issue&#133; There is a good deal of the Bogart characterization in Richard Rountree's portrayal, blended with a touch of the Paul Newman's... "},{"Title":"Timely Take On The Standard Private Detective Formula.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"    It is an innovative effort, and serves as a snapshot of the times.  Shaft, written by Ernest Tidyman, stands as one of the best modern detective dramas.  Written and filmed at a time of extreme social unrest throughout the U.S.; the movie shows how Jon Shaft uses his private detective status and ethnicity to retrieve the kidnapped daughter of a notorious Harlem kingpin.     While the plot pieces of black militants, and a potential race war in New York City, may not be as relevant in 2001 as they were in 1971, the cast and crew do a good job to convey the importance of Shaft's mission. Shaft, indeed, is one cool cat.  Not only is he a ladies' man, but he's also a man about town.  He knows every iota of New York City, and uses his detective skills to the fullest.  Ducking the city police, and handling his business with the crooks, Shaft plays it cool to the very end.   Many people like to bundle the blaxploitation pictures into a neat little package; one to laugh at and check out the music score.  Shaft proves there was more meaning to these films, and ends up as a classic display of substance with style. "},{"Title":"Right On!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Blaxploitation at it's best. A simple story with a twist done right. That is Shaft. The concept of a black man as a cool ultra slick, lady lovin' private detective. For once in the world of cinema the black man was tops and unlike other genre entries this one clicked with people of both colors. They had created a solid character in John Shaft that the population took a shinning to. For once it wasn't something exploitative being sold to a one-sided market audience exclusively.But look I'm getting sidetracked. Shaft isn't this huge epic struggle of the black man through the generations. It's a solid, satisfying picture that gets by on pure character. Shaft. The black private detective has endlessly been imitated, but never duplicated since. With much of the character's success having to be attributable to Richard Roundtree, a perfect fit for the material. He wasn't so much playing a character named John Shaft, but rather he was John Shaft. Perhaps to the detriment of his career, I still can't watch a movie with Richard Roundtree in it without thinking of Shaft. The plot is on auto pilot - you've seen it before - maybe even done better - but this movie has Shaft and that's all there is to say. "},{"Title":"The movie that kicked in the 1970s blaxploitation and changed the face of Hollywood forever!","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gordon Parks' 'Shaft' may not have been the first blaxploitation movie but it was the most important and commercially successful of the initial batch, and it kicked open the door for other dynamic 1970s screen heroes like The Hammer, Coffy, Black Caesar, Foxy Brown and The Jones' (Black Belt and Cleopatra). In some ways it is one of the most conventional of the blaxploitation genre in the sense that all it really is is a black man (the charismatic Richard Roundtree) playing a part that up until then would have been played by a white one (Lee Marvin, Clint Eastwood, even Sean Connery). A super cool, hard as nails hero/anti-hero who is as handy with his fists as he is with the ladies. But of course, that is what made 'Shaft' so revolutionary and influential at the time. Personally my favourite blaxploitation movie is 'Superfly', released the following year and directed by Gordon Parks' son, but I can't deny that if you accept 'Shaft' for what it is, and not what it COULD be, it's difficult to fault, and still one of the coolest and most entertaining action thrillers of the 1970s, as good as 'The Getaway', 'Dirty Harry' or 'The French Connection' (the latter being also written incidentally by Ernest Tidyman who created the John Shaft character in a popular series of novels). The main reason 'Shaft' really works is because of the casting of virtual unknown Richard Roundtree, and the music score by soul legend Isaac Hayes. Roundtree probably had more potential than any black star of the period to cross over into major Hollywood stardom, but for some reason (typecasting, bad breaks) he faded away quickly, and ended up playing small character roles, usually cops, in cult favourites like Larry Cohen's 'Q' and William Lustig's 'Maniac Cop', and more recently bit parts in 'Se7en' and John Singleton's ill advised remake of 'Shaft' itself. Hayes' title theme is an utter classic, and one of the most recognisable and imitated pieces of music from the early 70s. Hayes had already released the brilliant 'Hot Buttered Soul' before this, but 'Shaft' made him a superstar, and even gave him a career as an action here himself for a while with 'Truck Turner'. I don't think overall Hayes' score for the movie is as consistently impressive as Curtis Mayfield's work on 'Superfly', but the main theme is still a sensational piece of music. Roundtree is backed up with a strong supporting cast, including Moses Gunn ('Rollerball') as Bumpy, a great baddie, Charles Cioffi ('Klute') as Androzzi, the cop who is frequently exasperated with Shaft's behaviour, and Muhammad Ali associate Drew Bundini Brown as Willy, a former childhood friend of Shaft who is now a black panther and disgusted with his decadent lifestyle. Also keep an eye out for a small bit by Antonio Fargas, who is best known as Huggy Bear in 'Starsky And Hutch' and also went on to appear as Pam Grier's brother in 'Foxy Brown', and as Doodlebug in 'Cleopatra Jones'. 'Shaft' is a movie that changed the face of Hollywood forever, and is highly recommended to anyone who enjoys 1970s movies, music or fashions. "},{"Title":"Classic bit of black-ploitation","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Shaft is a private detective in Harlem.  He is hired by pimp and drug dealer Bumpy Jonas to find Bumpy's daughter who has been kidnapped by an unknown party.  Shaft investigates the local Panther organisation but ultimately finds that an Italian mob is trying to move in on Bumpy's territory.  With all parties at conflict Shaft must keep his cool to get the girl back.Ay the start of a decade filled with cheap movies aimed at getting the black audience a product aimed at them in particular.  Many of these were poor but Shaft stood out because it could have been a film in it's own right.  The story is a normal detective movie with a black twist and that helps &#150; because it's not forced at all.  The story is gritty and tough as befits the setting and the hero.Shaft is tough but hadn't yet turned into 007 (as he did in Shaft's Big Score), this makes him tough but also keeps him down to earth.  Roundtree handles himself sexily and looks great &#150; the film very much revolves around his performance and he holds the attention easily.The film eventually gets into gun fights and an exciting conclusion but really this is all about mood and funk.  And it delivers both. "},{"Title":"Shaft.  John Shaft.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie three years ago with a bunch of friends.  We laughed ourselves to death, and it was the start of a budding interesting in watching poorly made films as a death sport (Trust me, the worse they are, the more they are a battle with your own mortality).  In any event, we had a ball laughing at the time capsule elements of the film; the hair, the clothes, the dialogue, and above all as many puns on the name Shaft as we could think of (Uh oh!  The police want Shaft! H'yuck!).  Watching the film now I find it rather interesting; as far as bad movies go, there are movies that are infinitely worse, and as far as good movies go, there are movies that are infinitely better.Unlike a lot of poor blaxploitation movies I've seen, this one has a decent plot, some interesting characters, and a slick look, as directed by Gordon Parks.  They seem to have a pretty good idea how to make a movie.  Sure they characters say stuff like Don't jive me! but c'mon that was the time.  I guess then this film was cutting edge in its own way.The character of Shaft fascinates me.  Here's a character who uses women without remorse and without consequences, treats his one friend like a jerk, uses people, and helps out a ruthless gangster because the price is right.  He's also one of the coolest characters ever presented on screen (The comparison to James Bond is actually pretty apt).  I love it when a protagonist defies conventions, and man, if ever a character did, it was Shaft.Still the plot, involving a black mobster whose daughter is kidnapped by the Mafia starts strong but loses steam by the end.  The white villains are faceless (A nice change from racist Hollywood movies, but still), and while the film begins with some excellent twists, nothing suprising or very exciting happens in the last half hour.  I kept expecting some characters with very questionable loyalties to double cross Shaft, but they never do.  The film ends with a raid on an apartment, but the ramifications with the mob, the men who help Shaft, or the police are never shown.  In a way, it works cause the film does things the way it wants, but still it's not a very satifying end to things.I guess now older, wiser, and a tad (Just a tad, perhaps even as much as a smidge) more mature, I can appreciate Shaft as a decent crime flick, with a great (I probably should say right on) protagonist.  And yes, it is campy and out of date, but that adds to the fun.  Still, I think it's a better film that I used to give it credit for.  Or maybe shaft jokes just aren't as funny to me as they used to be. "},{"Title":"A Few Good Moments But Shaft Is Too Slowly Paced, Runs Out of Gas, and Ends Absurdly","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft starts with promise, opening with the popular tune by Isaac Hayes as the camera explores a business district in New York City. For example, we see a theater playing 'Little Fauss and Big Halsey,' a motorcycle cult classic starring Robert Redford, Michael J. Pollard, and Lauren Hutton, then Shaft wends his way across a busy boulevard with no regard for the fact that it's strictly DON'T WALK time, a feat reminiscent of the arcade game, Frogger. Soon, we are introduced to the police lieutenant who is so understanding and laid back that Shaft's disdainful attitude toward him as just another cog in the honky establishment seems a bit difficult to comprehend. Actually, Shaft tends to mix with white society rather easily, even taking a white chick home with him and screwing her in the shower, then letting her sleep it off while he goes out for a few hours to take care of business. We've already seen him with his regular girl, who is attractive in her form fitting body suit, their love scene having been photographed imaginatively. His discussion with the black hoodlum whose daughter has been kidnapped is also interesting, as are other conversations, and the initial action in his office, where a thug practically dives out a high window, displays some interesting camera and editing techniques. On balance, however, this movie is too slowly paced for an action flick. With the number of times one might wish to stop and replay certain bits of important dialog, it tends to drag a bit, but I disagree with those who think the talk is too dated or not believable. Generally, it's the best thing about this movie, which isn't half bad, at least up until the ending, which is completely ridiculous. Midway through the concluding scenes, I turned to my wife and said, What is this, 'Mission Impossible?' It's really absurd the way the supposed Black militants who are aiding Shaft seem thoroughly unfamiliar with the proper handling of weapons or what tactics to employ in a dicey situation, and the way they go up against the mob is just plain laughable. Here, the gangsters are holding the young black woman as hostage and yet there are just a few dumb palookas guarding her, none of whom seem to be paying sufficient attention. Nobody's on tenterhooks watching out for a rescue attempt, nor does anyone appear to be running the operation from Thug HQ. The primary function of these morons appears to be that they are racists who like to insult black people on general principles. It's a disappointing conclusion to what might have been a much better movie had it been more skillfully written and directed. Richard Roundtree, as Shaft, hands in a credible performance and the police lieutenant is pretty good, too. He's the same guy who played the middle-aged nut-job in Klute, but in this movie, he's a much more likable character. The way he extends his hand for Shaft to slap is an interesting bit of cinema. They are supposed to be at odds but the guy obviously is one of the black private eye's biggest fans, without coming off as phony, insincere, or patronizing, even though Shaft still treats him with unrelenting disdain. "}{"Title":"A classic black movie","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can understand why modern viewers aren't too impressed with &#x84;Shaft. Compared to modern action movies there isn't really much action here and it isn't anything spectacular &#x96; no huge shootouts , kung fu fights , big explosions , car chases and so on. There is lot of dialogue and the pacing is rather slow.You know what ? Those are the reasons why I really like Shaft . It feels like a REAL LIFE story . Not every movie has to be an over the top spectacle for simple minded audience. For me less is more . I can hardly care for action hero when he's doing impossible stuff like jumping over the missile with a truck. Here the danger feels real . There is no villain . A simple bad guy with a gun can end your life and you have to be very careful . Shaft uses his muscles only when necessary . He prefers to outsmart his enemy , because violence can lead you as far. When he's fighting for life , you FEEL that he's fighting for life.The movie captures the gritty atmosphere of 70's New York City . In this world everybody is walking a thin line between law and law of street . I also like that Shaft is a detective and the investigation actually plays important part through whole movie . Not to mention that characters here feel like they could exist in real life.Richard Roundtree is great as the charming bad ass Shaft who is one foot in the world of black people and the other foot in the world of white people. He easily dominates the whole movie with his tough , confident and wise cracking personality. Women , both black and white are attracted to him (We get to see naked women &#x96; something you can't see in action movies anymore). The other actors give him solid support. I liked Charles Cioffi as Vic Androzzi and Moses Gunn as Bumpy.The movie is worth watching for the delightful dialogue. Believe me &#x96; there is more tension in a scene when Shaft talks to Bumpy than in many car chases. The movie is very dialogue heavy , yet it's a true pleasure to listen how characters talk with each other . Most of the dialogue is quite humorous . You should prepare pen and paper to note .The action scenes are nicely photographed . There is a great title song by Isaac Hayes (it won Oscar) and during the movie you can hear few other nice songs. Shaft  is mostly entertainment , but it was also an important movie for black people. It's one of those rare movies where the black guy is a hero . The situation now changed , but long time ago it was a breakthrough movie . Shaft also captures really good the tension between white and black people back in the 70's.I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Violent , energetic  movie  with Shaft-Roundtree taking on nasties and investigating a kidnapping","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This known film deals with Shaft (Richard Roundtree , though Ron O'Neal auditioned for the role , he was turned down because the producers felt his complexion was too light) , an extremely tough and independent detective contracted by Harlem's drug king called Bumpy (Moses Gunn , character is based on Bumpy Johnson , an African-American mobster in the 1930s) for freeing his abducted daughter . Shaft running afoul into Harlem and confronts a sinister monsters bands in order to rescue her . The private-eye eliminates anyone who stands in this way on his objective and breaks all the rules in going after baddies , battling a variety of bullies , besides avoiding the confronting between black gangs and white gangs . He's helped by a Lt. chief Inspector called Vic (Charles Cioffi) and by group of Black Power followers (Christopher John) .This fist and guns opera features some passable acting , noisy action sequences , though no too much , and results to be quite entertaining . It's an intriguing film , plenty of thriller , suspense , kinky sex and much of the action centers around 125th Street in Harlem . Nice interpretation from Richard Roundtree , though Isaac Hayes auditioned for the title role , producers cast Roundtree , but were so impressed with Hayes that they asked him to write the now legendary score to the film . Violent , raw script in which the action keeps things moving along by Ernest Tidyman (French connection). The Ernest Tidyman novel which was the basis for the film is about a black detective and not a white one . It was rumored to be written as just another detective movie , with a white detective in the lead , but , after the success of Sweet Sweetback's Baadasssss Song (1971) , the film was rewritten and recast as a blaxploitation movie . Special mention for soul musical score that still resonates by Isaac Hayes who won an Academy Award . The picture was professionally directed by Gordon Parks , but it has a lot of violence , profanity and adult subject matter . The result is a strong entry for action buffs , plus creating the blaxploitation sub-genre . It's followed by two inferior sequels with similar players  ¨Big score¨ (Gordon Parks) with Moses Gunn and ¨Shaft in Africa¨ (John Guillermin) with Vonetta McGee and a recent version (2000 , by John Singleton) with Samuel L. Jackson and cameo by Richard Roundtree as Shaft's uncle . "},{"Title":"Has worn worse than the clothes","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Okay so there's a huge pile of films from the late 60's and early 70's that haven't worn well--- Easyrider leaps first to mind, but after seeing Shaft on TCM, we've got a new contender. I realize this is one that started the onslaught on our racial consciousness and while it's better than Superfly, The Mack, Shaft in Africa, Cleopatra Jones, et al, it's a shock to see how tacky things were 36 years ago. The hip lingo is horribly dated, the incessant reminders that us Caucasians are hopeless honkies is irritating and yeah, there's the wardrobe. I can't help it, it's distracting seeing middle aged guys wearing plaid suits with wide polyester ties (Starsky & Hutch fashion icon Antonio Fargas even has a cameo as a sidewalk informant) wearing laughable hats. Why did they have to throw in Shaft verschtionking a barfly when he's got a loyal (and far classier) woman back at the ranch? The plot is incredibly simplistic and is an ominous indicator of the even worse things to come in the Blaxploitation genre. Alright then, what's right? The late Gordon Parks could construct great complex exterior shots and draw out a fairly credible performance by the inexperienced Richard Roundtree. He could have been a whole lot worse. The best actor here is Moses Gunn (seen to better advantage in Ragtime). Ignoring Issac Hayes' title track lyrics that asks the rhetorical question, who's the big Black private dick who's a sex machine to all the chicks? (yeesh... but I'm just talking' about SHAFT!), the soundtrack is pretty decent. So there's a lot to be embarrassed about for those involved but there's also some redeeming qualities to the movie. I rate it a 3 for 10. "},{"Title":"The one and only original action-classic","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft was without a doubt one of those films that broke the mold of stereotypes and opened the floodgates to the blaxploitation renaissance of the Black Cinema Movement during the 1970's. It also introduced us to the world the Black Cinema's first-ever African-American actor as a figure of authority as well as a superhero of sorts. In other words,a man who was taking charge of his own actions and not by the MAN. Filmdom's first ever Black detective is one that was very successful in this first ever series of SHAFT movies including its two sequels and a short-lived television series. However,this film was the second feature to be directed by former Life Magazine photographer Gordon Parks Sr.,who was coming off of his most successful film,The Learning Tree,which was released by another studio and was the first Black director to have his film financed by a major Hollywood studio at the time(Warner Bors. Pictures).SHAFT was released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in the summer of 1971.This time around,his second feature brought out his talent for capturing an image and his personal insight of life on the streets and in the ghettos to bring to the screen a hard-hitting,gritty,and edgy to the core crime-drama thriller based on the novel by Ernest Tidyman,who wrote the screenplay along with screenwriter John D.F. Black and produced by Sterling Silliphant and Roger Lewis. Its also to note out that this film introduce audiences to the world Richard Roundtree in the title role,who was a former Ebony male-model before he made his mark as an actor in motion pictures and SHAFT was basically the jumpstart from the beginning and set the tone for others blaxploitation films of the 1970's to follow. The plot,about a private detective hired by a Harlem mobster(Moses Gunn)to find his missing daughter who goes through the infiltration of the mob before finding and rescuing the girl is solid entertainment that doesn't disappoint and keeps the audience in check with hard-hitting suspense and tense action throughout. Although there several obvious racial tensions throughout the film,director Gordon Parks keeps these tensions in check who keeps his focus mainly on the humanistic elements of the character. It is also to note that the depth that goes beyond the image of the super-slick,tough as nails detective is showing other sides of his personality. At the time SHAFT was released in 1971,its studio,the great MGM was facing bankruptcy,and the studio bosses at MGM figured that SHAFT would make a lot of money. Well,it did. And did execeptionally well making it one of the highest grossing box office films of that year and one of the top five box office gross films of 1971 and it helped keep MGM in business. It is also to note that composer Issac Hayes,made history as well by being the first African-American in history to win the Academy Award for Best Musical Score,which to goes to note one of the most famous scores in music history. "},{"Title":"A historic film, but not a good one","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  `Shaft' was a ground-breaking film in its day, but its interest for a modern audience is largely historical. For several decades, Hollywood had operated an unofficial colour bar, with black actors being confined to minor roles, often as servants or working-class characters. Things had started to change somewhat in the sixties, with black actors starting to appear alongside whites in major roles. `In the Heat of the Night' is a good example, but even here Sidney Poitier does not carry the film on his own. A white actor, Rod Steiger, is given equal prominence alongside him. Moreover, this is an `issue' movie with a race-relations theme- the sort of film in which one might expect to find a black actor taking a leading role.`Shaft' takes the process a stage further. Both the star, Richard Roundtree, and most of the supporting cast, are black. White actors are only seen in comparatively minor roles. Although the film is centred upon New York's black community, it is not specifically an `issue' movie about racism in the way that `In the Heat of the Night' is. A black man is seen, for almost the first time, as not only the main focus of the film but also as a strong, confident man of action. The hero John Shaft, a black private detective, triumphs over white villains; there is even a mixed-race love scene between him and a white woman, something which Hollywood would tend to shy away from even today, and which must have seemed particularly shocking in the early seventies.Unfortunately, when seen as a film rather than as a historical landmark, `Shaft' is not particularly good. The plot, which concerns Shaft's search for a gangster's kidnapped daughter and ends with him tangling with the Mafia, is routine private eye stuff. Richard Roundtree makes a cool, stylish hero, but the rest of the cast are not up to his standard. The direction also struck me as having been poorly handled, particularly the action scenes. The film seems to have been made on a low budget, and it shows. There are similarities to other `tough guy' detective films of the era, such as `The French Connection', `Bullitt' and the `Dirty Harry' series (all of which featured white protagonists) but all of those were much more professionally handled. Many of my criticisms of `Shaft' could, in fact, be made, with even greater force, against the `blaxploitation' genre is general. Nevertheless, those films pointed the way that later black actors were to follow. When we consider that the likes of Denzel Washington, Morgan Freeman and Samuel Jackson have become major stars in all sorts of roles, not merely as action heroes, we realise that a debt is owed to films like `Shaft'. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Great NYC PI flick - Soul Noir","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One neat little bonus of going on a Neo Noir hunt is finding those diamonds in the rough that come completely out of left field. Sometimes a film is hyped so fully as one thing that its never looked upon or considered as any thing else. This film especially so since its considered one of the first of its own genre.Shaft (1971) has been called the first blaxploitation flick, screw that and it's derogatory connotations (think Sergio Leone vs the majority of Spaghetti Westerns as a reference point), its actually not only a great PI film, directed by Gordon Parks (acclaimed photojournalist for Life magazine ) but also shot in a very noir-ish style by Urs Furrer. Between the eye of the director and the skill of the cinematographer the film looks beautiful. The shots of Manhattan, The Village, Harlem circa 1970 are gorgeous. It's sleazy Times Square/42nd Street at fin d'une époque, before Disneyfication eradicated it all.Establishing shot, an aerial view of 7th Avenue Manhattan looking North towards Broadway and Times Square. A cacophony of traffic blares skyward, we look down upon madly scintillating 42nd Street theater marquees, classic Hollywood product, Lancasters The Scaphuters, Redfords's Little Faus And Big Halsey competing with triple X features He And She, School for Sex and The Wild Females, this ain't Busby Berkeley Territory anymore. Isaac Hayes' soul and funk-styled iconic theme song begins to pulsate the title appears over a subway entrance as leather clad Shaft glides up to the trash littered gum stained sidewalk and jaywalks his way across the main stem. This title sequence segues into the beginning of the story when Shaft is alerted by Marty the blind news stand paper seller that two cats were looking for him. Shaft is based on an Ernest Tidyman and John D. F. Black screenplay from a book by Tidyman. The dialogs are all spot on in 70's hip jive. It's co-produced by Stirling Silliphant (who wrote late classic noirs, 5 Against the House, Nightfall, The Lineup and also neo noir -ish In The Heat Of The Night). What's sad is Shaft gets right what practically every Mike Hammer, the quintessential NY P.I, based film neglects, and that is a real feel for the gritty noir, on location, underbelly side of New York City. (save Allen Baron's 1961 Blast Of Silence, and Armand Assante's I, The Jury(1982)) and even the latter doesn't spend near enough time in the streets Shaft is a very plausible re-imagining of the classic private eye flick. The P.I. was always about cool this go round it is about back COOL. Richard Roundtree is perfect as the suave hip protagonist John Shaft, a good detective, grudgingly getting genuine respect from all. Moses Gunn is incredibly good as tough crime boss Bumpy Jonas showing quite a bit of range as he pleads with Shaft to take his case. Charles Cioffi as Androzzi Shaft's NYPD detective cop buddy holds his own and runs interference between Shaft and the department. Drew Bundini Brown is Bumpy henchman Willy, Christopher St. John is Ben Buford a former hood rat friend of Shaft who is now a black militant, Antonio Fargas is great as streetwise Bunky. Character actor Lee Steele plays a blind news vender. Shaft is a Neo Noir New York City wet dream, it hits on all cylinders, check it out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Soooo cool","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) is a street smart private detective. Gangsters are looking for him and he throws one out the window. Bumpy (Moses Gunn) is after him. Friendly cop Vic Androzzi gives him 48 hours before bringing him back in. Bumpy's daughter has been kidnapped and he hires Shaft to find her. His first lead is Ben Buford but he doesn't seem to know anything about it and his gang is massacred. Ben and Shaft escape. Vic tells Shaft that outsider muscle have gathered in town. The white Mafia is going to war with Bumpy which could spark a race war.What a great song! As a blaxploitation, the story isn't half bad. It puts race front and center without the noble black man trope. It is violent. It's not exactly realistic. It is a stylized hard-boiled detective story in a black world. It is low budget action. There is quite a bit of filler. The pacing does have the 70s meandering quality. It makes up for it with a lot of attitude. That's what Roundtree brings. The man exudes attitude. It's also cool to see the gritty 70s NYC streets. "},{"Title":"Is it Blaxploitation or did it start Blaxploitation","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this film. The last time I saw it was when it came out. The flaws in the movie were the same flaws evident in a lot of late 60s and early 70s movies. Film had undergone a transition to a more gritty look ... by the 80s they seemed really bad. Now they seem almost nostalgic ... probably people felt the same way about film noir at the time and shortly after. One of the most interesting things it has going for it is due to that raw and gritty look, which included quite a lot of location shots in early 1970s NYC. The score matched the cinematography very well. In 1971 I thought it was entertaining. We didn't call it a blaxploitation film back then. I guess its moderate success spawned the genre so in that sense it was either the first or the inspiration. But I think to lump it into that basket is wrong. In reality it is a 1971 detective flick focusing on a black character, set among a lot of black characters, mostly hoods, poised against a bunch of white characters, mostly hoods. It's right there in the movie ... the police detective makes that same observation. Not Black against White ... it is a turf war between black hoods and white hoods. And between them all is John Shaft. Richard Roundtree plays it with a finesse that although almost corny now to the point of being a caricature, at the time it was easy to take it at face value. He was a hard nosed P.I. and he focused on his case. The absolutely smartest scene was when the guy helping Shaft save the girl was sent in to pose as a room service waiter in the dingy hotel where the mafia guys were holding the hostage. He seemed resentful at first but he got a look on his face sort of like, hey, I KNOW HOW TO DO THIS. Sure, using the degrading stereotype to complete the undercover. Three drinks. Three dudes. He's got the information but he's got to play the role. He stands there waiting for his tip and gets it, generous in mafia fashion too. Anyway, I say throw the blaxploitation label out the window and enjoy the movie for what it was and what it is ... a better than average 1970s detective movie. I wish they showed it on TV more. "},{"Title":"That Shaft is a Bad Mother","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Picasso is quoted as having said you either do it first or you do it better.'Shaft', directed by the great Gordon Parks, does it first and leaves for succeeding generations to do it better, Later on, in 'Devil in a Blue Dress', we see Easy Rawlins as a more fully developed Bogart-like characterization. But one can easily make the case that this film broke the ground for the African American male in the private eye genre.The 'Bad ------' as a mythic heroic figure has been with us for a long time. He is found in folklore as High John De Conqueror and another figure who is sung about in blues songs named Stag-o-lee. 'High John' laughs a lot and is playful and somewhat happy-go-lucky, but when you cross him he will not hesitate to go for his guns. 'Stag-o-lee' does not clown around. He just goes for his guns and send you straight to - 'hush yo' mouth - '! All my life I heard tales about this 'Bad ------'; mostly from my folks when talking about a relative or an Uncle who was wrapped less tightly than the rest of us. He usually possessed a hair-trigger temper and was not adverse to beating down half a dozen burly whites before being torn in half and thrown into the Mississippi River. You could also slap a nickle off his fingertip and lose your life in the process. Richard Wright attempted to write about this personality type in his novel 'Native Son', but choked when it came to having his protagonist confront white males as representatives of the White Power Structure. This is what a real 'Bad ------' cuts his teeth on. A subtler version of this character is known as Ananzi the Spiderman, who shares attributes with the Greek hero Odysseus; but looming behind them all is one of the baddest 'Bad ------' types who ever lived, Shaka Zulu, but this is not the time or the place to discuss HIM. Meanwhile, truth was proving to be stranger than fiction as a myriad of 'Bad ------' types were being generated out of the Civil Rights Movement and the Revolution for Black Self Determination. Perhaps most prominent among these figures were Muhammud Ali and Malcolm X.This is not to discount the fact that Gordon Parks could be easily classed as a 'Bad ------' in his own right. This becomes quite evident in one of his autobiographies, 'A Choice of Weapons'. But it is important to understand how 'Shaft', along with Melvin Van Peebles 'Sweet Sweetback's Badass Song' and 'Superfly' came out of the highly charged cultural upheavals of the sixties and seventies. The impact of 'Shaft' depends to a certain extent on understanding it in context with its times and is definitely enriched should you have lived through the period as I have done.This period of cultural foment is so highly charged nobody seems to notice that one of the characters; Bumpy Jonas' daughter, actually has not one line of dialog in 'Shaft'! She is the object of the search and rescue mission conducted by private eye John Shaft and yet besides some moaning and sobbing, we find out absolutely nothing about her.The truth is Gordon Parks' 'Shaft' lacks an exposition or at best an inciting incident where we see the actual kidnapping of Marcy; Bumpy Jonas' daughter. Since we're making comparisons between John Shaft and Sam Spade, it would not have hurt him to have an attractive Gal Friday holding down the fort at the office. The lovemaking scene between Shaft and his main squeeze probably would have also gone better near the beginning of the movie. It would not have hurt also to show Bumpy's gang attempting to rescue Marcy unsuccessfully before hiring Shaft and then bringing in Isaac Hayes' theme music. It is also a mystery why the hit men after Shaft don't have a photograph of him or physical description of some kind to go by as they seek him out. I also think the first confrontation between Shaft, Bumpy's daughter and the mob should have probably been all dialog. What redeemed this film for me was the convoluted and well thought out Endgame that Shaft and his cohorts execute upon the kidnappers. When Shaft successfully pulls this off and gives the Police Lieutenant Vic Androzzi his High John De Conqueror laugh, I still feel a palpable thrill. After that, he strides off too cool for school as Isaac Hayes' Oscar winning Theme Music takes us into the credits. "},{"Title":"Cut the crap, man.  This is Shaft.","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Super cool private eye John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) is hired by a drug lord (Moses Gunn) to find his missing daughter. Blaxploitation classic is justifiably considered one of the genre's best, if not THE best. It's a smart, tough crime film with a memorable performance by Roundtree as the iconic title character. For modern audiences used to seeing tough macho leads in action movies, they might be underwhelmed when seeing this. But this wasn't commonplace at the time and it especially wasn't commonplace to have that lead character be a black man. So it's important from a film history perspective, as well as the obvious entertainment value. It's well-acted and directed with a terrific soundtrack. There would be two sequels that were not as good but still entertaining. The movie from 2000 with Samuel L. Jackson as Shaft's nephew was an attempt to relaunch the franchise and should be avoided. "}{"Title":"Richard Roundtree was king of the hill. He owns this role.","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The best parts about Shaft - those that really stand the test of time - are encapsulated in both the opening and closing moments the main character strutting through the streets of New York City, and his telling off the police lieutenant on the phone (respectively). Right out of the gate, you know that this no-nonsense black p.i. was a big deal; especially forty years ago. Dude's constantly shooting his mouth off to superiors, and getting laid left and right. And when the chips are down, he's ready to shoot it out with the toughest of them. Combine this with Isaac Hayes' iconic main theme, and this recipe for success was a guaranteed winner. These days, the story of a private eye tasked with tracking down a kidnapped girl from the mob is fairly by-the-numbers. But I don't think I've ever been so struck by a guy simply walking the streets. It's a thrill to watch Roundtree go to work.7/10 "},{"Title":"Soulful, powerful, respectful.","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" From out of the surge of the many blaxploitation films following the release of Melvin Van Peeble's 'Sweet Sweetback's Baad Asssss Song' comes 'Shaft', directed in 1971 by Gordon Parks. 'Shaft' seems to have stood out from the others within this exclusive genre, and rightfully so for its smooth and funky approach towards a division of films that's been dominated by white leads. Richard Roundtree plays John Shaft, the big badass private eye of New York City, and displays a confident, sexy and tough attitude that makes him such a memorable character. This film is rich with soul, and features the funky music of Isaac Hayes to complete the tribute to black culture in that time. These are the elements that contribute to its significant value among blaxploitation films.The film features a typical storyline that's nothing out of the ordinary among crime films; John Shaft is hired by a crime lord to rescue his daughter from a group of Italian mob figures trying to take over territory in Harlem. While this film is more commonly known as a blaxploitation film, it actually contains a few characteristics of film noir, which certainly adds to its uniqueness in its time. The setting takes place in the suburbs of New York, and mostly appears rather gloomy and unemotional throughout the movie. The highlight of the city though is when Shaft is walking through the streets to the funky music of Isaac Hayes, who sings of the life of black culture within the city.Shaft rarely shows much emotion in this film, and often acts reserved among the people around him. He maintains a composure and attitude that should be respected and in turn delivers a strong representation for the black community. His character alone makes this movie a considerably powerful film that speaks loudly and gives the black community a powerful character in film they can find inspiration in. "},{"Title":" You want me to walk into a bloodbath without telling me which side's gonna  kill me '","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This early Gordon Parks' film is a first in many ways. In the long list of Black movies which follow, this is the cornerstone. After the success of this film, Black actors became Gris for the Hollywood mill. It was called  Blxploitation  as in the Exploitation of the Black world. The innovative Movie is called  Shaft  and tells the story of John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) a Black Private investigator who is hired by 'Bumpy Jonas' (Moses Gunn) a ranking gangster for the Harlem district. Shaft is wrongly informed Ben Buford, (Christopher St, John) the head of the black underground has kidnapped his daughter. With a New York police detective (Vic Androzzi) Shaft enters the search only to discover the Mafia is involved. The world of John Shaft is dangerous, infested with mounting tensions and violent men. Still, this 'cool' private eye is a match against the elements and the sexy women who he seems to attract. In the annals of movie making this is a first in many ways and Roundtree is excellent in the first of several sequels and other black films which follow. *** "},{"Title":"A truly appalling movie","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film when it came out. It was different and hence garnered attention from the movie going populace normally being fed mainstream private eye films. I didn't like it at the time but I went to the cinema with a girl I fancied and told her I liked it - as she seemed to find the film entertaining. (or did she just give that impression because she was trying to please me??) Just for old time's sake, I watched it the other night. 42 years had indeed changed my view - I detested the film! Wooden acting, desperately bad screenplay and plot. Cheap, nasty, depressing sets and photography. Everyone and his dog spitting out surly one liners that did little more than irritate. How on earth did this train wreck ever get any traction? The director, actors and everyone else involved in Shaft should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves. I now realize why it was entitled Shaft; the movie going public got shafted. - and yes, that was a surly one-liner.. UGH! UGH! and double UGH! "},{"Title":"Dated","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The film has not lasted the test of time. The whole thing was boring but occasionally punctuated by some interesting fleeting seconds.The best part of the film was the opening sequence when Shaft casually walks across the New York road avoiding cars.....a few moments of good timing.It does perhaps have a modicum of interest for its historical or social value. "},{"Title":"I don't care if it's historically important--it's BORING!","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the first blaxploitation films...and a big hit. Sexy, muscular and handsome John Shaft (Richard Rountree) is hired by a big gang boss (well played by Moses Gunn) to get the guys who kidnapped his young daughter.OK--I realize this is of historical importance as being one of (if not the first) blaxploitation films to hit it big. It also WAS a huge hit in its day--some NY theatres were open 24 hours a DAY to get all the crowds in! However it has not aged well at all. The script is dull and the dialogue is just terribly dumb. Even the violence was boring...but it may have been extreme in its day. It was also slow-moving and contained some truly dreadful acting. Roundtree LOOKS the part--tall, masculine, muscular and super sexy--but the guy can't act. His delivery was wooden--of course the lousy dialogue didn't help. Only Gunn showed any life in his role. Also this movie has women used as sex objects in an appalling way. Shaft has a beautiful black girlfriend but has no trouble going to bed with a white woman he meets in a bar--and this is shown as a positive thing! I have no problem with her being white. It's just that we're supposed to think nothing is wrong with him cheating on his girlfriend--but there is! On the plus side there is Isaac Hayes' Academy Award winning title song (which is GREAT) and good use of NY locations...but I was bored and fighting to stay awake. A 1 all the way. "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film because of the upcoming sequel with Sam Jackson and because it was recently featured in Cinnescape as one of the top 25 action films of all time. The movie started off slow and ended abruptly, a lethal combination. Though some saw the campy corniness makes the film, the bad and meaningless dialogue makes you go insane. This movie had some great moments, but the acting, dialogue, and even the characters are bad. John Shaft doesn't live up to his theme song, but I look forward to a more plot-twisting Shaft film out of Jackson and hope he busts some ass, because this film will only appeal to Blaxploitation fanatics. I've never seen a movie that's used cat and jive so often, and consequently in the same sentence. "},{"Title":"They're soul brothers.They came down so I could teach them the handshake.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite having heard Isaac Hayes famous score over the years,I have for some reason never got round to taking a look at the most famous title in the Blaxploitation genre.Taking a look at IMDbs Film Noir board,I spotted an excellent review from a fellow IMDber about Shaft being a Neo- Noir.Getting hold of 2 other Blaxploitation movies,I decided that it was time to meet the complicated man.The plotKeeping his ears open for all of the news circling the street, private investigator John Shaft is asked by two cops if he knows why some gangsters are after him.As he brushes their questions aside,Shaft spots a gangster spying on him. Returning to his office,Shaft catches 2 waiting gangsters by surprise,and gets one of them to reveal that they have been sent by legendary gangster Bumpy Jonas,who wants a private meeting with Shaft.Locating Jonas,Shaft begins to ask why he has sent thugs to follow him. Displaying a weakness in his iron grip on the city,Jonas tells Shaft that he wants him to track down his daughter Marcy,who have been kidnapped by a rival gang.As he starts to search all the hideouts for Marcy,Shaft discovers that he is now in the middle of a ruthless gang war.View on the filmOriginally auditioning for the title role, Isaac Hayes (and J.J. Johnson) makes his presence strongly felt with a wonderfully raw score. Grinding into life with a deep Funk riff over the opening credits,Hayes and Johnson brilliantly cross Blaxploitation Funk with light Neo- Noir jazz,with the guitar riffs gliding above rumbling Jazz drums.Teaming up with writer John D.F. Black to send his pulp novel out on the big screen beat, Ernest Tidyman gives Shaft's lifestyle a slight Blaxploitation edge which is gripped by a strong,grubby Film Noir atmosphere.Taking their time to put Shaft in the middle of a gang war,Black and Tidyman brilliantly place Shaft as a Film Noir loner,with Shaft keeping his guard up as he speaks to white police officers,whilst never fitting in with the ruthless gangsters steeping down his neighborhood.Filmed on location,director Gordon Parks (who has a funny cameo in the film) and cinematographer Urs Furrer drain the Blaxploitation genre of any decadence,to unveil a tough,to the bone Neo-Noir atmosphere.Following Shaft as he searches every den for Marcy,Parks and Furrer open up every den with tightly held shots which fully display the brittle paint and rotting wood of the buildings which are inhabited by thugs who are rotten to the core.Taking on Shaft, Moses Gunn gives a fantastic performance as Bumpy Jonas,with Gunn opening wounds of doubt in Jonas unbreakable public image,as Jonas begins to fear that he has gotten his daughter involved in a deadly matter that he is helpless to resolve.Walking down the decayed streets, Richard Roundtree (who appears naked!) gives a dazzling performance as Shaft,thanks to Roundtree giving Shaft a cool swagger which never oversteps the sharp quick-wits that Roundtree shows Shaft use with a gripping determination ,as the audience discover who is the man. "},{"Title":"A Classic of Sorts","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Cool black private eye John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) is hired by a crime lord to find and retrieve his kidnapped daughter.This film is considered a blaxploitation classic. That seems to be an insult, even if not intended as one. It is a classic in its own right, not just as part of a subgenre. This is a great detective story, a crime story, a mob story, and to some degree a racial story (though that does not factor in as much as some might think).What better than a private eye helping out a mob boss? This introduces dark money, plenty of shady characters, and allows our hero to go places even the police might fear to tread and use methods they would never be allowed to. Classic. "},{"Title":"Shaft","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Many years before this original version I had seen the John Singleton/Samuel L. Jackson remake version, I knew about the name of the leading actor, the iconic theme song, and it was featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I was looking forward to it. Basically John Shaft (Golden Globe nominated Richard Roundtree) is an African American private detective, he seeks out the gangsters in the Harlem neighbourhood, the New York City borough of Manhattan, and on assignment he gets into a fight with a couple of them in an office, it ends with him throwing one out of the window, the other reveals that uptown gang leader Bumpy Jonas (Moses Gunn) wants to meet him. After a meeting at the police station, where he lies to Lieutenant Vic Androzzi (Charles Cioffi) and his superior about the fight, Shaft is allowed to return to the streets for 48 hours, he arranges to meet with Bumpy, the gang leader reveals that his daughter has been kidnapped, he wants to hire the detective to safely return his daughter, but this will not be easy with the escalation of the race war, i.e. blacks against whites, Shaft being a target himself, and of course Bumpy cannot be trusted. Shaft assumed Ben Buford (Christopher St. John) was a target, and not himself, together they find where the daughter Marcy Jonas (Sherri Brewer) is being held and confirm that she is alive, they end up in a gunfight and Shaft takes a bullet in the shoulder, but he recovers and tells Bumpy that his daughter is fine and that backup will be needed to get her out of the hotel she is in safely. The plan becomes like a military operation, Ben's men all dress as hotel staff to avoid arousing suspicion, to create a distraction an explosive is thrown into the room and the disguised men deal with the Mafia members, in the end Marcy is successfully rescued and taken out of the hotel where the arranged transport is waiting, as the others get away Shaft calls Vic in a phone booth, then simply walks away. Also starring Gwenn Mitchell as Ellie Moore, Lawrence Pressman as Sergeant Tom Hannon, Victor Arnold as Charlie, Rex Robbins as Rollie, Camille Yarbrough as Dina Greene, Margaret Warncke as Linda and Joseph Leon as Byron Leibowitz. Newcomer and ex-male model Roundtree as the black stud private eye who works his way through both gang activity and women is well cast, this works well for promoting equality for black people during a turbulent time for them, as a police and gangland story, and an interesting enough kidnap rescue plot, and of course the theme song (number 38 on 100 Years, 100 Songs) and original music by Isaac Hayes, who I know better as Chef from South Park, is fantastically funky, a watchable Blaxploitation crime thriller. It won the Oscar for Best Song for Theme from Shaft by Isaac Hayes (also nominated the Golden Globe), and it was nominated for Best Music for Isaac Hayes, it was nominated the BAFTA for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score. Good! "}{"Title":"Can You Dig It?","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Probably had Shaft not won an Oscar for its theme as the Best Original Song it would be barely remembered as one of the first of the black exploitation films that seem to explode out of Hollywood. The late Sixties after the Civil Rights Revolution, Hollywood discovered that black people were a neglected audience, that A. was not happy with how it was previously portrayed and B. would pay to see more than just films that starred Sidney Poitier.It's an average action/adventure film when you come right down to it, but that is not to say that star Richard Roundtree didn't create an interesting character. John Shaft is a private detective who even police lieutenant Charles Cioffi knows to give a free hand to as he's into sources of information the cops don't have access to.Something that Harlem drug kingpin Moses Gunn is also aware of when he hires Shaft to locate his kidnapped daughter. Gunn isn't exactly telling Shaft the whole truth about the circumstances. But Shaft catches on quickly enough that this is all part of a three party struggle for the control of Harlem between Italian gangsters, black militants and Gunn's own crew.There's a nice explosive climax in the end as the daughter's fate is in Shaft's hands. Enough action to satisfy any junkie.And of course there's Isaac Hayes's score with the theme and it's a type of song that never got the Academy recognition before. I don't one like that has since. But in terms of the film itself, the score perfectly captures the mood.Can you dig it. "},{"Title":"One of the original Blaxploitation films","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I heard a bit about this movie, and from what I know it is supposed to be a cult movie, so when I saw it in the video store I decided to hire it out to see what it was all about. Basically Shaft is described as being one of the Black Exploitation movies. Basically it is a movie where all of the main characters are Negros and white people are only cast when either necessary or to fill the role of the bad guys. In the case of this movie there are really no clear cut good or bad guys.Shaft is about the Negro detective John Shaft (Richard Roundtree). Shaft is basically a very tough guy that intimidates but isn't intimidated. He is also what is described in the opening song (which won composer Isaac Hayes an Oscar) as a sex machine. He only sleeps with two girls in the movie though, and one of them is his woman, but they do both comment on his prowess.What is interesting is that all of the characters are basically thugs. None of them have any really redeeming traits and are simply trying to bully each other into submission. This isn't just focused on the Negroes in the movie, but everybody acts as bullies, from the Anglo police officers to the Italian Mafia. It is just that Shaft's bullying is more effective than others.Just because Shaft is a bully, it does not mean he is stupid. He does not go bursting into a room full of armed men unless he is sure that he can win. He doesn't run away either, but rather he remains calm and collected, and then turns the tables on his opponents.I guess Shaft takes the human race as it comes. They are little more than thugs trying to best each other, either through brute force, charisma, or intellect. In the end, it always comes down to might means right, and that is not always the physical side, for elections are little more than popularity competitions, and the most charismatic will generally win. "},{"Title":"Excellent Soundtrack","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The NYPD is hearing rumors about something big about to happen in Harlem and they're worried. Meanwhile, two thugs from Harlem are looking for a private detective named John Shaft (Richard Roundtree). A scuffle breaks out in Shaft's office and one of the thugs is thrown out of the high-rise window. Not long afterward a black crime boss named Bumpy Jonas (Moses Gunn) and his bodyguard, Willy (Drew Bundini Brown) come to see Shaft seeking to hire him to locate Bumpy's daughter who has been kidnapped. This is when the complications start. Anyway, this film features gangsters from Harlem, the mafia, black militants and the NYPD who all want to see John Shaft for one reason or another. It has an excellent soundtrack and there is plenty of action to keep most people entertained throughout. The acting is also pretty good with Richard Roundtree putting in an excellent performance along with that of Drew Bundini Brown to a lesser extent. In short, this film is as exciting today as it was when it first came out 42 years ago and is quite possibly the best blaxpoitation film there is. Definitely above average. "},{"Title":"The emergence of Blaxploitation cinema","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft is not the first Blaxploitation but it is the most accomplished and most memorable. A workaday script is launched into cultural orbit by the charismatic performance of RIchard Roundtree and the unforgettable theme by the late Isaac Hayes. The importance of this movie is not that it was hugely successful (although it was), but that it was produced and performed by a crew and cast that was predominantly black. It proved that there was a significant audience for movies that represented black culture on its own terms and treated the audience with respect. Importantly, Shaft isn't a wholly sympathetic character Through the prism of the 21st Century he could be construed as both misogynist and racist (see his treatment of the female characters and the portrayal of the Italian mobsters) But he is also loyal, brave resourceful and charming. This complexity is one of the strengths of the movie. The sequels lack the energy of the original and suffer from diminishing marginal returns and Roundtree was never as good again. He didn't need to be, most actors never achieve the level of charisma even once. Nor do they have the chance to create what is a truly iconic role. Samuel L Jackson in the remake certainly failed to. Here's a link to an animated review of this movie. http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qqm4f9-xzRY "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged well but still entertaining with a good deal of 70s cool","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The original version of Shaft always surprised me whenever I watched it, because its not what I expected at all. Those looking for an over-the-top Dolemite style camp fest (or even one of the film's sequels) will be quite disappointed. The original Shaft is a much more low key and minimalist film. There's no sequences of flashy pimps acting badass or anything along those lines. In fact, if the lead character himself wasn't black, this would simply be an extraordinary if enjoyable 70s cop thriller. It hasn't aged very well and the first half is all setup and rather slowly paced. Still, I love 70s action films like this so I wasn't bothered at all.The film is a classic for several reasons. First, the lead performance by Richard Roundtree is iconic and still just as cool today. Hes tough and sexy, yet remains likable throughout. Hes a quintessential anti-hero and I'm shocked he didn't really crossover to become a major Hollywood player. His portrayal showed a lot of promise. Also, the photography of vintage NYC adds a sense of gritty realism missing from a lot of these films. Of course, one can't forget to mention Isaac Hayes' legendary score, which actually plays even better than the film itself nowadays. Shaft may be a bit dated, but its still quite entertaining to watch if you know what you're getting going in. (7/10) "},{"Title":"The black style of film-making is born","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In what is easily one of the most important films ever made, and an excellent film in its own right, Director Gordon Parks, who at the time, along with Ossie Davis and Melvin van Peebles were the only three well-known minority directors, brings the black style of film-making to the mainstream with Shaft, a crime-drama whose characters happened to be black.What set Shaft apart was that the film was shot by black people, and for a primarily black audience, where whites were treated only as welcome guests of the action. The characters, most notably Shaft (Richard Roundtree), could easily have been written as whites, but since they were written as black, they did not act white. The film was a forerunner to what is now commonplace on networks like UPN, where shows like Martin present African-American culture much the way shows like Barney Miller did with white culture.The theme song, historic itself, sent this film over the top in the best way possible. We all want to be Shaft at least once in our lives. "},{"Title":"It's OUR turn now, Man!","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" At the time SHAFT was released, it was a startling film... and watching for the first time, it crossed a social line, and there was no going back.Walls and conventions were crumbling in all of the arts. The biggest play in Broadway's history, the precedent breaking and iconoclastic Rado, Ragni and McDermott production Hair, was playing in a dozen cities at once to sellout crowds. In the post Blacklist period, Joe McCarthy and HUAC were dead, and once again the films, books, and plays had a social message and tried hard to reflect the world as is really is. Sex and dirty words came springing triumphantly out of the closet, and it was anything goes.On TV, Bill Cosby was costarring with Robert Culp in the breakout dramatic series I SPY. Dianne Carroll had her own integrated series, JULIA. Even in outer space Nichelle Nichols provided a Black presence as the competent communications officer Lt. Uhura aboard the Starship Enterprise in STAR TREK.It was the time for Black talent to make it's presence known.America was used to (and probably a bit bored with) the film noire private eye flicks we'd been watching since World War Two. They usually were based in New York City, and they were usually vehicles for hard boiled WHITE private dicks like Alan Ladd or Robert Mitchum. They were pure fantasy and they spun fantastic tales about a mythical underworld and thugs who came straight out of Dashiel Hammett novels. They were fun, but they never had the taste of reality, especially for Black audiences; there were virtually NO Black people in them, anywhere. The shadowy world of the private eye never rang true.The first time I saw this film was in a theater with a totally Black audience. The effect on us was electrifying.From the first fade-up when the lead guitar cranked up that Issac Hayes theme, SHAFT grabbed your attention! Tall, handsome Richard Roundtree in his leather coat, striding thru the big city traffic like a cowboy on horseback riding thru a herd of cattle... confident, comfortable, at home. This is HIS world, HIS city, and he OWNS it ALL... flip the finger to a cabbie who dares to honk at him! This isn't the film noire world of nightclubs, nondescript gangsters, and Dooley Wilson as the men's room attendant anymore... it's the REAL New York City, complete with the crowds, the traffic, the Harlem drug scene, Black revolutionaries, hip little bistros with Gay bartenders, and in the background an undercurrent of rising aspirations; of a Black man, running his OWN detective agency, and more important getting the RESPECT for his position from a White NYC police department detective.Sorry Bogie... we still love ya, and tho Sam Spade was cool, there's no place for him in the world of John Shaft. Sam's day is over.John Shaft isn't a lowly, subservient Steppin Fetchit darkie fumbling his way around in the White man's world, he's his OWN MAN... and he's big, bad, and bold enough to DEMAND that kind of respect! SHAFT was a detective for a new age... his message and image were aimed at Black Americans who were no longer content to be second class citizens who sat quietly in the back of the bus.Today, SHAFT may seem commonplace and a bit boring. That's because this film, so explosive and revolutionary when it came out, did it's job and made the entire concept of a Black private eye seem completely plausible.It's one of the best Blaxploitation films (as the genre came to be known). Well written and produced, even tho now it's a period piece, it can still hold it's own. "},{"Title":"Peek at the 70s","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yesterday here in Atlanta -- a city that's home to quite a few black men who still dress like the guys in Shaft -- a theater about a block from me ran a showing of Shaft in conjunction with an exhibit of Gordon Parks' photography at a local museum. The audience was about 80 percent black and loved it -- as did I. As the movie played, people were singing along and yelling out the lines in the movie. It was pretty clear that for the blacks in the audience, this movie was something special and probably had been since it first came out.For me, though, the best part of the movie was the peek you get at the total seediness of New York in the early 1970s. Cities were so ugly back then and NY was probably one of the absolute ugliest. From the 20-times-painted-over rowhouses to potholed streets to tacky, neon-wrapped storefronts and hookers, the NY of Shaft seems real down to the last bit. You can smell it, feel it, know just what it was like. Watching it last night, I realized why my German grandmother moved out of NY in 1979 -- her apartment, which once had been in a poor neighborhood turned into the kind of ghetto shown here and the entire city became a giant cesspit. Thank got NY has turned around since then. "},{"Title":"Historic Moment in Cinema History","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft (1971) ** 1/2 (out of 4)This now classic Blaxploitation film has detective John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) being hired by crime lord Bumpy Jonas (Moses Gunn) to find the men who has kidnapped his daughter. Shaft hits the streets of Harlem to try and locate the girl but soon finds himself running into various mobsters and criminals.SHAFT was a landmark movie that introduced us to a black private eye, something that hadn't really been seen before and especially not by a large group of people. Another thing that this movie introduced was a certain toughness and a certain coolness that would become the template for all future Blaxploitation movies. SHAFT was a hit with both white and black audiences back in the day and it's easy to see why but overall I thought the film had way too many flaws to be a complete success but there's no question that fans of the genre will still need to see this.There are many very good things working for this film including the performance of Roundtree who was certainly born to play this type of role. A lot of characters and actors try to play it cool but more often than not you just roll your eyes and feel as if you're watching some actor who got picked on all his life trying to pretend to be cool. With Roundtree you really do feel as if you're watching someone who controls everything he does and does whatever he wants when he wants. He certainly pushes that cool tough guy image that works perfectly well here. Gunn is also entertaining as the crime boss as is Charles Cioffi, Lawrence Pressman and Christopher St. John.Another positive is, of course, the now legendary music by Isaac Hayes. Another fun thing is just getting to see all the old streets of New York including countless theatres showing now classic movie titles. With that said, the biggest flaw with SHAFT is its actual story, which is just too boring and it's just not all that interesting. There are way too many scenes that just drag on and there's no question that ten minutes could have easily been cut and it would have helped the film. Still, SHAFT is what it is and its reputation and coolness factor alone makes it worth watching. "},{"Title":"As cool (and un-PC) as they come and still worth a watch - 70%","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm always weary of watching films that are revered or perceived as being seminal. Not because any criticism I have will be ignored but because what flaws are there are easily over-looked in the face of the film's stature - no-one complains about the Venus De Milo having no arms, after all. In movie terms, this is a film that is all about breaking barriers - the first successful blaxploitation movie, it was this film (and its iconic soundtrack) that fuelled an entire genre of cinema and led to two sequels, a TV series and even a recent reboot - such is the reverence that Shaft is held in. However, in the cold light of day and ignoring such feelings, it's interesting to note that it is actually a pretty average film albeit one with an astonishing soundtrack.Richard Roundtree plays John Shaft, a cool-cat private eye working the seedy streets of New York City. After encountering two goons in his office (and sending one of them to the sidewalk via a window), Shaft finds himself in the employ of local crime boss Bumpy Jonas (Moses Gunn) who hires Shaft to locate his missing daughter. Reluctantly, Shaft takes on the case and soon finds himself in all sorts of trouble with the Mafia who are muscling in on Bumpy's turf. Not only that but Shaft is tailed by homicide detective and occasional buddy Vic (Charles Cioffi) who is convinced that there is more going on than Shaft is prepared to tell him...There is a curiously low-budget feel to Shaft that I wasn't expecting, highlighted by the near-constant over-dubbing of Shaft and other characters' dialogue. The action, when it does come, is also not filmed very well by director Gordon Parks - his strength seems to be in building atmosphere and there are times when the air hangs heavy with expectation such as the fantastic opening scene. Roundtree is the ultimate bad mother-f*****, making what might have been an ordinary character into one for the ages. He is almost impossibly cool and with Isaac Hayes' legendary soundtrack pulsating in the background, you can't help but fall in love with the film. All the other actors can do is bask in Roundtree's glory and to be fair, they all do their part. The story might look and feel like a classic (or should they be clichéd) film noir and initially, I was struggling to find interest in it. But something curious happened - I suddenly found myself paying more attention to it and getting involved. Digging it, if you will.In a lot of ways, it reminded me of the first Star Wars in that here is a film that isn't that well made in parts and at times, isn't that entertaining but slowly and surely, you fall in love with it. You have to give it respect for its legacy if nothing else but also because it helped to break down racial barriers that had existed in Hollywood for so long. Here was a film where almost all the principal characters and actors were black and the film was still successful, flying in the face of studio expectation or cynical critics. This is a deeply cool movie to watch and even better to listen to - it's also better than the Samuel L Jackson version a few years back because this feels like the genuine article and it is, of course. Not every day that Sammy J comes second in a cool contest but on this occasion, Shaft really is the man. Looks like I've proved my own point... "}{"Title":"The Movie That Doesn't Cop Out!","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The NAACP gave up trying to persuade Hollywood to cast more African-Americans in films and television shows in 1963 and resorted to legal measures and economic sanctions. Consequently, blacks began to appear in both major and minor roles in greater numbers. Actor Sidney Poitier emerged in the late 1960s as the first truly popular African-American actor and qualified as an example of the model integrationist hero. By the 1970s, African-Americans had turned up not only in ghetto-themed movies but also every other film genre and television show. Meanwhile, the discrimination that black actresses encountered simply mirrored the shortage of roles white actresses had contended with in Hollywood since time immemorial. Former Cleveland Browns football star Jim Brown rose to prominence in the wake of Sidney Poitier as the new African-American hero. Poitier and Brown served as precursors for Blaxploitation.Eventually, the pendulum swung from one extreme with the racist depiction of blacks as subservient Sambo characters before the 1960s to the newest extreme with blacks portrayed as Superspades in what later constituted a cinematic phenomenon called Blaxploitation. Essentially, the golden age of Blaxploitation movies occurred between 1970 and 1975 and these movie targeted primarily black audiences. Blaxploitation heroes and heroines displayed a social and political consciousness, and they were not confined to single roles. They were cast as private eyes, policemen, vigilantes, troubleshooters, pimps, etc. In each instance, these characters worked within the system, but they did so as they saw fit and sought to improve the African-American community. Not surprisingly, blaxploitation heroes often clashed with whites, but they refused to depict whites in strictly monolithic terms. Good whites and bad whites jockeyed for prominence in the films. Although one NAACP official described blaxploitation as just another form of cultural genocide, African-American audiences flocked to see them. Blaxploitation movies knew no boundaries and encompassed comedies, musicals, westerns, coming-of-age dramas, slave plantation films, and horror movies.Director Ossie Davis' urban crime thriller Cotton Comes to Harlem (1970), about two African-American N.Y.P.D. cops, Coffin Ed Johnson (Raymond St. Jacques) and Gravedigger Jones (Godfrey Cambridge), based on the Chester Himes novel, paved the way for the movement. When the film premiered, critics did not categorize Cotton as blaxploitation. Interestingly, the term black exploitation first appeared in print in the August 16, 1972, issue of the show business newspaper Variety when the NAACP Beverly Hills-Hollywood branch president, Junius Griffin, coined the term in a speech about the derogatory impact of the genre on African-Americans. Later, black exploitation was abbreviated as blaxploitation. The two films that historians have classified as germinal were independent filmmaker Melvin Van Peebles' Sweet Sweetback's Baadasssss Song (1971) and mainstream director Gordon Parks' Shaft (1971). Peebles's film supplemented the content of Davis' film with sex and violence, and Sweetback's success with black audiences triggered the blaxploitation craze, one of the most profitable in cinematic history. Major Hollywood film studios rushed similar films into production. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer followed Sweetback's success with their private eye thriller Shaft (1971) starring model-turned-actor Richard Roundtree as the equivalent of Humphrey Bogart's Sam Spade gumshoe character in The Maltese Falcon. Some critics complained that movies like Shaft simply substituted blacks in roles that were traditionally played by whites. Initially, MGM thought about of rewriting the African-American lead in Shaft, based on Ernst Tidyman's novel as a Caucasian.As a detective movie, Shaft observed all the conventions of the genre. The action opens with the trench-coated protagonist wearing out shoe leather in Manhattan to the tune of Isaac Hayes' Oscar-winning theme music. The lyrics provided a thumbnail sketch of the hero's persona. Private detective John Shaft lives up to those lyrics as the cat who won't cop out when there's danger all about. An infamous Harlem crime lord, Bumpy Jonas (Moses Gunn), loosely based on real-life criminal Bumpy Johnson, hires Shaft to locate his missing daughter Marcy. Eventually, Shaft discovers that the Italian mafia has abducted her and he assembles a motley crew of black militants to help him rescue Marcy. The success of Shaft spawned two sequels Shaft's Big Score (1972) and Shaft in Africa (1973) and later a short-lived television series. Many blaxploitation movies gained notoriety for negative portrayals of African-Americans trapped in the ghettos that resorted to crime and vice to triumph over their hostile surroundings and oppressive white landlords. "},{"Title":"Revisiting the Black James Bond","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When I think blaxploitation, I don't really think of Shaft. This is more a mainstream movie featuring a black character that resembled James Bond.Smooth and suave, Richard Roundtree was an anti-hero much like Connery or Moore. He could hold his own against the bad guys, but was still vulnerable. He had a way with the ladies, as did Bond. It was interesting that they always put at least one white woman in every film. Maybe to show he was triumphant over all, or maybe just to titillate. In this one, we have Margaret Warncke in the last of her two films.Of course, everyone knows the music from Shaft. Isaac Hayes won an Oscar for his song, and a Golden Globe and Grammy for the score. It was magnificent with a whole CD of great songs composed and sung by Hayes.Can you dig it? "},{"Title":"Great, classic '70's movie!","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Richard Roundtree plays John Shaft, the private detective from New York hired by a mob boss to find his daughter.  Roundtree's performance is what makes the movie what it is.  He's engaging, funny and tough, everything that Shaft was in the books.This movie is very much a sign of the times, but still holds today.  The 1970's look at life, drugs, sex, and New York in general stands out.I'm probably the only person who will say this, but I really don't care for the title song.  Good music, but the lyrics just don't cut it for me.One of the best films to come from the era, starting the blaxploitation craze, but never getting beaten by the others (Dolemite, Black Belt Jones, Sweet Sweetback, etc).  The new 2000 Shaft brought a new character, but Richard Roundtree showed up for a cameo.  I think now they need to do one more Shaft, with Samuel L. Jackson and Roundtree working together.  Can you dig it? "},{"Title":"Still sticking it to the man after all of these years","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best Blaxploitation films  also proved to be one of the funniest  and poorly made films in the 1970s.  The sound editing was iffy in some  parts, and the action sequences were  boffo at best (I especially loved the part  where the bad guy ran out the window).  Granted, these type of movies were not  meant to spurn a whole lot of intellectual  commentary, this proved to be a welcome  relief. The opening sequence was one of  the funniest and most entertaining in the  hostory of cinema. Isaac Hayes score was  as hip as Shaft himself, who helped define  the 1970s in a time of changing racial attitudes. "},{"Title":"THE ALTERNATE version featuring more footage","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This version was a reissue and featured more footage, SHAFT driving a car and more on the backstory involving BUMPY, the mob and the two cops and the rescue mission for the young girl.This version was the uncut  version and featured footage not seen in the current video release..so the rumors say. "},{"Title":"$13,000 goes a long way, baby.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The fables about this film are legendary -- paying Richard Roundtree $13,000 for his starring role, Isaac Hayes' funky score, the walls which shake and tremble as if they were thrown up just before filming -- as well as the deeper controversies of a black streetwise detective going up against the White establishment and black mobsters while making love to white and black women alike.  Probably much more electrifying in its initial 1970s release, the film is dated now, and looks it -- cheaply shot, poorly acted, and amusingly scripted.  It's difficult to tell if the screenwriter took the film seriously with lines like Where are you goin'?  I'm goin' to get laid, where are YOU goin'?  The film is now legendary more for its amusing blaxploitation elements.  But legendary it is... "},{"Title":"Mediations","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The character of Shaft is immediately likeable and Richard Roundtree is splendid in the lead role of the film.  The surface story is simply that Shaft must find the kidnapped daughter of a Harlem drug lord named Bumpy. But the subtext is more interesting Shaft is the man who mediates the forces around him.  He's connected to the police but he knows drug pushers; his old friend is now a militant organizer while he exists as a small businessman; he's not shy about letting fly some verbal jabs at white people, or Italians (he tells one mafioso you can get your expresso with garlic in it, just the way you like it); but he tells his militant friend to stop calling him an Uncle Tom because he deals with a white police officer.  The shots of Shaft walking around New York are especially important (not just filler) because they reveal just how close to the streets Shaft is--he spends a lot of the movie on the streets of New York City (unless he's getting laid or doing his job).  Shaft mediates the life on the streets with those who are distant from it but exploit it--the police, drug lords, the audience.  Why is this important?  Because New York City holds out with one hand the promise of a better life for all people, whatever color or ethnic group, and it takes away with the other hand the hope of a better world.  New York is always the most delirious and most disastrous city in the world; a place in between heaven and hell; a place where a drug lord can get a militant black army to work for him.  Shaft, as imperfect a movie as it is, is like a prism that for one moment of time allows invisible light flash up into a myriad of colors, where every character in the film seems to have some vital connection to the city, even down to the waitress at the Cafe Reggio I forgot your lemon peel.  "},{"Title":"Watch this to prepare for Shaft 2000!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Richard Roundtree helped define the role of African American males in the movies during the 1970s. Along with such luminaries as Isaac Hayes, Jim Brown, and Fred Williamson, Roundtree's tough characters gave a lot of audiences - blacks in particular - someone gritty to root for. Shaft, of course, is the movie that really typifies that time period. Roundtree's John Shaft really IS a tough guy, and in his first film he's hot on the case of a kidnapped daughter of a local crimelord. This film is just smothered in atmosphere, always important in movies that try to harken back to the days when film noir was the norm, not the exception. Shaft's stuck between the mobsters who both want to control him and use his services and the police who want to roust him. The race card's played a few times here, of course, but remember - it WAS 1971, after all. Samuel L. Jackson's scheduled to reprise the character this year in Shaft 2000, and I think you can expect the same grit and gusto from the suave Jackson that we saw from Roundtree in the original.  "},{"Title":"He is a complicated man but no one understands him.....","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I dedicate this comment and all this typed work to the memory of Isaac Hayes 1942-2008. This is some mother of a police gangster movie ever made, in my eyes. John Shaft has a Don't Mess With Me attitude, for example, we see him just walking across the road as if there where no cars on it, Taxis are trying to get by him, and he just says Get out of my way and when the Taxi drivers hoot he sticks his finger up at then and says Up yours charming I thought. Also I should mention poor Bumpy, because Shaft, tosses his son out the upstairs window, Bumpy says He threw my son out of the the god dam window and The tune brilliantly composed by Issac Hayes Bumpy's Lament also had me in tears a bit! I also like the tune Cafe Reggios, this tune if you want to do an air guitar then this is the best tune to do it to, as Mike Toles on electric guitar on this tune is very guitar predominant. I also like it when Shaft's boss says to him where are you going to whom shaft replies I'm gonna get laid laughing. I also like the bit when that man tries to sell Shaft a watch he saysTimepiece brother? then shaft produces his badge and the man says goodbye brother I also like the bit when Shaft in the bar posing as a barman says to those two men where are my manners, I have not introduced myself, my name is John shaft Freeze and shows them his badge again. This is Issac Hayes best works, and he will be surely missed I also think that a lot of you who read this, will agree. It was not until 1976, that I first heard Issac Hayes music with the single Disco connection I also like the tune no name bar. I have the CD and the album and the cassette of the Shaft soundtrack I also think that who ever reads this, should now start buying Isaac's back catalogue if you like that kind of music R.I.P. Issac Hayes. 1942-2008. "},{"Title":"Who's da man?","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What a movie!! It was like movies hadn't even really come along prior to Shaft! Portrayals of African-Americans had gone from Birth of a Nation to Stepin Fetchit to Sidney Poitier, but none had ever shown their desire to resist The Man's laws (prior to about 1960, most American movies didn't even have black characters). Then along came John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) with his hotshot attitude, and trashed the white man's laws. In this movie, the honkies are all mealy-mouthed idiots, while the black brothers and sisters are as cool as can be. Did I mention that Isaac Hayes' theme song is really something else? This, ladies and gentlemen, is what the new breed of movies in the early '70s was all about. The remake wasn't as good, but still acceptable. "}{"Title":"Lots of cool language and hip cats but little story.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The only reason why Shaft is a good movie is because of the main character. John Shaft is one memorable movie character!What surprised me about Shaft was how the bad the movie actually was. The story is extremely simple and done many times before. Still the movie is a memorable one, not just because of the main character but also because of the dialogue and some of the events happening in the movie. I'll bet it was all very shocking back in 1971.What helps making Shaft a cult classic is of course the famous musical score by Isaac Hayes.Don't be fooled, Shaft is not a very good movie but very watchable thanks to the main character and dialogue.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"This is a swell picture.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Richard Roundtree.  The name alone spells power, and says to an audience eager for black-exploitation, Here I am, love me, or feel the back o' me hand.  This film has everything  violence, black people, more black people, and some violence.  It is powerful, yet sublime, without a hint of pretentiousness.  I well remember that day in early 1972 Moe Howard opined America would be well served with a sequel entitled Shaft meets the Three Stooges.  If Mr. Howard had lived beyond 1975, that wish may have come true.  Rest in peace, Messrs. Howard, Fine, Howard, Howard, Besser and DeRita.  That you died early is no fault of anyone, but rather due to your weak genes.  The Three Stooges in all of their incarnations were geniuses, and will be missed.  Was there humor merely physical, or an extension of the angst felt by the American  worker due to the hopeless feelings of the Great Depression during the 1930s?  I don't know, and don't really care. Neither should you.  Why do you not care?  Is there something wrong with you? Must you continually bother me about not caring?  Get with the program!  That a Shaft vs. The Three Stooges movie was never made is America's loss. Damn 1975 Hollywood for bowing at the altar of Pam Grier.  Weep not, though, as there will surely be a flick such as this made in heaven, for the lord has a sense of humor.  May the lord bless and keep the Three Stooges, and may the lord bless John Shaft! "},{"Title":"Entertaining film from the 70's","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shaft managed to overcome the obviously low budget with a good cast (most notably Richard Roundtree) and a good story with a good deal of action. There's also the great theme song from Issac Hayes. One of the finest blaxploitaion films of the 70's. A good film worth checking out.  "},{"Title":"Compared to the rest of the genre this is an exceptional film","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" SHAFT is a very famous so-called blaxploitation film--a genre that showed exceptionally tough Black men fighting the man and coming out on top. Most of these films had poor production values--low budgets, inexperienced actors and simple story lines. However, SHAFT is a great example of a blaxploitation film that is so much more than the genre--it's got exceptional acting, a catchy soundtrack, a decent budget and a good story. Nothing about this film seems cheap or second-rate.Shaft is played by Richard Roundtree and he's a Black private eye and super-stud (as the title song tells us). He's been hired to find and rescue a local mobster's daughter but although he's super-tough and super-determined, he might just be in over his head--as there's much more to this story.As I said, this film is much better than the usual blaxploitation fare and it's a real shame it's lumped into this category because it is entertaining and a good film regardless if you are Black or White or Green! I can't wait to see the sequels--I hope they are of similar quality and excitement.FYI--It's unusual to see that the White cops in this film aren't all evil like in most other films like this one. "},{"Title":"Shaft's Score Reigns Supreme!!!!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Isaac Hayes was definitely on top of his game when he composed the soundtrack to this legendary film. Although it did win an Oscar for best original song, it probably should have also won for best score. Along with Superfly, another gem in the black urban drama genre, no other music is more suitable for a motion picture than the soundtrack for Shaft. Songs like the Theme from Shaft, Soulsville, and Do Your Thing are just a few of the songs from the soundtrack that make Shaft more memorable than standard soul cinema. As for the movie itself, Richard Roundtree, an unknown actor at the time, took a small role as a black private detective and turned it into an icon amongst Afro-American heroes of cinema. This breakthrough in the motion picture industry paved the way for a bevy of motion pictures depicting black actors and actresses standing up to the man. With supporting roles from legendary character actors like Moses Gunn, as Bumpy, a black Godfather type, and Drew Bundini Brown(Muhammed Ali's ringside sidekick) as a henchman for Bumpy, Shaft is a notch above most dramas in the so-called black exploitation genre. In 2000, the incomparable Samuel L. Jackson played Shaft in an updated version , but even he didn't give it the pugnacious charisma that Richard Roundtree once did when he donned the black leather jacket and trousers, which were the trade-mark of John Shaft. Can you dig it!!! "},{"Title":"Black exploitation classics","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft (1971) was one of the first big budgeted black exploitation films to come out of Hollywood during the early seventies. The story follows a private eye named John Shaft who takes a case for a shady individual. The deeper Mister Shaft goes into the case the more complex he finds it to be. With the local mob and some nosy cops on his tail will Shaft be able to keep his street cred whilst keeping it real?This film was rushed into production to capitalize on Sweet Sweetback's Bad Ass Song according to Melvin Van Peebles, he even said that the character of John Shaft was originally a white guy. Comparing the two films, I happen to like Sweet Sweetback a lot better than this film. But don't get me wrong, I also happen to enjoy this one as well. Just don't compare the two, one is purely a film to cash in on the other's success.Recommended, it's as essential viewing for cinema fans of this genre. "},{"Title":"What a waste of an excellent action hero","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is horribly weak I give it a 4.5. Shaft as a character I will say is excellent, almost better than James Bond, could say better if there were better films. Shaft is a cool mothef**ker like they say in all the rehashing, the movie isn't. I will tell people to rent, but don't waste money on owning it. "},{"Title":"Buford You think like a white man! Shaft You don't think at all!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Being told through the Harlem grapevine that these's a couple of Bumpy Jonas', Moses Gunn, boy's out looking for him black private eye John Shaft, Richard Roundtree, gets the drop on them throwing one of the boys through his office window killing him and hauling the other boy down to the 38th precinct to have a talk with him and his cop friend inspector Vic Androzzi, Charles Cioffi. The word is out that there's a war about to break out in Harlem between Bumpy Jonas' gang and this group of radical black activists called the Lumumba's that can easily escalate into a full scale race war. The city higher ups, from the mayor on down, want to keep a lid on it at all costs with Shaft, by him being the only person that Bumpy will deal with, being the man to do it.Going to see Bumpy about what's eating him and why he's acting so combative Shaft is told that some group of neighborhood thugs have taken his baby or teenage daughter Marcy, Sherri Brewer, hostage and that he'll do anything, within reason, to get her back. Taking on the case for the missing or kidnapped Marcy Shaft soon finds out that the Lumumbas are totally innocent in Marcy's disappearance. It turns out that the sneaky and lying Bumpy was the one responsible for his daughters kidnapping and now want's to cover his a** by putting the blame on the black activists.The plot thickens as Shaft uncovers Bumpy's activities in the hood through a number of informants and the both head and spiritual leader of the Lumumbas Ben Buford, Christopher St. John. What these informants reveal is that the greedy and power crazed Bumpy was getting a little too big for his own good by cutting out the Mob from his drug trafficking gambling and prostitution rackets in Harlem and it was the Mob, not the Lumumbas, who are responsible for Marcy's kidnapping. Groundbeaking film that has a black PI take on both the Italian Mafia the local black crime Godfather together with a number of neighborhood anti-drug political activists in cleaning up the hood almost single handedly without the help of the police.Richard Roundtree as Shaft is as cool as can be when confronted with danger, by both white and black hoodlums, as well as a dynamo in and out of bed with the ladies as he gets to the bottom of what's been going on between Bumpy and the Mob and why it's so important to find Marcy alive and unhurt in order to prevent the city from exploding. Shaft uncovers the truth about Bumpy's true motives in wanting his daughter back which has more to do with his trying to prevent the exposing of his actions in the hood then his double-crossing his silent partners the Mafia. It was Bumpy by what he's been doing to his people in selling drugs and pimping hookers and then cutting out the Mob from its share of profits is the person who really put his innocent daughters life in jeopardy.Christopher St. John as Lumumba leader Ben Buford sees right away that he's in far over his head in trying to put down the Mob all by himself but with Shaft coming to his side things just had to get better. Shaft besides his aforementioned attributes is also a glutton for punishment as we see him blown almost to bits by a number of Mafia hoodlums only to miraculously recover without any real or professional medical attention. This neighborhood quack known as Doctor Sam ,Shiman Kuskin, operates on Shaft without any anesthetics or even medical equipment. Dr. Sam not only brings the almost dead private eye back to life but has him later be able to do a number of almost unbelievable acrobatic feats against the Mafia that even Batman or Spiderman couldn't duplicate.Besides the very good acting by Roundtree Gunn Cioffi & Co. and the right on target directing by Gordon Parks, who has a cameo role in the film as a slumlord, it's the heart-thumping electronic-like and adrenalin driven music, including the theme song Shaft, by Issac Hayes that's by far the best thing going for the film. "},{"Title":"Humorous and interesting","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" First I have to step up on my soapbox. We are a funny society. We complain that minorities don't get roles as whites actors do and when they do--we call it exploitation of that minority and most of what we notice or comment on is the issue of race of the characters. I hope to live another 50 years to hear complaints of todays Black thug movies and how Hollywood tricked or forced minorities into the roles. Now about the movie. I'm watching it now for the first time since it first came out in71. Then I was a teen and watched it only to be cool and fit in. I Didn't really understand or care to understand the plot.The plot line is still pretty good--can still work today. The lines are corny and today--just doesn't click. Example is early in the movie the detective ask Shaft where he was going, Im gonna go get laid-where are you going man? Ha Ha Ha. I guess that was a smart Alic stab in the 70's. I enjoyed seeing the fancy apartment layout. A small reel to reel tape player with record albums stacked nearby brought back memories.Just enjoy it for he action, funny lingo and let the social implications go---save it for todays street thug mo' money movies. "},{"Title":"great but...","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" okay! obviously everyone has to see this movie. I mean his is the baddest mother of them all. Yeah I'm talking about Shaft..Great flick, if I hadn't grown up watching Bruce Willis, Danny Glover, and Mel Gibson. Historically speaking; everyone needs to see this because shaft is one of the first black heroes accepted by our cinema. However, From a modern point of view, I feel that shaft lacks the quick witted humor of our cinematic crusaders. Yes, he does produce witty comments at a perfect time, but he does move as quick as today's performers. This movie paved the path for all of the latest action adventures. Also, considering it from a wholestic feature, I feel that the film lost its way after such a long intro. It made several of my friends lose their attention to it because it didn't open up dramatically. Yeah, he is the baddest mother of them all, but he doesn't prove it until half way through the movie. Speak it up, keep the sound effects blaring in the background while taking away from the light of the overall appearance and I feel you have a great film. But then again isn't that what film has progress towards up until now? Well, maybe sooner or later i'll pickup the SLJ version.The HousePS Parks dominated. "}{"Title":"A great action movie with soul music mixed in...","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shaft is a terrific movie. I first saw it on the day after my 24th birthday in April, 2004 (my mother got it for me). I had never ever seen this movie before then, not even on the Encore channel!! Before I saw this movie, the only thing I knew about it was the title theme and several other songs from the soundtrack album (one of the most memorable recordings on the Stax Records label and performed by Isaac Hayes, aka Black Moses). When I first saw this movie, I really loved it a lot and instantly liked it. My mother first saw this movie back in '71, when it was in the theater. Richard Roundtree's performance as the title character was wonderful. He had to find a girl who was abducted by some henchmen and the girl's father, named Bumpy, hired Shaft to go look for her. There are some intriguing scenes in the film, such as when Shaft sees this guy at a counter ordering some gum and gets the guy upstairs to his office (he thought it was Bumpy) and a fight breaks out between Shaft, the guy whom he thought was Bumpy (but wasn't), and another guy and the guy (mistaken for Bumpy) goes out the window. Another one is where Shaft and another man go in to this apartment building looking for some killers or the girl's abductors, but end up finding nothing. The scene that I thought was scary was when Shaft got beaten up by the girl's abductors, and the final moments when Shaft and his partner devise a plan to free the girl and kill the abductors. It is a real thriller to watch, and if you have not yet seen this movie, go for it. "},{"Title":"When there's Danger All About","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My first album, my first trip to the movies by myself Shaft is the highlight of a distant time.  Shaft and Youngblood Priest(Superfly) lived in a funky evil yet cool world and I wouldn't have been surprised if they hadn't known of each other.  While I will rank Superfly higher in content and theme music Shaft is one bad mutha.  I can see him pimpslapping the Wolfen, the vampires in Blade, and Rosemary's Baby back into place with out breaking into a sweat. The Man is Koool! "},{"Title":"'they this shafts a bad mother...' ('hey shut your mouth!')","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  the grandfather of all blaxploitation movies is still one of the best and alot better than that useless samuel jackson remake. complete with a superb oscar winning score by scientology's very own isaac hayes and a wonderful script courtesy of the excellant ernest tidyman who also penned 'the french connection' and 'high plains drifter'; this is a classic to be viewed and praised till the end of time. the dialogue alone is pure gold (shaft's superior 'you aren't too black shaft'/shaft 'you ain't too white either!') and the action is always well staged. enough said? "},{"Title":"Who's the cat who won't cop out when theres danger all about?","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Elaborately choreographed fight scenes, multiple explosions and hairstyle evolution have conspired to make this film seem terribly dated. In this new millenium of Wesleys and Denzels and Morgans, having a black hero is no longer such a groundbreaking, cinematically political statement, and therefore the bite of this film has been reduced to a mere nibble. However, as an example of the blaxploitation genre this is one of the best. Roundtree is dynamite in the lead role, the lines have retained their snappiness- Don't let yo' mouth get yo' ass into trouble- and the legendary score is, well, legendary. As a milestone in late 60's /early 70's cinema, this is a must see for any film lover, however it is probably not the kind of film to snuggle up to your girlfriend in front of on a Saturday night if you're looking for a popcorn flick&#133;.  "},{"Title":"Shaft is the king of the genre","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While the sequels are up for debate, the original SHAFT is a  classic on every front. The twists and turns are wonderful and the acting is truly great. Thanks to films like this and SWEET SWEETBACK, an entire genre of films was opened up and given to the world. High praise indeed for the decision to have Shaft be black, as he was not in the book. A true classic that will never die. "},{"Title":"Big Icon of the 1970s","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion, a much better film than the John Singleton version for a couple of reasons.  First, the movie has better action scenes and a cool presence in Richard Roundtree.  Second, the director is more stylized and full of energy.  John Shaft defined a generation of youngsters on how to be and look cool and tough.  The title song by Isaac Hayes is a classic.  Overall a traditional detective story with a few new twists in the plot. "},{"Title":"A GOOD MOVIE","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I find it a shame that this movie is wearing all sorts of labelscult classic,blaxpoitation,campy(?!!!!)This is a good movie Sure the movie has style and attitude and started a whole subgenre in gangster movies, but it has a strong lead, a solid story and good actors. No camp here SHAFT is a down to earth, gritty movie about urban decay and corruption. No flamboyant stereotypical pimps and pushers.SHAFT is a HERO, who , much,like his contemporary DIRTY HARRY, has his own set of rules.See this for what it is.A good movie.   "},{"Title":"Blaxpoitation at its best!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Richard Roundtree casts his mark in the movie world with his  smooth-talking, womanizing, mobster-brawling private dick, John  Shaft. Along with a cool script and nice fight scenes, Isaac Hayes' theme pulsates the mood, making it more steamy. Though  the movie seems to drag down a little bit, this flick still mananges to put the viewer on the edge of his seat. >   "},{"Title":"All that needs to be said is he's a bad mutha...SHUT YO MOUTH!","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Defining an entire genre in one movie is not easy. Shaft does this task, and does it well. There is simply nothing cooler than Shaft. Just the name says cool. Who's the cat that won't cop out when there's danger all about? SHAFT! Right on. When you take into account the budget and other limiting factors in the early 70's that could have stopped Shaft from ever making it onto the screen, one must overlook the technical faults like the microphone being visible through his beige turtleneck. Shaft is the best movie around. He's one bad mutha...SHUT YO MOUTH...jus' talkin' bout' Shaft...we can dig it.   "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen; I don't care if it is corny!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, I know Shaft is corny, and yes, I know Shaft was filmed on a budget in a mediocre manner (there are shots where an audio mike was visible under his beige turtleneck), but the film was aesthetically brilliant and was perfectly cast. The content is pure '70's groovaliciousness, and the dialogue was an absolute gas. The score, by the way, was excellent (Isaac Hayes (of South Park fame) deserved his Oscar for it). Shaft is indeed a complicated man (Who else would keep a gun on ice?), and the film is a corny, but well-intentioned commentary on Afro-Caucasian relations. This film is definitive, and if you want to be the life of any social circle, watch it with friends.  "}{"Title":"Hey, check this out","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, if you haven't seen this film then rent it, love it and buy it...that's the way it was for me. The film was made nine years before I was born but I still love every minute of it. Can you dig it???  "},{"Title":"Shaft is Not Hotter Than Bond or Cooler Than Bullitt","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When a big time pimp and drug dealer has his daughter kidnapped by the mob, he hires smart talking private investigator John Shaft to get her back. Quite popular back in the 70's, but it seems a bit dated now.  It is pretty slow and the acting isn't that great, but it is a decent enough flick. Isaac Hayes theme is still as great as ever.  *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Once again I watch a so called classic and was very disappointed. Maybe back in the 1970's this was a ground breaking film, but thirty years later, not only is it just another film, its not very good either. Samuel Jackson's version was not great either, but compared to this, it was great. "},{"Title":"Shaft didn't quite make my day","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My impression is that the legend of Shaft out does the actual film!  The character deserves better treatment, but that's not to say the flick shouldn't be checked out.  It serves well as an early 70s time capsule, especially in the department of Attitude.  The character is far more enjoyable than the film itself.  Dirty Harry, which was released in the same year as Shaft, stands up much better, with better plotting, characterisation and thrills. "},{"Title":"2000 version is better!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i saw this the other day- what a waste of time. Dated dialogue, bad script and the camera work looks very dodgy- as if a 5 year old is opperating it!!! Roundtree's acting was the best- the rest of them looked as if they were reading dummy cards. Some of the scenes also looked as if they were making it up as they went along!!!I liked the oscar winning theme song by Hayes, and Shaft's Cool jacket still looks funky today, however Shaft 1971 is waaaay past it's used by date!  "},{"Title":"Boooooooorrrrring","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ok i watched this movie the other day ok well for its time maybe it was a good movie but like since all the new crime films have come out it is just soo lame and boring if u want to see a really good crime movie rent heat "},{"Title":"He's a complicated man...","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Real dude jus' been in here askin' 'bout you Shaft.  $50 shoes, funky plaid coat and grey flares....Wearing enough leather to re-upholster a rodeo Shaft is an icon of 70's cool.  Recently the subject of comedy and satire he stands out from the other blaxploitation characters because he is a well written character who is more than just a black face. Credit for this has to go to the actor Richard Roundtree who is a massive presence on the screen capable of clinical violence and sensitive loving.The main plot of Shaft is a war breaking out between black gangstas and the mafia.  Shaft is a private detective with a good friend in the Police dept. Everybody needs him, the Police need his street knowledge, the gangstas need him on a dangerous job, his woman needs him for..... well he knows just what his woman needs.Moses Gunn is a superb villain, it seems a strange parallel to make but Alan Rickman in Die Hard uses the same tricks on his opponent as Gunn does on Shaft.  It would be nice to think that the cold teutonic Hans Gruber owed just a little to mean ol' m*ther Bumpy Jonas !Well-directed, with a surprisingly measured pace and with a superb soundtrack Shaft is a good film by any measure.  The Isaac Hayes songs and incidental music are second to none, every effect used in Shaft has become an archetype.  The wah-guitars signifying quiet tension, the fast picking during the chase scenes, the vibes when his gives his woman good loving......Starsky and Hutch owe everything to Shaft including Antony Fargas, who makes an appearance as a pseudo Huggy Bear.  The brilliant Chef from South Park and UK comedian Lenny Henry may send up the genre but Shaft is an original and the best.  "},{"Title":"Cool!!!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nasty, violent, vulgar, sexy, hot...perfect. This is BLAXPLOITATION! I haven't seen the Samuel L. Jackson-version but I don't even interested in it because Richard Roundtree is the best. He's mean, brutal and not obviously standing on the right side. He's a private-eye and hasn't any moral problems with working to the mob. He is hired by the head of the mob, whose daughter was kidnapped, and Shaft finds himself in the line of the fire. You can guess, that there are lot of actions, good women (he's definitely not the best husband at all...). I've heard a lot about this film before, I saw the two sequels (Shaft's Big Score /1972/ and Shaft in Africa /1973/) first, so I knew what to expect. And I wasn't disappointed. And the music!!! Isaac Hayes is a God! He deserved his Oscar for the Best Song in 1971. It's the essence of the whole film. I've never seen another film where the music and the film was in better harmony than in this one. The whole soundtrack is perfect too. You can think over the film again while you're listening the music. So, if you want to watch a great 1970's crime and action movie, 'Shaft' is what you're looking for. 100% "},{"Title":"Average.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Casting aside Shaft's social and historical importance (it may be the most famous blaxploitation flick of them all), it has to be judged on purely artistic terms....and on those terms it's just an average film that suffers from a certain shortage of action. However, it's easy to see why Richard Roundtree became so popular after this film - he manages to make his character so magnetic that you WANT to see him in sequels (and there were two of those!). It also has a great N.Y flavor, and a great score.       (**1/2) "}]