[{"Title":"Forgotten Favorite","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Being American and inadvertently an avid viewer (consumer) of cinema of all genres and qualities, I have to say that this is one of my all-time, forgotten favorites.Not being a film student or critic, I fall into that overlooked and easily dismissed category called the audience which is humorously described as having no knowledge of art, but knowing with certainty what one likes. As such, I can say, unequivocally, that I like this film.Most important to me as a viewer, above all other aspects of a film, is the story that is being told. If the story is winning, endearing and meaningful, then all else can be forgiven, production quality, even poor acting. Sans the poor acting, They Might Be Giants is just such a film.I won't bore you with the wealth of meaning and depth of insight that I have gleaned from this wonderful story. Suffice it to say that despite what some have chosen to call its' saccharine quality (and what I call its' endearing quality), this story has the metaphysical import that elevates it to the level of a modern-day fable for the Western World.Because I am unstudied and basically an illiterate in terms of Western Literature, the references to Don Quiote were completely invisible to me until now. For this enlightenment, I give thanks to the other reviewers. This comparison rings true throughout the story, and has enriched its' overall meaning for me. However, because I was initially unaware of this now obvious reference, for me the They in the title of They Might Be Giants referred to the very characters, themselves, all of whom are socially flawed, socially marginalized individuals, all of whom are void of desirability.As such, these characters, very aptly portrayed by the cast, although quirky, stand-alone individuals respectively, collectively come to represent the everyman. The impersonal facelessness and the spirit-killing angst of personal worthlessness in midst of the post-industrial age of modernity are the windmills at which our Don Quiote, Justin Playfair, tilts. More importantly, we come to understand that this mask of facelessness may well be hiding individuals of truly gigantic spiritual dimensions and human worth. Our fellow human beings, who we pass, nameless, in the streets, They Might Be Giants! "},{"Title":"Magical film, full of poetry","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you look for flaws in this film you will find plenty.  Still, I gave this film a 10 vote because it has overriding qualities which are extremely rare. It is a magical film, full of poetry, it touches you where other films cannot reach.  It creates a fantasy world of its own in the midst of modern society, a fantasy world which is utterly implausible and yet so compellingly persuasive.The cast of this gem is mesmerisingly excellent, all parts I can think of are cast with character actors who on their own have stolen entire films from the stars.  The central performance by George C. Scott is majestic, and so is John Barry's wonderful score.  The film contains many memorable scenes, but outstanding amongst the lot is the supermarket scene.  If I had to compile a list of the ten best scenes ever put to celluloid, this would be included.Unique. "},{"Title":"Ought to be on everybody's top-ten list.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" (Contains spoiler.) I recently did a free-lance graphic-design job for a video store owner. My pay? He had to come up with a copy of They Might Be Giants for me. He swore it was the last copy on Earth.George C. Scott made Justin Playfair/Sherlock Holmes into a great film character. If you pay attention to his delightful patter, you hear a soulful philosophy of life that nails our culture &#150; whether in 1971 or 1999. His rescue of poor Mr. Small made me want to cheer. Joanne Woodward's portrayal of Dr. Watson was brilliant. You could palpably feel the missing pieces of her wretched existence. Just keep repeating to yourself, I am adequate!This may be one of the all-time best collection of character actors ever put together. Jack Guilford and Rue McClanahan were wonderful&#133; But so was every other actor that appeared. Al Lewis (III) as the messenger, You were right, Mr. Holmes. My dog did have Pellegra. The clueless march of the crazies en route to the supermarket was heroic. Too few people remember this film. If you get a chance, check this one out.***Note - I originally wrote this comment seven years ago, but some of the new user comments prompted me to add to it. First, understand that Justin Playfair's condition is totally explained by Rue McClanahan, his sister-in-law. He was a brilliant jurist until his wife was killed. He couldn't cope with a world that allowed such bad things to happen. In an attempt to understand how bad things can happen to good people, he became the world's greatest sleuth in a relentless effort to understand evil. He showed saved newspaper clippings, of innocent people killed by inexplicable accidents, buses going off a cliff, boyscouts attacked, and so on. His one thread that held him to a tenuous sanity was the belief he could always figure it out... and that there were always clues.He frequented an old movie house that showed old Westerns, where Randolph Scott always wore a white hat and won over the bad guys in black hats. The purest celluloid version of ultimate good over evil. In black and white. He did the London Times crossword puzzle in ink, and could read a person's life with the same exactitude as the original Sherlock. When he rescued Mr. Small, he commented under his breath, Why can't analysts ever analyze? The more he studied and investigated the clues, the surer he became that all the clues pointed toward one malevolent perpetrator - the evil mastermind, Moriarity. In the end, he knew he and Watson were no match for him, but that the noblest thing a Man could do was stand up against evil, even if it was a futile gesture. In that acceptance of holding onto good - even in the face of absolute evil - was his salvation. In an insane world - only the insane are sane. "},{"Title":"Delightful and quirky flick","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie sports many moments of pure magic. This film was my first introduction to George C. Scott, and to my mind, this was his best role ever, even surpassing the work he did in Dr. Strangelove and The Hospital.And that soundtrack! An excellent score, indeed! "},{"Title":"And They WERE Giants","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this gem of a motion picture on television in the early 70's. I really was no more than a boy when I saw it and yet it touched me in a way that no other film had. For the first time I appreciated a piece of cinema for more than just idle distraction from dull small town Texas life. They Might Be Giants taught me that movies could be art and could elevate as much as they entertain. From that time to this, whenever I am asked what is my favourite film, I always point to this picture. It was done on a very low budget so the story, characters and amazing actors carry it along the streets of New York, creating a world of whimsical romance and serio-comic tension. The relationship between the mad Justin Playfair (a loony judge who thinks he's Sherlock Homes) and Dr. Mildred Watson (obviously destined to become the pschizo's unwilling side kick) builds into a romance that is funny, touching and, by the end, uplifting. It is available on DVD now and is a cherished piece of my extensive collection. 10 out of 10 all the way. "},{"Title":"Beautifully-written fantasy fable","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  James Goldman's most beautiful and literary script, a fragile and delicate fantasy/comedy that delivers on its initial promise. Beautifully acted by Scott, Woodward and Gilford, and with a dozen or more cameos that are truly memorable, this is truly a feel-good movie for the literate and the intelligencia. I would rank it among my top half-dozen. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a really great movie that was a huge flop when it came out and this should be a cult hit but isn't for some reason. George C. Scott plays a man who thinks he is Sherlock Holmes and his brother tries to have him committed so he can receive his money. Joanne Woodward is the psychiatrist who tries to help him but things don't go as planned and Woodward winds up helping Scott with his case. Woodward's name also happens to be Watson and Scott drags her along to find Moriarity. Woodward has no life outside her work and they wind up falling in love. Scott's brother really wants his money and hires a hit man to kill Scott but he doesn't realize that. "},{"Title":"A fun movie! One of my Top Three All-Time Favs...","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is in my Top Ten of all time flicks! Scott was made for this role. No one could have done it better. I'm surprised how many people have never seen this gem. The writing is brilliant, acting superb! All of human emotion can be seen in this little film. OK, I don't quite understand the ending but that really doesn't detract from the whole. I laugh and cry no matter how many times I watch it. Scott is for the underdog and can see human nature as no one else can. Joanne Woodward falls head-over-heels for Justin and realizes the only way she can reach him is through assimilating his reality. It's a romantic comedy that should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"Before there was One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest...","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In 1976, ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST(1975) was nominated for 9 Academy Awards, winning 5 in all the major categories.  But 5 years earlier, another film tackled mental illness (all be it in a different manner) in it's own unique way.  This film was THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS(1971).  Now many would argue that Cuckoo's Nest was a superior film, and they would probably be right.  They Might Be Giants was shot on a miniscule budget, and was cut down for release by studio exec's.  In a further insult, the same studio exec's refused to support the Director's bid for a wide release.  It's a shame too, because it  featured one of the most overlooked comic performances in film history.  George C.Scott plays Justin Playfair, a retired judge who thinks he's Sherlock Holmes.  And he does it perfectly.  Right down to the subtle gestures and mannerisms.  In one of films best scenes, Playfair arrives in a local Mental Institution for an evaluation.  A struggle breaks out with the patient before him (a mute, who refuses to reveal even his name) and it's up to Holmes to save the day.  And Save the day he does.  The Dialogue in this scene is brilliant.  Some of the best I've ever heard.  And it's all Scott.  Not only does he get the man to talk, he guesses his name!  The supporting cast is excellent as well.  Joanne Woodward is the perfect foil as Dr Watson, Jack Gilford as Wilbur Peabody, and the rest of the New York actors are real, and delightfully eccentric.  The end of the film with the March to find Moriarty is a classic.  Listen to the music in this scene, it's great!  So if you liked Cuckoo's nest, check this one out...you won't regret it!!  "},{"Title":"Magical mystery film.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sadly, i saw this film only once, back in the early eighties;it remains unforgettable.An earlier reviewer said that it echoes Don Quixote as well as Holmes;they were right. Scott was one of the greatest actors, and this is one of his finest films. It is rich in humor and fantasy, and it boasts a very good performance by Ms. Woodward to compliment the one by Scott. "}{"Title":"If you've never seen this it's worth looking for","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that is so quirky that you love watching it. Certainly not a big budget film despite having two great actors in George C. Scott and Joanne Woodward but it is a fun film. Director Anthony Harvey had an odd career. He only directed nine theatrical feature films and in only his second film he hit a home run with 1968's The Lion in Winter getting seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture and Best Director for himself. He didn't win in those two categories but that film did win three Oscars. He didn't direct another film for three years until he came out with They Might be Giants which was such a small film and such a departure from his previous big historical epic. George C. Scott turns in an excellent performance here as does Woodward. This isn't a great film but it's fun and interesting and the supermarket scene is a riot. I've seen this a couple of times and would definitely like to see it again sometime. I would give this a 7.5 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"Persian Slipper","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.All of us have movies that for some reason hit us at special times, greatly amplifying inherent power. `The Muppet Movie' is one of these for me deeply self-referential, it is about the creation of itself. This is another. I first saw it at an all night drive-in in 1971, with my wife and toddler son. It was the fifth and last movie on the bill.Of course, I've seen it many times since. Each time adds to the experience in some incremental way that cleverly avoids deficiencies. Like the best friendships, and similarly this comment will have bias.I'm an amateur student in reflexive film and literature that's where the film is aware of its role as a fabricated reality. The best of these add some layers within, where the characters create in the same way that they were created. Most scholars believe this began with `Don Quixote.'There is another equally novel literary tradition I particularly admire the detective narrative. That's where the traditional role of storytelling is turned into a contest between writer and reader, each working to anticipate the ending in a way that - within certain rules - flummoxes the other. This actually started with Poe but was popularized in the Holmes stories which supplanted the clever character-based model of Dickens.Two revolutionary ways of engaging the viewer, both since exploited by clever filmmakers. Here, we have a clever synthesis of the two. And it involves an actor - possibly the best `old style' actor - who appreciates the challenges of separating actor and character.The treatment (like that of the muppet movie) is disguised as a simple comedy of endearing madness, along the lines of `Harvey.' But there are some amazing constructions here, including that early scene where a man will not speak because he exists in silent film character mode and needs to shifted to `reality' mode. There is a similar notion of shifting from reality to medium in the later sequence where a woman physically speaks to a telephone operator, then calls her. The catch-22 of this situation is just an excuse. The whole story is about looking for clues shifting things from one reality to another by intervention of character/writer (who is really a judge/scholar). Home base is a library.The trigger for the story is a photograph. This film isn't seen by viewers as an intelligent construction because of its light hearted treatment, especially the slapstick supermarket sequence. This incidentally starts with a reference to `The Third Man' in the sewer kiosk which would never exist in New York.I believe that an art form of the future will be to go back to these underappreciated gems and reedit them, or embed them in another project. It makes sense to take a film about shifting layers and add more, Peter Greenaway-wise. The first thing to go would have to be the flippant sound track.Not convinced this had intelligence behind it? What happens at the end?This ending is so remarkable that I often go to that very spot when I visit New York, sweetly near the Alice in Wonderland, John Lennon and `the Tempest' memorials.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"flawed but delightful fantasy/offbeat romantic comedy","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  They Might Be Giants is one of my two all-time favorite films.  It has its problems it's somewhat dated, the characters are often one-dimensional, and there's one scene that's SO mawkish and dated it makes me cringe (the hippie girl at the phone company).  Nevertheless, it's a wonderfully constructed film with terrific performances from George C. Scott, Joanne Woodward, Jack Gilford, and many top-flight character actors.  It's also a great look at NYC circa 1970, and has the best supermarket scene I've ever seen.  Most of all, it's a fantasy that has firm roots in, and leads back to, reality.  And it's quite romantic, too--especially for those who've had little luck in that department.   "},{"Title":"Maybe this movie is only for lovers of dreams?","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've loved this little movie since I caught it in the early eighties on TV, though it wasn't until years later I understood the title. It is a veneer of Sherlock Holmes on a pastiche of Don Quixote. George C. Scott plays a judge who has succumbed to paranoid delusions since his wife's death &#151; he believes he is Sherlock Holmes. Or does he really? As in Quixote, it is never entirely clear if the judge is lost in his delusion or has chosen to retreat into it because the real world is too ugly &#151; in other words, he may know on some level the windmills he tilts at are only windmills, but if looked at another way, they may be giants, after all.And the role of the private investigator is a pretty good parallel for Quixote's knight errant &#151; seeking to uncover evildoers while also completely obscuring his own mundane origins. Joanne Woodward plays a psychiatrist, coincidentally named Watson, enabling Holmes to draw her into his world. She is his Sancho Panza. Also as in Quixote, Holmes is on an apparent quest to thwart the nefarious Moriarty, running into common people who stand in his way, finding out what is troubling them, and solving their problems in a novel way, thereby building a small army of supporters while simultaneously irritating other characters who want things to stay just as they are &#151; the Establishment (it was 1971).I enjoyed the lunacy of the film and Scott's confident, loopy Homes from the beginning &#151; the final battle is waged in a grocery store, in which the cops that were supposed to arrest the judge and lock him up in an asylum are completely derailed by Holmes's army, and by his commandeering of the store PA to announce unbelievably low special prices on the merchandise, causing the cops to abandon their pursuit and go shopping. But it was the last image of the film that stuck with me, and kept me thinking about it until it was permanently entered in my brain under Movies I Want to See Again.Homes and Watson &#151; Scott and Woodward &#151; have evaded their pursuers, and are standing alone in Central Park, late at night. Holmes has warned Watson that Moriarty is very close by, and they can only hope to defeat him if they stand together. Then he lets the mask slip he tells Watson that he loves her &#151; and she clearly loves him as well &#151; though he is by no means surrendering his identity as Holmes. Then he points out Moriarty coming out of the gloom, the hooves of his horse clopping on the path, and Watson finally can see him too. As the camera fades to black though, the clopping hooves become the ticking of a clock, and the enemy is revealed to be time itself, or mortality, against which the only defense is to remake reality as one sees fit. "},{"Title":"intentions vs. end results","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was a projectionist once, and I showed this film when it had its theatrical release. One aspect of being a projectionist back then was that you got to see certain parts of the films over and over, to the point that you not only could relate scenes and repeat lines, but you began to understand the films in a deeper way than the audiences.The previous reviews miss enough that I feel compelled to write a review of the film. First, the same author wrote Lion In Winter, so it is pretty obvious he knew the craft. Second, this started as a London stage play, and according to the admittedly loopy Wikipedia, he didn't like the production and stopped further attempts at mounting the play.Once you take the concept that it is a stage play adapted for film, some of the oddities of this production become more apparent. Much like the concept expressed in Shakespeare in Love, where everyone expects and looks forward to the dog in a play, movie audiences expect a romantic relationship and a happy ending where good triumphs over evil, the Hayes code is satisfied, and insipid movies are safe for kids to watch.The intent of the original work is darker than that, but in order to perceive that you have to look underneath the surface, much as Holmes would do.Start with the title They Might Be Giants. Yes, it is an homage to Cervantes, but it is a double-entendre as well. In ignoring the dross of everyday life and focusing on existential topics to the point that the world calls them crazy, the mentally ill just might be the giants of humanity, exploring the boundaries of who we are as humans and good and evil. Certainly the Justin (justice) Playfair (play fair) character turning into a Holmsian sleuth represents that. The couple who shut themselves off from humanity for years and were very happy is another exploration of the concepts under consideration. It is only when Holmes goes looking for evil in their world that it suddenly appears.Who is to say that a person who believes himself to be a silent film star isn't, in some small measure, that person? The entire concept of empathy, as well as the concept of method acting, both require getting into the head of the character. Do we not all have a bit of Scarlett Pimpernel in us somewhere? Is expressing that so bad that we need to relegate our lives to being nebbish librarians forever in our existence? On the subject of the varying versions - Many years ago, I worked in a couple of television stations. The movies we showed came in on 16mm film and one of my jobs was to cut the films to fit the time slot allotted. I learned never to trust a televised version of a film as being accurate to the intention of the director. Networks modify film as well, and in some cases they have access to ADD footage as well as clip it.*Major spoiler here* - The enigmatic scene at the end is only enigmatic if you are blind to the modern version of the Hayes code and the inevitable studio interventions which bow to the low common denominators of How can we maximize the money this makes? and Will it upset the audience? Start with the supermarket scene and descent into Mad Mad Mad Mad World slapstick. The duality is that the author did want to show how, when confronted, the establishment is a group of enforcers of the status quo, some dressed in enforcer (police) uniforms, and some masquerading as those who would help you become sane, while wielding rubber hoses if you don't follow their instruction. At the same time, the studio wanted a feel good slapstick to lighten up a film with an underlying dark theme. Ergo chaos in a market, where the materialism of the enforcers of status-quo becomes their temptation and undoing. The most powerful figure in the scene is reduced to saying My wife will kill me if I don't take advantage of this bargain. The end scene is the most dark of all. Once the reality of the world Holmes has been fighting is shown to be a farce, he has nowhere to go. Death is the inevitable conclusion. The tunnel in Central Park is again double entendre and metaphorical. Tunnel - the passage into the unknown. Tunnel - the accepting of a confined world where there is no escape from whatever comes towards you. There are others that I'll let you deduce for yourself. However... the tunnel was ALSO a metaphor for a RAILROAD tunnel. The horse being heard is a clue to an IRON horse, which is borne out by the comment and visual that they will be in the light (train headlight - also metaphor for truth/God/etc.) and be found close together. He has convinced the analyst to trust him right into death.There is no way that the film company and distributor would allow a scene of Geo. C. Scott and Joanne Woodward standing in front of a railroad (or more likely subway) tunnel, and being run down by a train. All feel-good aspects of the film (and chances of repeat customers) would be lost. What surprises me is how few people get the ending and theme of the film. "},{"Title":"The Romantic versus The Realistic in the Modern World","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" With his roman nose profile and height, and before he put on weight, George C. Scott was a natural looking actor to essay the role of that greatest of fictional detectives Sherlock Holmes. But for some reason he never got the nod to do a film on Holmes or Conan Doyles stories. Instead, he did get to play a pseudo-Holmes Justin Playfair, the eccentric (some would say cracked) judge who is currently in an asylum and believes he is the great detective. Assigned to help treat him is Joanne Woodward as Dr. Mildred Watson, who first tries to slowly get him back into reality (like Alonso Quijano was supposed to be brought back from being Don Quixote de la Mancha into being a wealthy land owner by his niece and her fiancé). Gradually Woodward begins seeing that far from being crazy, Scott is seeing the world in a different way Scott is basically letting his imagination look beyond the forms of reality to the hidden side of things. As he says, with a reference to his Cervantes' model (rather than his Conan Doyle model), when Quixote charges the windmills we think him mad, but those windmills might actually be giants, justifying fighting them.In this film it is the small people versus the proper and more powerful ones that are at the heart of things. Scott and Woodward are soon leading others with a romantic view of life. Jack Gilford gives another one of his sweet, profound performances as a little man who does see himself - as the Scarlet Pimpernel - righting the wrongs of the world. So it goes with many of the characters in the film. The real climax (there are two) is in the supermarket scene, when momentarily the forces of power gain the upper hand over Scott's allies and start rounding them up. Scott turns the tables by basing a counter-attack on their greed he starts announcing insanely cheap prices for meat, poultry, bread, fruit, etc., that these realists cannot pass up. They start grabbing things (and releasing Gilford and the others, who look bemused at the realists as they sneak away).The film's second climax is timed at the conclusion. For Scott/Holmes must have his Moriarty (it is his brother, who is trying to have him permanently committed). Scott and Woodward go for a final rendezvous, and we last see them admiring their adversary as he advances. The film does not show what happens but leaves us wondering if they survive or not. But it is a conclusion that leaves us somehow satisfied for the sake of Playfair and his Watson. Maybe it was only his brother they saw approach, but it could have been Moriarty - just like it could have been those giants. "},{"Title":"Charmed by George C. Scott","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I stumbled across this sleeper on cable years ago.  I was familiar with Scott's heavy roles, but was absolutely blown away by his portrayal of a charming, self-convinced character who thought he was Sherlock Holmes. The way his face lit up when he met Joanne Woodward's Dr. Watson was one of my favorite movie moments of all time.I am writing this on learning of his passing.  While not his greatest movie, it deserves watching almost as much as Patton, The Hospital, Dr. Strangelove, or 12 Angry Men (& much more than Firestarter), if only to see him in an entirely different type of character. "},{"Title":"A rarity a thoughtful movie","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of George C. Scott's least recognized performances, perhaps because this is a movie you begin to appreciate more days or weeks after you've seen it.  The movie challenges our views of reality by juxtaposing Scott's delusions against the range of odd and eccentric people that make up the world we know, or think we know as real.  This is the kind of movie I like to own.  Rapid and witty dialog and subtleties of meaning and performance that can only be found and appreciated with repeated watchings. If you like Harold and Maude, you'll probably like this one too.  One of my all-time underground favorites. "},{"Title":"Uninspired Comedy","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" A man who thinks he is Sherlock Holmes is treated by a woman whose name happens to be Dr. Watson. It's a whimsical premise that could have turned into a decent comedy, but the script here is far too uninspired and meandering to amount to anything more than a curiosity piece. There are mildly amusing moments here and there but there is too little humor, drama, and action to sustain the narrative. The final act, including a ridiculous scene in a supermarket, is supposed to be hilarious but falls flat. It's a shame the script is so lacking because Woodward and Scott seem to be trying really hard and show great flair for comedy. This was Harvey's follow-up to The Lion in Winter, making him a one-hit wonder. "},{"Title":"WHO might be giants?","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" The thing about a great film is not finding mistakes, and not noting any imperfections, but rather, discovering the heart of the film. This film has heart, integrity, and subtlety, with some of the finest acting you will ever hope to see. This is one of the great ones, which stays with you like that first lingering kiss.One of the strengths of this little film (among the best I've seen anywhere) is that Playfair's/Holmes' insanity highly affected me long after I left the theater. It made an indelible mark on my heart and helped to keep important questions alive in my mind. And after all, what, really, is insanity? In TMBG, Scott is Holmes is Playfair, period. You can do the math and the juxtaposition.It was not just the fine cast of characters who were led out of the dark and into the light by Holmes & Watson, literally and metaphorically, but myself/ourselves, as well. I went willingly into the call of the film, that the evils of our world (usually nameless and faceless in our media-fed society) might be the giants of the title, and are the very giants that WE, ultimately, also have to face directly, bravely, together (not in isolation). The film doesn't suggest how we should fight malevolence, just that we should face it unflinchingly, with verve and courage.Oh, the layers of this fine film! The fact that this unique film affects us into dialog about what does the ending mean? and who/what are the giants? and what is insanity? and what is 'normal'? says something about the power of this film on the thoughtful mind. Like Arlo Guthrie once replied when asked why he became a Catholic (paraphrasing) it isn't that it provided me with the answers, but rather, it got me to asking the right questions. There's something about the depth of this film that is unusual in most movies, and rarely ever captured so well. Indeed, as other reviewers suggest, as superb as it was, Patton was mere practice for the unparalleled acting in this film; I concur, it is Scott's best. Arguably Woodward's best, too.Yes, superb acting & great writing created this masterpiece, which compares & contrasts well with a couple other fine films Alan Bates in The King of Hearts, and Jack Nicholson in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. This film has one or two moments that show some datedness, but it clearly and simply reflects those timeless issues that will remain unresolved and unresolvable in our on-going battle for triumph over the dark side. This is Top-10 fare in my list, alongside Kane, Dorothy & Toto, Mr. Smith & George Bailey, Zhivago, T E Lawrence, Zorba, Bates' King (op cit), Rick & Sam, & Skywalker. Love it or don't, but see this film. "}{"Title":"true love or classic paranoia?","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Director Anthony Harvey's film TMBG, could be considered a story of how people who are considered mad (as in crazy, not angry) have a valid view of life and should not be locked away from the rest of us.  The scene where George C. Scott's character Justin Playfair/Sherlock Holmes talks about idea of Don Quixote's windmills is probably my favorite part of the movie.  He says something to the effect of thinking the windmills are giants is absurd.  But thinking that they MIGHT be giants... Fantastic.  The characters that recognize Scott's character as Sherlock Holmes represent dreamers, lovers, and idealists trying their hardest not to be lost in the muck of New York City.  As the short docufilm (an extra feature on the DVD copy) suggests, NYC is a main character, one that shapes the lives of the characters as much as madness and sanity. This movie asks, how will you be led, by the heart or by the head? "},{"Title":"Beautiful, no way trivial.","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I first stumbled on it, on TV, I was enthralled. This film was nothing short of delicious, sensitive, funny, and hinted at a sense of purpose that you have to be a little nuts to understand. Exquisitely executed, it was a trip to a way of thinking that all too often we just don't have time for, and probably should. It's a big world, and the biggest part is in our own minds.What, 10 lines? I am terser than that.linelineline "},{"Title":"The Parallax View","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anthony Harvey directs They Might Be Giants. The plot? George C. Scott plays Justin Playfair, a successful lawyer whose wife has recently died. Unable to cope with this tragedy, Playfair imagines himself to be Sherlock Holmes, the legendary fictional detective. Via this Holmes persona, Playfair hopes to impose logic, order and rationality upon the world. For Playfair, all occurrences now have some deeper meaning, some hidden cause, and all bad things are the result of, not a malevolent cosmos, but Professor Moriarty, the arch villain of the Holmes novels.Early in the film, Playfair is introduced to Dr Mildred Watson (Joanne Woodward), a psychologist who hopes to cure the increasingly paranoid Playfair. Believing Mildred to be the Doctor Watson of the Sherlock Holmes novels, Playfair allows Mildred to accompany him on his many bizarre adventures. These adventures find Playfair bumbling about New York City, all in the hopes of deciphering Moriarty's crime and motive. Mildred thinks Playfair is unconsciously seeking to find meaning in his wife's death, and she's right, but she's also absolutely wrong. That Professor Moriarty doesn't exist is almost irrelevant. Playfair is correct to conclude that there are things everywhere responsible for bad stuff. That he personalises an uncaring, all-encompassing Nature doesn't necessarily make Playfair insane, but hyper-rational.Mildred, of course, thinks Playfair is nuts. She likens him to Don Quixote, the fictional character who repeatedly attacked windmills, believing them to be monstrous giants. Of this, Playfair says Quixote thought every windmill was a giant. That's insane. But thinking that they might be...that's not. If we never looked at things and thought of what they might be, why, we'd all still be out there with the apes! Playfair's speech thus functions as a survival plan; there MAY be giant monsters, and so he MUST test everyone and everything with a hammer.One such giant is Playfair's own brother (Lester Rawlins), a man who seeks to have Playfair killed. But the film is packed with other subtly sketched giants. One couple, for example, live entirely indoors, nurturing indoor plants and crops because they do not like what the outside world has become. A switchboard operator, the poor, the homeless, cops and various other men and women throughout the film, likewise live lives tormented by giants. Mildred, a lonely woman who escapes into psychoanalysis as a means of fleeing the world, is herself a woman living in the shadows of monsters. Everyone in the film is under some form of attack.Early in Giants, Playfair admits that he likes Westerns. The genre, he explains, offers moral clarity, clear demarcations and a sense of order and justice which the universe simply doesn't allow. Imposing such morality and law upon the universe - getting it to play fair - becomes Playfair's obsession, but it's a futile quest, especially when nobody believes in the existence of that which he's slaying.How to get others to believe in, see and thus slay giants becomes the preoccupation of the film's final act. Does justice ever lose? Mildred asks, to which Playfair admits that it often does. There are villains so big, they block the sunlight, he explains, before stating that standing up to such monsters is what makes humans proud. The film then ends on a series of symbolic notes. Here Playfair assembles a ragtag community of believers and then battles police in a supermarket. This supermarket sequence, a middle finger to materialism and the status quo, was deleted by producers, but its message remains they - the misfits who dare challenge their surroundings and stand up for others - may be the real giants. The noble few. And so Playfair and Mildred find themselves standing before a shadowy tunnel as an invisible monster races toward him. Stand closer to me, together in the light, Playfair tells Mildred, as the beast advances. But before our heroes are enveloped in blackness, consumed by the beast, a white light germinates behind Playfair's shoulder. Cooperation, love and belief, then, slays the beast. It's the old adage- when I becomes we, mental illness becomes wellness.They Might Be Giants initially appears to be a quirky 1960s/70s comedy in the vein of A Thousand Clowns, Being There or Harold and Maude. It's often dismissed as just a kooky comedy about freedom and being true to yourself. In many ways, though, it's closer to the conspiracy thrillers of the 1970s (Chinatown, All the President's Men, Parallax View, Three Days of the Condor, The Conversation, Cutter's Way, Network, Invasion of the Body Snatchers etc). This was, after-all, a period in which faith in family, society, authority, institutions and public figures plummeted, and in which the common man was seen to be at the mercy of a wide range of conspiratorial forces. Literature of the era was likewise deeply conspiratorial. Anyone not paranoid must be crazy, Edward Abbey would say, sentiments echoed by novelists like Philip Dick (Funny how paranoia often links up with reality), William Burroughs (Paranoia is just having the right information) and Joseph Heller (Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they aren't after you). Which is not to say that Playfair isn't crazy, just that he's not necessarily wrong. Someone or something is always out to get you, and it takes more than one man hunting invisible game to keep men from going insane. Endearingly acted by Scott and Woodward.8.9/10 &#x96; Minor masterpiece. See Cutter's Way and A Thousand Clowns. "},{"Title":"A charming film at times--at other times, it's really stupid.","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" The film begins in the present time. Scott plays an ex-judge who loses his mind and now believes he is Sherlock Holmes. His greedy brother is bent on having him institutionalized--then he can have access to Scott's fortune. To get him hospitalized, they have him see a psychiatrist (Woodward)--but she is not about to just stick him in an institution. She wants to do a thorough job investigating and decides to go to Scott's home to meet him. But, he's not about to sit still--there is a crime to investigate. And, when he learns that her name is 'Dr. Watson', he KNOWS it's time to act. Along the way, they meet lots of nice misfits and have a grand adventure.They Might Be Giants is a frustrating film. On one hand, George C. Scott has one of his most charming and enjoyable performances. In addition, the basic idea for the movie is quite promising. BUT, on the other hand, the film seemed to have no idea what to do with the plot--and it eventually degenerated into a stupid mess. And, to make things worse, the ending is just awful--and makes you wonder why you spent your time watching--and why two illustrious actors (Scott and Joanne Woodward) would be in such a flawed project. Having attendants from the local mental institution running about with giant nets and rubber hoses(!) and the god-awful grocery store scene stand out in my mind...and not for good reasons! A mess of a film--especially since the first half is so entertaining. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. I'm not sure I can claim that, objectively, this is a great movie. It's a very good movie, with an interesting story, terrific performances by George C. Scott and Joanne Woodward, excellent, witty dialogue with some wonderful lines (I think if God is dead he laughed himself to death.) But still, it's a rather slight movie, parts of it (mostly what I'd call the reality parts are under drawn and some might not care for the way the tone floats from very slapstick to thoughtful and back again. And it is an absurd portrait of psychiatry.But so what? This movie is exactly the kind of movie I like. The idea of being able to wander randomly and find a series of fantastic characters and situations is terrific (and very New York, where it takes place, although I didn't know that the first time I saw the film, before I'd ever been there). I love the way Scott's version of reality dove tails with actual reality (although as I say this is not always fully developed). I love the good hearted-ness of this movie and it's suggestion that sometimes there really is more than the brain can imagine. I love the ending, which is thoughtful, and the score, which has a quiet melancholy. I love the Sherlock Holmes deductions and the quirky characters.I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Justin Playfair is a cinematic Don Quixote.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Far from being just another one of those charmingly eccentric 70s comedies,this is ultimately a picture which should be recognized first and foremost as one of cinema's all time great meta-Quixotes. Any first hand familiarity with Cervantes´s  classic novel enriches the viewer's understanding of this film immeasurably.We're pointed to the literary work not only by the explicit references to it throughout the film (of which there are more than a few) but by the title itself. Certainly, more than one person has wondered why this movie is called THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS, as there are apparently no giants to be found nor even looked for.  It was Don Quixote who, in a deluded attempt to rid the world of evil, imagined he saw giants everywhere. The giant to be confronted in T.M.B.G. is Holmes's arch nemesis, Professor Moriarity. The Holmes here, far more similar to the great Cervantes character than anything to be seen in Conan Doyle, is a frustrated and lonely old guy who tries to rid the world of malevolence by converting himself into a fictional character and imagining perils and plots where none really exist. The strength of both characters (Quixote and Justin Playfair) is their capacity to draw other people, at first unwillingly, into their fantasy world. That accomplished, the reality or unreality of foes becomes largely irrelevant, hence that marvelously ambiguous ending in T.M.B.G.  "},{"Title":"Nonsense with a few good moments","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film starts well, but each scene becomes more silly than the last. Scott's and Woodward's performances are probably the only likable parts of this absurdity. The philosophical message, dangerous and childish, is that empirical reality may not be any more reliable than a madman's delusions, an idea that gained some traction with the drug-addled 60s and 70s crowds. The comedy doesn't work, and the action is cartoonish. The producers seem to have painted themselves into a corner toward the end and thrown in a slapstick scene in a supermarket, and then a completely meaningless ending. I don't buy the many suggestions that it's really a deep philosophical question at the end. The juvenile text that comes after that final whatever only makes it all the more ridiculous. I guess it's supposed to invite the audience to make up their own minds, but an eye roll would be giving it too much credit. "},{"Title":"George C. Scott is Wonderful","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" In a Manhattan psychiatric hospital a man (George C. Scott), convinced he is Sherlock Holmes, is treated by a female doctor (Joanne Woodward) who happens to be named Watson.George C. Scott is such a fine actor. I enjoyed him as Patton and loved him in Changeling. I did not realize he had such a great sense of humor -- he delivers his lines in this film with such perfection, such timing, that he is remarkably humorous in ways many people never could be.For some reason, I do not think this is a very well-known film. Indeed, the only reason I have heard of it is because of the band that took their name from it. And, I suppose, this is how many people came to know it. And yet, it is a great film in its own right -- how has it come to be eclipsed by a band (albeit a great band)? "},{"Title":"Let it be said that they found us very close together in the light","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" They Might Be Giants is directed by Anthony Harvey,with a screenplay by James Goldman(upon who's play the film is based),a haunting score by John Barry and cinematography by Victor J.Kemper. The film stars George C.Scott and Joanne Woodward.Although at first glance this just appears to be about a man who believes he is somebody else,it's actually telling us that being different is fine,why blend in with the herd? If we all did exactly the same thing then what a boring world it would be.Despite it's downright oddness at times(in keeping with the theme of the story perhaps)the film has moments of such deep poignancy it leaves you stunned(aided greatly by Barry's beautiful score).Following the tragic death of his wife,respected Judge Justin Playfair(George C.Scott)has a breakdown and retreats into the persona of consulting Detective Sherlock Holmes.His brother refers him to a psychiatric hospital where he meets Dr.Mildred Watson(Joanne Woodward).At first only interested in trying to cure him of his delusion and help him back to reality,she soon comes to see the great good he achieves as Holmes and eventually comes to believe him when he says Moriarty(here the name which represents all the sadness and evil in the world)is after him.Scott gets his teeth firmly into the duel role of the confused and broken Playfair and an out of time Edwardian Holmes, delving headfirst into the problems of 20th century New York. He and Joanne have a lovely chemistry and Holmes growing realisation that he needs his Watson above all else is beautifully played by Scott. With brilliant performances from the leads this is one to watch.On a side note this struck me as being a fine idea for a really great TV series. Each week Watson tries to bring Playfair back to reality and in between sessions with her he as Holmes could consult on various cases. "},{"Title":"Beautiful James Goldman script","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" They Might Be Giants stars George C. Scott and Joanne Woodward, and these two wonderful actors benefit from a first-class script by James Goldman, based on his play, and great direction by Anthony Harvey.Scott plays Justin Playfair, a man so overwhelmed by the death of his wife Lucy that he retreats into a world of illusion where he's Sherlock Holmes, cape and all, on a case against the vicious Moriarity. His brother needs to have him committed, mainly because he has people after him and needs control of his brother's money, so he takes him to a sanitarium to be evaluated. However, the doctor, Mildred Watson (Woodward) refuses to make a decision until she has examined the patient and spent time with him. To Playfair, of course, she's Watson to his Holmes. She ends up accompanying him through New York City as he tries to decipher clues that will lead him to Moriarity. She becomes fascinated with him and his brilliant deductions, many of which are about her.This film is a true gem that asks who's really crazy as it champions the unsung heroes of this world. Filled with metaphors, the ending is ambiguous and a point for much discussion on the message board for the film.It's wonderful to see the New York locations, but the real treat for this writer was that a part of the story takes place in the Greenwich Village library across the street from where I lived for so many years. Having been in the library many times, it actually looked to me as if they did use the real basement to film, or else replicated it elsewhere, because it did look exact. It's there also that we meet Playfair's friend of 30 years, played by Jack Gilford.All the performances are excellent, including that of Rue McClanahan as Playfair's sister-in-law who just loves his Holmes act and Gilford, who has always wanted to be the Scarlet Pimpernel. Woodward is perfect as a psychiatrist with low self esteem and not much of a life. Scott is positively brilliant as Playfair and his alter ego, the sharp and determined Holmes.This is a movie that takes you into another world, a state of mind that at times seems preferable to the one that we're often stuck with. You'll want to see it again, if only to pick up on all the nuances. "}{"Title":"Oh, if only those supermarket specials were real...","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the most-mentioned parts of this film, in the collection of comments on this web site, seems to be the supermarket sequence. Everyone finds it hilarious. On a personal note, I can remember watching this film on TV (the first time I had ever seen it) and thinking, That supermarket looks SO familiar... Then it hit me This sequence was filmed in a store that was right near where I had worked! I had been in the store dozens of times to do my own shopping, as it was in the same shopping center as my place of employment. I also remembered my mother telling me that this was a local media event, with people coming from nearby neighborhoods to watch the filming taking place in the newly-built PathMark grocery store. By the way, this store was actually located in southern New Jersey, not in New York. (The shopping center is slated for demolition in 2006 to make room for a Stop and Shop.) This scene endeared the film to me all the more...and I agree that George C. Scott did a great job with this one. It's a funny and touching piece of work by all involved. "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Mildred Watson, George C. Scott and Joanne Woodward Two fine teams","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" How likely is a whimsical romance between a classic, delusional paranoid and his doctor? Perhaps not likely, unless the paranoid is Justin Playfair, who since his wife died two years previously believes he is Sherlock Holmes (George C. Scott), and the psychiatrist hired to commit him for life to an insane asylum, who is named Dr. Mildred Watson (Joanne Woodward). The movie sounds too cute for words, but is in fact a witty, clever look at how solitary people can find all kinds of strength and affection when they come together. Well, that's true for most of the movie. There are two weaknesses, one minor and one major, to deal with before Holmes and Dr. Watson prepare themselves for their meeting with Moriarty. Playfair was an astute and wealthy New York judge, noted for his analytical mind and dedication to justice. When his wife died he descended into paranoia. Now he is Sherlock Holmes, obsessed with finding the evil genius Moriarty. He dresses like Holmes, sounds faintly British and possesses an acute eye for analysis. Half the trick in finding clues is knowing that they're there, he says. He is superb at finding clues everyone else misses. His younger brother, Blevins Playfair, is determined to have him committed to an insane asylum. Not because Holmes is a danger to anyone, but because Blevins is in debt to criminals. With Holmes institutionalized, Blevins will control the family fortune. The criminals believe that simply shooting Holmes would be a far quicker way to insure that Blevins gets the money to pay them back. Dr. Watson is the one person who must sign the documents to put Holmes away. She's not going to do this until she can examine him. The last thing Blevins wants is for Watson to think Holmes can be cured. You don't think he can be, do you? Blevins asks Watson. Cure a classic? Once in a generation. It's a marvelous disease, you know. The victim's faculties grow keener and ultra-sensitive...and he's capable of things that seem like genius. Before long, however, Holmes is on the trail of Moriarty and Watson must follow along if she's going to fully diagnosis her patient. In the process, Holmes finds a grudging respect for Watson. He's been waiting for his Watson for a long time and is prepared to accept the fact that this Dr. Watson is a woman. If I'm such a liability, she tells him with acerbity, what do you want me for? Holmes looks at her in a mildly friendly way. Oh, you mustn't feel inferior. Try saying to yourself, 'I'm adequate.' Mildred Watson, a slightly dowdy woman with a messy apartment who can't cook, is finally drawn to Holmes' integrity and passion. Will this be love? In an odd sort of way, yes, it will be. As Holmes pursues Moriarty's clues throughout New York City, he and Watson encounter a number of engaging misfits, lonely people and eccentrics. It all works until we get to the first bump in the road...that minor weakness. Taken one at a time, the eccentrics make for engaging and touching vignettes. Put all the eccentrics together, marching purposefully behind Watson and Holmes down a dark street and then rescuing the two from the police in a huge, empty supermarket, and we come dangerously close to the whimsical cutes. Then we must deal with a major question, and we encounter the major weakness. How will the movie end? Each one who sees the movie will most likely find their own answer. Perhaps that was the author's and director's intention. For me, I can't help but think that they simply couldn't come up with an effective conclusion based on the plot they had developed. Since I had come to like Holmes and Watson so much, I was left with wanting a conclusion I could smile at. What I was left with was a head scratch. Scott and Woodward do marvelous jobs in creating two lonely characters we begin to root for. As actors, they were worth every penny they were paid. For lessons in star quality and acting skill, pay close attention to Scott as he teases out of a mute patient why the man doesn't speak, and later to Woodward as she prepares a dinner for Holmes in her apartment. For a lesson in team acting by two equally matched pros, watch Holmes and Watson realize how they feel about each other at Watson's apartment. Scattered throughout the movie are some fine actors playing the eccentrics and assorted other characters, a few so quickly seen they're easily lost. Some to look for include Jack Gilford, Eugene Roche, Al Lewis, James Tolkan, F. Murray Abraham, M. Emmet Walsh, Rue McLanahan, Staats Cotsworth (of Casey, Crime Photographer fame on radio), Kitty Winn and Worthington Minor. He was the producer a long time ago behind Studio One when television every week presented live drama. They Might Be Giants is a fine movie. It's well worth watching for the skilled characterizations by two star actors and for an excellent script. While I might find the last ten minutes a bit unsatisfying, Sherlock Holmes and Mildred Watson are still worth believing in. As Holmes says as he and Watson stand together looking into the dark, We're coming for you, Moriarty. We may not look like much. We may not have your weapons. We may lack your dark allies. Why, we may even lose...I'm not invincible. But together, sir, we may surprise you! "},{"Title":"Not a great film but a nice piece of something different.","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film has its faults. It's difficult, for instance, to share some of the humour when it takes place in such banal settings as a hospital corridor and a telephone operator's booth. But it's a lovely story so well performed by Scott and Woodward. Given that the team is the same team that brought us The Lion In Winter, it is no surprise that the dialogue is well written and the characters - and their conflicts - very well drawn. The charm of the film isn't really the Goldman-Harvey team's strength in character conflict, it is simply that it invites you to suspend your sanity and be crazy with these people for an hour. And when you do, the funny but sad side of delusion is deliciously portrayed. "},{"Title":"My Favorite","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just found out about George C. Scott dying yesterday, and just found this site while looking for news about him.  I was 10 years old when this movie came out, but I can still remember most of the film, and I can remember how enthralled I was.  This was GSC's finest work, IMHO. "},{"Title":"A film about the world we choose to make","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" George C Scott is Justin Playfair who has believed himself to be Sherlock Holmes since the death of his wife, his brother wants to section him so to get his hands on the money Justin controls. Enter psychiatric doctor Mildred Watson....Effectively a companion piece to another James Goldman scripted romantic light drama Robin and Marian (1976) They Might Be Giants is a quirky story about loners, the lonely and love. Scott and Joanne Woodward (as Dr Watson) are both terrific esp in the later scenes as the relationship moves to the personal and Watson gives up her rational self for love and imagination.There is simply no way any major studio would make a film of this nature with the equivalent actors (if you could find them!) in 2015. Its too offbeat, too obtuse though one could imagine the best of cable channels giving this type of material a chance.Wiki notes the film is available in a couple of different edits - the version I saw on More4 (UK) was the 88 minute edit with the full supermarket scene included in a later version missing. "},{"Title":"Holmes and Watson","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" They Might Be Giants is now better known for giving the name to a quirky pop group rather a quirky cult film in its own right. Although the title is derived from Cervantes novel Don Quixote.The films is an adaptation of the stage play where George C Scott plays a brilliant jurists who after the death of his wife thinks he is Sherlock Holmes.His brother tries to have him committed so he can receive his money. The psychiatrist who is to evaluate him is called Dr Mildred Watson (Joanne Woodward) in order to understand his condition more ends up enlisting in his adventures to venture down the streets of New York to find Moriarty.Dr Watson is sceptical at first and knows the condition he is suffering from, standard textbook stuff really. However Dr Watson a middle aged spinster has issues of her own and is drawn to the former judge and the director pulls off a remarkable trick where at a point in the film the sceptic becomes a convert. Both fall for each other and pursue Moriarty with zeal.The film deals with mental illness and some themes in this film were pursued two decades later by Terry Gilliam in the movie The Fisher King, a director who has long pursued to make his own version of Don Quixote.This is a small scale actors film. Both Scott and Woodward give terrific performances with a strong support cast. It does have it flaws, maybe the brother needed to be drawn stronger as a villain and it might just get a bit to silly at the end. The climax is rather frustrating as they think Moriarty is approaching. "},{"Title":"This movie is fantastic!","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved every minute! I just can't get over the ending, it's so deep. Like he's dragging her into madness. Just... Wow! ) I thoroughly appreciated the Don Quixote references. The title itself is a direct reference. I just lost it with laughter when he started to play the fiddle badly, and wondered why he even had it. And the Scarlet Pimpernel reference just completed it. And then we had Grandpa from the Munsters in the first five minutes of the film D The Munsters is one of my favorite TV shows Also, the acting was top notch. The characters were believable and honest.This movie is perfect. It makes a point, it's deep, and it leaves you wondering. GO WATCH THIS AWESOME MOVIE RIGHT NOW! "},{"Title":"Underrated. One of the best of the New York movies","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" George C. Scott demonstrates once again that he is not a type. Sherlock Holmes (Justin Playfair--what a great name), Buck Turgidson, Patton. Unlike some other big name actors, Scott IS the character he portrays, while other overrated actors take roles where they play themselves, and consequently, they always ARE themselves.Joanne Woodward, in my opinion, is as good here as any role she's played. I'd rate this and The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds, as her best acting performances. Yes, others are more famous, but in those others, she's often playing herself or is a bit over acting.This movie is full of familiar faces whose names we don't know. The ugly New York locations are great, too. All in all, it's worth 98 minutes of your viewing time! "},{"Title":"An off-beat romantic comedy that makes one look closely at the real world.","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" The movie is full of charm and wistfulness. So many people living in their own world. Admittedly a bit of a comic stretch in some of the scenes, the ending struck me emotionally. What it seemed to say was It is better to die on your feet with your own sense of reality than die on your knees with the reality forced on you by others. And the ending is a composite of that and the true reality of imminent death. That last scene allowed me to take the spiritual (if you will) content of the movie above what went before. A small gem hidden in the earth.Scott and Woodward hold up their end as far as the acting goes. Jack Gilford is miscast; Lester Rawlins speaks his lines woodenly; Al Lewis reminded me of Peter Laurie at the end of his career walking his shark around the swimming pool on a lead; Ron Weyand could pass for a Hassidic Jew with a southern accent in his part. It puzzles me often that supporting actors can come across so badly while the costars rise to the occasion. Yet other actors playing bit parts are quite entertaining. At any rate, if you can swallow some of the acting and get into the movie, it can hold you with its subliminal sense of other-worldliness. "},{"Title":"A modern fairy-tale.","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'They Might Be Giants' is a modern fairy-tale, steeped in the trippie- hippie sixties but knowing of the dark cynicism of the seventies. George C. Scott as Justin Playfair is an eminent Judge who, in the depths of grief for his late wife, lays down his melancholy burden of sanity and becomes Sherlock Holmes. He broods in his den, of conspiracies real and imagined. Moriaty, the scourge of the western world mocks him in newspaper headlines of murder and mayhem, his brother plots to have him committed to plunder his wealth. Compelled to visit a psychiatrist adroitly played by fellow Oscar winner Joanne Woodward, he spies in her a sympathetic soul after first rebuffing her as yet another meddler. For she, much to his surprise is Doctor Mildred Watson. Her efforts to analyze him to ascertain if she should sign the committal papers are scuppered, for 'The game is a-foot!' As she grows disapprovingly into Holmes' ever ready assistant they travail the streets of New York picking up the flotsam and jetsam. A visit to a telephone exchange where a damsel in distress is saved, among a rooftop garden gangsters are vanquished, speeding taxis, clues hidden and found, new cohorts aligned to the cause. He leads them to the nethermost reaches of Central Park to face Moriaty, but as did the giant turn into a windmill, he is denied victory. However, a thought dawns; Moriaty's biggest crime was to hide from us the fact that we never left the garden of Eden. It is still here, beneath the soot and grime we have created and for us to find again. But as the enemy closes in it is just Holmes and Watson who remain. A bond not merely of companionship but of love and affection has blossomed between our heroes. The oncoming light and sound of hooves at the close of the movie could be literally explained; our heroes stand holding hands ready to face Moriaty or is it the Police or Gangsters? The light envelops them into total whiteout and roll credits. Those who look upon the end as a puzzle to be solved are sadly deluded. Must all movies be packaged up neatly for lazy audiences who can not fathom ambiguity. The joy of the end is that we will never know what their fate was, simply that it was a perfect moment of harmony in which Giants may yet again walk the earth. "}{"Title":"A wonderful, fragile fantasy - with red or white wine","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This a delicate thing to enjoy as fairy tales and fantasies are. The opening theme and titles set the whole stage and it is a glass of wine for the next 98 minutes or so. Scott and Woodward of, of course, captivating and the wonderful Jack Guilford is a national treasure. But what this film questions is Who are we? and what is reality. To a degree, Chaplin's CITY LIGHTS attempted this question in relation to the TRAMP and his alternative role of the MILLIONAIRE able to cure the blind girl. Who and what is real? Another film in the same genre is THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES with Ian Holm as the real Napoleon who, returning from St. Helena in 1821 finds that nobody BUT NOBODY believes him to to be the real Napoleon Bonaparte. The only fault with this film in a literal sense is that the hunt for Moriarty must be blank, there is no such person in our world who Holmes can find and confront. Like CITY LIGHTS, the ending closes without answering the question. But this is in our reality. Examine the ending with the notion that perhaps Dr. Watson, too, has crossed from our world into that of Holmes. Then it becomes much more interesting.Watch this delightful light film in a room with candles and a glass of very light wine. Savor it for it is a rare gem. I have given it an 8 out of 10 but in another reality, it may be a 10 out of 10. IF you can cross over to that reality. "},{"Title":"Scott and Woodward become Holmes and Watson","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Justin Playfair is a millionaire in New York City who has become Sherlock Holmes after the death of his wife.He spends his days searching for his arch-enemy, Professor Moriarty.His brother wants to put him in a mental institution, and he conspires with his former business associate to get power of attorney.There is a psychiatrist, whose name happens to be Mildred Watson.Now she becomes his Doctor Watson and she's off to solve crimes with him.They Might Be Giants (1971) is directed by Anthony Harvey.It's based on the play by James Goldman, who also wrote the movie.George C. Scott is just brilliant as Sherlock Holmes/Justin Playfair.Joanne Woodward is fantastic as Mildred Watson.Together these two share a huge amount of chemistry.Jack Gilford as the librarian Wilbur Peabody is another of my favorite characters in the film.He's the one who wants to be The Scarlet Pimpernel.Lester Rawlins is very good as Blevins Playfair.Al Lewis gives a funny performance as Messenger.Rue McClanahan, who sadly passed away last summer at 76, is great as Daisy Playfair.Ron Weyand is terrific as Dr. Strauss.James Tolkan is superb as Mr. Brown.Kitty Winn is marvelous as Grace.F. Murray Abraham is in his debut playing Clyde (the usher).Paul Benedict portrays Chestnut Man.M. Emmet Walsh plays 1st Sanitation Man.Louis Zorich is 2nd Sanitation Man.The title of the movie comes from Don Quixote's famous exploit of tilting at windmills, believing them to be monstrous giants.The movie can be very funny from time to time.There's some great slapstick comedy at the supermarket scene.Our Sherlock tries to get the attention of his chasers elsewhere, and he announces those crazy prizes of the store, and everybody goes, well, crazy.And then there's some melancholy in the conversation scene between Justin and Wilbur.The movie asks who actually is crazy, whose reality is right.Justin lives in his own reality, and who knows, maybe that is real instead of our dull reality.Sometimes it's much more fun to be Sherlock Holmes than to be just you, isn't it? "},{"Title":"two versions","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" watching this film recently was like watching Diary of a Mad Housewife....there are theatrical and television prints of the same film, that both differ greatly. .You sit there saying..What the..??..I don't remember this!!...and where's this part?!?! . (reminds me of the chapter in the novel The Magic Christian, where Guy Grand inserts a bizarre sequence into an afternoon screening of The Best Years of Our Lives, just to mess with the audience's mind so they go back to see if they really saw it, only this time the sequence is missing) The biggest difference..there was no supermarket sequence!! ..well, not the famous one I remember anyway.(with the mad patient roundup thwarted by Holmes giving out superbargain prices over the intercom)..in this version, only Scott and Woodward go inside the store, solve a clue and then head off for Central Park ..other sequences also seem longer, and Al Lewis was missing ...funny to see F. Murray Abrahm and M. Emmet Walsh in early cameos "},{"Title":"THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS (Anthony Harvey, 1971) **1/2","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I started out my mini Paul Newman marathon with two projects he did behind the camera and in which he didn’t appear but instead highlighted his wife’s acting talent. The effective lead here is actually Newman’s own co-star from THE HUSTLER (1961), George C. Scott, as a lawyer who had a nervous breakdown after his wife’s death and which resulted in his taking on the persona of Sherlock Holmes! This quirky, amiable but not entirely successful comic fantasy allows Scott to again show his considerable (but often neglected) skills at comedy which had served him so admirably in Stanley Kubrick’s DR. STRANGELOVE (1964). Joanne Woodward is Dr. Mildred Watson, the psychoanalyst who takes Scott under her care and whom he (given her surname) mistakes for his genial literary companion and is soon off in search for his eternal nemesis Professor Moriarty in modern-day New York! The cast also includes Jack Gilford, Al Lewis, Kitty Winn and a debuting F. Murray Abraham as various misfits and oddballs who join Scott and Woodward in their Quixotic quest for the invisible evil mastermind.The film’s unsatisfactory and enigmatic conclusion (a slapstick supermarket chase involving Scott, Woodward, Gilford et al and the N.Y.C. Police is followed by a ‘supernatural’ encounter between Holmes, Watson and an unseen Moriarty in a tunnel) makes the whole affair somewhat pointless…except perhaps to imply that a retreat into one’s imagination is necessary if one is to survive the real madness that is modern civilization. In any case, executive producer Newman must have been impressed by THE LION IN WINTER (1968) since he engaged three of its major crew members for this one – director Harvey, screenwriter James Goldman (who adapted his own play for the screen) and composer John Barry (who contributes a nice moody score). The film’s running time was originally 88 minutes but it was subsequently lengthened to 98 for TV screenings; the version I got, then (that is the one also available on the now-OOP Anchor Bay DVD), runs for 92! In the end, I was hoping to like this more than I did – and it’s just as well that I opted not to purchase the DVD (which contained an Audio Commentary featuring Anthony Harvey and noted film restorer Robert A. Harris). "},{"Title":"I'm getting paranoid.","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Skimming through the comments posted here about this film that deals with a genius paranoid, one might get their own paranoid notion that there was a conspiracy by Scott fans (or whomever) to present what is essentially an average movie as a humongous comedy classic. All the comments are full of nothing but praise. Mysterious almost. They Might Have Been On Giant Mushrooms when they saw the movie, no idea...TMBG has good production values. The lead duo, Scott and Woodward, are excellent and quite charismatic, managing to eke out the last drop out of the shoddy script. Additonally, we get some rather nice 70s New York scenery to look at. I was mesmerized by the brief view of Times Square at 03715.However, the problem is very simple TMBG is just not funny; maybe slightly amusing on a few occasions, all of which are early on. While the first half is solid, things totally disintegrate from the half-way mark onwards, complete with an expected cop-out ending. Philosophical fortune-cookie bull (that cliché quote about the heart and brain) cannot make up for a lack of imagination. Yeah, yeah... it's a love story, it's about loneliness, and about who is really insane in this world, what is really normal behaviour, and all that... It's neither new nor fascinating.The script STINKS. It is lazily written. The lowest point of the movie was also its perhaps most expensive part the Loony-Toons-like supermarket brawl. Totally unfunny. If you expect sharp satire, wit, or even visual sight gags to laugh to, forget it. The humour is often moronic, too predictable, even cartoonish.Joanne Woodward looks terrific, a natural beauty. Pity that she plays a woman who considers herself to be homely, which is hogwash. Not all that believable, hence not funny. Only in Hollywood are we supposed to consider beautiful women ugly, and she-beasts like Laura Dern and Anjelica Huston as beauties! Maltin the Leonard even calls Woodward tomboyish; this, coming from a nerd who says that Julianne Moore has radiant beauty... "},{"Title":"It teases us with the promise of a premise while satirizing conventional storytelling...","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Retired judge, living with his brother and sister-in-law in New York City, assumes the identity of Sherlock Holmes; his scheming sibling hopes to have him institutionalized and collect on his savings, until a lady psychologist (named Dr. Watson) gets involved with the judge...in more ways than one. They Might Be Giants wants (rather desperately, I think) to defy all the conventions of general storytelling. Screenwriter James Goldman, adapting his own play, begins the piece as a quirky character study (which might have worked), turning the material at the midway point into a half-comic/half-despairing romantic story (which might also have been successful). What we eventually get with the picture is an entangled mass of semi-realized loose ends--and dissatisfaction upon discovering the movie isn't going to do anything significant with its ingredients. George C. Scott and Joanne Woodward are both marvelous in their roles, giving Master Class-styled performances which go a long way to making the film watchable. Unfortunately, the sleuthing is existential, the funny people who meet up with the couple are just eccentric wallpaper, and the comedy ideas fizzle without solutions. Goldman does not want to be purposeful, or practical, or (God knows) commercial--but when so much is riding on making the romance between Scott and Woodward come off, you would think Goldman could follow through of some of his bigger concepts and round off the excesses. Filmed in NYC in the wintertime, the movie is also dark and chilly. Jack Gilford has a sweet monologue wishing he were the Scarlet Pimpernel, Woodward's cooking/dressing sequence is very funny, and Scott--when he smiles easily (without the devilishness)--is a handsome and gregarious rogue. But, sadly, not much is done with these intriguing characters. The film is a writer's conceit. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Obviously, I'm in a minority here...","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just because there are big names in front of the camera (Joanne Woodward, George C. Scott) and big names behind it (Anthony Harvey, directing his first film since LION IN WINTER; written by James Goldman, author of LION IN WINTER; exec produced by Paul Newman/John Foreman Co.) does not make this film any less of an amateurish effort. If it had been made as an indie production, critics and audiences would treat it with derision. As it is, audiences must have laughed it off the screen when it first came out.The actors do their best and the production values (photography, sets, etc.) are fine. But as a film &#x96; or even as a story &#x96; there's nothing there. Cervantes tilted at windmills because they might be giants. He was an idealist and also a looney. So is Justin Playfair (the George C. Scott character), who thinks he is Sherlock Holmes. There are some scenes of utter embarrassment Ms. Woodward preparing for dinner; the parade of people walking through midtown New York in the dark of night; and especially the ending (in a Pathmark Supermarket), among others, that leave you asking, WHAT were they thinking? In the end, we hear nothing except that idealism should be contagious. And that parable has been told many times before and in far more interesting (and entertaining) ways. "},{"Title":"The game is afoot, but the film is a flop.","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":" THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS starts out with a familiar plot evil brother wants to have goofy brother committed so he can steal the family fortune. Goofy brother (Scott) believes he is Sherlock Holmes, so a psychiatrist (Woodard) is brought in to certify him for the asylum. Both actors deliver engaging, nuanced performances.It turns out that Holmes has a lot more savvy and insight than a crazy person should. He turns the table on the doctor (whose name, appropriately, is Watson) and starts to dissect her personality and problems. All this takes place while he's hunting around NYC to find Moriarty, his arch-nemesis.This film could have gone in many interesting directions, and occasionally you think it's about to. There are some funny scenes, and some tender scenes, but what starts out to be a climax ends up as a fizzle, with one of those ambiguous endings that 70s directors loved so much. You start to think that Holmes's quirky clues might actually turn out to solve some important problem, but they just hit a dead end. And, no surprise, that's what happened to this movie at the box office. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There is a monologue in this film where George C. Scott analyzes Joanne Woodward's character in blunt terms, a la Holmes.This is the best part of the movie, and it shows that Scott was probably the one American actor since William Gillette to play this character convincingly.Unfortunately the rest of the film is simply not up to the brilliance of this one scene.  It degenerates into insufferable cuteness. New Yorkers are all apparently a bunch of charming eccentrics, and they rapidly become cutely tiresome. Joanne Woodward's character is a one-note, and the plot of this film is never even resolved!Saccharine, arch, and impossibly overrated, though better than the wretched WITHOUT A CLUE. "}]