[{"Title":"Good sequel with a heart (yet people still don't get it)","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING   ***  out of ****This third APES film ingeniously manages to keep the franchise alive and produces what is arguably the second best film of the five originals.After the ultimate ending in BENEATH, who could have believed a new story was possible? Here the tables are turned from the original film with a remarkable twist now three of our chimpanzee characters take off in Charlton Heston's spaceship and wind up going BACK in time, to present Day Earth (1973 A.D.) Once it is learned that Zira (Kim Hunter in her best performance in the series) is pregnant with the child that could possibly turn our future into the PLANET OF THE APES, she and her husband Cornelius (Roddy McDowall) go from becoming honored celebrities to dangerous threats to humanity!It's a brilliant idea, and now it is possible to start the series anew (chronologically, this movie comes first) and see whether or not Taylor's nightmare from the first film can be prevented or will rear its ugly head for mankind. A little defending is in order here. Many people get hung up on the story's notion that the chimpanzees can actually manage to fix Taylor's ship from the first film and actually launch it. Well, I say that if you can suspend disbelief long enough to accept the idea of a society of talking apes, why can't you accept that one of them (Dr. Milo) is a super-intelligent ape, sort of the Albert Einstein or Thomas Edison of his time? Besides, when folks get stuck on a point like that it becomes impossible for them to have a good time with a film. As Cornelius said in the movie Dr. Milo was a genius well in advance of his time. He was able to fly the ship. Case Closed.Next case the TV Movie look of the film. SO WHAT? People have become so accustomed to garbage like 1999's THE MUMMY that unless all films are over-swamped with spectacular sets and numbing effects, they can't enjoy them. Well, ESCAPE needs none of these to tell its simple story. It's got something that sci-fi stories today have lost...heart. "},{"Title":"A Film in its Own Right, Not Just a Sequel","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After Planet of the Apes was completed, its star, Charlton Heston, argued strongly that there should not be a sequel. The original film was complete in itself, and any sequel would only dilute its impact and tarnish its reputation. In the event, a sequel was made and Heston was reluctantly persuaded to appear in it. He suggested, however, that it should end with the destruction of the Earth, a denouement that, he hoped, would put paid to any attempt to extend the series beyond two films.In one respect Heston was to be proved right. Planet of the Apes is a classic, one of the best science-fiction movies ever made and one that combines an exciting plot with philosophical depth. It is frequently said that sequels are generally inferior to the original films, but seldom is this is as true as in the case of Beneath the Planet of the Apes, a hopeless mess of a film. Neither its lack of artistic merit, however, nor its explosive ending dissuaded the filmmakers from making a third Apes film. An ingenious device was found to avoid the problems posed by planetary destruction; it is explained that shortly before the Earth was destroyed three of the apes found the wreckage of Taylor's spacecraft, repaired it and used it to travel back in time to 1970s America.Although one of the apes is killed in an unfortunate incident shortly after arrival, the American public take to the two survivors, Cornelius and his wife Zira (both of whom played important parts in the first two films). The two intelligent, talking chimpanzees become media celebrities, and the early scenes are much lighter in tone than the two earlier films, at times even comic, as the two apes become after-dinner speakers and discover the joys of alcohol. The tone, however, gradually darkens. Figures in the government become alarmed by talk of a future in which men are dominated by apes, and Dr Hasslein, the President's sinister Germanic adviser, (based on Henry Kissinger?) is convinced that Zira and Cornelius represent a threat to the human race, especially after it is discovered that Zira is pregnant.My disappointment with Beneath.... had hitherto dissuaded me from watching any more of the later episodes in the Apes canon, so I was pleasantly surprised by Escape........ Although it lacks the depth and brilliance of Planet of the Apes, it is considerably better than its immediate predecessor. The reason for its relative success lies with the fine contributions of its two stars, Roddy McDowell and Kim Hunter. Their characters played important supporting roles on the original film; here they take centre stage. The original had Heston's character Taylor at its centre, a human in danger from the apes. In Escape...... the roles are reversed, with two lovable, and deeply human, apes in danger from humans. There is, however, a difference between the two films. The danger to Taylor came largely from ignorance; the apes, particularly Dr Zaius, saw him as a brute beast, like the other humans of their planet, and refused to listen to the evidence that suggested that he was, in fact, an intelligent being like themselves. Cornelius and Zira are in danger because of both their human and their non-human characteristics. Hasslein knows that they are intelligent beings who seem human and yet are not, and hates and fears them for precisely that reason. Just as they pitied and befriended Taylor, so they are in their turn befriended by two human scientists who try and save them from Hasslein.There are a couple of inconsistencies between this and the earlier films, where the apes' society is shown as being technologically less advanced than ours, on a par with sixteenth or seventeenth century Europe. It is not explained how individuals from such a society could have succeeded in repairing and operating a spacecraft. Another inconsistency is that Cornelius and Zira know how the apes came to seize control of the Earth from humans and even state that this story is told in the Sacred Scrolls, the holy books of the apes' religion. In Planet of the Apes we are to understand that the Scrolls explicitly deny that humans ever had the powers of speech and reason, which is why Zaius is so reluctant to admit that Taylor can speak. These inconsistencies, however, are not really plot-holes as such and are unlikely to worry those who come to Escape....... without having seen its predecessors. Escape....... can be seen as a film in its own right rather than as a mere sequel, a film which starts out as a comedy and then turns into a serious thriller as the apes try to escape from their human enemies. Although it is less philosophical than the first film, it can perhaps be seen as an allegory of racism as Hasslein's paranoia leads him to treat as enemies those who bear no ill-will to him and his kind and whose only crime is to be different from him. It is significant that his name is derived from the German for hate. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Escape From the Planet of the Apes (1971) ***1/2","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a brilliant solution for continuing the storyline after the ending of BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES, three intelligent chimpanzees from Earth's future take off in Charlton Heston's salvaged spacecraft just prior to Earth's destruction; they wind up hurled backward in time to 1973 California and - in an interesting twist on the original theme - now find themselves the strange visitors in a strange world ruled by bombastic human beings.Lovable simians Zira and Cornelius (expertly played by Kim Hunter and Roddy McDowall) lose their friend Dr. Milo (Sal Mineo!) early on in a tragic accident, and find themselves in a strange situation when mankind first welcomes them as celebrities and garnishes them with gifts, but ultimately begins to fear when it is learned that Zira is pregnant with an ape offspring that could grow to overtake humanity.We really grow to sympathize with the plight of the chimpanzee couple, and we fear along with them and the safety of their child when they become hunted fugitives later in the story. Eric Braeden is very good as the quintessential villain out to kill the ape family at any cost.Some people enjoy picking on the APES sequels as they continued, but I've always felt this series consistently remained very intelligent and had something powerful to say about race relations and prejudice. People want to know how apes could ever manage to send Taylor's ship into orbit; I say that if you can suspend disbelief long enough to accept the notion of intelligent apes, then it shouldn't be that far a reach to accept that Dr. Milo was the genius of his time who just could pull it off; the Thomas Edision of his type, if you will.The timeline in the five apes films is often admittedly contradictory, but there are ways that fans of the Apes movies have been able to make them work. For example, in this film Cornelius seems to talk about Ape History and Evolution in a way that actually doesn't follow suit during the next two installments. That's because the very arrival of Zira and Cornelius onto present-day Earth of 1973, and the subsequent birth of their baby, will accelerate the procedure from how Cornelius remembered it, as we'll see in the next two chapters. The circumstances for the future will be sped up and changed, and the apes will evolve at a much quicker rate.Some of the other dubious complaints are aimed at the lesser budgets, or supposed TV Movie Look of the sequels from this point on -- but this story in ESCAPE does not require mind-numbing special effects or hordes of CGI-rendered ape figures swarming Los Angeles to make it effective. It's got a lot of heart and good writing with characters we care about, and that's all it needs. "},{"Title":"AMAZING movie!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Escape' is my favorite of the Apes series. What can I say about it? It's just heartbreaking! These movies.. the endings are incredible! And especially in this one. You NEVER see these kind of endings now! I actually found myself crying! Though, the movie at the beginning, is just FUN! Ricardo Montalban was great in this, as was Roddy and Kim.What more to say? EXCELLENT WONDERFUL movie!  "},{"Title":"Paradox of the Apes","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the cataclysmic finale of Beneath the Planet of the Apes, there was only one logical direction for the series to go---> back to the future. The result is an illogically conceived and satirical prequel that will amuse and delight and ultimately devastate with its bleak Shakesperean tragedy.When Taylor's spacecraft unexpectedly splashes down in 1973 and is retrieved by a military envoy, the three astronauts that emerge from the capsule are not revealed to be Taylor, Landon and Dodge, but rather the astonishing simian ape-chimps Cornelius, Zira and Milo... the third of which is a completely disposable character who is appropriately killed off very early by a caged zoo gorilla who was probably jealous that the talking simian chimpanzees were getting all of the attention. With Milo out of the picture, the story focuses on the relationship between Cornelius and Zira in ways that were not afforded the opportunity in the two previous films and is filled with tongue-in-cheek episodes inspired by Pierre Boulle's original novel as Cornelius and Zira go around aping 20th century human culture (a subtle and clever mockery of our own) in an attempt to make themselves fit in to our society.While Cornelius and Zira make themselves at home as cultural celebrities they are being carefully monitored under the watchful auspices of the nefarious Dr. Otto Hasslein played by recognizable character actor Eric Braeden (of Young and the Restless fame) who listens with great interest to what the talking chimps have to say about where they came from during a Presidential Inquiry and how they managed to arrive in Taylor's spacecraft as Cornelius explains that the capsule was found when it washed ashore and was repaired by Milo -- an implausibility which is the film's glaring continuity error since Taylor's spacecraft sunk into the depths of the Forbidden Zone it is a far fetched conclusion that they somehow managed to not only find, retrieve and repair it (even if they had repaired Astronaut Brent's crashed spacecraft from Beneath which was overlooked as well) with engineering far in advance of their own intellectual ape intelligence (which Milo only half-understood as Cornelius describes it) but managed to do so and escape within a very small window of time before the planet was obliterated by the shock-wave of destruction catapulting them backwards in time and arriving at roughly the same destination and era as Taylor's original point of departure (it could be argued that these narrative inconsistencies support evidence of Hasslein's Observed Time Curve which suggest that a predestination paradox created alternate intersecting timelines as illustrated by the incongruent timeline of events between Conquest and Battle). Nevertheless, once you get past the major plot hole and just go with it, Escape is a fun and dramatically intense film but is my least favorite second only to the weakest link in the evolutionary Apes chain; Battle For The Planet of the Apes.When Zira announces that she is pregnant, the film takes a dark and conspiratorial turn when the government realizes the consequence a race of intelligent talking apes will have on the future of our human society. In an effort to protect their newborn, Cornelius and Zira find refuge with Armando, a sideshow circus entertainer played by the extravagant Ricardo Montalban who gladly welcomes the simian family with open arms, but it isn't long before Dr. Otto Hasslein picks up the fugitives' trail and hunts them down in a tragic and inevitable climax that sets up the paradox of the entire Planet of the Apes chronology. "},{"Title":"A new tone for the series","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No, this film is not as awe-inspiring as the original but it still maintains the viewer's interest despite the scaled down approach which was due to budget constraints. For much of the film the there is a humorous tone. Good performances were turned in by familiar faces (Braeden, Montalban, Mineo). The story, despite some holes, was quite riveting. I'm looking forward to the fourth installment. The sense of adventure and exploration (this time by the apes) and the continued presentation of parallels between this fictional world and our world still make for worthwhile viewing. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Sure this is worth watching......","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You have Ricardo Montalbon, you have Soap star Eric 'mustache' Breaden, and you have Sal 'Rebel without a Cause' Mineo. How can you go wrong? You have guys in Chimp suits. You have Roddy. You have Kim Hunter from the first flick. It's great.My chief memory/image of the flick is seeing them, the trio of apes, being given the Star treatment, getting outta a limousine in front of a crowded city street, etc. That is very much a part of the flick. It was made in '71, and yeah it really, really looks it-but ya gotta like it. William Windom as da Prez is pretty cool too, def. a knockoff of hostile Nixon in places I would say.This sets up the next two fine, though its both better than them and better than #2 in the run also. I think you can do worse than to sit through this.......**1/2 outta ****   "},{"Title":"one of the best films of the series","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES is a tale set in the madness of a paranoid 1970's in which zira and cornelius must fight for their lives and the life of their unborn baby. Using taylors ship zira and cornelius time warp to 1970's earth and are embraced by mankind. They soon become the target of a government think tank who fears their unborn child. In a era that listened to HAL LINDSEY scream the anti christ is coming this film taps into that paranoid vein with the john birchish character of Hessline who fears ziras baby. The film deals with the two apes dealing with 20th century earth and attempting to survive the scrutiny of the government. One of the best and most original films in the series the story told in this film makes it stand out. A fine film. "},{"Title":"Do I Dare Disturb The Universe?","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from the Planet of the Apes came out in 1971 in the midst of very controversy times. The film is directed by Don Taylor, and stars Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter, Sal Mineo, Bradford Dillman, Ricardo Montalban, Natalie Trundy, Eric Braeden, William Windom, John Randolph, and M. Emmet Walsh.It is part III of the Ape Series, however, the film doesn't require the viewer to see the previous other Ape films to understand what's going on, but I think it helps to see the other two so you can fully understand the character's motives and thoughts.THE PLOT - Three highly intelligent humanoid Chimpanzees from outer space land on planet Earth in the Pacific coast in 1973 via their space ship. They are taken by the authorities to the Los Angeles Zoo. At first, the Apes are seen as a novelty and become famous and loved through out the world, but soon, they are perceived as a threat to all of mankind and planet Earth. The film starts off as being a light family comedy, but takes a very dark turn.MY THOUGHTS - Like the previous Ape films, Escape has parables that address social issues that were going on in the world at that time. The year was 1971 when the film was released, right when racial segregation was ending, and Black and White people were starting to live and work amongst each other as equals. I believe the film is suggesting to the audience that accepting those who are different from you and giving them a chance might not be a bad idea, and that you shouldn't believe everything you hear about people.The film is anti-racist, and also has an anti-abortion theme to it, and has somewhat of an anti-government theme to it as well, and addresses the issue of government intrusion. Some of the other topics include scientific experimentation on animals, and nuclear war.One of the many reasons why I like this film because it makes me appreciate what I have. The chimps come to 1973 and our just amazed at the technology. It makes me not take for granted what we have. I sometimes think how someone from the 1860's would react to the things we have in 2015, and they'd most likely be highly impressed, and their reaction makes me realize how lucky we have it, and that we shouldn't take what we have for granted, and enjoy it to the fullest. We really have no excuse for ever being bored.In this film, Cornelius and Zira take center stage, and become the stars, which I enjoyed because I liked both characters a lot in the first two Ape films. The film is a bit of a love story as well, because what Cornelius and Zira are going through in this film is not easy, and only their love for each other is what keeps them going strong.Another cool thing about this film is the reverse it took - In the first two Ape films, we see human beings land on a Planet of Apes where Apes rule, and humans are treated like animals, and we see how those men respond to it. In this film, we see Apes from that same planet land in the U.S.A. in 1973 where humans rule, and Apes are kept in cages, and we see their responses to it.I think the film and the whole Ape series is making a point that any corrupt system - whether run by White or Black people or anyone else of any color is wrong. That no group is superior to the other, and that we are all equal, and if peace is really desired, we should learn to accept one another, and not abuse any power we are given, and that only suffering will lead to any abuse of power.FINAL THOUGHTS - This is one of those films that get different responses from different people. It presents hard questions of morals such as If you could go back in time and kill Adolf Hitler's mother while she was pregnant with him, would you? "},{"Title":"You Hear the one about the Chimps as Astronauts?","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 3rd film in the Apes series (after Beneath...), this one is easily the most whimsical, at least in the first half. The writers had to stretch believability in getting the two primary apes of the 1st 2 films into our present times from the future, when Earth is destroyed by a doomsday bomb, but the first few scenes are almost classic farce disguised as science fiction storytelling. We view our central characters first as 'ape-onauts' and then stuck in a zoo, followed by a brief turn at celebrity when our populace becomes enamored of the two as the latest fad. The best and most clever thing about this sequel is that it utilizes the already well-known captivating characteristics of the chimps, delightfully performed again by McDowall and Hunter. They're kind of like old friends by this time and seeing them get acquainted with our modern-day culture is just good times. It's also a neat reversal on the ape society of the first two films, which was visited by aberrant intelligent humans.Things turn grim in the 2nd half, as the fad wears off and our leadership begins to take the threat of possible future ape domination rather seriously. The most interesting character becomes the chief human scientist, played by Braeden, who starts out typically dispassionate but soon reveals an intense personal desire to preserve the human race and society, to the point of fanaticism. In his coldly intelligent eyes, only he sees the truly apocalyptic threat presented by the chimps' pregnancy. He's the nominal villain, but he sees himself as the only one who gives a damn. Some of the sf plot lines regarding time travel are very clever, while others are a bit clumsy. It's clever that the two evolved time-traveling chimps may now be the cause of the future time-line ruled by an ape society. But they reveal to have a knowledge of their history that did not exist in the previous two films. Also, rather than letting events evolve over a century or more following what happens here, the next film accelerates everything to change the world in the next 20 years - see Conquest of the Planet of the Apes. "}{"Title":"Three monkeys travel back in time  to present day  from the ape dominated planet","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nice and entertaining science-fiction movie with a first rate Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter as likable chimpanzees and special intervention of Ricardo Montalban as kindly circus owner who's hidden them from the humans for time . This known story is the third and one of the best of primates sequels ; it starts when through the same time warp , three survivors jumped aside in the last moment by means of a spacial craft from incinerated planet that blew up in the final of ¨Beneath of planet of apes¨ and crash on Earth . There appear three simians Cornelius (Roddy McDowall) , Zira (Kim Hunter ) and Milo (Sal Mineo ). They charm the world and turn mass media celebrities . However , the presidential (William Windom) adviser (Eric Braeden )suspects their dark origin and learn that can be a threat on the downfall of mankind and decides kill them . Later on , at L.A.C. they become the subjects of a relentless pursuit by the CIA and being helped by two doctors (Bradford Dillman and Natalie Trundy who married Arthur P Jacobs and starred various sequels as Zira) .This is a good sci-fi flick plenty of comedy , suspense, metaphysical significance with thoughtful reflexion about origin of human being and nuclear catastrophe , though also packs action, adventures, intrigue and entertainment. In spite of time and being mostly an amusing follow-up of the former movies , energy remains still and turns out to be an enjoyable sequel full of fantasy and suspense , though with a unsettling and dramatic final . Exciting , clever writing credits by Paul Dehn , though some elements of the screenplay strain credibility to the limit , the imaginative plot is based upon characters created by Pierre Boulle . One of the important attributes of this work are the magnificent acting from the main cast and supporting , Roddy McDowall's distinctive features prove to be recognizable even under marvelous simian make-up . The performers , particularly Kim Hunter who provides the sturdy central pivot the tale surely needs , are pretty good , the superb characters are well drawn and in spite of makeup they are still oddly convincing . Glimmer and luminous cinematography by Joseph Biroc A.S.C who made such a fine job in several films . Phenomenal, creative make-up by John Chambers ,as always , he is a first-rate expert, such as proved in 'Blade runner, Ssss, Island of Dr Moreau' among others . Sensational musical score by top-notch Jerry Goldsmith who composed the classic original score . The picture is well produced by Frank Capra Jr and usual Arthur P. Jacobs , producer of whole saga, and well directed by Don Taylor , using a great visual sense.It's followed by three inferior sequels that get worse and the impact from original film has perhaps been lessened by these followings as 'Conquest of planet of apes'(72, J. Lee Thompson), in which the Apes turn the tables on the Earth population and Roddy McDowall plays the son of the role he first created ; 'Battle for the planet of apes'(73, J.Lee Thompson) and a TV series , repeating Roddy McDowall again on hand as leader to sustain our anticipation and interest. "},{"Title":"Witty but slow","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The third APES movie is better than the second (almost anything would be), but lags behind the first one a great deal, to nobody's surprise. It is witty but painfully slow - the escape of Cornelius and Dr. Zira from the doomed future Earth lands them right smack in the 70's, where they are greeted with surprise and fear. The films borders on ridiculous at some points, but some echoes from the 1980 Elephant Man by David Lynch can be detected, suggesting Mr Lynch took a good look at this one before the making of that fantastic movie.Slowly the film degenerates and just seems to end without any adequate point having been made, and as it gets slower and slower towards the end, it gets hard to understand the need for making it. But the initial surprise and the human reactions are still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Really amazing and fantastic!!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite a conclusion showing the planet's destruction, 20th Century Fox requested another sequel, turning the films into a franchise.Arthur P. Jacobs recruited Paul Dehn to a new script with a brief telegram Apes exist. Sequel required. Dehn immediately started work on what became the third film titled Escape from the Planet of the Apes. The film would once again change directors, Don Taylor was hired to direct and had a greatly diminished budget of $2.5 million dollars, which required a tight production schedule.In the film, Zira and Cornelius are initially accepted by American society, but human fears that their child will bring about the destruction they predict to lead to their dates.Compared to it's predecessors, Escape dwelt more heavily on themes of racial conflict, which became a primary focus through the rest of the series. The film opened on May 21, 1971, less than a year after the previous film and was well received by critics. It also performed really well at the box office, though not as strongly as the first two. Fox ordered a third sequel.The story is just great, especially after the second film's poor story and the writer did a great job with creating this sequel's story. The direction and action is just amazing and cool. The film is really quick and amazing, but I just ran along with it.The acting is just amazing in this one and the actors are just amazing. Kim Hunter and Roddy McDowall are good in there roles. Natalie Trundy is really good and is fantastic in her role. Bradford Dillman, Ricardo Montalban and Eric Braeden are really good in their new roles and they are fantastic and amazing.Overall, ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET of the APES is really amazing and fantastic and it is one movie that definitely makes up for the previous film.8/10. "},{"Title":"Really amazing and fantastic!!","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite a conclusion showing the planet's destruction, 20th Century Fox requested another sequel, turning the films into a franchise.Arthur P. Jacobs recruited Paul Dehn to a new script with a brief telegram Apes exist. Sequel required. Dehn immediately started work on what became the third film titled Escape from the Planet of the Apes. The film would once again change directors, Don Taylor was hired to direct and had a greatly diminished budget of $2.5 million dollars, which required a tight production schedule.In the film, Zira and Cornelius are initially accepted by American society, but human fears that their child will bring about the destruction they predict to lead to their dates.Compared to it's predecessors, Escape dwelt more heavily on themes of racial conflict, which became a primary focus through the rest of the series. The film opened on May 21, 1971, less than a year after the previous film and was well received by critics. It also performed really well at the box office, though not as strongly as the first two. Fox ordered a third sequel.The story is just great, especially after the second film's poor story and the writer did a great job with creating this sequel's story. The direction and action is just amazing and cool. The film is really quick and amazing, but I just ran along with it.The acting is just amazing in this one and the actors are just amazing. Kim Hunter and Roddy McDowall are good in there roles. Natalie Trundy is really good and is fantastic in her role. Bradford Dillman, Ricardo Montalban and Eric Braeden are really good in their new roles and they are fantastic and amazing.Overall, ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET of the APES is really amazing and fantastic and it is one movie that definitely makes up for the previous film.8/10. "},{"Title":"my 2nd favourite in the McDowell ape films","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the 3rd chapter in the McDowell ape films this 1971 film stars Roddy McDowell, Kim Hunter & Bradford Dillman. Roddy McDowell & Kim Hunter continue their roles as Cornelius and Zira in this film they travel to present day at first they are feared and imprisoned but at their court hearing they become sensations where they are taken from the zoo to a 5 star hotel, they are wined and dined and treated like celebrities until Zira falls pregnant then they have to fight for their lives but they have the help of Dillman and his colleague Natalie Trundy. A good entry to the ape saga much better then the 2nd one beneath the planet of the apes but for me the stand-out in the series is the 1968 classic Planet of the apes. ***/***** "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" An Apes film... played for laughs? Another sequel when the last one ended with the destruction of the entire planet? Could it work? Yes it could, and does - this is occasionally my favourite of the lot. It takes a few liberties with the series' continuity, but despite the reversal of the original premise - apes from the future arrive on present day Earth - this is, interestingly, a lot more faithful to Pierre Boulle's book than the first film was. What's new is the lighter tone this is a warm movie, with the apes' sweet nature and likable buffoonery wonderfully played by Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter, and charming performances from Ricardo Montalban, Bradford Dillman and William Windom. Satire is still a key ingredient with the movie taking shots at the triviality of the media age, and of course the pessimism kicks in towards the end with the plot taking a far darker turn. A cracking sequel. "},{"Title":"Planet Of The Humans","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I quite enjoyed the first two instalments of the Ape series. Both were interesting movies (the first was definitely better) that offered some reflections on human nature as seen through the eyes of the apes. Generally speaking, this third instalment of the series continues to do that - and, as in the first two - humanity doesn't come off looking particularly good. In and of itself, standing alone, this isn't a bad movie. Its basic problem is its lack of originality (although the very fact that it created a sequel to Beneath the Planet of the Apes - whose ending did look rather final - counts for something, I suppose.) Still, in many ways this is the mirror image of the first movie. In that, of course, three human astronauts land on a future earth rules by apes. Here, three ape-onauts (as they're referred to) land on a past earth ruled by humans - namely, our own (well, at least the world of 1973.) A lot of this is very similar to the original. Cornelius (Roddy McDowell, who returns in the role after missing Beneath) and Zira (Kim Hunter) essentially take on the roles of the human astronauts in Planet while Drs. Dixon (Bradford Dillman) and Branton (Natalie Trundy) are the Cornelius and Zira of this society, sympathetic to the apes and wanting them to survive, while Dr. Hasslein (Eric Braeden) is the personification of the evil human who wants to kill these intelligent apes (just as most of the apes wanted to kill the intelligent humans of the original.) So, aside from the ingenious way of resurrecting a series that you would have expected to be finished, originality was somewhat lacking. There are a few twists. Overall, human society seemed generally kinder to the apes than ape society was to the humans, and it's somewhat humorous to watch as at first Cornelius and Zira are feted as celebrities in Los Angeles. Overall, though, this really does have the feel of the original in reverse.It's not a bad story. It's a bit far-fetched to believe that the apes could have not only raised Taylor's spaceship from the original and learned to launch and pilot it, given that in the first two movies (which seemed to take place over a relatively short span of time) the ape society hadn't even invented the internal combustion engine. Yes, that's kind of explained by Cornelius' assertion that Dr. Milo (who accompanied he and Zira on this journey) is a genius well ahead of his time. Obviously! Still, that bit of far-fetchedness aside, this is a reasonable addition to the series, an imaginative way of restarting the series, and an obvious set-up at the end for what would become the fourth instalment in the series (Conquest Of The Planet Of The Apes.) It's just not particularly original, in that it's a rerun of the first with the roles reversed. But if you like the series, it's enjoyable enough. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Escape From The Planet Of The Apes is by no means a terrible film","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape From The Planet Of The Apes is by no means a terrible film.Their world on the verge of destruction, Dr.'s Zyra, Milo, and Cornelius escape into the heavens.... only to find themselves thrown back into time. The arrive on Earth circa 1970.It's story was designed by necessity. There simply wasn't the money to pay for all the appliances necessary for a larger Ape cast. Two was the perfect number. And so, Zyra and Cornelius narrowly escape the destruction of the future to return to Taylor's world. Ricardo Montalban plays a delicious bit part. Sal Mineo dons the appliances to become the ill-fated Dr. Milo.The only TERRIBLE part of the film was the the gorilla in the zoo infirmary. Don't even get me started.The ship the three scientists pilot back to our present day earth still stands up to the tests imposed by time. It still looks realistic, makes sense. It still seems futuristic and, in this writer's humble opinion, seems much more believable than the similar plot device in Tim Burton's new Planet of the Apes film.I know that I am removed from the climate this film was originally released into. I realize this. But still it seems to me that they overuse the point of Zyra's feminine independence. It would seem they do so at the cost of Cornelius, leaving not much but set dressing.This is not a bad film. It is also not a wonderful film. And for it's time I think it is certainly an achievement to be proud of.It could have been a better film. But looking back it is easy to see how so many things /could/ have or /should/ have been better.It has a good ending. That I will give it for sure. Most of the actors never seem to deliver lines with any sort of character. Montalban, Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter, and William Windom obviously excluded from that previous statement.Eric Braedon's performance was abysmal, though I did appreciate the way his character was written to doubt himself and the validity of his choices. By doing this am I an instrument of God or am I working against his great plan? and so forth.Certainly not a film for everyone. Certainly not a film I will see again and again and again. But not a terrible film. Worthy of it's rerelease. And hopefully warranting some kind of adaptation by reclusive genius Tim Burton. "},{"Title":"The boullest of all these four not-so-glorious sequels.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The third -and unexpected,considering the ending of the second part-sequel of the apes saga is probably the best of the four, thanks to Kim Hunter's and Roddy McDowall's characters Zira and Cornelius,who play a prominent part here. Here ,Pierre Boulle is more present than in beneath the planet..the reason can be found ,I think, in the Baby,the menace for the human race. In Pierre Boulle's book,Ulysse Mérou(Taylor) and Nova have a baby,and that's why they cannot continue to live peacefully with the simian race;had Cornelius and Zira not intervened,the trio would have been slain ruthlessly.Thanks to them,they can escape from the planet and go back to earth where they.... (No,I won't tell you anything more,please,read the book!) Here,it's the same situation ,a monkey baby instead of a human one.And the humans act like the monkeys in the book.There's a good original idea in the screenplay the using of a  circus as a place to hide .Taylor should have thought(should think!) of this when he was (or is!)in the apes society. "},{"Title":"A wonderful sequel!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from the Planet of the Apes is a wonderful sequel, to two great movies, Planet of the Apes, and Beneath the Planet of the Apes!Most sequels, by their 2nd one, is usually really lame, and just plain bad, but not this one, nor any of the Planet of the Apes sequels! It's a must see movie, for the whole family!Roddy McDowall, and Kim Hunter return in this movie, as the two apes, Cornelius and Zira, as they escape to 1973. Although, Escape from the Planet of the Apes has a very sad ending, it's a really good one, as real life is not all fairy tale endingsYou've gotta see this movie, along with the two before it, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, and Planet of the Apes, and the two after it, Conquest of the Planet of the Apes and Battle for the Planet of the Apes.  "}{"Title":"-","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After seeing Beneath the Planet of the Apes(1970) I really didn't wanted to know anything else about this franchise and the idea that there were still 3 more films after that seemed more than rare. But I gave this film a chance and I'm glad I did . Is so rare to see that's the same screenwriter in both films and yet one is so much better than the other.The film is great! A very interesting mix of comedy and drama, touching important subjects like if we can change the future by actions of the present and the always important future of mankind.There's no important advances in terms of history of cinema and it's not a groundbreaking film , but's an original and very entertaining story, I really enjoyed it and I'm looking forward to see the next film of the series. Recommended. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like many fans of the original Apes franchise, I was expecting a lot more after the apocalyptic Beneath. This one is a comedown; it would have made a decent 60 or 70 min TV movie, but has neither the scope nor the impending sense of doom that pervades the first two. The teaser opening, with Cornelius, Zira and Milo returning to preset day Earth is captivating. But it's completely undeveloped, and what should have been the underpinning for the story becomes a throwaway hook. The big questions raised but unanswered are how did they recover Taylor's ship, repair and learn to fly it? Are they here as prophets? What else could they have brought with them? Instead we get a disposable genius character, Milo, who's quickly strangled by a zoo gorilla.The rest plays like a Quinn-Martin crime drama. Despite solid performances, the hyperbolic threat of we-must-kill-them-to-save-Mankind is painfully simplistic.Escape is for completists only, and can easily be skipped to the next, and far better follow-up, Conquest. "},{"Title":"The Story of Cesar, and The Exploitive Hollywood Too !","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, after the awful sequel (Beneath the Planet of the Apes - 1970) it became clear that the plan to exploit (Planet of the Apes) aimed at finishing the situation of plant with only apes on it any damn way, to create some kind of fair conflict between the apes and the humans, so the producers could utilize the rights that they bought to make some movies and to gain some money. Hence, they destroyed the whole world in (Beneath..) to transport the arena this time to the old earth to watch how our plant eventually turned into the plant of the apes through the story of Cesar, the ape that would rule the earth, and in many episodes. Clever idea for that matter, but not clever movies for any matter !The best about this movie is its start, it's so cinematically well; still this intro is stately, fun to watch more than once, and higher than the movie itself. Believe it or not it's maybe the best scene ever made in the whole TPOTE movies that were produced after the original one ! At first it seems really comic, where the irony of talking apes in our contemporary time is catchy. In fact the script sort of enjoyed this part, so it enjoyed us as well. I'll never forget the line of  Do you talk also?/ If she let me. It could've been amusing little comedy if it was made by Disney studios at the time. But after that the events takes another road. (Escape..) is the first in 3 prequels to tell the untold story which we've seen its end in (Beneath..) with a random hasty lockout for the first movie' world. So, we're watching now a series that we all know the very end of it. But unlike movies of the same kind, say such as (Titanic), the situation here isn't thrilling and the movie is naively made. For instance  how the apes knew about the end of the world since it happened suddenly ?? And rather how they managed to fix the humans' spacecraft this fast and learned how to drive it through time as well ???. They're reasonable questions that perhaps the producers saw letting them unanswered since they wanted to make these movies fast enough to deliver one per year (as it already happened between 1970 till 1973).Let alone matters like the low TV production, the TV direction also, the poor masks, and the idiot acting (except Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter of course). I hated the grand lines We think we've got all the time in the world, but how much time has the world got?, since the whole movie is way smaller.There are moments that made the movie one of the campiest indeed  the TV expert's lecture about time travel; I had known this subject utterly but this weather man-like along with this tasteless scene made me forget what I already know ! The actor who played the antagonist seemed planning for an aliens attack since he was more like pod himself ! See him saying to the reports  Fear.. WAW, he could be a pod in real life! And seeing Zira in that female colorful costumes.. Ah.. That was one of the unforgettably most disgusting moments I've ever experienced with movies. I was about putting my palm in front of my eyes to block the mighty ugliness !(Escape..) is hurried and modestly polished TV work, not a great Sci-Fi film or fine adventure movie. It works as harmless simple comedy at the first half, then turns into sadness. So it's funny, sad, silly or in one word  exploitive. It's Hollywood usual when it comes to turning serious novel into comics, yet lousy comics this time. Watch it only if you're a fan of the series or a fan of the 70s cheesy movies. I know that I've been attracted to it for one reason; watching special characters out of their special environment. It's surely a nice situation that you'd find again in movies like (Star Trek IV The Voyage Home - 1986), or (Tarzan's New York Adventure - 1942). "},{"Title":"Unimpressive entry","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one tries to hit a lighter note, which only stays entertaining for two minutes or so. The makers figured they could just reverse the formula of the first two and see what happens. I guess having the apes go back in time wasn't too bad of an idea, but it does hurt the atmosphere that made the series so awesome. I probably should give them credit for trying new things, but it feels wrong. The first half consists almost solely of generic, vaguely humorous fish-out-of-water scenes about the apes discovering wine and whatnot, and it's still the best part. The second half is an even more generic (assuming that's possible) action flick about apes on the run from the law and having some shoot-outs. It all just feels really lazy and unimaginative, with the exception of the ending, which surprisingly is quite good. This movie is just not fun to sit through. It's still Planet Of The Apes, so it can't be all bad, but this stuff is mediocre at best. "},{"Title":"Best Apes sequel of them all","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the 1968 Planet of the Apes movie, 4 sequels were made during the 1970s; Escape from the Planet of the Apes, the third in the series, is, in my view, the best of the sequels.Like any science fiction film, Escape is based on a huge flaw The viewer must believe that the apes (who live in a primitive, non-technical society), were able to retrieve George Taylor's (Charlton Heston) spaceship from the ocean, repair it, and fly it via time warp two thousand years into the past (i.e., the same time warp that Taylor entered in the 1968 original film).Nevertheless, this is an enjoyable science fiction film. Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter are brilliant as Cornelius and Zira. This film is essentially the flip side of the original 1968 film, although this time, the apes are caged, and the humans are in charge.The magnitude of the level of paranoia of 1973 America is a little far fetched, to say the least. Wouldn't the U.S. authorities (i.e., politicians and scientists) want to discuss future events with scientists Cornelius (an archaeologist) and Zira (a psychologist)? In the first film, ape society is unaware that humans once ruled the earth and had the power of speech. However, in Escape from the Planet of the Apes, Cornelius and Zira explain how apes became the pets and then the servants of mankind (after a virus killed off all cats and dogs). Once again, this is a huge inconsistency.Escape from the Planet of the Apes is an enjoyable chapter in the Apes movies. When I first saw this film as a child in the 1970s, I did not notice the aforementioned flaws, of course. Turn off your brain, sit back, relax, and enjoy this segment of the apes series. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece in character driven Sci-Fi","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must applaud the Planet Of The Apes series, all of them are very character driven and have well rounded and likable characters and this is no exception. The story works, the characters are great. It's amazing how they were able to continue the series, trust me, see the second planet of the apes movie and you'll learn how amazing. Now for the bad part, without giving anything away, the climax of the film was very, very sad and the ends justifies the means is no answer. What the villain does wrong is not trying to chance history, is how he does it. Making peace is more of an answer, it's war mongers that will destroy this world bring about the Planet Of The Apes, not these gentle strangers from tomorrow. Now that I said that I must recommned this movie to all of the people who liked the Tim Burton remake, see the classic Planet and see how much Tim screwed it up. 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"a hard to imagine HOW they came up with a sequel sequel","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As fans of the series know, the Earth got blowed up good at the end of the second movie. So, you might ask, how did they make a sequel? Hmm, well they did something unique in film history--the sequel was also a prequel!! Here's how they did it At the end of the last movie the Earth blew up, but somehow our favorite apes, Cornelius (Roddy McDowell) and Zira (Kim Hunter) both escaped the explosion in a space ship and traveled back in time to 20th century Earth!!! Now this was no small feat, as the apes in the previous movies had progressed up to perhaps the 18th century in technology and no others possessed a space ship, either! Well, this gaping plot hole is one of the reasons this movie only gets a 6. The other is that this movie, for the first half of it, has absolutely no controversy or excitement. If you like seeing the two apes being wined and dined and interviewed on TV, then this movie is for you--but zilch as far as controversy goes.However, later, under the influence of a truth serum, Zira tells the humans that they are from Earth in the future and that humans are either treated as slaves or killed! Well, the narrow-minded humans want no part of that and decide to sterilize the apes to prevent this horrible future. The problem is that Zira is already pregnant (never mind that it seems hardly likely that Roddy McDowell could be the father) and they don't want their baby killed! I'm not sure why no one thought about letting the child be born and then sterilizing the three--this could have worked out and prevented a fourth movie.Well, our two beloved apes don't want to be sterilized or lose their baby, so they escape. While in hiding, Zira has the baby and when the human thugs catch up to them, they are killed--but not before a DIFFERENT baby is substituted for theirs--meaning that they actually planned on making a sequel to this movie.Decent story writing (though with HUGE plot holes), good acting and a fun script make this a worthwhile film, but certainly weaker than movies number 1, 2 and 4. "},{"Title":"Still enjoyed it as much as when I was eight years old","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the first Planet of the Apes movie I saw in the theater and I enjoyed watching it over again. It reminded me of other films of the period that reflected the politics of the seventies, like Billy Jack. You kind of have to understand films like this in context to what was going on in the world at the time. There is that message of individualism that was so prevalent then, right after the Vietnam war. There was also that sort of Orwellian feeling that those who are different will be persecuted. The real revelation as an adult though, was how good Kim Hunter is. Her mastery of the movement and the heavy make up is reminiscent of the great physical theatrical schools of the world, Kabuki, Balinese mask work, or Lecoq. No other actor really played through the ape make up as well as Hunter, who seemed to realize that playing through the eyes and with the body was mandatory, as the mouths on those ape prosthetics, really don't move. This is definitely the best of the sequels. "},{"Title":"Who do they think we are, Gorillas? Mildly entertaining family Sci-Fi adventure.","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From the Planet of the Apes starts as a spacecraft is discovered floating in the sea on the Southern Californian Coast. The Army are called & surround the craft as it it brought ashore, out step what appear to be at first glance three humans in full spacesuit's & black visors on their helmets. The mysterious figures take their helmets off & everyone is shocked to see three apes standing there. They are taken to Los Angeles Zoo where they are quarantined & examined by animal psychiatrist Dr. Lewis Dixon (Bradfrod Dillman) & his partner Dr. Stephanie Branton (Natalie Trundy) who quickly discover that these are no ordinary apes, they dress themselves, are able to complete puzzles & solve problems & most unbelievably can talk. They introduce themselves as Cornelius (Roddy McDowall) his wife Zira (Kim Hunter) & Dr. Milo (Sal Mineo) & that they don't know how they came to be on Earth. Dr. Milo is killed by an angry Gorilla in the next cage so just Cornelius & Zira are left. Once the President (William Windom) gets word about the talking apes he sets up a public Presidential commission to which the world's press are invited. The committee & the world are stunned at what they see & hear, Cornelius & Zira become celebrities overnight being dubbed the 'aperonauts'. However, the President's senior scientific adviser Dr. Otto Hasslein (Eric Breaden) doesn't trust Cornelius or Zira. The apes are treated like Royalty with chauffeur driven limo's, posh hotels, they hold parties which the cream of society attend & pretty much anything else they want. One day Zira collapses & it is revealed that she is pregnant, shortly after Hasslein gets Zira drunk & she lets slip a few things that maybe she shouldn't like in the future apes are the dominant species that run Earth & treat humans the way we treat animals now. He goes to the President & outlines his fears that letting these apes live & if Zira is allowed to give birth to her child it could be the first small step along the road that will lead to the eventual destruction of the human race. The President authorises further interrogation...Directed by Don Taylor Escape From the Planet of the Apes was the third of five 'Ape' films that began with Planet of the Apes (1968), then came Beneath the Planet of the Apes (1970) next was this then Conquest of the Planet of the Apes (1972) & finally Battle for the Planet of the Apes (1973). The script by Paul Dehn based on characters created by Pierre Boulle is fairly entertaining, moves along at a nice pace & is actually quite humorous. I'm pretty sure the humour was intentional, it works well & is different from the other 'Ape' films in this regard. Obviously there is a moral message here which Escape from the Planet of the Apes constantly hammers home, that of racism. How we treat others who are somehow different to us & who we perceive as a threat. Luckily it's not too heavy handed, for the most part works well & provides a good solid basis for the film. Escape From the Planet of the Apes features a darker than expected ending which worked for me on an emotional level, I kind of felt sorry for the hairy time-traveller's. Technically the film is good, nice widescreen cinematography by Joseph F. Biroc, another fine score by jerry Goldsmith & OK production values although it does look a little cheap at times & it hasn't dated too well either with cars, hairstyles & clothes really showing the films age up. The acting was fine throughout especially Hunter & McDowall who do a terrific job under all that rubber & fake hair. One thing I should mention is that I didn't think the make-up on the Ape characters was particularly impressive with the mouths on occasion not really matching what was supposed to be coming out & showing their limited movement, forget about lips as well! The Gorilla in the zoo at the beginning looks awful, it's obviously some poor guy in a monkey suit! Overall I thought Escape From the Planet of the Apes was an entertaining way to pass 100 odd minutes, it's silly on occasion but it's also good fun as a consequence & there are much worse films out there. Absolutely perfect family viewing especially if you can catch it on afternoon TV. "},{"Title":"Good twist but a big step down from even the second film","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Seconds before their planet is destroyed in an apocalyptic explosion, Cornelius, Zira and Milo use Brent's ship to travel into space and get sucked into the same wormhole that ensnared both him and Taylor.  They arrive on earth in the 1970's to find themselves the strangers and humans the dominant force.  At first they are treated as oddities until they reveal they can talk and they are greeted with hysterical reactions but then, as the powers realise the threat to human future than they represent, the apes realise that mankind is not a civilised society after all.This is the third film in the series and the values have slipped quite a bit since the original.  Here the film is helped in that respect by having it in modern times &#150; so only a few ape make-up jobs are required with no expensive space-age effects.  On the surface the film is a clever role reversal to the original film, with the apes experiencing what Taylor experienced in the first film.  I actually like the plot &#150; with the humans eventually doing the logical thing and acting just like the apes did in the first film.  As is the norm with the films, the ending is a good twist which becomes more and more bleak the more you think about it.The cast are good and McDowall and Hunter give in to the typecasting and return yet again.  The humans are all Mainly there to over-react to the threat and provide the extremes of opinion for the film's internal debate.Overall this is not really a patch on the original film but it is interesting in it's own rights.  The dip in budget is starting to show but the idea is good.  "}{"Title":"A perfect mix of humour and adventure","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen Escape from Planet of The Apes and it is one of the best films I have ever seen, despite it's ending. Most people refer to the sequels of the original Planet of The Apes as being terrible but this film proves them wrong. I think Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter play Cornelius and Zira superbly. The film has a perfect combination of humor, drama and heart-stopping excitement with political allegory, and are treated like Taylor (Charles Heston) was in the original Planet of the Apes film. "},{"Title":"Like a made-for-TV movie with monkey suits","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape's only saving grace is that it was still better than the two that came after it. First, the premise is just too hard to swallow that Cornelius & Co. figured out how to fly a spaceship (that had presumably been irreparably damaged when it crashed and sank, and which presumably wasn't designed to take off again without refueling, etc. anyway). I mean, I can suspend disbelief enough to accept talking chimps, but not that. But, give the writers credit for wriggling out of what would seem to have been one of the most final endings ever - the world being blown up. The other, bigger problem is that, while the concept must've seemed good at the time - let's bring the apes to our own time and see what happens - it just isn't as much fun watching the apes in 20th century USA than it is watching astronauts in apeland. The movie devolves into a run-of-the-mill movie-of-the-week thriller, with bad guy government agents trying to hunt down good guy apes (also, no matter how much I'm supposed to, I can't really root for apes who are apparently the ancestors of the apes who are someday going to rule the world, at humanity's expense). In short, it's a bore. "},{"Title":"The Good, The Bad & The Monkey!","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILERS* Ok, this one is for Planet of the Apes diehards only!  The third installment in the declining 5-part series decidedly steepens the downward slope.  Rife with plot-holes and cheesy acting & dialogue, Escape From... both viscerates all previous continuity and series logic, while laying the ground-work for those that will (unfortunately) follow. Ignoring the fact that Taylor (Charlton Heston) & crew crashed their spaceship and completely sunk it in a unknown body of water in the first film, and the fact that the apes have NO knowledge of flight OR technology whatsoever in their future civilization, somehow, Cornelius, Zira & new buddy (and scientific genius), Dr. Milo resurrect said craft and make it back to present day Earth (aka, 1970's Los Angeles). Despite the fact that Dr. Milo bites the dust like a Star Trek ensign shortly after arrival, they then proceed to become media darlings and international celebrities, wining, dining, shopping for swank clothes; Cornelius cracking wise like he's auditioning at a comedy club, while Zira becomes an instant alcoholic; all the while revealing more of their secrets and supplying an incredible (if not impossible to have been discovered) over-view of Human & Ape history that was completely non-existent in the previous two films! Throw in a baby that will spell the end of Mankind, and the evil, German doctor out to destroy them all, and you are set to go! What is important with this film in the series is that it sets up and tries to explain what will follow in the next two films (whether that was a conscious decision or not). *And, maybe even more importantly, it utilizes a plotline that would be re-used some 20 some years later in the TERMINATOR series;  beings from the future come back to our present and deliver the future's savior in the form of a child. Falling somewhere between silly and mediocre, with Roddy McDowell's Cornelius and Kim Hunter's Zira just reaching the cusp of irritating, and the look and feel (and plot-line!) of a episode of The Monkees, ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES is at best a cautioned watch and at worst a Sunday afternoon settle- for.  Eric Braeden (best known as Victor Newman of The Young & The Restless soap opera fame), as Dr. Otto Hasslein is the high point of this film and worth watching for his performance alone. 5/10.  Grab a banana and (try to) enjoy! "},{"Title":"Third time's the charmer...","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yet another superb entry in the series (the last, in fact). This time around, the focus is entirely on character, and we come to know and love the leads. We are willingly swept along by the storytellers and, in the end, our sneaking suspicions are confirmed in poignant fashion. As far as I'm concerned, there's nary a misstep along the way. Even the bad guy is a multi-faceted character (who, ironically, just happens to be RIGHT). This one has it all, despite being earthbound. One from the heart.  "},{"Title":"Vast improvement over the second film","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The characters of The Planet of the Apes are back and this time we're traveling into the past as the chimpanzees Zira and Cornelius &#x96; still played brilliantly by Kim Hunter and Roddy McDowall, respectively &#x96; use Taylor's spaceship to flee the destroyed Earth, in the process ending in the United States in the 70s. From there they face much of the same trials Taylor had to go through in the original film, but this time with humans in the position of control.What I like the most about this film is that it continues the story in a very clever and innovative way, while still keeping it faithful to the style and themes of the original. There's still a lot of talk about sentience, the ability to reason, power, control, all that good and heavy stuff. But, switching the roles around makes it new and interesting again, while still allowing us to enjoy the characters we have come to love.And it's not just the initial setup. The film doesn't quite have the flow and heavy impacts the original did, but the story does flow well enough and the ending is such that works as a nice prequel to the events of the original. Plus, the old characters are still great, the universe is interesting and the new additions work well enough.Is it a masterpiece? Nah, the story doesn't quite have the depth for it, but if you liked the original film, and even if you were disappointed by the sequel, you should give this one a watch as it is a worthy successor. "},{"Title":"funny campy and franchise in decline","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cornelius (Roddy McDowall), Zira (Kim Hunter) and Milo escape the Earth's destruction in Colonel Taylor's spaceship. They travel back in time 2000 years and arrive in present-day Earth 2 years after the spacecraft's disappearance. The military are shocked to find the apes in the space capsule and place them in the Los Angeles Zoo. Dr. Dixon and Dr. Branton are shocked when they start talking. Milo is killed by the gorilla in the next cage. They become media sensations. Senior White House scientific adviser Dr. Hasslein takes them on a tour around town. A drunken Zira lets out the truth about the future and Hasslein advises the President to kill the apes. Branton and Dixon help them escape and find shelter in a circus run by Señor Armando (Ricardo Montalbán). Zira gives birth to a son she names Milo.This is very silly compared to the first two movies. The comedic turns are fun. The initial testing of the apes is really funny. The switch in tone does make this a campy follow up. The flip between humans and apes is pretty good. However the logic of the space traveling apes is questionable. Also the humans need to be played by better actors. The decline in budget probably has a big hand in that. Eric Braeden plays the only human that is truly compelling. "},{"Title":"Apes on a budget","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third of the original PLANET OF THE APES series, following on from the classic original and the bombastic follow-up. This one's much lower-key and subdued, mainly because it was made on a budget clearly a lot lower than in the first two films. No futuristic worlds or societies here, just a simple fish-out-of-water story instead.It's also a disappointing movie, mainly because nothing much happens until the climax. The script is lacklustre, with hardly any moments of incident or excitement (even an early death seems to have been squeezed in just to get rid of an extraneous character). Instead, we get tons upon tons of exposition and lots of dumb light comedy scenes in which the apes attempt to be human by dressing up and getting drunk.The best thing about the movie is Roddy McDowall, who once more delivers a pitch-perfect turn as an intelligent simian; he was much missed in the last instalment, so it's great to see him back. Not so Kim Hunter, who's a bit irritating here. Still, the supporting cast is decent Bradford Dillman, Ricardo Montalban and Eric Braeden all deliver solid turns. Then there's that ending, totally at odd with the rest of the film's spirit, but by far the best thing about it in my opinion. If only the rest of the film could have been like it... "},{"Title":"Good Cast but Huge Plot Hole","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sequel is a different flavor from others in the series. The chimps travel back 2000 years in Taylor's ship to the time man rules the earth and makes a mess of it. The thing is Tsylor's ship sank into a deep ocean in the first movie. There is no way the apes of the future had technology to bring this space craft back up to travel back. I should have been the rescue craft that landed on dry land.Once you get past that fact, this script is cute though the humans are made to look very very stupid. Eric Braedan's character in this movie is no where near as smart as Victor on the Young and Restless. Zira gets to shin on this one because she is having the baby and making all the statements the media likes. That is because she is talking peace and of how women should be treated better. William Windom, always a great character actor makes a better President here than we have elected in a long time. Ricardo Montoban is excellent in a limited role in this one.I do like some of the intellectual banter that Braeden makes but the theory that we have to kill Zira's baby to prevent the Ape Future does not hold water. It would not explain the evolution of the apes correctly under any circumstance. There is some meat in the script but too much does not make sense and it is made on the cheap as the night time dark sets suggest. Still, for my money this is by far the best cast of most of the films. "},{"Title":"The Best Sequel I Have Seen In A Long Time...","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, when you make a movie like Planet Of The Apes (1968) due to popular demand, everyone wants a sequel. But the fans are usually very strict on what they want. It is extra hard to keep a series running, without destroying it with one single movie. Now, Beneath the Planet Of The Apes would have been a gamble, due to the Earth being destroyed at the end. So it was an extremely good idea to have three apes (who, coincidentally, are my ultimate favourites) travel back almost 3000 years.When wars are brewing in the Planet Of The Apes, doctors Cornelius, Zira, and Milo use friend Taylor's original spaceship to travel away from the planet. As they were flying, they did the opposite of what previous characters Taylor and Brent did. Instead of travelling to the future, like Taylor and Brent, they travel back to the modern day (well, that was 1971 back then), and watch all of mankind gape at three talking chimpanzees appearing in a spaceship.But soon after, Dr. Milo dies, and Zira and Cornelius, still not fully sure how they got back, are alone and confused. When mankind soon start turning on them, Zira becomes pregnant, and the Government has permission to take the baby away with them. So the race to hide away from mankind begins.With amazing makeup, acting, and suspense, there's no way you can go wrong with a movie like this. You'll cry, marvel, cheer, and get connected to the characters. So, if you like fantastic sequels to movies like 'Back To The Future Part II' (1989), or 'Men In Black 3' (2010), and maybe even if you don't like these, then I most definitely recommend this movie to YOU!!! "},{"Title":"ESCAPE From the Atrocity that was 'Beneath'","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes sequels try to be too much like the previous outing. Which was the biggest problem with Beneath the Planet of the Apes. Escape From the Planet of the Apes was a big improvement and a leap forward for the franchise. In a time where we now have 'Rise' and 'Dawn' of Apes it's pretty hard to impress me with the overwhelming effects that we have now. With that being said this film is a smart and refreshing take on the Apes franchise. It basically takes the premise of the original apes film and flips it on the other side. I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed this movie.Cornelius and Zira lead the film which was definitely the smartest decision the filmmakers could have made. Having the same male character for the first two outings grew a bit old and I liked that I was actually rooting for someone other than humans. That's how I fell in love with the new films. Caesar to the new films is exactly how you feel about Zira in Escape. I thought Eric Braeden was as equally as good of a villain as the franchise has seen. He was deceptively despicable and at times you understand his logic.Even though it's 1971, I thought the decision to switch from practical effects to real animals was an interesting one to say the least. The gorilla costumes were pretty awful and the movie does have it's fair share of over-the-top characters. Even with the film's great moments and the good choices the filmmakers made, it didn't lack the big mistake unlike Beneath. Beneath screwed up the franchise for the time being for it's gutsy ending and I have to say, Escape did the same. Without spoilers it ruins my excitement for the next installments after Escape. If it's not broke don't fix it.+Zira & Cornelius +Refreshing premise +Great Villain +Runtime is perfect -Switching between practical effects & real animals -Ending7.4/10 "}{"Title":"I loathe bananas!","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cornelius and Zira (Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter) arrive on Earth in 1973, having escaped before the climax of 'Beneath' in the spaceship from the first Apes movie. They face similar treatment to what the humans faced in their world. Before long it is discovered that Zira is pregnant, which doesn't sit well with many humans, who fear that intelligent apes will bring about man's demise.The first Planet of the Apes was undeniably a classic. The second was a good sequel but not on the level of the first. This third movie doesn't reach the level of the first, either, but comes closest of any of the sequels. It ingeniously flips the script and places two intelligent apes in our world, allowing for some clever commentary. There's more humor in this Apes film than in the others, as well. McDowall and Hunter are fantastic. It's amazing how they overcome the limitations that wearing masks can put on an actor. Eric Braeden is good as the villain. It's a very smart movie. Yes, it tinkers with the continuity of the first two movies some but that didn't get in the way of me enjoying it. It's the best of the Planet of the Apes sequels. "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the 2nd Planet Of The Apes sequel; it had a lot going for it in the story department but as usual ended up shot full of holes. The previous sequel had ended with something more decisive than a cliffhanger, but apparently 3 of our chummy chimps escaped Armageddon with seconds to spare; this one ends with a few personal Armageddon's and a cliffhanger.Zira and Cornelius arrive in California 1973 as ape-onauts onboard a US spaceship launched a year before but from 2000 years in the future&#x85;become the toast of LA for a short while as talking (and talking clever) simians but incur the fixed hatred of an adviser to Mr. President who is obsessed with the possibility of his altering Destiny. He believes their story of apes ruling the animal human in the distant future and would like to prevent that situation occurring if possible. The chimps also cultivate the warm friendship of 2 zoo doctors who try to help them when the going gets tough, but whose ultimate idea of help seemed to be to promote suicide. Along the way as usual with the series it has some good points and ideas but also has in some parts tired or hackneyed script. But who cares if when watching it at the cinema it felt like a TV movie they made some damn fine TV movies back then. Now I can see traces of Daktari and Mission Impossible (but not Columbo) in this but so what? It was a fair old potboiler, a franchise cash-in that still worked.Using the Law of Finite Regression and the Special Rose Tinted Spectacle Theory I can still see myself watching and enjoying this when young. Don't expect too much, or anything at all for that matter and you should be pleasantly surprised how the running time flies. "},{"Title":"Strangely comical in parts","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently have started to work my way through the Planet of the Apes sequels and with the way the last film ended I found it hard to believe you could really make a sequel, but they did. This movie takes place on present day(well, the 70's) and works surprisingly well. The ending is very much in the spirit of the first film and lets you reflect on how the film sees humanity. It's not without it's flaws and it spends too much time showing the apes in human society. But this is probably one of the better Ape sequels and if you are a fan of the first film, then you shouldn't give this a miss.6/10 - Good "},{"Title":"probably the most talky of the Apes sequels, but has some of the most interest","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes Apes fans, Escape has only- sadly- three Apes (or four if you'll count a little baby chimp at the end), which are the original Cornelius (Roddy McDowell) and Zira (Kim Hunter) who along with another brilliant ape escape before the world is destroyed by the atom bomb in part 2. They're scrutinized and gawked, in a quasi deja vu to what Taylor had happen upon him when he arrived on the ape planet in part 1. Soon however the two apes (poor Milo meets his end suddenly, and with a cheesy quick montage of various animals reacting across the zoo) become semi-stars... and what was routine in their past, like Zira's experimenting on human subjects, makes them targets.It's not rocket science, but there is some good, satirical fun this time around, where the low budget and more human locations give room for a script that's smarter than a third movie in a series of Planet of the Apes deserves to have. Who can't laugh a little when Zira has her 'grape juice plus', or with Ricardo Montabon's bit part at the end, followed by a tongue-in-cheek mention of the little guy talking. There is a low level of action and suspense, so when the little bits do come up, like the chase on the ship, it's sustained pretty well. And McDowell and Hunter are pretty much second nature to the parts by this time, understanding how to blend the line between campy and serious portrayals of the species known as Ape. It's fun sci-fi for an afternoon. "},{"Title":"Escape from the usual format!","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from the planet of the apes is a decent film. Yet it is also not what you would call a planet of the apes movie. This film is more Crocodile Dundee than Apes film. The writers have placed too much emphasis on the fish out of water (or ape out of time) aspects of the plot. We really should have had an exciting chase movie for ninety minutes instead of endless scenes of Cornelius and Zira shopping or playing it for laughs. This approach can only weaken what should be a breathtaking sequel. I had an idea that the apes should have arrived back on earth BEFORE Charlton Heston blasts into space.They could have met him and warned him not to leave etc... The premise for a great film, don't you agree? Heston probably wouldn't have agreed. What we are left with is a decent enough effort that is just a tad too slow. "},{"Title":"Forward to the past","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Imagine you've just written a movie which ends with the world getting blown up, and then you get a telegram from the studio asking for a sequel! That was the unenviable position Paul Dehn found himself in in 1970 following the release of 'Beneath The Planet Of The Apes'. His solution? Go back in time and show how Ape World got started! A U.S. spacecraft - missing for two years - crashes off the American coast. Aboard are not human astronauts, but three apes! Zira ( Kim Hunter ), Cornelius ( Roddy McDowall ) and Milo ( Sal Mineo ) managed to recover Taylor's ( Charlton Heston ) old ship, and have followed his path back to 20th century Earth. It is 1973. While Washington tries to work out what is going on, the apes are sent to a zoo. They must remain silent at all times to preserve their uniqueness. But, during an intelligence test, Zira blurts out that she hates bananas. Milo is killed by a gorilla in an adjacent cage, leaving Zira and Cornelius to face this strange new world alone. It is an interesting reversal of the premise of the first film; there we sympathized with Taylor, here we are on the side of the apes.During a Presidential enquiry, Cornelius and Zira charm the observers so much they go on to become media stars. Soon they are staying in a top hotel, shopping in boutiques, invited to give talks, drinking champagne, and attending boxing matches. The world has fallen in love with them.But Dr.Otto Hasslein ( Eric Braeden, giving a wonderful performance ), the man whose theories of time travel Taylor quoted in the first movie, is terrified that the apes have the means to loosen Man's hold on the world. When Zira announces that she is pregnant, his worst fears are confirmed. He gains the authority to interrogate the apes in an effort to find out just what caused Ape World to happen, and prevent it...Another absorbing sci-fi tale by Paul Dehn, matched by smooth direction from Don Taylor ( no relation to Colonel George Taylor ), later to make 'Damien - Omen 2'. What distinguishes it from the earlier movies are its lighter moments; the General welcoming the astronauts back to Earth only to discover they are apes when they remove their helmets gets the film off to a good start. Zira then passes an intelligence test with flying colours, smiling mischievously at Dr.Lewis Stone ( Bradford Dillman ). McDowall was back after a one-film absence ( as was composer Jerry Goldsmith ) and his scenes with Hunter have an unmistakable warmth; when asked by the inquiry if he talks, he replies Only when she lets me!.As mentioned earlier, the plot neatly reverses that of the first 'Apes'. Zira and Cornelius find themselves in the same position as 'Taylor', hounded by 'Dr.Zaius' substitute 'Dr.Hasslein'. The Bradford Dillman and Natalie Trundy characters function the same purpose as the chimp couple did in the original. Hasslein is determined to prevent Ape World from happening at all costs, yet by his ruthless actions he inadvertently contributes to its existence.Ricardo Montalban ( who died earlier this year ) has a small but memorable role as 'Armando', the kindly circus owner who provides a temporary refuge for the apes. This would not be an 'Apes' movie without a tragic ending, and this one is tragic indeed, with both Zira and Cornelius being executed by the state, although baby Milo survives. Dehn had the foresight to leave a loophole for another sequel, which is just as well as there were two.Thanks to its humorous content, 'Escape' is probably the most highly regarded of the four 'Apes' sequels. The next in the series would, however, not be considered wholesome family entertainment by any stretch of the imagination. "},{"Title":"More prequel than sequel!","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following from Beneath the Planet of the Apes, this movie sequel is more impacting than the other. In Escape from The Planet of the Apes, the two survivor chimps Corneilius and Zira and a another scientist chimp take a spacecraft once manned by Taylor, crash lands on present day Earth. They try to hide their true nature from two doctors until one of them is killed by a gorilla. When they get investigated by the government, it's like deja vu again. They met Taylor and Brent in their time, the two Earth doctors treat them a little kinder than the rest of the government. They tell them about Taylor in secret. Get the royal treatment in L.A. Experience the things they never seen in their time. I liked the parts where Corneilius and Zira get to wear fine clothes. And when Zira got to take a bath. She calls it Soothing and very wet! Normally, apes are hydrophobic. It was hard that they ended being persecuted like Taylor has. They have a son who they leave in the circus, so the other man didn't have it. This movie is getting more intense when you watch it. I like it! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Not as Good as Beneath, But Very Close A Suspenseful, If Choppy, Thriller","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the opening credits sequence (which features a piece of music that might as well have been stolen from a Flint movie), you can tell something's not quite right.But you very soon put it out of your mind. Escape from the Planet of the Apes is a taut, promising motion picture that has the ingredients to make any kind of a movie a science-fiction, a comedy, a thriller, a mystery, or any other genre that isn't musical (or western, I suppose).Fortunately, Roddy McDowall is back in the simian saddle again as Dr. Cornelius, the brilliant archaeologist from the first two films who helped both Taylor and Brent. This time around, he's managed to travel back in time using Taylor's spaceship, carrying his revered colleague Dr. Milo (Sal Mineo, Plato from Rebel Without a Cause) and his pregnant wife, Zira (Kim Hunter). After they are taken to live in a zoo by the military, they befriend zoologist Lewis Dixon and Stephanie Stevie Branton (Bradford Dillman and POTA regular Natalie Trundy). And before long, they've become the talk of the world, and everybody loves them.Everyone, that is, except a vicious scientist (Eric Braeden) who notices some points in the apes' story that could pose a danger to the survival of the human race. This leads to one of the most thrilling chase stories in cinematic history. And look for Ricardo Montalban in a brief, but large, part as a kind circus owner.The only truly bad thing about this movie is that, at a little above 90 minutes in length (the box says 98 minutes, but it's actually a few minutes shorter), the movie feels a bit choppy.Escape from the Planet of the Apes another true classic. "},{"Title":"Terrific sequel-)","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a science fiction film it falls short,but it is a great sequel.Some bits are funnier than the original and sadder. It is just as fun as the fist film,but its story is even better. If you like the first film and have not seen this,see it as soon as you can. "},{"Title":"Paranoia Strikes Deep","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film pretty much touches on man's paranoia about the future and what he does to try to change it.  It is also, in its own way, one of the more touching films in the series as you see Cornelius and Zira willing to sacrifice themselves in order to ensure their own child's future.  It's not one of the best of the series, but it is good in it's own right. "}{"Title":"Wasn't Neccessary","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie should not have been made. They made these series of films more popular than desirved. The company that made these series were just going to have Planet of the Apes (1968) and Beneath the Planet of the Apes (1970). They should have stuck with that idea. Although, this film is much better than I thought it would be. Even though I only gave it 5/10, its still an o.k. movie. If you like this, you should see Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, and Battle for the Planet of the Apes.  "},{"Title":"This stopPlanet of the humans.","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes it's enjoyable from the start as The ape-onauts Cornelius,Zira,& Dr.Milo arrived by surprise & were welcomed by the US Army until they removed the helmets.They were immediately taken to the zoo & were all given intelligence tests & Zira then slipped the lip saying I loathe bananas. Milo asked Zira Are you mad I thought we agreed to keep our intelligence a secret?Cornelius had then asked him Are you calling my wife mad?Milo then said No I was just asking her if she was mad. The gorilla in the next cage then strangles Milo to death(Yes Sal Mineo as in all of his movie roles like in Rebel w/o a cause & Giant got killed & as he sadly later did in real life.)Later Cornelius & Zira get cross examined,were chained & insist on being unchained.They had later became celebrities as a result of their speech capabilities.They later learned how Taylor felt once they got to be in his place.Later they know that they'll not have much longer to live as too much info including that of Taylor is divulged from Zira both via drinking & then later even sodium pentothal.Earlier Cornelius tells of the Plague that killed cats & dogs and How Aldo lead a crusade saying No!They hide out in a Circus & then later an Air force base only to meet they're eventual ends & presented a little differently by this movie's end than @ the beginning of Battle my favorite installment as you'll see why? To head off the next film of Conquest @ the end of this one is a talking baby ape.The baby is named Milo for their friend of whom met a tragic end first but is coined Caesar to lead his crusade later.Only for Caesar to instead of Aldo and in earlier history too.As you'll also see & agree on the zpota website of Damn it,Damn the continuity all to Hell!As in the famous words of Taylor at the end of the first Film & used again later in the begginning in the beginning of the 2nd Film. Truthfully, Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste. "},{"Title":"Too much monkey business","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fans of science fiction love the genre because it allows writers to address big questions, by creating the worlds in which they can be asked. But often, I feel, those same questions could be addressed more subtly in our own world, whereas there are numerous implications of the nature of life in fictional universes which are ignored because they're not the ideas that the universes were created to address. 'Planet of the Apes', famously, addressed the relationship between man and animals by imagining a future where chimpanzees have out-evolved humans this film, the third in the series, is the first I've seen. But not only are the special effects risible (the characters all look like men in monkey suits), but so is the portrayal of intelligent apes (they all act like men in monkey suits as well). While I found the book tedious, at least Will Self, playing with similar ideas in his novel 'Great Apes', tried to imagine a fusion of human and chimp behaviour. But the chimps in this film are so like humans that the key point of the film is lost. There are also some silly ideas at the start of the film, the apes have no knowledge of alcohol, in spite of living off fruit juice, having succeeded humans and being scientifically advanced. Add to that wooden acting, and a plot based on time-travel clearly just to extend a franchise that must otherwise have ended, and one does not have the makings of a classic film.Yet in small moments, the film hints at some insight into bigger ideas, related to slavery, tolerance, and difference. It's a shame these cannot be explored more naturally within the plot. Personally, I tend to think that in sci-fi, the science normally gets in the way of the fiction. The really big questions lie closest to home. "},{"Title":"This ain't no cash-in, but a pretty good movie in itself","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" (71%) An enjoyable, well-made, and very 70's ape movie that turns a full cycle on the original's brilliant premise. The writing throughout is really quite sharp, and the apes do come across as more than a little bit charming and likable which is thanks mainly to the good performances of the heavily made up actors. And just like the original there's a ton of political meaning and truth (government agencies are real bastards and are not to be trusted under any reason), and the ending is pretty harrowing and brave for a mass market movie. Overall well worth a look for almost everybody as I was taken by how watchable it is. "},{"Title":"But NEVER refer to them as monkies","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from Planet of the Apes is probably the most memorable and beloved of the Ape series due to the likable characterizations of Corneilius and Zira.And even though there are many unexplained plot holes in the film, it makes enjoyable viewing. The acting is good, but the script is sometimes corny. But through the cornball script we learn more about the characters--Zira loathes bananas-Corneilus hates boxing and violence and speaks only when(Zira)she lets me and the word monkey is a insulting slur! Which brings up to the opening scene. A spacecraft washes up off a LA beach thought to have been commanded by Col. Taylor (Charlton Heston)---How it got thru the time travel to Earth is unknown because we saw it sink to the bottom of the ocean in the first epic. But we digress--there are three apes found in the ship-Corneilius, Zira and Doctor Milo, a friend and colleague who was a genius who half understood the ship (smart ape) Unfornatly, Dr Milo was played by Sal Mineo who could not tolerate the make up was written off early by dying in a tragic accidents.So the tables are now turned again---the humans rule! Corneilus and Zira are now on the other foot of the spectrum They are immediately befriended by a couple of animal scientists and a circus owner who takes them under their wing. They are peaceful creatures and they are soon befriended by a scientist couple and later a kindly circus owner. They are treated very well in the beginning-almost like pets until the paranoia starts to settle in a bit. The humans learn that the Earth was destroyed by a ape war--were they responsible? The final nail in the coffin is that they learn Zira is pregnant with child. Will their descendants take over today's ape and then the world? It is later heightened when Cornilius accidentally kills an orderly who playfully calls Zira's baby a little monkey (gasp!) So now the two apes and their baby become the hunted. Can they escape once more? It is interesting to note that when this film was made, abortion was a very hot topic with the Roe vrs Wade decision. There are many references and morality questions asked throughout the film. Could this have influenced the plot? Of course, when compared to the 2014 Planet of the Apes, most are unimpressed. But keep in mind that the make up was VRRY revolutionary for its time in sci fi films. The film reflects A LOT of the seventies in style and thought. It does have a very sad but shocking ending--see the film for some good time traveling. "},{"Title":"Decent addition","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from the Planet of the Apes is a nice addition to the series. I watched it for the first time last night, after the previous films, and have come to the conclusion that it's good, but not as good as the others. First, the only gripe I have is the hole in the story. Zeira states that Apes where pets of humans in the past, and that through the centuries the Apes then revolted.However, in the previous movies none of the apes knew that humans had ever had any intelligence. The question is, how could this be the way the Apes came to take over when none of the Apes had known this in the previous movies. Zeira even in the third movie sates that it's written in the sacred scrolls, God has created Apes in his own image. That is contradictory to the idea that they came to power my an overthrow of the humans. This aside it serves as a nice transition further into the series. "},{"Title":"Time  Loop","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you remember the previous film in this series Beneath The Planet Of The Apes, the world met doomsday courtesy of a doomsday device left over from the human nuclear age. I would think it would have been hard pressed to come up with a sequel after that, but there must have been a demand for one.While the cataclysm was happening, Kim Hunter, Roddy McDowall, and Sal Mineo managed to get Charlton Heston's old ship in working order and transported back in reverse order to Earth of the second half of the 20th century and when it's discovered they speak and are from our future they're met with acclaim by most. But science adviser to the President of the USA Eric Braeden, he's quite alarmed. Braeden proposes a King Herod like solution to President William Windom who really doesn't want to go down in history that way. Doesn't deter Braeden in the slightest.This film in the Planet Of The Apes saga makes us learn that earth history courtesy of some unplanned time travel is in a time loop. Can we escape it.A good ensemble cast makes us want to find out in the next film. "},{"Title":"Second sequel still fun","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Who'd have thought it? Scientist chimps Zira and Cornelius, working from their quasi-feudal village, manage to raise astronaut Taylor's spaceship from the lake in which it is submerged, fix it up, and figure out how to fly it.And they also launch themselves away from the Planet Of The Apes before Taylor manages to blow the planet up - how very prescient of them.And they manage to negotiate their way in reverse back through the time warp which Taylor and Brent, separately, went through in the first two films (we didn't know it was a time warp until this movie, of course - the calendar display on Taylor's control panel in the first film mistakenly gave us the impression that he had been travelling for thousands of years. How foolish of us not to realise that it was actually a time warp accurately calibrated so that the calendar display showed skipped time once you'd been through it).Anyway, these wondrous events happen before the film starts - the first thing is the spaceship being fished out of the ocean in present day (well, 1971) California, and for the three returning astronauts revealed to be Zira, Cornelius, and their colleague and fellow chimp, Professor Milo (poor old Sal Mineo in his last cinema feature film role, and you can't even see who it is under the ape makeup. And he doesn't last long, either, poor soul).Most of what follows is a combination of satire and allegory (similar to the first movie, but with a stronger reflection of then-contemporary America) and plot development towards establishing the beginning of the continuity necessary to set up the status quo as shown in the first movie. In particular, this film is clearly set up for a sequel.It is fun. Not great, but fun. "},{"Title":"Apes Reinvented","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape manages to resurrect the Apes almanac from the ashes of its predecessor Beneath with a creative plot twist that finds a group of simian survivors (Zira and Cornelius included) crash land on earth and subsequently treated to rock star status, much to the chagrin of Dr Hasslein (Braeden) who argues their presence threatens the future of mankind. Kindly vet (Dillman) advocates on their behalf and with the assistance of circus owner (Montalban) manages to secure the succession - but at what cost to the human species? Again, APJAC productions assemble a quality cast to their third Apes edition, with Hunter and McDowall (who took a brief hiatus from the first sequel) returning, here alongside Dillman and Trundy, themselves a nice pairing, although somewhat less hirsute. Braeden (who some audiences will recognise from daytime soap) is a cold Gestapo-like villain, while small roles for Jason Evers, Sal Mineo, M. Emmett Walsh and Albert Salmi make-up a cast of considerable depth. Talent aside, the absence of Maurice Evans projecting his sage wisdom via a trademark stage voice, and, the pure star quality of Heston are conspicuous.Set in the human world, the sets and costumes aren't as abundant or creative as its predecessors, while the dialogue is merely functional and at times, clichéd. A tense and somewhat shocking climax continues the Apes' films trend for rousing finales, Escape earns points for narrative ingenuity, a solid cast and deserves recognition as the only sequel that could exist independently of its lineage. "},{"Title":"The second best film in the series","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my second favourite film in the series after the original and a massive improvement over the second film, Beneath the Planet of the Apes. For one thing, it features in abundance something which Beneath totally lacks, namely the franchise's main man, Roddy McDowall! It also works better as a film in its own right than Beneath This time around, the only returning characters from either of the first two films are Cornelius, as played by McDowall, and Zira, as played by Kim Hunter for the third and final time. Having escaped Earth's destruction using Taylor's ship from the first film, the two married chimpanzees and their friend, Dr. Milo - played by Sal Mineo of Rebel Without a Cause fame in one of his final acting roles and his final film before he was murdered in 1976 - have been thrown backwards in time to present day Earth, specifically Los Angeles in 1973. After it is discovered that they can speak, they become a media sensation with Zira addressing women's groups, Cornelius opening a ride at Disneyland and so on. However, things take a darker turn when Zira reveals that she is pregnant.Interestingly, the plot of Escape is considerably closer to that of Pierre Boulle's 1963 novel La Planète des singes, on which the first film is based, than the first film itself. In the novel, French journalist Ulysee Mérou arrives in a technologically advanced ape society and, after several months being kept in a cage like the other brutish humans on the planet, likewise becomes a media sensation before it is discovered that he has fathered a child by Nova, the mute female human whom he, uh...befriends while in captivity. Incidentally, this was to have been incorporated into the first film but Fox was reportedly worried that it might qualify as sodomy.Having both read the novel and listened to a BBC audio adaptation of it read by Michael Maloney, I have to say that I found the plot and the characterisation in the first film more interesting and compelling. By way of comparison, Escape is not as good as the first film but it was more enjoyable and engaging than the fairly similar novel, which is largely down to its witty and intelligent script by Paul Dehn, its light satire of celebrities and the media, a strong villain in Eric Braeden's Dr. Otto Hasslein (essentially the human equivalent of Dr. Zaius), an excellent supporting cast which includes Braeden, Ricardo Montalban, William Windom and Bradford Dillman and, above all, great turns from Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter. My only criticism of the film would be that, at times, it suffers from slow pacing but that this quite a minor problem when I consider all that is on offer. "}{"Title":"Second best  of the series.","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from the Planet of the Apes is a great film that is more similar to the first film than the second. Kim Hunter and Roddy Mcdowell both star in this film, unlike in Beneath the planet of the apes when Mcdowell was not in the film and Hunter did not play a major part.This film is similar to the original, but this time it is Cornelius, Zira, and Milo(another chimpanzee scientist) who travel through time to a world where humans rule. There is much humor as Cornelius and Zira learn about earth and its greatness. Cornelius learns that human women are Very human and ZIra learns the pleasures of alcohol.However the humor in the first half of the film turns to drama and suspense as the chimpanzees reveal a little too much information about the future. Forced to flee for their lives they must escape from the humans who now want them dead.I really like this film, it is the second best in the series in my opinion. Just having Hunter and Mcdowell together again for the first time since the first film is great, you can really see the chemistry. I think that Roddy Mcdowell may be the most under rated actor ever. One thing that I must say though, the ending may not sit well with you. I admit that some endings to movies are sad and that they must be in order to stress a point. I do not want to give too much away but I am warning you that some parts near the end may make you want to cry, it happened to me.Overall this is easily the second best of the series. Having Mcdowell back as Cornelius was awesome and you can see why he was so instrumental to the success of the series. I would recommend this film to everyone. "},{"Title":"Great Continuation of a Great Series...","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow... after seeing Beneath the Planet of the Apes nobody expected a sequel since the ending of that movie seemed pretty cut and dried...Now we discovered that Cornelius, Zira, and Dr. Milo rebuilt the human spacecrafts that crashed in the previous series and escaped to 1970's Earth.  Kind of far fetched, remember Taylor making a paper airplane and the apes were amazed at that, let alone a ship big enough to carry 3 beings...  Well, we enjoy it for it's shortcomings, maybe we are dissecting it too much... enough, time to enjoy this one....The chimp trio lands on Earth, and the Earthlings are startled to see chimps in Astronautical suits.  In time, it is revealed that they have the power of speech and are from another world (or another time).  Earth's present reaction to the intelligence of these apes is curiosity and fascination, where they become instant celebrities that indulge in human comforts such as suits, hotel rooms... and alcohol, which leads Zira to let down her guard to interrogators as to how the original Planet of the Apes really was.Through candid revelations, the US Government finds out how the Apes may be a threat to the future of mankind.  At this time Zira finds out she is pregnant.  And this frightens the President, as well as that scientist that we all know as Victor Newman from Young and the Restless.Ok, if you never seen this before, let it be known there are spoilers following.  Instant celebrities become refugees as they struggle to escape their human hosts, the humans knowing that the presence of the apes' bloodline may pose a threat to human dominance.I will not give any more spoilers from here.  Just know that this chapter of this fabulous series is integral to the sequels that follow.  It perpetuates the circular scheme of the series that time travel allows. "},{"Title":"A Solid Sequel.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from the Planet of the Apes is a good notch down from the previous two in the series, but still entertaining. By switching the setting of the series from the future to a modern day earth, the producers came up with a fresh aproach to the movie. This is perhaps the most comedic entry to the series, but it still has the usual moments of drama and thrills. Roddy MacDowell sorely missed in part two and Kim Novak reprise their roles as Cornelius and Zira, and able support is provided by Ricardo Montalban. The movie hits some underlying themes pretty well, but overall it resembles a T.V. Movie. And not a bad T.V. Movie neither. Quite enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"How much time has the world got?","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSPromoted as Astonishingly different from what you experienced in Planet of the Apes and Beneath the Planet of the Apes, Escape was a film well aware it was perhaps a final chance. After the relative failure of the first sequel, grossing just 54% of the original, the budget was trimmed further this time to a meagre $2.5 million. Rather kindly after the slight disappointment, not just commercially, but critically, that was Beneath, the producers allowed Paul Dehn another attempt at writing an Apes movie.It was a fortunate decision as Escape from the Planet of the Apes is a wonderfully witty entry that succeeds in once again making the series relevant. The humour verges on being self-conscious, and the pared-down visuals give the feel of a TV movie, yet this is a tremendous sequel, full of verve. The humour is vital, because it actually gives the darker undercurrents a greater edge. A particularly striking moment is where Zira nearly slips and says dissection. While it sets itself up as a light-hearted family film it flips expectations in much the same way it flips the basic concept of the original. A gradually pessimistic view bleeds through, with commentaries on blood sports and abortion. Though note the film didn't have the nerve to paint the President as a negative character, only his misguided underlings, operating outside their jurisdiction.Eric Braeden lends richness to what could have been a boo-hiss villain in Hasslein, though in all honesty there isn't a single bad performance in the film. Some odd elements are the funky 70s incidental music and two elements involving apes. One is the rubbish gorilla in the cage next to Zira and Cornelius. If the make-up department could realistically make actors look like developed monkeys, then why can't they make a man look like a real one? Also notable is Zira's baby &#150; wouldn't be a real chimp by any chance would it? That shot of Cornelius, falling to his death &#150; a stuffed dummy? No? There are also some odd contradictions in continuity, not least the somewhat nonsensical title (They haven't escaped from the planet of the apes, they're still on it). Also, it's a little strange that Zira and Cornelius claim they came back in Taylor's spaceship, considering the last time we'd seen it it had malfunctioned, partially exploded and sank to the bottom of the sea. And despite a rewrite of Apes history to say the first two films took place in 3955, the clock in Taylor's ship as seen in the original clearly said 3978. Perhaps an explanation is that they took Brent's only slightly battered one from the second movie, which did indeed have a (malfunctioning?) year clock of 3955. I mean, what do Zira and Cornelius know anyway? They're only monkeys after all.The climax is rewarding and well-worked, which, while not possessing the power of the original, does send a few shivers down the spine in a way that none of the other sequels managed. "},{"Title":"Closest in Spirit to Pierre Boulle's Novel","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is actually my favorite in the entire series, and closer in spirit to the story upon which the first film was supposedly based.  In fact, if you turned the tables and made Cornelius and Zira human, turned all the humans into apes, and kept the very same script, this film would be a more faithful adaptation of the original novel than was the first film. "},{"Title":"Closest in Spirit to Pierre Boulle's Novel","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is actually my favorite in the entire series, and closer in spirit to the story upon which the first film was supposedly based.  In fact, if you turned the tables and made Cornelius and Zira human, turned all the humans into apes, and kept the very same script, this film would be a more faithful adaptation of the original novel than was the first film. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel *SPOILERS*","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from the Planet of the Apes is slightly better than it's predecessor, Beneath, but lacks the intelligence of the original. The music is also new, taking on a funky 70's rhythm. Dr. Zira (Kim Hunter), Dr. Cornelius (Roddy McDowell) and Dr. Milo (Sal Mineo) escape the planet of the apes right as Taylor (played by Charlton Heston in the first two films) activates the nuclear bomb (see Beneath the Planet of the Apes) and destroys the entire planet. The force of the blast knocks them through a time portal where they enter the year 1973 amongst the human population. At first, they are treated like celebrities but the government has found out that they may be the link to the ape civilization that will occur in the future and wants to have them killed!This entry in the series is a little bit more humorous than the previous entries and kind of does an opposite effect from the first film, as the two apes are being put under tests because they are seen as different. It has a lot of suspenseful moments and some nasty villains appearing who want the apes destroyed! The music is downright 70's as well as the clothes and hairstyles, kind of nostalgic. It's not bad for a third entry in the series. It does get sad towards the end though, as Cornelius and Zira have offspring who is destined to one day lead the revolt against the humans, but doesn't get to see his rise to power. Besides that, it's a very good film that continues the storyline nicely with some references to the previous films so the viewer doesn't get completely lost. "},{"Title":"A touching movie.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a guy from Hong Kong . I really want to cry after seeing this movie. It's so touch me that for love between Zira and Cornelius. This film provides both entertainment and the self criticism of the humanity.Now ,I realize why the series is so classic!! "},{"Title":"A mixture of more drama and tragedies between Apes and Humans.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was the beginning of the end for the Planet of the Apes film series, and just about broke even when it came to delivering the entertainment that viewers expected.  The outcome was pretty predictable. It was clear that talking apes surviving in a human-dominated culture weren't going to do any better than talking humans in an ape-dominated culture. The tragedies of the drama were hanging on fine threads, and only the most compassionate viewer could become enthusiastic about seeing the series continue.  Kim Hunter, Dr. Zira, did a terrific job of inspiring us through three episodes.  She was the central figure that gave most viewers the desire to keep watching.  The unspeakable miscarriages of the political machine that were dramatized still ring loud and clear today. Trusting something you don't know much about is sometimes impossible, and that is why valuable contributions to society become D.O.A. so easily. This film depicts the 1970's Americans as a proud, but paranoid culture, for a pretty good reason....we were.    "},{"Title":"Science fiction at its best!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You'll fall in love with these characters as they do their best to survive among us predatory and downright strange earthlings.  I love Zira's spunkiness and the strong bond between her and her husband, Cornelius. They're great role models for humanity. "}{"Title":"Entertaining 2nd Second Sequel to a Great Movie","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was an entertaining movie but it, of course, suffers from comparison with the great Planet of the Apes. Look for TV soap star Eric Braeden of  The Young and the Restless in a very important supporting role.  "},{"Title":"traumatically awful","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seeing this film as an 11 year old was a traumatic and disappointing experience. I went with my friend and we expected to see more adventures on the Planet of the Apes. But there was little adventure. Less action. And none of it took place on the monkey planet.What we saw was a cheap jokey film featuring the antics of two clowns in monkey masks. By the second half we had given up hope. Where were the cool desert locations, the nuclear blasted wastelands? Where were the fearsome gorilla soldiers, hunting down primitive humans? No Chuck Heston ranting and raving? a travesty. Even at that age, we realized the producers had run out of money and settled for a silly, cheap looking little diversion to cash in with the kids.I saw part of the film years later on TV and it was even worse on the small screen. It plays like a lousy ABC Movie of the Week, which was so popular at the time. A money starved TV look about it. A few monkey jokes, a couple of clumsy action pieces...there, take it and like it.The worst part of this piece of trash? The ideas central to the original script, the messages, the philosophy...have all been thrown out.The plot is so implausible you want to pull your hair out. Nothing makes sense. I just kept wishing for Chuck to come back, blow it all up with another hydrogen bomb. As for me and my friend, we walked out of the theater mumbling damn you...damn you all to hell. "},{"Title":"Did This Really Cost 2.5 Million To Shoot?","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the looks of this movie, Arthur P. Jacobs & Co. could've shotit for 1 million less than that.  No major special f/x, ape make-upalready paid for, full-scale prop spaceship already built and paidfor(just haul it down to the same Malibu beach where the 1stmovie was shot and smudge it up in black).  And how convenientthat the story takes place in Southern California!  Some of theon-location shooting involved going two, maybe three miles fromthe studio.  Oh, well, Escape... is my favorite of the Ape moviesequels, mainly for the comedy relief that the other sequelscould've used. "},{"Title":"Stop the insanity!!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The third film, Escape... was a complete joke. They must have made this on a shoe-string budget because there were no special effects and they probably used the masks from the first two films. The plot was idiotic, there was no explanation as to how the apes got a ship and they took off and then ended up on present day earth. There were some good jokes but this only made the film worse.  "},{"Title":"Another year on and another bad Planet of the Apes movie.","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was really looking forward to revisiting the Planet of the Apes movies when i recently bought the DVD box set because they held some good memories from my childhood. It just goes to show that when your a kid , you really aren't that choosy!having just watched Beneath The Planet of the Apes last week, i was hoping for a big improvement and while it is ever so slightly better ' it's still bloody terrible! Again . like the last film , they forgot what made the original so Successful and that was the army of apes against the Humans. There is none of that is this because they go with a role reversal where three chimps crash on Earth and it just does not work as a spectacle. Sure , there are some interesting underlying political points to the film but they don't make it in any way entertaining. I'm really hoping the fourth movie in the series is the saving grace in what is turning out to be the DVD box set from hell ,but somehow i doubt it. "},{"Title":"Black Sheep Schlock...","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a complete fan of the whole planet of the apes series, I felt each and everyone took you in and immersed you in a society, darker, yet all-too-similar to our own society and belief structures...except this one...This movie starts out interesting enough,the apes Corneilius, Zira, and Milo all come to earth, in the spaceship Taylor crash-landed onto earth in the ape-time, in our present time of the 70's. We see a good take of protocol as they are locked up and studied as apes solely, even though they show the ability to stand upright and can use utensils like a brought-along dinner set of knifes and forks which they use to eat oranges. It is simple quirks like this that made the introduction to the movie the best part, because what happens afterward..well it just gets dumb and then pitch-black dark.After it is established that the apes are indeed from the future, they are treaded as humans, and not just normal humans, Guests of Honor they are treated to the presidential suite of a hotel, are taken to many high-class shopping centers, and Zira is even taken to a female rights meeting. This is the part of the movie to find something else to do during, because it is so ridiculous, and completely absurd that they would be given such treatment. After nearly no experiments or medical studies found, they may be human-like, and be sentient, but they are still apes. i wont get into a better story arc, you could find one on a nutrition fact label... Anyway, its when they find out that Zira is pregnant, that the movie becomes dark. After you imagine how she got pregnant in the presidential suite...ewww...The story of the dark-haired man who has the acting ability of a chair cushion becomes stronger here after his completely confusing explanation of what time travel is, by using a unsatisfied artist as a metaphor, and he believes that killing the child and making sure that she never has children makes the story turn from lighthearted, to cloudy. he tries to interrogate Zira as to what she almost slipped saying that she has dissected humans to determine why they cannot speak, and he tries to figure out where in time they came from and how he would be so cool if he were to save the human race before it was even destroyed. The apes escape, and they run to a circus with Ricardo Montalban as the ringleader who would happily harbor the apes. Zira gives birth to, in our point of view, a healthy chimp baby. She conveniently gives birth during the same time a current caged chimp gives birth too, she even tries to make the chimps baby say mama, which goes back to the aspects that made the movies good. They leave again, the Government on their trail... They are pursued again and have to live on a harbored abandoned boat, where after they are found...again, and are shot down in cold blood. Cornelius is shot by a railing and falls from the second floor of the ship, and Zira is shot and she pushes her baby out of reach before the dark haired man shoots the baby, wrapped up in its little blanket, with rage in his eyes. Zira moves to the baby, and to the horror of the scientists, pushes the baby into the water. We then have a clichéd moment where we go back to the circus and see that Zira switched the babies, and this baby looks too much like a chimp with prosthetics, or a human with much better prosthetics than everyone else in the series. Trying, until it finally, does say, mama...mama..mama anyway, this is by far my least favorite of all of the works of art the rest of the series are. its mood tries to intrigue you, then update it to the times, then plunge it so deep down the hole, that you cant see the light in the darkness it ends on. I apologize to all the people who though this film was good. I apologize that you cannot see how much a waste of time and money this movie was. The second good thing this movie brought was a great sequel and a conclusion to this series. Both of which could have been done with some editing to work around this one. "},{"Title":"Third in Series, comes in third","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In most movies, the plot twist comes at the end. Here it is the beginning of the movie. It's a great hook to get you into watching yet another Ape movie...and of course, the only direction the creators could go after the second movie....POSSIBLE SPOILER.........this is a prequel, set in present day 1970's.As with the other films, explores important messages such as racism prejudice, religion vs science, can you change the future by changing the past or vice-versa? A good, solid Sci-Fi movie made better by the first two POTA films. You're curious to see where the script writers can take it, once you see, it's not unsurprising, but it's still good...and it does set you up perfectly for the fourth installment. "},{"Title":"Sentimental adventure with both humorous and heart-tugging asides...","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since Charlton Heston blew up the world of the future at the conclusion of 1970's Beneath the Planet of the Apes, there wasn't any other place this popular franchise could go except back into the past. As it turns out, the two brilliant ape-scientists from the initial film (Kim Hunter and Roddy McDowall) managed to salvage the astronauts' spacecraft and use it to take them back in time, to Los Angeles in the 1970s. Gimmicky third entry in the series has good humor and sweet primate characters, but most of the humans are hypocritical, bloodthirsty behemoths, and the overall feel of the movie is rather glum. It doesn't help that the direction is uneven and the cinematography barely adequate. This marked Hunter's farewell appearance as Zira. Followed by Conquest of the Planet of the Apes in 1972. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Classic sequel to a classic","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not quite as good the original but still a brilliant film. This follows the story of the apes coming back to Earth's past. First thing I find hard to believe is the Gorilla being able to reach through any cage bars. Humans wouldn't put a Gorilla who is capable of ripping a human apart in a cage which it's arm could even reach through a tiny bit of. So Dr Milo getting killed is a stupid and pointless plot device (Yes, we know the actor playing him wanted to be written out quickly as he didn't like the costume, but it could have been done in a much better way). Watching the humanization of the apes under 1970's Earth culture is quite amusing.The apes escaping once they have been sentenced to death is purely instinct. Cornelius didn't mean to kill the man feeding them, he's an ape, he doesn't understand how much more powerful he is than a human. He and Zira are just protecting their child. The nice little baby swap in the circus where we meet the charming Ricardo Montelbahn (who will go onto be Khan Noonien Singh and run Fantasy Island), the apes are helped into freedom. The adult chimp in the circus is a very bad make-up job over a human actor. Zira stupidly leaves her carpet bag behind but how the military found them so quickly and so precisely still baffles me.The cops are dressed very much like the Gorilla soldiers in the first film, or at least I think so. Anyway, The guy saying turn around or I'll shoot you. Then just shooting her anyway. Idiot, why not just shoot her and avoid the verbal bravado. Obviously Cornelius was going to shoot him with the gun he'd been given (Well it had to have some purpose, didn't it?) and Zira throwing the baby over the side to shock of the female Dr who wasn't to know that wasn't their baby.This fits in nicely in the Apes film series. Lots of people ask how the apes got the ship as Taylors ship sank, and Brents ship crashed. Something that is glossed over and never answered but never mind. Watch it, enjoy it. Shame about the badly looped ape to make it talk. "},{"Title":"Crocodile Dundee but with apes!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers only for first 10 mins)The concept is basically Crocodile Dundee but with the apes from the first films coming to Earth and seeing how humans react to seeing talking apes!It is entertaining but not as good as the first two amazing films. However, it is still very good and if you enjoyed the first two then you'll love this film. If those two amazingly groundbreaking films did not convert you then this one definitely won't.9/10 so still very good but not as good as the first two which are 10/10.By an Apes Fan "}{"Title":"The best of the Apes sequels","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This, the third in the series that wasn't intended to be, is the best of the sequels.  It's not as hokey and unpleasant as the second, and not as cheap, trite and silly as the last two.  In fact, Escape is a fairly entertaining, witty and thought-provoking film.  The only real gripe I have against it is that Roddy McDowall's and Kim Hunter's make-up is a cheaper version of the ones they wore in the original -- it shows and that makes their characters less convincing.  However, the dialogue and McDowall's and Hunter's performances are so good that the movie overcomes its low-budget production.  I would recommend this movie without reservations, except for the fact that the original is just so damn much better and the only one you should see.  But if you have to view one of the sequels, this is the most satisfying of the lot, and the ending made me cry as a kid, and may make you cry, too. "},{"Title":"Surprising, Creative and Witty.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Third instalment to the APES saga. Corneillius and Zara, along with Lotus, are sent earth, and find out that they end up getting on the run. The real gorilla and real Chimpanzee, looks kind of pathetic. The part where they go to L.A. gave me some chuckles. The ending was a shade of SPARTACUS. Ricardo Montalban (of FANTSY ISLAND fame), also appears in this film as a Ringmaster. The music is great. Elements of this film were in Tim Burton's 2001 remake. "},{"Title":"Very, very bad","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first Planet of the Apes was never a great film, but it blended cheesiness and speculation about earth's future effectively.  It's baffling to me that so many inventive things could have been done in these sequels, but what we get is like low-budget trash film.  This film is a wreck.  Roddy McDowell and Kim Hunter are great as Cornelius and Zira, but that's it here.  No real plot, hammy acting, 70s porn soundtrack music, and the lowest of low budget settings make Escape from the Planet of the Apes a real snoozer.  There are a few nice converational exchanges between characters, but that is it.  And making the bad guy in this film a stereotypical evil German--did anyone realize how utterly cheesy that was when they did it?  And what's with Ricardo Monteblan?  It's like he's on very powerful amphetamines that make him want to have sex with our simian friends.  Damn, Ricardo, chill out, baby.  And the ending?  What's with that mama tape loop?  Dude, please tell me this film cost like $4000 to make.  And, grudgingly, I guess I can admit that Tim Burton's 2001 Apes is at least an improvement on this one.  But not by much.   "},{"Title":"A very interesting movie","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie to me says enough it its depiction, even in the 70's, of how slavery is usually the starting point to a revolution. Each little facet is depicted in this film. Even the name Caesar was a very intresting twist. Also, I consider this installment a good sequel to a franchise thats to some a laughable campy scifi, and others a different type of scifi. "},{"Title":"#3 and not bad","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This, the third film in the PLANET OF THE APES series, is the best of the sequels. It's not as melodramatic and unpleasant as the second, and not as cheap, trite and silly as the fourth and fifth films. In fact, Escape from the Planet of the Apes is a fairly entertaining, witty and thought-provoking movie. The only real gripe I have against it is that Roddy McDowall's and Kim Hunter's make-up is a cheaper version of the ones they wore in the original.  It shows and it hurts the movie's credibility. However, the clever dialogue and the performances are so good that the movie overcomes its low-budget production. I would recommend this movie without reservations (except for the gripe I mentioned above, but most aren't going to notice it) to anyone that liked the 1968 original, except for the fact that that SF classic is just so damn good and truly didn't need any sequels. But if you can't get enough of the apes and want to check-out one of the other APES films, this is the most satisfying of the lot.  The ending made me cry as a kid, and may make you cry, too.  A special little film.    	  "},{"Title":"Escape from the planet of logic, Captain Kirk","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The original film was a daft but amiable triumph of production design, featuring an astronaut called Taylor who was so dim that he thought he was on another planet despite the somewhat obvious fact that everyone was speaking in english with a decidedly American accent. By this third feature, plot logic went out of the window altogether purely so the studio could continue it's pursuit of filthy moolah. Leaving aside the fact that Brent's ship was in plain view and on dry land, we are led to believe that in the space of a day when Brent went off to find Taylor, Zira and Cornelius somehow managed to journey to the forbidden zone and salvage Taylor's ship when they had no idea where it was (and with whose help? All the other apes were marching off to fight the sub-humans) drag it back, find out how it works (despite being part of a primitive horse and cart culture) dry it, repair it, somehow fuel it, programme it, and finally launch it wearing space suits destroyed while the original astronauts were bathing in the first film. Not just a teeny-weeny bit unlikely? And where on earth were they planning to go in space? I thought they wanted to know about what happened to Taylor. Hard to find out when your flying away from the earth with stars wizzing past. More implausibilty is to come. Despite knowing nothing about man's origins in the first film and needing to do an archeological dig to find out, Cornelius tells the inquiry committee that the sacred scroles clearly spell out the story of the apes accent. Confused? I was.'Escape' features some winning comedy and some awfully duff direction. When a gorilla strangles a character we are given a risible tour of every animal in the zoo shrieking. The film's chief assets are the touching Kim Hunter and delightful Roddy McDowel, a talented actor whose career spanned several decades of Hollywood, especially the halycon days of MGM. What's odd about these films are their susposed targeting at a family audience. I saw this as a kid and was distressed by the horrendous and tragic ending. The next sequel was even worse, with such sadistic scenes of torture and violence that it was almost wilfully perverse. This film's title score is great, though. "},{"Title":"Would rather be at the zoo watching apes...","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching this film, I would rather watch apes at the zoo than to watch this again. They're much more interesting than this film. Trust me. It is rare that a sequel to a popular film is ever good anyway, and this is not the exception to that rule.'Escape from Planet of the Apes' is a film about three apes who land in present day (1970s) America and become the victim of much political and ethical dispute. The surviving apes band with humans who are sensitive to their cause. Like 'Planet of the Apes', this film has a twist, but this is not as powerful as the original movie's ending.This film has some 1970s-style chase scenes and some very cheesy dialog and explanations. I wouldn't recommend it. Watch the original 'Planet of the Apes' instead. "},{"Title":"The worst of all the sequels, not including the stupid logic.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" First when you figure out the movie studios are giving the green light to such a poor plot, insane script and lack of continuity for the first two films you knew how much this sequel stank.Remembering what Charlton Heston said that further sequels weren't needed, Escape from Planet of the Apes is one of the worst sequels to the Planet of the Apes and as a sci film itself,it is really poor in terms of budget, acting and story.In Beneath the Planet of the Apes where Taylor (Heston) uses the atom bomb created by Mutants to kill the Ape's world we see that everyone is dead, yet we are supposed to believe that two dumb apes have the scientific know how to repair a spaceship and go to earth much less flying the ship!!! Please. Yes I am laughing too.It's no wonder this sequel is one of the less remembered sequels. Pretty much after 20th Century Fox lost any credibility as to the vision of the legendary original film.Goes to show you that with certain classics you should never redo them over and over again. "},{"Title":"Never Should Have Been Made.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This third Apes film has certain things going for it, like fine performances from returning actors Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter(as Cornelius and Zira) who really do make you care about them, and whose ultimate fate in our time is quite tragic.Trouble is, the way they got here,(a brilliant Ape scientist somehow salvaged Taylor's ship, repaired the damaged circuitry(despite there being no electronic parts in their world!) then got it refueled and launched into space(!?) all just before their Earth is destroyed(Sure!) has got to be the most contrived, implausible plot device in the history of Cinema, not to mention the biggest coincidence ever put on film, and ask a gullible audience to buy! Still, this film does have its fans, I just cannot get past such a whopper of a plot device that the writer wants the viewer to swallow.Even worse, this undermines and cheapens the ending to Beneath, which did not warrant a sequel. Best to either ignore this, or look at it as occurring in a parallel time line. Only then does this become remotely tolerable... "},{"Title":"Escape from the Planet of the Apes","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this second sequel to the successful futuristic film as a kid, and I couldn't wait to see it again to really understand it. Basically a rocket has crash landed to Earth, and to everyone's shock, it is piloted by three apes, who walk and eventually talk like humans. The two surviving apes, husband and wife Cornelius (Roddy McDowall) and Zira (Kim Hunter) speak out in an authorities meeting to explain everything they know. These included how they got to Earth, what they did where they came from, and some of how the planet of the apes started in the first place. The apes enjoy a peaceful life co-operating with and liking the humans, but then it is revealed Zira is pregnant, and that is when the film turns dark. The humans know the future to come, and they are sure the apes breeding will ensure this future will happen, so Cornelius and Zira are on the run to stop them and their new baby Milo being killed. In the end, Cornelius and Zira, and almost baby Milo, are cruelly killed, but Milo lives to be put in a circus cage crying mama. Also starring Bradford Dillman as Dr. Lewis Dixon, Natalie Trundy as Dr. Stephanie Branton, Eric Braeden as Dr. Otto Hasslein, William Windom as The President, Sal Mineo as Dr. Milo (the third ape), John Randolph as Chairman, Wild Wild West's M. Emmet Walsh as Aide and Ricardo Montalban as Armando. McDowall and Hunter are wonderful as the make-up covered leading characters, and accompanied by an intelligent script, this film could almost be as good as the first film, and the only good sequel made in the series. Very good! "}{"Title":"The Last Apes Film Worth Watching","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I agree completely with Gary's review that this, the third Apes film doesn't withstand any logical scrutiny whatsoever.   But then again, neither did it's predecessor Beneath The Planet Of The Apes which gave us the illogic of astronaut Brent being on a rescue mission when the first film established that Taylor was on a colonization mission.    About the only thing I can say in fairness to screenwriter Paul Dehn though, is that he never anticipated he was going to have to write a sequel in the first place, and hence when told by Arthur Jacobs that the success of Beneath meant another film had to be made, he was left with an impossible task of continuing a series that had ended with the world being blown up.   We ought to expect that the results of explaining that weren't going to work well.That being said, this is the last of the Apes films worth watching if only because of the fine performances of McDowall and Hunter and the rest of the cast.   Eric Braeden (whose character incidentally is the same Hasslein mentioned in the previous films) is a not altogether unsympathetic figure even though he is the villain, and the film poses an interesting ethical question of whether it is morally right to change the future even for the better.Don't waste your time though with either of the next two Apes films.   By the time of Conquest Of The Planet of the Apes and Battle for the Planet of the Apes the gimmick had long since run its course and the end result only cheapened the magnificence of the original film, which really stands alone as a classic.   Beneath and Escape can only have echoes of that greatness. "}]