[{"Title":"The reason movies exist!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"109 out of 131 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only saw this film quite recently but it hopped straight to my number one film of all time. It is beautiful. Bud Cort is charming as Harold and Ruth Gordon - dare I say cute? As Maude. If I look like her when I'm eighty I'll be out there nicking cars and fluttering my eyelashes at policemen too! Maude wrenches Harold free from his morbid and lonely existence to show him how lush and amazing the world can be and he emerges from his experiences a happy man. This is definitely one of the films that (along with say, Fight Club, American Beauty and The Rocky Horror Picture Show) show you can be who you want to be, and you needn't let anyone oppress you. It's brilliant. Everyone should know a Maude. It has inspired me to buy a banjo and play Cat Stevens songs.  "},{"Title":"Brilliantly executed quirky comedy that could be the most romantic film ever","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"95 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  HAROLD AND MAUDE is one of the quirkiest comedies ever made, both heartwarming and hilarious. Just recently, it made the AFI's Top 100 Funniest Movies of All Time (#45). Not that the list means anything, it didn't include DUMB & DUMBER the funniest damn movie ever made, but I agreed with this choice.Bud Cort is Harold, a morbid teenage boy neglected by his rich mother (Vivian Pickles), who spends her time trying to match him up with blind dates. Harold delights in pretending to kill himself to get attention from his mother and pulls some gruesome tricks out of his sleeve to scare away his blind dates. He goes to funerals as a hobby and while there, he meets Maude (Ruth Gordon), a carefree elderly woman. Maude helps to teach Harold the beauty of life and the two slowly fall in love.HAROLD AND MAUDE was ever nominated for any Oscars, but it should have been. Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon are both brilliant in their roles; unfortunately, this would be the last good film either of them made. Cort was recently reduced to a bit part in THEODORE REX and Gordon died in 1985. But both here are at shining moments in their careers. Vivian Pickles is right on-target as Harold's rich, prissy mother who tries to run Harold's life for him until he breaks free. Maude is certainly one of the most heartwarming characters in cinema history; her philosophies are so very true that I couldn't help but apply them to my life after the movie was over. Some viewers may be disgusted at the thought of a teenage boy and an elderly woman being a hot item, but the idea and execution of it is more an act of respect and love for one another as people than an act of lust and romance, making this in my opinion the most romantic film of all time. HAROLD AND MAUDE is also told very realistically, making the story unfold gracefully and the twist ending is both poignant and reassuring.HAROLD AND MAUDE is certainly one of the funniest movies of all time, but is also one of the most important human stories as well. "},{"Title":"Interesting love tale","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"103 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If so irreverent a story were to be told today, how would one react? As was probably the case when the film was released, people would probably find the theme edgy, if not inappropriate.Such is the case with the cult film `Harold and Maude.' It openly explores themes of suicide, love, death and life with a fresh perspective.The interesting part is how this film will likely find you. In most societies, an older man will likely fall for a woman years his junior. However, Harold (Bud Cort)-a shy teenager with an affinity for death-meets his 80-year-old true love Maude (Ruth Gordon), not at a dance or social event, but at funerals. The meeting almost seems reminiscent of Edward Norton's character's support group addiction in `Fight Club.'Harold loves the attention he gets from staging fake suicides to frighten his obtuse and superficial haute-culture mother. In a reaction, she enlists him in a computer dating service in a vain matchmaking attempt to fix him up with Beetle-driving yuppies-to-be. The beauty is he frightens off all his prospective mates with cleverly staged fake suicides. At the same time, he meets Maude, a free-spirited senior who teaches him to appreciate life. After spending more time with her, he finds himself in love with her. However, a barrage of authority-i.e. priests, army-loving uncles and a psychiatrist-urge him not to follow through with his relationship.`Harold and Maude' plays on '60s-esque themes of anti-establishment and open minds. Harold's militaristic uncle comes across as comical in his war-mongering vices-right down to his armless right sleeve that salutes when he pulls the string. Harold seems unhappy though he's surrounded by extravagance that rivals anything on MTV's `Cribs.'  Not only that but his mother's lack of sense and indifference to her son mirrors her addiction to affluence. In addition to the swarm of brides-to-be, she tries to pacify him with material possessions-including a spanking-new Jaguar convertible, which he converts into a hearse.Cat Stevens' open-air, acoustic-driven rock 'n' roll provides the soundtrack for the film. It gives the film a decent organic sound indicative of its demeanor.This is a film that chases happiness wherever it can be found with a Woodstock-sense of responsibility. Maude's vices of vehicular larceny and bong smoking match Harold's love of fake hara-kiris and hearses. In a way, this movie comes across as a bit dated in that time has indeed erased the '60s anticipation of The Age of Aquarius and replaced it with `Fight Club' desperation.However what the film lacks in reality, it makes up for in heart. This movie is not meant to be taken seriously; it's only to break down paradigms of societal thought.  "},{"Title":"I loved this!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"61 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I want to BE Maude when I am older.  Ironically, I have never seen a movie that was so full of life and joy.  There are many little things in this movie, little details and gags, that increase the movie's replayability. The acting is amazing. Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort have wonderful chemistry,which is a tribute to the their acting ability, as well as the tight writing and solid direction. I was sad that this movie did not garner more recognition than it did when it was released. I am also disappointed that Bud Cort has not starred in more things since this movie.  Oh well. This is a good Hal Ashby movie to start with, but if you get a chance you should watch as many as possible.  They are quirky, thoughtful and wonderful. Harold and Maude is a paean to life and love, even if it's in the weirdest places. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"51 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film. I saw it when it first came out and I was a teenager. I bought the VHS version and I watch it every-so-often. It is great! I have decided that I want to be like the character Ruth Gordon plays in this movie when I get older. She is eccentric. She loves life. She is in touch with herself. I LOVE HER!!! And Bud Cort...what a wonderful, dry, cool, suave young fellow. Believable. He wants to control his own life. His mama is, well... rich and determined. He is...young and confused. You won't believe this. I laugh every time I play it. And I search myself every time it ends. You can watch it one hundred times and still find something new. It's not normal, it's not predictable, and most of all, it's not a waste of time. "},{"Title":"A 'tour de  force' of a film and one of Hal Ashby's best films","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"50 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Harold & Maude' is one of those 'sleeper' films that just seems to resonate that bit more with every passing year. Harold, played by the criminally under-utilized Bud Cort, is the quintessential disaffected rich kid wanting to find some meaning in a vacuous life who hooks up with the devil-may-care Maude through their mutual love of attending funerals (Joyce's word 'fun-for-all' springs readily to mind in those scenes). There is plenty to love about this film, the slower pace and the lampooning of easy targets, the 'gung-ho' military uncle and the fetishist priest for example. Here is a film that really stands up well to repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This art house favorite is a timeless classic and recommended viewing for all post-Catcher In the Rye teenagers. To modern viewers, the Ruth Gordon creation of Maude probably seems trite, but her Maude was fresh, original and daring in 1970 and the pre-Sophie's Choice twist in her history that Harold discovers was likewise unanticipated by early viewers. Unfortunately, Ruth Gordon went on to recreate this character in lesser films throughout that decade and the character of the eccentric old lady has become rather shopworn. The Cat Stevens soundtrack is probably one of the most effective use of pop music in film ever. "},{"Title":"Death, Love and Life","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The self-destructive and needy wealthy teenager Harold (Bud Cort) is obsessed by death and spends his leisure time attending funerals, watching demolishing of buildings, visiting junkyards, simulating suicides trying to get attention of his indifferent, snobbish and egocentric mother and having sessions with his psychologist. When Harold meets the anarchist seventy nine year-old Maude (Ruth Gordon) at a funeral, they become friends and the old lady discloses others perspectives of the cycle of life for him. Meanwhile his mother enlists him in a dating service and tries to force Harold to join the army. On the day of the eightieth anniversary of Maude, Harold proposes her but he finds the truth about the end of the cycle of life.The cult Harold and Maude was a huge success in Brazil for people of my generation with a refreshing and funny exposition of themes like death, love and life through the friendship and love of a teenager and a septuagenarian woman. The complex Harold is a young man that needs the attention of his indifferent mother. He found in his childhood the only moment that she really seemed to be worried about him after a serious accident in school and he uses to fake suicides trying to have the same attention back. Maude is an anarchist old woman not attached to material stuff like properties or collections that steals cars for self-locomotion. Along a few days, Maude gives a lesson of life to Harold, changing his behavior and feelings forever. The performances of Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort in this weird love story are unforgettable and the soundtrack with Cat Steven's songs is another plus. Unfortunately Harold and Maude has been forgotten in Brazil by the distributors and neither the VHS nor the DVD has been released in my country; I just have a tape recorded from the cable TV. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Ensina-me a Viver (Teach me to Live) "},{"Title":"Ashby The Great","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"59 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ashby was Ashby from the word go. Pristine without being precious, intelligently beautiful without being french, funny, funny, funny, bitter, provoking and sad. You can mix all of that and quite simply call it Ashby. What a delight! Elizabeth Bergner was suppose to play the part, marvelously written by Colin Higgins. Hal Ashby flew to London for a meeting with her, she didn't quite get it, she said aloud she couldn't work with a director who looked like Jesus Christ. Well sorry for her, but lucky for Ruth Gordon and lucky for us. As I saw the film after Rosemary's Baby I was kind of worried for Bud Cort for a little while. Ruth Gordon made her name as Dolly Levy in Thornton Wilder's The Matchmaker got an Oscar for Rosemary's Baby, wrote Adam's Rib with husband Garson Kanin. She was a woman for the ages and Harold and Maude is her present, her own tribute to an extraordinary life. I've shown the film to kids, 10, 12 years old and they fall in love with her. Bud Cort is the perfect foil for her designs. Cat Stevens and a scrumptious performance by Vivian Pickles, the unforgettable Isadora of Ken Russell's film of Duncan's life, wrap up this exquisite Hal Ashby masterpiece. "},{"Title":"When is the sequel coming?","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"40 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over 30 years have passed since Harold and Maude premiered. Since then, there hasn't been a more different and enjoyable love story about two completely odd people. The story is so unique, it is held in a category all its own. A man, who only feels alive when he's dead is introduced to a woman who is planning on death but lives life day to day. The moral of the movie is to live and to be.  I am hoping for a sequel where Harold becomes the old man and influences a young woman who reminds him of the child he once was to live life to the very fullest.  "}{"Title":"One of the most understated lessons on life.","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first came to Harold and Maude from a suggestion from an eccentric friend who I thought I would humor by tracking down a 34-year-old movie. What I found, however, was one of the most amazing yet understated movies about the joys of life that I have ever seen. There are many subtle lines that take an extra amount of time and thought with a little self-reflection that can shake the very belief system of the viewer. For example,Zoos are full, prisons are overflowing... oh my, how the world still dearly loves a cage.and,Maude I should like to change into a sunflower most of all. They're so tall and simple. What flower would you like to be? Harold I don't know. One of these, maybe. Maude Why do you say that? Harold Because they're all alike. Maude Oooh, but they're not. Look. See, some are smaller, some are fatter, some grow to the left, some to the right, some even have lost some petals; all kinds of observable differences. You see, Harold, I feel that much of the world's sorrow comes from people who are this, (pointing to an individual daisy) yet allow themselves be treated as that (pointing to an entire field of seemingly identical daisies)Harold and Maude is about a young person who is full of life and obsessed with death, and an elderly person who is nearing death but is obsessed with life. What is revealed with this strange juxtaposition is that we can only learn to live life to its fullest by following the lessons of the dying. The message that I have taken from Harold and Maude is to live like you were dying! "},{"Title":"Possibly the most unusual, and best, comedy ever made","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is possibly the most unusual, and in my opinion, the best comedy ever made. Harold & Maude begins with a heavy dose of black humor, with the death-obsessed Harold performing 'suicides' as a way of rebelling against his domineering mother. His vehicle of choice is a hearse, and when he's not explaining his pitch-black fantasies to his shrink, he's crashing funerals. The film takes an unexpected turn with the introduction of Maude, a vivacious octogenarian who shares Harold's penchant for attending the funerals of strangers, but instead of being obsessed with death, she is obsessed with life. Her unique outlook and interesting activities, which include grand theft auto, endear her to Harold, and the two kindred spirits form a close relationship, which eventually blossoms into romance.This may seem quite unbelievable (and frankly, disgusting) for a twenty-something to fall for an eighty-year-old, but through Ashby's beautiful, skilled direction and Bud Cort's and Ruth Gordon's wonderful performances, the love story is entirely convincing and quite beautifully handled.The humor, is as I said, to begin with, very black, but there are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments, particularly with Harold's methods of scaring of dates picked for him by his mother, and the reaction of Harold's family and friends to the news of his infatuation with Maude. Cat Stevens' beautiful soundtrack makes this film even more beautiful. While this may be not for everyone, those who can appreciate it will enjoy it immensely. "},{"Title":"The very best","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On a few rare occasions a film defies explanation or logic; a chemistry happens between the actors, the camera and the script, that is unique. It is these films that truly move us and enthrall us ~ Casablanca, The Piano, Fried Green Tomatoes, and above all others the truly startling Harold and Maude. As well as the incredible synergy between Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort, the amusing, waspish, English accented mother, played by Vivian Pickles, is a star performance. The other 'star' of the film are the hearses, Harold's first one, and then his conversion of a present from his mother of the world's first Jaguar hearse. Of course, this was to inspire the hearse that was so focal to Six Feet Under many years later. You HAVE to see Harold & Maude. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Actually Influenced the Way I Think","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bud Cort appeared in two of my favorite (and two of the quirkiest) movies from the 1970s Harold and Maude and Brewster McCloud. He also appeared in a cameo at the tail-end of Sweet Charity, another of my favorites. Given that little resume of movie roles, he has forever won a place in my heart, as has this movie.Harold and Maude is a modest little masterpiece from Hal Ashby, and deserves to be viewed as more than just an eccentric little cult hit appreciated by an elite few. It's hard to think of another movie whose success relies so entirely upon its pitch-perfect tone. Ashby's film walks a tightrope between black (almost too black) comedy and sentimental (almost too sentimental) pathos, but manages to blend the two perfectly to produce something quite unlike anything else I've ever seen.Harold is a gloomy misfit with a morbid death obsession, who likes to stage his own fake suicides in order to win the attention of his dithery and oblivious mother (Vivian Pickles, in an uproarious performance). He meets Maude (Ruth Gordon), an eccentric old lady with a taste for fast driving and an unparalleled lust for life. Maude teaches Harold how to enjoy the world around him instead of letting it slowly pass him by, while Harold gives Maude someone to share her days with. It's an achingly beautiful movie, in a low-key kind of way. Ashby is the king of understatement, and everything, both the outrageous comedy and the tender, sad moments, are delivered simply and effectively. He's got great actors in a great story, and he trusts both enough to stand back and let them work their magic.Ruth Gordon gives one of my favorite film performances of all time as Maude. It would be easy to dismiss her role as easy, if it were not for those quiet moments when Maude lets her enthusiastic guard down and we get glimpses of some sadness in her life that she's made a willful decision not to let overcome her. There are moments in this movie that actually made me think differently about the world we live in. Just for an example, there's a scene when Harold and Maude are sitting by a pond, and Harold gives Maude a ring he won for her in a carnival. She clutches it to her chest, thanks him for it, and then throws it into the water. Harold at first looks outraged that she would throw his gift away. But she says, Now I'll always know where it is, and Harold's hurt look transforms into a smile of understanding. If I could think about life the way the character of Maude does in this movie, I know I would be a happier person.Harold and Maude is a shining gem from the 1970s, and one of those movies I just have to watch every once in a while. Along with the two leads, there's of course Pickles' off-the-wall performance, and very funny support from actors in minor roles, like Harold's therapist (sagging buttocks) and his war-crazed uncle. Plus, there's the wonderful score comprised of Cat Stevens songs, which caps off the tone of the movie beautifully.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"I Really WANTED to Like This More...","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure how well I can articulate the ways in which this movie disappoints me. I'll throw out some random thoughts, and see if they lead me in the direction of a coherent opinion.There's a difference between a free spirit and a loose cannon; Maude definitely struck me as the latter. I imagine an alternate ending wherein the doctors save Maude's life after she takes the tablets, but while at the hospital she's arrested for multiple auto theft. Faced with spending years in prison (although she's 80, she's in good health), she suffers a complete loss of composure and/or a breakdown, and Harold sees how Maude's independence is actually a reckless disregard for the rights of others.Everyone in the movie is a caricature rather than a character, but since that's so blatantly obvious I can't fault the movie for it. I figure it must be deliberate. Still, the scene where Harold breaks down in his shrink's office makes me suspect that there IS supposed to be some depth to Harold, but the writer didn't develop it. Harold IS more than merely eccentric, he's truly disturbed, and it would take more than his adventures with Maude to bring him any sort of peace. If, as I assume we are expected to, we end up seeing his analyst/therapist/whatever as a buffoon on an equal footing with the mother, the uncle, and the priest, I can only say that THIS doctor may be a fool, but Harold STILL needs professional help.Perhaps, after Harold drives his car off the cliff, he goes back home and calls Sunshine. She may be a flaky actress wannabe, but she was the one who SAW THROUGH Harold's staged suicide, and was willing to play along. From her OWN death-scene it appears that Sunshine is a very BAD actress, though, so perhaps that's why Harold shunned her.All this being said, I personally wasn't troubled by the ick factor of Harold and Maude consummating their love. I wouldn't PERSONALLY have found Maude sexually appealing when I was his age, but I credit Harold with recognizing that true love and passion have very little to do with the beauty of our bodies and much to do with the beauty of our minds. "},{"Title":"A film that conjured up many emotions","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Cameron Diaz's character in the Farrelly brothers' 1998 comedy There's Something About Mary describes Harold And Maude as the 'greatest love story of our time', she's not far wrong. While it may not be a conventional love story by any means, it is engaging, passionate, and oddly believable. It was a very brave step to take to make a film about a young boy who falls in love with an old woman, and to tell it in such a dreamlike manner. In a society that generally accept older men falling for younger women, to reverse that trend was extremely daring, especially back in 1971.Harold (Bud Cort) is a 20-something who feels isolated and disconnected with his life living with his rich mother who seems to only be concerned with finding her strange son a wife. Obsessed with death, he regularly stages fake suicides in front of his unresponsive and unimpressed mother. He seems doomed to life of morbidity until he meets 80-year old Maude (Ruth Gordon) who seems to share his passion of attending funerals. Maude has a completely different outlook on life, and indulges in her passions for art and culture, and 'making the most of her time on Earth'. The two become equally infatuated with each other, as Maude shows Harold the delights of life, and begins to teach him how to play the banjo. As Harold falls deeply in love with Maude, his mother persists with quest to find Harold a wife, and after one fake suicide too many, she decides to send him into the military.This is the kind of nihilistic and existential that could have only be produced in the 70's, amidst the madness and folly of the Vietnam war. Harold is a child of this generation, and seems to embody the anger, loss and early loss of innocence that the children of this generation felt. Harold is born into a life lacking in meaning and direction, while Maude has lived a life full of purpose, and having been a prisoner in Auschwitz (in a moving blink-or-you'll-miss-it revelation) has endured the hardships and extremities of life. Harold, with his persistent fake suicides, seems to long for this.All this sounds extremely heavy, but the film explores these themes with a feisty sense of humour, and an air of quirkiness found commonly these days in the films of Wes Anderson. The black comedy seems way ahead of its time. In one scene, Harold finds another potential wife at his home chatting to his mother. He greets the young lady with a very mature and pleasant manner, only to excuse himself and walk outside carrying a jug of petrol. As his mother and the young lady exchange pleasantries, Harold can be scene in the background through the window dousing himself in petrol and then seemingly set himself on wife. The young girl screams in horror as Harold's mother sits embarrassed, only for Harold to appear next to her as if nothing happened.The relationship between Harold and Maude would probably be uncomfortable and strange in another director's hands, but with a fantastic script by Colin Higgins and a heartfelt soundtrack by Cat Stevens, the whole things is moving, profound and sweet. The film conjured up so many emotions in me as the credits rolled after the poignant final scene. Harold And Maude is in equal measures touching, intelligent, insightful, beautiful and extremely vicious.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Manipulative and transparent and shallow","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a manipulative, shallow movie that is about as subtle and creative as a joke by Gallagher.Like Gallagher, Ashby wields a sledgehammer, indiscriminately bashing a lot of big fat targets.  It's not so much a movie as a bumper sticker, trying to divide the world into people who are either for or against the Harolds and Maudes of the world.Reality is a lot more complicated and subtle than Harold and Maude wants to believe.  By losing out on that subtlety, the film loses out on the chance to be truly subversive.  It runs from connection, runs from real emotion, going for cheap laughs instead of the telling gesture.  It's arch where it ought to be sympathetic, snide where it ought to be angry, stylized where it ought to be human.There seems to be a bit of disagreement among some other posters about the use of Maude's tattoo -- I have to agree that it's a sledgehammer gesture, showing a failure by the film.  If Ashby could get his message across more effectively, he wouldn't have to resort to such a ham-handed move.He might as well go for the big trifecta of manipulation by throwing in a big-eared puppy getting hit by a truck and a doe eyed kid getting cancer.Plenty of movies are able to get across the theme of growth (and its losses) without the harshness and shrillness of Harold and Maude -- Roman Holiday, Kolya, Cinema Pardiso, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, even Shrek, for that matter.The reason is that these movies know that you can build a lot more with a screwdriver and crescent wrench than you can with a 14 pound sledge. "},{"Title":"A joy ride and a trip, all the way...","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude (1971)Director Hal Ashby hits a sweet spot here between low budget cult funky and slick top tier narrative feature. And the themes, like those in so many movies of this period, are idealistic and anti-Establishment. It's about two people who truly truly do what is best for them, no matter what people may think. And their hearts are so pure, they express no doubts.Not that the movie is simple minded. The last fifteen minutes is not only gut wrenching and startling, it's also beautiful and necessary, as if the viewer wakes from the dream, too, and sees what was maybe impossible all along.Ashby pulled off a few well-received movies in his short career, including Being There (1979), and yet it is Harold and Maude that comes off as the most connected to its audience, and to the times, becoming a cult favorite. But as with all cult movies, the very quirkiness that makes them special repulses others. Even the Cat Stevens soundtrack, with many famous and not-so-famous songs throughout, will thrill some and make other run. It's a crude movie in some ways, including the way the songs get truncated so often, but it's brilliant in too many other ways to care. Watch for searing, perfect performances by Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort as the titled characters, and also by Vivian Pickles as the mother. Cinematographer John Alonzo is a mainstay in the industry and helps hold together the entire feel of the movie. And really the story itself, by Colin Higgins, is a spot on fairy tale. "},{"Title":"18 to 80 -- there are many beautiful years in between!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We all know the expression like Harold & Maude, even if we haven't seen this great film. The expression, coined by this movie, refers to a friendship or love-affair between a very young man and a much older woman. The two main characters are not only very different in age, but also in their personalities. Young Harold, eccentric, spoiled, suicidal, is almost the exact opposite of old Maude (brilliantly played by the ever-feisty Ruth Gordon), who is vibrant and full of life's spirit.Following the pair on their outings is both hilarious and provocative. To see the fearless Maude playfully deal with irritating police officers, or responding to a suspicious priest whose car she had recently borrowed, or to pose nude for an elderly ice sculptor, to ensure he retains the memory of the female body, or to simply rejoice in the beauties of nature, is an inspiration to viewers at any stage of life.Harold's countless fake suicides are hilarious, but he eventually meets his match in a young prospective date sent by a matrimony agency. The young woman was a devout fan of Shakespearean Theatre, responding to Harold's Harikari suicide by doing one of her own favorite death-scenes from Romeo & Juliet. - The character playing Harold's idle-rich, not much less eccentric mother, had a brilliant line here Harold, that was your last date! Assosiating with this odd friend teaches Harold many lessons about life. For the first time he realizes that his life had only just begun, while Maude is nearing the end of her days. The ending is heartbreaking.Harold & Maude has been an instant classic immediately after its release in 1971. Since then it has gained cult status. Viewers will understand why, even some 35 years later. "},{"Title":"Harold loves Maude.... and Maude loves Harold","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is a delightful, funny, moving, off-beat black comedy with a lot of heart. It is also one of the best and unusual on-screen romances I've seen. If the opposites attract each other, there have not been perhaps more different in every possible way screen couple than 20 years old Harold (Bud Cort) and Maude(charming, clever, multi-talented Ruth Gordon, the Oscar winning actress and three times Oscar nominee for writing) who is just about to turn 80. Harold is a rich kid who is obsessed with death and likes to stage very believable and hilarious succession of suicide attempts to impress his unflappable socialite mother who got used to them and not impressed anymore. Harold's others hobbies are driving the hearse and to attend funerals where he meets one day a woman who will change his life forever, 79 years young free-spirit, rebel, and fighter for Liberty. Rights. Justice, Maude. She also likes to attend the funerals of the strangers. We won't learn much about Maude's life story but there will be one visual flash which gives us a very good idea that Maude knew a lot about death, losses, and suffering but she chose to celebrate, worship, and enjoy life to the fullest. This short poignant moment is a stroke of genius, and there are many of them in the truly unique, one of its kind movie. Maybe Hal Ashby had brought some of memories from his own childhood that included the divorce of his parents, his father's suicide, his dropping out of high school, getting married and divorced all before he was 19, into Harold and Maude. Hal Ashby had made a series of memorable, intelligent, well acted films in the 70s, that included The Last Detail (1973), Shampoo (1975), Bound for Glory (1976), Coming Home (1978) and Being There (1979) but it is Harold and Maude that has become the cult classic from the first days of its release and it more than deserves its status. The movie also benefits tremendously from the soundtrack of songs by Cat Stevens. "}{"Title":"Dated, Banal, and mean-spirited","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm really not trying to offend, but Harold and Maude was simply terrible. First off, there wasn't a realistic,sympathetic character in the whole movie. Please don't assume this is because i don't get it. I was a teen once, and it was the worst part of my life, like most people. I love Catcher in the Rye, because it had a protagonist who could voice his feelings of isolation and cynicism. I can relate to this. The protagonist of Harold and Maude is a cipher, an emotional void. I know that was the point, but if you're going to have the protagonist be an empty shell of a person, you better show us why. Hal Ashby shouldn't just rely on the fact that we were all teens once, and leave it at that. And have some interesting supporting characters at least, to counteract Harold! Actually, this was provided for in the script as the elderly Maude, who was supposed to represent the opposite of Harold, meaning by this films logic she had to radiate vibrancy and love life to no end. But something went terribly wrong in the writing/acting process. Maude felt like such a false character to me, such an abstraction. In nearly every scene she's in, she's smiling maniacally for no apparent reason. After initially feeling fear at this character's unrestrained looney projection of happiness, I reasoned to myself that her mania would be explained as an effect of drugs or psychosis. This didn't happen, and I'm still wondering who the hell would think any sane person could be so constantly, furiously happy! Oh, a sad past is barely hinted at in a last minute attempt at dimension(that Holocaust reference was totally non-sequitor and pointless) but rather than explain her inhuman joy it made Maude appear even more creepy and repressed..She is clearly a literary conceit created to match the equally false,over the top pessimism of Harold.Oh and speaking of Harold, his suicide attempts were milked for laughs far too many times. Granted, the first couple of times, it was shocking and funny. But the fact that they needed to repeat this gag about thirty times really showcases the creative bankruptcy of this film. I wouldn't even object to this gimmick(It might have worked as screwball comedy)if this movie wasn't so self-serious and sentimental about its message. I'm wildly guessing it has to do with being yourself not matter what anyone says and don't criticize other lifestyles.But the most grievous flaw to this film (besides its pedantic nature and detestable characters) is the fact that it betrays its message.It is hypocritical, and yes mean-spirited. Look at what his mother has to go through everyday! But I never thought of this while watching the film, because the film makes the mother a cold robot incapable of feeling any compassion whatsoever. She deserves to be f-ed with, this film argues in its subtext, just like the general does and the cop. Basically anyone in Harolds universe besides Maude. Why? Because they are rich buorgoise or establishment who don't understand Harold. And what about Sunshine, who seemed genuinely interested in Harold and didn't fall for his misanthropic pranks? I genuinely thought this film would provide a crumb of insight at the 11th hour and have some compassion(for anyone besides H and M) at this point by having Harold be interested in this girl. But no, she is tossed aside at this point in the script like so much garbage.Look, I'm all for skewering the upper-class, Luis Bunuel is my favorite director and his films are filled with contempt towards not only the upper-class, but conformity as well. But if you're going to properly attack or satirize any group, you must first portray them as at least faintly human and only then accentuate their human flaws. Ashby is either showing them as inhuman robots, or dismissing them completely. This is short-sighted, misanthropic, and downright unfair. "},{"Title":"I don't know why it is so highly rated","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I suppose that in the 70s when the film was made it was more relevant, controversial and interesting but, in my opinion it is none of those if watched with a modern perspective. I think it is to a large extent a message movie with the message being to enjoy life to the fullest etc with a few side criticisms of matters such as state authority, military and war and the superficial rich. But as I said, if you are watching the movie today you've probably already seen movies with similar critical motifs much more sophisticatedly and interestingly delivered.The singing-dancing theme of the movie with the old lady introducing an element of fun and joy into the gray boys life gives you a feeling of watching some musical with the sounds of music being the first to come to my mind. Not to my taste.Again with a modern perspective and without trying to delve into the perspective that the film makers had at the time of the films release, the plot concept is a well rehearsed one that has been reproduced with much more sophistication and subtleness over the decades since the 70s. It is not convincing, and not realistic to any extent.In short, compared to contemporary film, crude, banal and slow and boring is how I would describe it. "},{"Title":"If you don't get it","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If someone tells you that you don't get this movie, chances are that you really do get it.If you think Harold and Maude is boring, slow, preachy, whiny, precious, and dated, don't give up.  You'll also find it to be judgmental, shallow and prejudiced.It's about a white middle class dreamworld, where you can live off of your family money bumming around without ever doing anything of substance or actually helping anyone out.Harold and Maude dance around spouting early new age mumbo jumbo about how the world doesn't get it -- I would have loved to see them get off their high horses and, say, go to innercity Detroit or Afghanistan or a Soviet prison camp and actually do something about injustice and deprivation.Instead, they dance around plucking flowers while Cat Stevens drones on and on about his dreamy nothings.  Just as the music of Cat Stevens is laughably inferior to the intense, passionate, vibrant music of the time, like Marvin Gaye or the O'Jays or Aretha Franklin or Van Morrison, so is Harold and Maude an empty shadow compared to the truly great movies about alienation and struggle and injustice of the late 60s and 70s. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and moving - one of the best","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is one of those few movies whose very plot-line is enough to make it stand out from the crowd. In the subsequent forty plus years since it came out, movies about intergenerational romances are still conspicuous by their absence. Well, that's not exactly right really because we still have lots of films where elderly men wind up in sexual relationships with women half their age. But those films don't really count because they are essentially only male wishful thinking fantasies, where these relationships are presented as completely natural and common place; as far as I can see though in the real world old guys don't bag off with gorgeous thirty year old women on a regular basis. No, to be more precise, cinematic intergenerational romances remain conspicuous by their absence if the sexes are swapped the other way around.In this film, a young man with a death-fixation called Harold meets Maude, a 79 year old woman with a lust for life. She lives by her rules alone and she teaches Harold how to grasp life by the scruff of the neck. They fall in love. But one of the many wonderful things about this film is that this scenario is actually presented rather believably and the romance itself is never played for laughs and is treated with respect. Bud Cort with his sickly pallor and bizarre eccentricities, such as driving a hearse and attending funerals recreationally, is believable as a lost young man, while Ruth Gordon makes for a genuinely alluring 79 year old. The great chemistry between the leads is what underpins the success of the movie as a whole. Despite all this, it bombed at the box office. Clearly, the basic idea must've seemed too off-putting for general audiences to get behind, even if it's theme of youthful disillusionment and its anti-establishment message was certainly in tune with the times. But over the years it picked up a cult audience, eventually making money by the mid 80's; evidentially once people actually saw the movie, they understood.At its heart though it's a comedy and a genuinely funny one at that. Unlike a lot of comedies from bygone years its humour remains potent. Maybe it was ahead of its time in some ways and a lot of folks weren't prepared for its peculiar black comedy? Whatever the case, there are many funny moments such as Harold staging elaborate faux suicide performances for the benefit of his uncaring mother and his succession of disastrous blind dates. Then there is Maude's criminal behaviour and couldn't-care-less attitude, which leads to a hilarious scene with a hapless traffic cop - played by Tom Skerritt under the name M. Borman &#x96; which ranks as maybe the funniest moment in the whole film. But another reason to cherish this film is that it mixes the madcap humour with understated seriousness, for instance at one point Harold notices a Holocaust concentration camp serial number tattooed on Maude's forearm. It's never referred to again but it doesn't need to be, this moment tells so much about what made Maude who she is.Director Hal Ashby really turned out a true one-off with Harold and Maude. Ashby was one of the leading directors of the New Hollywood era and this may well rank as his best achievement. In some ways it makes for an interesting counterpart to the earlier film The Graduate which also shares a similar relationship dynamic at its core &#x96; although admittedly far less extreme age-wise. Both male characters are rich disillusioned boys whose lives are controlled by their parents' generation. But while the affair in The Graduate is emotionally empty, in Harold and Maude it is the exact opposite. And as great a film as Mike Hodges one is, it doesn't have the same level of originality in its characters that Hal Ashby's one does. Both films too have wonderful folk rock soundtracks and while Simon & Garfunkel edges it, Cat Stevens soundtrack for Harold and Maude is still a beautiful and perfect accompaniment to this great film. "},{"Title":"The Soundtrack is Perfect","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My review is not focused on the film so much as the soundtrack. The film and its characters draw you in, the young man and the older lady have this quirky, funny, existential friendship. Two somewhat outcasts who get strength from one another.But enough about the characters and plot, it is the original soundtrack by Cat Stevens that made the film for me. When I saw it, it was the first time I had heard his songs Don't be Shy and If you want to sing out, sing out, now I have them on my iPod and still love them. Cat (or Yusef Islam is his formal name today) wrote these for the movie, they are not on any of his original studio albums. And Cat's style and lyrics fit the movie perfectly. "},{"Title":"An original timeless wonderful film","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this in an English class a few years ago having heard it was a film I would enjoy and boy were they correct! I bought it a couple of weeks after. It's quite timeless, my dad said how he'd seen it 20 years ago and loved it just the same.It's such a different quirky original movie that is hard to get tired of. From Harold's unexpected antics - sucide attempts, his mother's ignorance towards a son who would love nothing more than some attention from her, some bad blind dates and then there's Maude.It involves a lonely rich different type young man with too much apparent time on his hands and lacking a purposeful life. After meeting Maude at funerals where he goes for fun, his life is opened up by this free spirited older women who shows him love in its true form (not in any cheesy way at all) and a well-lived life.It's so classic and quite funny - thoroughly enjoyable.A lot of people enjoy being dead. But they are not dead, really. They're just backing away from life Maude says so many perfect quotes that define humanity and in fact Harold's life up until then.And the Cat Stevens soundtrack, so perfect, complete with feel-good catchy songs you can't help singing for days. <3 zoos are full, prisons are overflowing. ah, my. how the world still dearly loves a cage A Fantastically unforgettable loving comedy with a great message - a must see for everyone! "},{"Title":"A wonderfully offbeat celebration of life, love and individuality","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rich, but gloomy, disaffected and neurotic Harold (a lovely and charming portrayal by Bud Cort) has a morbid fixation on death; he regularly attends funerals of complete strangers and stages elaborate phony suicides in an attempt to get noticed by his cold and overbearing mother (superbly played to snooty perfection by Vivian Pickles). Harold gets shaken out of his grim funk after he meets and befriends Maude (a marvelously spry and rascally performance by Ruth Gordon), an exuberant elderly free spirit who gets Harold to loosen up and start enjoying life. Director Hal Ashby, working from a fresh, quirky and witty script by Colin Higgins, does a terrific job of creating and sustaining a delightfully droll and deadpan tone that gives the giddy black humor an irresistible blend of joy and verve that's a total treat to watch (Harold's fake suicides in particular are positively sidesplitting). Moreover, the sweet and touching central love story between two endearing oddball misfits is handled with great taste and sensitivity. Better still, this movie makes a profound statement about how one person can have a significant positive impact on another human being and how we should all love and appreciate life while we can. Among the comic highlights are Maude's wildly careening driving of stolen vehicles, Harold's inappropriate computer dates (Ellen Geer as pretentious aspiring actress Sunshine Dore is a complete hoot as she beats Harold at his own game), and Maude stealing a motorcycle from a highway patrolman (Tom Skerritt in a nifty minor role). In addition, we even get some real pathos amongst all the madcap hilarity; it's implied that Maude was a concentration camp survivor and Harold's big break-up scene is truly moving. It's this delicate blend of humor and poignancy which makes this film so special and unique. Cort and Gordon are both outstanding in the leads; they receive sterling support from Pickles, Charles Tyner as Harold's gung-ho military fanatic Uncle Victor, and Eric Christmas as a disapproving priest. Cat Stevens provides a sublimely cheerful and uplifting score. John A. Alonzo's bright cinematography gives the picture a pleasing sunny look. Essential viewing. "},{"Title":"A great film-making moment for the lonely ones and everyone else","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An amusing curio of a film, Harold and Maude is about man/woman relations that I can actually not only stomach, but get emotionally satisfied with as well. The man and woman aforementioned may be a teenage boy and a 79 year old woman, but that is only surface detail that may work to draw one into the deep meaning of the connection between the two. And that connection expunges the surface detail of that long transit of age between them. The sexual revolution not only gave more leeway for the young to experiment sexually. Director Hal Ashby reminds us here that that revolution need not be just for the young, and that there should be a more holistic meaning of freedom. In the context of this movie, a freedom not limited to age. Set during the uncertain latter days of the rights revolutions in the early seventies, Maude is an original player in the social protests from the early 20th century Progressive era. To her, the Sixties hoopla is but old news, or rather universal and transcending ideas, attitudes and feelings that transmorph into new threads from olde wares. She has already participated in her collective revolution, and now she takes care of the personal. Harold is a teenage boy who finds both a dark amusement and psychologically necessary outlet in pretending to kill himself . His morbidity and her lust for life brings them together at a funeral they're both attending just for the hell&#x96;or the life (cycle)&#x96; of it one does it due to a dark obsession with death, and the other to participate in the sacred and infinite life and death cycles of nature. This mutual coming together over death provides the launching pad of their intimate and unusual relationship. The movie's uplifting call for life to be lived instead of to be moped and grieved is expressed genuinely and genuinely felt by the creators and more perceptive viewers respectively. It wins for its celebration of true love and what it really means to truly love. The transcendent qualities of love are of paramount importance here it doesn't bother Harold that the woman he loves is so sundered from him in experience and age, and it doesn't bother Maude that a young man with some serious mental issues, because want keeps them enamoured of each other extinguishes those other distances. Their quirky but perfectly natural bond is stuff that make one breath a little bit easier, with the reassuring idea that there is something someone for everyone no matter how old or weird and alienated one is. I hate describing such a nuanced film with such tired clichs; please don't let those deter you from thinking it's any good. This film is anything but a clich; if fact, it is one of the most unique love stories before of since. I could go on and write about the subtle and naturalistic acting, like for instance the facial gestures that are crucial but often overlooked by more recent viewers, the speechless moments where communication is expressed flawlessly without speech, but I'll just leave it at that. My subjective measure of this film definitely has to be a 10. "},{"Title":"harold and maude where have you been all my life.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" can you believe i am 21 years old and only recently saw this film. i had heard chatters about it but never followed through...until a few days ago! and wow! how can this film have been made in 1971, it makes no sense, and i know that the 70s was a particularly strong period for American cinema but this film feels like it could have come from last week! perfect performances, the music by the former cat stevens was great, and the quirk of the storyline and dialogue was likable without being alienating. there were just little hidden things that one could take for face value but if you looked further you'd see a greater substance. i loved this film. i loved this film. i loved this film. "},{"Title":"Very of its time but still wonderful","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold (Bud Cort) is in his 20s. He's always depressed, has no friends and, for fun, attends funerals. At one he meets Maude (Ruth Gordon) who's almost 80. She loves life and she brings Harold out of his shell. They quickly fall in love.A deserved cult film. This (understandably) bombed as a mainstream movie (it was considered too dark) but was a big hit when it started playing the midnight movie circuit in the 1970s.This is VERY 70s in terms of style, music (Cat Stevens) and its general laid-back attitude but it still works wonderfully. I never found Cort that good (he's TOO blank-faced) but Gordon brings the movie to life. She sparks every scene she's in--she seems to be having a whale of a time in her role. She's helped by a wonderful script that has some of the best observations on life that I've ever heard. My favorite is, Everybody's allowed to make an a** out of themselves once in their life.The movie is very quiet and laid-back and the black humor (which is actually pretty mild) may turn off some viewers. Still I love this movie! I've seen it multiple times and never get tired of it. A 10 all the way.Also the dates Harold's mother sets up for him are hilarious! "}{"Title":"The Perfect Couple?","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty recently I had heard quite a bit about Harold and Maude, from my 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book and from my sister. When her and I were teasing each other on movies we did not see, she brought this up and told me how I had to see it. So, I finally came across it at Hollywood Video and figured what the heck? My sister is into very strange films, but this was also on COMEDY'S 100 funniest movies of all time, so I needed a good laugh. The movie started off a little strange, but then everything came more together and when Maude came in, this movie just took off. I couldn't believe how much Maude rocked, she is everything I want to be at 21 years old.Harold is a young man who has no direction in life, his one pleasure is going to a funeral, even if he did not know the person, but there he meets 79 year old Maude, she shares the same passion as he does. On top of that, she steals cars, trees, and has the strongest passion for life while Harold is finding ways to fake a suicide to freak his mom out. But together they find a little romance and bring out the best in each other, even if no one else can see that.Harold and Maude is possibly one of the most unique and original stories I have watched, it was so strange and off putting, yet it worked and became a masterpiece that any film lover would enjoy. It truly deserves it's praise and more, it had wonderful acting, great chemistry, and a very original story. The 70's were a quirky time, but also a great time for movies! 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of all time.","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An introverted young man, Harold, played by Bud Cort, has a morbid fascination with death, meets 79 year old Maude, played by Ruth Gordon, with same interests. Both Harold and Maude attend funerals of people they don't know. This is where they first meet. An eccentric mother tries to fix Harold up with dates through a dating service, while Harold sabotages her efforts. Harold learns how to live through his relationship with Maude. An interesting ending. Music of Cat Stevens. Harold and Maude is one of my most favorite movies of all time. The relationship between Harold and Maude is one of mutual respect and unconditional love rather than lust and sex. The performances of Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon were very convincing. Both individuals were perfect for the roles they played. "},{"Title":"Some H&M trivia","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My personal favorite film of all time.   Other than this film simply being so damn good, I have personal reasons to love HAROLD & MAUDE  * I saw them filming this in Pacifica, CA in 1970 (the one-second-long shot of Harold driving off the highway toward the cliff at the end of the film).  * I grew up all around the filming locations (San Francisco Bay Area).   * And more... ...But enough about me.  Here are bits of trivia that may be of interest to some  * Years ago I read that the H&M script was writer Colin Higgins' senior thesis project for scriptwriting at USC or UCLA (I forget which).  * Higgins adapted the script into a stage play in appx 1980, in which Ellen Geer (the movie's Sunshine Dore) played Maude recently.  * I read a paperback novelization of H&M years ago, and it was written that Harold used the top of a Datsun (Nissan) station-wagon to modify the Jaguar into a hearse.  There was a period of about five years where I would HAVE to see this film every 6 months or so to re-charge my enthusiasm for life.  I just watched it again last week, and it had a lovely tranquilizing effect on me (calmed my stresses about finance and romance; made me appreciate the beauty of life again).  Not many movies have the power to do that.  I consider this movie my favorite, second only to Nights of Cabiria by Fellini (see!), and I give HAROLD AND MAUDE a 95% rating (of course, 100% being perfect).   "},{"Title":"Strange","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A strange movie and difficult one to appreciate. Although just 91 minutes in length, this movie just drags. The plot is similar to movies you've seen before. Good Will Hunting instantly comes to mind.Ruth Gordon did a fine job with her sweet charming personality. Harold however seemed just one-dimensional. I felt neither character was developed fully. Why was poor Harold the way he is? The question is never asked or answered. And you really do not sympathize with his character. But I think the biggest problem with the movie was the difficulty into believing that Harold could change from a negative to a positive view of life merely by falling in love with an 80 year old women. (Actually Harold looks even younger than the 20 portrayed in the film) And why did she decide to just end it all? This movie left me scratching my head more than a few times.Harold & Maude uses a lot of black comedy, but I found myself laughing just once or twice. Most of the humor really was out of place - Maude's stealing of cars, the excessive amount of fake suicide attempts, and (gasp) Harold & Maude in bed together. Another scene that I couldn't understand was Harold's interview with the military officer and then chasing Maude down the steps. Was that suppose to be a dream? I did like the camera work and editing. In particular, the opening scene, which was suspenseful and very well done. They did a good job tricking the viewer into believing the suicide and the mother who came home and her non-reaction to it. "},{"Title":"Grow, bloom, fade, die, change into something else","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Poor Hal Ashby. When people are asked to recall the great directors of the 1970s, Ashby, cinema's great wounded heart, often gets left out. But Ashby made a string of masterpieces in the 1970s. Afterwards his career took a giant nosedive. He had a depressive and suicidal personality (his father also committed suicide), and when the world of film failed to provide him with solace, he turned to drugs and alcohol. Due to his self-destructive behaviour, his subsequent films were all taken away from him during post production. As a result, they're mostly a mess.But in his prime, Ashby's films were tremendous. Particularly Harold and Maude, the story of a wealthy young man (Harold) and his budding relationship with an elderly woman called Maude. With his bug-eyes and perpetually forlorn face, Harold looks like he belongs in a Tim Burton cartoon. An outsider who hates a world which has long rejected him, Harold spends his days in an existential funk, moody, depressed, and always fantasising about death and suicide. Because his mother leads a vapid life, fawning over items, money and prosaic house parties, Harold stages suicides in an attempt to get her to sympathise with his dour world view. Life lasts only an instant, he thinks, why waste it gathering this junk? Of course the flip side is true. Life lasts only an instant, so why live it worrying about death?Patriotism, religion, politics, capitalism, family, science...these are all ideals Harold rejects. In this regard Ashby gives us several symbolic mouthpieces (a psychiatrist, a dim mother, a military uncle, a silly priest), all of whom fail to offer Harold any tolerable moral framework. Enter Maude, a 79 year old woman who shows Harold some of the joys of life and shares with him her personal philosophies. She says that she enjoys watching things grow, bloom, fade, die and change into something else and shares with Harold her desire to be reincarnated as a sunflower. Harold tells her that he would like to be a daisy, because daisies are all the same. This desire signifies, of course, Harold's desire to be normal and accepted by society. However Maude shows Harold that the daisies are actually all different in their own ways and explains that one of the main problems in society, and a cause of much of the world's sorrow, are people who sacrifice their individuality in order to conform or fit in with others.Ashby portrays Harold's acceptance of this message (yeah, it's a hokey message, but Ashby was a full blown hippie) beautifully. The moment Harold learns to accept himself, Ashby's camera pulls out and shows him surrounded by a field of sunflowers. This recalls an earlier pull-out in which Harold was surrounded by a field of tombstones. Death has been replaced with life, Harold finally on his road to recovery.Throughout the film, Maude serves as an embodiment of a kind of uninhibitedness or freedom. She's constantly stealing cars, not only to show that people don't have a hold of things, but because she wants to try them all. She wants to experience everything. When Harold gives Maude an I love you bracelet she promptly throws it into the ocean. Likewise, when Harold resolves to marry her, she promptly takes a suicide pill. Why? Perhaps Because Harold has learnt to love and she wants him to love more than she can ever be. But also, because she wants Harold to understand that fickle balance between life, love and loss. Love now because tomorrow might not come.Late in the film we realise that Maude is a Holocaust survivor (she lives in a railroad car much similar to the ones used to tow Jews). She also has a concentration camp ID number tattooed on her arm, death permanently seared into her flesh. She's optimistic despite having suffered horrors and hardship, whilst Harold, a son of affluence who seems to have it all, is forever morbid simply because he has nothing to live for. In this way, Maude embodies the gruff men and women of the WW2 generation, whilst Harold is symbolic of the post Vietnam era, disillusioned, directionless, anhedonic and frustrated. After Maude's death (which Ashby shoots with powerful juxtapositions), Harold pushes his car (it's a funeral hearse) off a cliff. He then walks off playing the banjo she gave him, the image recalling the Woody Guthrie of Ashby's Bound For Glory. Harold's died and been reborn, having resolved to embrace Maude's anarchic sensibilities, her personal values, her love and optimism. How cute.9/10 - Like most of Hal Ashby's work, Harold and Maude manages to be both uplifting and brutally dark. The film may have a hokey, hippie vibe, but this was new at the time (the film looks nothing like a film made in 1971) and Ashby's sincerity sells it.It's ironic that the director of such an optimistic film - a film in which a troubled kid rejects suicide - would himself embrace such self destructive traits. Why didn't Hal Ashby practise what he preached? It's hard to change yourself. Maybe we can't. Or maybe Ashby simply didn't have a teacher like Maude.Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Sick, disgusting and a lot of fun!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie many years ago and didn't particularly like it. However, I just saw it again after more than 20 years and found I loved the film--maybe I was just too serious when I first saw the film! This is a very black comedy about a depressed and death-loving young man (Bud Cort) and a very strange old lady who befriends him (Ruth Gordon)--and boy does Cort need a friend! He is a rich young man who has a domineering and inept mother who barely notices him. As a result, Cort spends most of the first half of the movie faking suicides (some of them very bloody) to get her attention. In addition, he's a necrophile (not the sexual type--ewwww!)--buying an old hearse and attending strangers' funerals for fun. At one of these funerals, he's approached by weird and wacky Gordon who takes a liking to him. She is almost completely crazy but also has a real joy for living and slowly Cort begins to loosen up and he falls in love with her--even though she is about 60 years his senior (ewwww)! There's more to the plot than this and some hilarious moments (such as the talk with his uncle about joining the army), but I'd rather not spoil the film.There are some very dark but very funny moments throughout, however the film also has a serious message that is, beneath all the death, quite life-affirming. Plus, it encouraged weird people (like myself) to continue not taking life so seriously and just enjoy. However, I am sure this movie isn't for everyone's taste. If you have an odd sense of humor and don't mind an off-kilter film, then give it a try. There's very little not to like--unless you dislike the music of Cat Stevens, which seems to permeate and dominate this film.SPOILER ALERT--DON'T READ THE FOLLOWING By the way, while many may NOT like the way the way the film ends, there are some reasons why I think it wasn't a bad ending. I felt as if in order for Harold to go on with life and grow into a normal person, Maude felt she had to leave him and that was why she did what she did. Just a thought. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Movie is always 'interesting' when watching it for the first time. In fact, I may be the only person who really enjoyed it a first time around. Harold and Maude is full of witty dark humor that leaves the viewer more captivated each time they watch it. There are so many 'little' things that nobody catch the first time around, probably because they're too dumbstruck by the whole basic plot line of the movie. How is a person supposed to begin laughing at the cultural humor, when they're too busy gawking at the 'issues' that Harold has and the 'way of life' that Maude presents to him and to the viewer. Then, with a second viewing, it becomes clear that these two polar opposites (in every way possible) bring out the best in each other and throw out all the rules of society.This movie deserves far more credit than it is ever given! If you don't like it the first time... watch it again! -Purple "},{"Title":"This is the movie The Graduate should have been","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a perfect movie. It's extremely well written and well acted. It reminded me a lot of The Graduate, a movie which I liked but felt was not all that special. Harold is much like Benjamin from that movie, but he's such a jerk. And Mrs. Robinson is also completely unlikable. Harold and Maude has to be the most uplifting film I have ever seen. It is one of those rare films which makes you re-examine your life in a positive way. I beg you to see it. One rarely sees films of this caliber. "},{"Title":"Quirky Romantic Hilarious","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really like this film, quirky, hilarious, romantic, and voted as the 45th funniest film of all time. Bud Cort stars as Harold a teenage boy constantly being setup on dates by his mother. Maude is an elderly lady played by Ruth Gordon who hasn't a care in the world. Maude teaches Harold about life and the two fall in love.I don't know why the film didn't get nominated for any Oscars to be honest its a real shame because it deserved one. Both Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon deliver fantastic performances. Vivian Pickles also delivers a perfect performance as Harold's mother. Ruth Gordon died in 1985I think this is one of the funniest films ever to be made well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"There's a million ways to be, you know that there are.","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Really funny, really creative for it's time and in it's own way, really heartwarming. It really reminded me of The Graduate, with the strange male protagonist, a love affair with an age difference and songs by a popular artist of the time. It's not as good, but it did something that The Graduate didn't, which was doubling over with laughter. It gets it's humor through how subtle the dark humor is. No movie today would get away with suicide jokes, but this movie does, because of how carefree it goes about it. It's suicide slapstick, which to be fair, shouldn't exist as it's own genre. I believed in the romance, despite seeming so taboo. It 's a cult hit, but I think it would be a massive hit today, because audiences are more open to unorthodox romances. Perhaps we aren't desensitized by free love, perhaps we're just smarter about it. If you're grossed out by Harold and Maude, you aren't thinking right. "}{"Title":"Ruth Gordon is magnificent","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold (Bud Cort) is a peculiar guy obsessed with death and pranks his mother constantly. His snobbish mother can't take him anymore. His psychologist is unhelpful. He meet Maude (Ruth Gordon) at a stranger's funeral. She's about to be 80 in a week. They become the best of friends. His mother keeps bringing over eligible bachelorettes but his strange behavior keeps running them off. So she decides to make him join the Army.Ruth Gordon is magnificent. It's as simple as that. She is utterly charming and it's perfectly believable that Harold would fall for him. There are a couple really good laughs. The Cat Stevens soundtrack is great. This is a delight. "},{"Title":"Simply Superb and Wonderful","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had no expectation on what is Harold and Maude, will the ending fare well and no crap thoughts or does it have something to with death and suicide. Finally after 2 viewing of this Film, It has gone down on the list of my Favs Now.Cat Steven's Music is a Big Plus to the Movie, Whereas the screenplay is Fresh and Unique.The Story Revolves Around Harold who Stages Suicide and attempts couple of times, his Life Being empty and then enter Maude a 79yr old woman shows Harold something he never dream of that is life and everything that follows.. Film is Rich in Cinematography and Shot Very Well. Music as mentioned above is soothing and suits the atmosphere of the film.Hal Ashby has treated the script in a sensible way and its an example of Great Film making.Seriously Iv'e Enjoyed Harold and Maude.. Its a Film to be enjoyed completely from beginning to its intense Ending.. Wonderful Piece Of Film.. What makes this a must watch, well there are so many aspects to be considered from acting to the story everything is beautiful about Harold And MaudeIts Charming and Uplifting.. Do Watch and Own a Copy of it cuz this needs to be Watched and shown to All cinema lovers. . A Cult Fav! "},{"Title":"Everyone needs a ticket to the world of Harold and Maude","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only watched it a couple of weeks ago, but holy mother of God, it instantly earned a spot as one of my all time favourites, if not managing to swoop the number one spot.In theory this film should fail. The story of romance between a teenager/young man and elderly woman is far too problematic to be believable. It's not only too bizarre, but it's also extremely unrealistic (sorry, I'm a bit of a cynic). Nevertheless, I'd heard about this film for a long time and was willing to put all preconceptions to one side. And I am so, so glad that I did. I urge anyone to look past the summary and just watch it. Please, do it, now.How can you try and dissect a film as complex and beautiful as Harold and Maude? Well you can't, because it doesn't demand anything of the sort. Some classic/cult/icon films encourage us to re-watch and point our cinematic-analytic lenses to nuances that are key. But Harold and Maude actually exceeds the limits of film; it's an experience.The character of Maude is played exquisitely, and is so charming and free spirited. Harold is Maude diametrical opposite. Morose, pseudo-suicidal, fascinated with death (played BRILLIANTLY by Bud Cort) and the reactions it evokes. He goes to funerals in his spare time, visits his psychiatrist a lot and has no friends...Until he meets Maude. And when he does, the two seem to fit like a glove. They make for one of the most authentic on-screen relationships/friendships I've ever seen, and watching them develop is just...wow. Because the characterisation is so strong (and the film isn't bustling with minor characters)it actually becomes fairly believable, and you'll find yourself embroiled in the world of Harold and Maude. The hospital scene at the end will crush you.Strong message, unique, beautiful, perfect, and also surprisingly hilarious. Charming and unforgettable, overall a very important film that will question our perspectives. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Dark","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Life and Death are explored in cinema frequently and films have been created juxtaposing the two themes years before this came out but none has had the ability to make the heavy themes be condensed in a neat little story tied by love. I didn't love it the first time I watched it because I felt it lacked a little texture and Harold's attempts seemed more shocking rather than funny. But oh how much a second viewing can change one's point of view.Colin Higgins wrote the screenplay for this film. Higgins hasn't got a lot of films in his resume but he has written 3 feature films that are decent. Harold and Maude's screenplay does lack an aim and that is one reason why I couldn't really grasp it the first time, but coming back to this I started to understand what Higgins was trying to exhibit. The themes life and death could not be more plainly obvious than it does in this film but the film avoids from being too campy by creating humor and putting these characters in unconventional environments and situations. Harold is a complex character, to truly understand him one must not wait for answers and insight to be given but instead look for it and empathise on his current state. Maude is the complete opposite of Harold and that's the reason that she took an interest in him as if she knew that he was an empty void needing something to cling onto. His 'attempts' may be a bit dark for some people, which was true in my first viewing, but it does come off as hilarious the second time knowing just how far it goes. Harold and his mother is a relationship that always had me thinking, and as more of Harold's layers climb to the surface, the more we understand the decisions of his actions.This is Hal Ashby's second film and he has definitely did a great job here. Ashby seems to be much more concerned with investigating the themes of the film rather than making the story shine. This prevents the film from feeling campy and predictable, which is probably the reason why people keep coming back to this. Ashby has been known to make more films within the lighter side of the spectrum in terms of it's tone, and this film keeps that but due to it's dark subject matter, it creates an atmosphere that can be seen as darkly hilarious or twistedly sick; also something that is much more risky and unique. The film doesn't move very fast because the film indulges on it's comedic moments, which I like as some directors get too self-conscious and avoids this approach to gain more respect from the casual viewer. The film doesn't feel big and it does seem like it was restricted by it's budget, which turned out as a positive as it gave the film that indie and simple style that it needed in order to keep the film grounded.John Alonzo is the film's cinematographer for Harold and Maude. Alonzo definitely understands the film's themes as his photography supports it so well. He ensures that the house that Harold lives in feels empty and melancholy. Harold within this household is always hit with dark shadows and colors never seem to pop except for the color red. In Maude's home, it does feel much more upbeat and fun with the background of the shots being subtly filled up with little things from Maude's past. As the film moves back and forth between Harold's life at home and his life with Maude, the photography becomes more of a metaphor of Harold's emotional state when within these domains. The film never looks pretty, and it also doesn't have the benefit of having ambitious locations to shoot in, but Ashby and Alonzo does make the most out of it. This film is only the third feature film that Alonzo has worked on, with many of his previous work being in televisions and documentaries, ergo his lack of experience held the film back from being too pretentious or clever.Harold and Maude is a soundtrack driven film, and what a soundtrack list this film has. The songs that come arrive at the perfect moment and they all sound so pessimistically fun, kind of like a balance between the two personalities of the characters. When the songs come on, it had me tapping my feet and tilting my head from side to side along with the beat. I don't think this film feels like it needed a score because that would undercut the humor that this film has to offer.Bud Cort was superb as Harold as he was able to play a character who was emotionally and psychologically tortured, but also deliver the comedic timing that Ashby wanted from him. Ruth Gordon is a seasoned actress who has worked on many classics, like Rosemary's Baby and Edge of Darkness, and this film belongs with the stature that these classics are currently on. When the film focuses on the titular characters, Maude is the one that is always rambling and Gordon was able to achieve that without having the audience feeling annoyed of her. Vivian Pickles plays as Harold's mother and her character is similar to Maude due to the fact that she rambles on in every scene she is in, but she was able to come off as annoying as intended by the director.Harold and Maude isn't for everyone but the protagonists are so different from each other that you can't help but be intrigued on how it plays out. Also, Harold's hilarious suicide attempts gives the film that dark edge that it needed in making this film fun to watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Not the usual comedy","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a young man with a morbid fascination with death. He meets an 79 years old woman and connects with her in many ways.Harold and Maude begins with a suicide scene which is powerful and haunting. The shock of the suicide, and the even more shocking response of the mother makes Harold and Maude captivating right from the start. Harold's innovative ways to die continue to shock me, and I find myself screaming at the visually disturbing acts.The unlikely friendship with Maude is quite amazing, as they break social norms and bond because they really get along with each other. The ending is rather open, but I take it as Harold being transformed by Maude.Harold and Maude is not the usual comedy, it is very dark and yet engaging and captivating. "},{"Title":"A brilliant leap in film history","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film not only sets itself apart from typical lines of thought, it challenges the viewer to view life in a totally new lens.The success of this movie is not itself in the characters or the story but the underlying message of challenging conventionalism, spontaneity,freedom and the idea that we must make the best of the time we have on this planet and savor all the beauty around us.The film hits home because of it's effective usage of witty dialogue, interesting dichotomies, and it's thick, yet subtle suggestions about morale subjectivity.Amist the sexual revolution, as the film does mention, the film directly takes aim at social conservative values and pierces the foundation of what love 'ought to be'. This was very appropriate for the times, as a huge generational shift in consciousness became very powerful among the youth in the late 1960s and into the 1970s--most notably through the hippie and free-love movements.The soundtrack is just amazing and follows the movie to a T. Cat Stevens dominates with a message so simple, yet so necessary for a culture filled with war and death during the Vietnam War.Well if you want to sing out, sing out. And if you want to be free be free. - Cat Stevens.The film's entire premise can be added up through a very simple set of dialogue in the film in which a police officer pulls over Maude and asks for her license....I don't have one, I don't believes in them. she replies. This film was given to us as message to challenge our own thinking patterns -- to think outside the box for lack of a better phrase. That seems so clich but it is so true. It pushes the boundaries of what is and isn't socially acceptable.It impacted not just my senses and exterior but I had a dramatic realization about freedom, love and personal perception that I really don't know much...like all of us. We all really don't know why or the what of our existence. The more I learn, the less I know as the famous saying goes.I highly recommend this piece of artwork--because that is exactly what it is. This is a masterpiece in film-making where the director has effectively touched the viewer-ship. Thats what it's all about. This film is a truly beautiful work that will stand the tests of time and be a constant reminder to us all to live life to the fullest and of the importance of true love.10/10 "},{"Title":"A stunningly brilliant black comedy thats full of life","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my all time favorite filmsA delicious, heartbreaking comedy that's not afraid of emotion and sadness, about the love affair between a death obsessed 19 year old, and a life obsessed 80 year old. Amazing performances by Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon, not to mention the whole supporting cast. Beautifully shot, and with transcendent use of Cat Steven's songs as score. A film I simply never tire of seeing again. WAY overdue for a Blu-ray remastering. "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude Review","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Attending funerals probably does not fit into everyone's definition of fun, but in Hal Ashby's Harold and Maude, starring Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort, the characters do just that. Set in San Francisco Bay area in the early 70's, Harold and Maude tells the story of Harold, a friendless, troubled, rich boy who is desperate for his mother's attention. This all changes when Harold meets Maude, an unconventional older woman, who becomes his friend, love interest, and mentor. At first the film, written by Colin Higgins, struck me as being very odd. After all, the story of a 19 year old boy who repeatedly fakes suicides, drives a hearse, and who falls in love with a 79 year old eccentric woman wouldn't be considered normal by most. However, despite its unusual plot, Harold and Maude is an entertaining movie with lessons on life and living it to the fullest, friendship, and love&#x85;if you can get past the 60 year age gap between the two characters.The opening scene at first seems tragic. To the tune of Cat Stevens, Harold seemingly hangs himself in his ritzy California home. When Harold's mother discovers him, she ignores him and makes a phone call. These mock suicides, which happen a total of seven times throughout the movie (though Harold tells his psychiatrist he has done this about 15 times before), are all dismissed by Harold's mother, although they are an attempt for her attention. Harold seems to live a sheltered life, and is very quiet; his mother is not concerned with what he wants, as demonstrated in her want of Harold to join the military, or for him to get married. Cort's acting, which is characterized by little facial expression and an awkward manner contrasts with the acting of Gordon, who is boisterous, with exaggerated movements and tone of voice to portray her unusual character. The two form a friendship after meeting at a funeral; a friendship that consists of car stealing, visiting cemeteries and junk yards, spending time at Maude's train car home, and tree replanting. Most of the humor in the movie comes from wacky antics they do together. Cat Steven's If You Want to Sing Out is the song that Maude seems to live by, as she does whatever she wants (even if it's illegal), and becomes the theme of Harold and Maude's relationship.Interesting camera angles are used in unique ways throughout the film, adding to the films overall mood. At times, Harold adds a comical mood by staring directly into the camera, as if he and the audience are in on some inside joke, such as after he sets himself on fire in front of his first date. Moving shots also add to the humor, especially in the pool scene, where Harold has apparently drowned himself. After a shot of Harold, we get a shot of his mother walking to the pool. The shot follows his mother, until the audience discovers the two characters are in the same pool. Many shots focus on one aspect of an object, and then move to show the whole object, such as the front of a car or the light of a motorcycle. These odd shots add to the overall effect of this funny film.Overall, Harold and Maude is an entertaining and unconventional movie, which teens and adults alike can enjoy. While the idea of Harold and Maude's love still creeps me out, it's not enough to say the movie is bad, though it still seems unrealistic at times. The trick with Harold and Maude is to see past the unexplainable fake suicides, stunts, and nontraditional love, and take in what the movie is trying to tell you to live life to its fullest. No matter your take on the movie, its theme of living and being yourself is something that everyone can appreciate. "},{"Title":"The precursor to the touching indie comedy","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to believe a film such as Harold and Maude was made in the 1970s. Movies like this one, the off-kilter teen coming-of-age story, haven't really become common place until today. Hal Ashby and Colin Higgins' film was undoubtedly ahead of its time. It's not rooted in pop culture, popular folk-style music is a central element and its sense of humor is a one- of-a-kind blend of dark and free-spirited. Teenagers of today would have an appreciation of it that teenagers in 1971 probably didn't have. It was still probably uncomfortable for a lot of people to embrace the relationship of an older teenager and a crazy old woman, but it's a thing of beauty in this movie.Bud Cort stars as Harold, a morbid teenager obsessed with faking his own suicide, likely because he's been raised in a mansion by his self-centered mother his entirely life. Although a bit repetitive, Ashby creates some of the most memorable scenes on film, like when Harold's mother fills out a matchmaking survey for her son and answers every question for him based on what she thinks while the entire time, Harold is brandishing a pistol and pointing it at her and himself. At one point she can't take it anymore, so Harold sees a shrink, who is of no help.One of Harold's favorite activities is attending funerals, and on one occasion he meets Maude, an old woman with no sense of logic who is just shy of her 80th birthday. Played by Oscar- winner Ruth Gordon, she is a delightful character. Gordon paints her as cuckoo but completely lovable, even if she's a nutjob. She and Harold spend a lot of time together and she enlightens him with her strange but wonderful world view. Their relationship is about teaching the death-obsessed Harold about what it means to live.Maude is a special soul. Her attitude is inspiring. She might be crazy in her ways, but she's as wise as any person experienced in years. There are countless of surprisingly powerful moments from this film, but one great example is of Maude telling Harold how in a field of daisies, each is different though they may look the same. She pities those who see themselves as the latter and not the former. Ashby pulls away to a pan of a huge cemetery where the two can't be seen among the thousands of identical graves. That's a vital theme, really relevant stuff in a coming-of-age story. The fact that there's anything profound in this story is impressive.Harold and Maude is also funny in a mature way. Nothing is recycled physical humor and as many ways as we see Harold pretend to kill himself, the way it juxtaposes with other elements of the story such as his ignorant mother is true comedy. Higgins and Ashby are all about defying expectation and its really smoothly worked in throughout the movie.I won't spoil the film, but there's one scene that makes Harold and Maude a masterful film and not just an ordinary quirky comedy. Normally when you drop a knowledge bomb on your audience, you expect it to sharply impact the rest of the film. It's just merely included here, added to what you know about the complex characters and the fact that it doesn't get so much attention makes it so powerful. Few comedies ever achieve great touching moments like these and that's part of what makes Harold and Maude timeless.~Steven CVisit my site http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"This absurdist black-comedy examines the meaning of suicide and death through exploration of sensualism and love.","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is but one truly serious philosophical problem and that is suicide. Albert CamusThis absurdist black-comedy examines the meaning of suicide and death through exploration of sensualism and love.Harold is young (20), obsessed with death, and has never really lived despite being extremely wealthy. Maude senses life to its fullest while having few means, ignores social norms, and is obsessed with death because of her age (79). Within the context of the absurdity of the American dream and its institutions, Harold and Maude find each other and cultivate a genuine relationship complete with the complexities and co-dependencies one might expect of any good love story. The simplicity and faithfulness of their interaction is accentuated by the visually tacit character of Cat Stevens' music.It appears that this film has been influential, both in its use of music and its style. Most notably, its legacy may be found in the work of Wes Anderson (The Royal Tenenbaums, The Darjeeling Limited). "}{"Title":"An unconventional lesson in joyful life","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The manner in which she utters her words of wisdom is practically as important as the meaning themselves. I could cite the many phrases that serve as life lessons, but please be extra nice to yourself and check out the movie for the direct experience. It's funny, it's true, and it's moving. All at once. So many great acts, so little time.I'm going to indulge one more favorite with you Again, she's constantly driving at an impractical pace&#x97;this time with Harold&#x97;and in the downtown area of a small community, suddenly she heaves the wheel to the right, runs over the curb, drawing attention of the local constabulary. On the sidewalk are laid out a series of large pots containing plants of varying health. She notices one particularly distressed plant, which she simply must save. So with Harold's help she determines to rescue the plant and transplant it to the forest. The imagination of the writer, the skill of the director, and the passion of the actor make perhaps two dozen of such scenes into little movies of their own. Inspiring, tender, and gay... in the historic and proper meaning of the term....For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2010 "},{"Title":"Would STILL create a stir","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seeing those T-Mobile iphone commercials and hearing that Cat Stevens composition for this movie brought back memories of this film. I was only vaguely aware of this film until I was of adult age(I am about the same age as this film and yet it was something of a buried treasure,rarely talked about and mostly popularized by word-of-mouth over the many years after it wwas released),but the concept(and the trailers I spied on another classic film's copy)intrigued me enough to watch this a few years back. What I saw charmed me and affected me in ways that were both disturbing and wonderful.The story's pretty well accounted forthe romance between spoiled,death-obsessed malcontent teen Harold(Bud Cort)and breezy,life-affiriming octogeneraian Maude(stage legend Ruth Gordon, relatively fresh from her praised work on Rosemary's Baby)is something so refreshing and odd,so nervy and strange that we're near forty years since this show's bow and one could DARE studios to try and make a film like it and get no takers! Director Hal Ashby may've not made much in the way of money or immediate headway to this film,but I feel like this actually added to his accumen or legend as a brilliant,daring filmmaker. A fairly spare supporting cast,with fairly quick turns by Ellen Geer(as a near-suicidal drama queen and potential girlfriend of Harold's)and Tom Skerritt(in a quick scene--really a cameo--as a motorcycle cop)are really the only off-hand memorables in a film that is mostly centerred around the two titular characters,the Cat Stevens compositions and the spare,stark yet muted scenery. A rare gem of a movie that may vex and confound some--maybe many--but a touching and odd story that truly earns the praise it gets. "},{"Title":"greatness from the 70's","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great artistic romantic comedy. this film is about a young man struggling to find his place in the world. his idea of entertainment comes from going to strange people's funerals. but at home he spends his time faking suicide attempts over and over again. the reaction of his mother is hilarious to say the least. one day he comes across and old lady who also likes to attend various funerals. they find out that they have much in common, and that they are both completely crazy. soon the relationship evolves romantically, but you never see very intimate scenes. the director(Hal Ashby) wanted to shoot a love scene, but Paramount executives refused this idea. i always want to see the directors vision regarding any movie, and i hate studio bosses interfering with his or hers vision. but i got to say in this case i kind of agree with the execs. i really don't need to see an 80 year old woman sleeping with someone in their pre or early 20's. if it is important the story, sure. in this case it strictly was not necessary for the plot development or the character development for that matter. all in all this is a wonderful film celebrating life and the freedom to go crazy. "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude Review","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not many films, if any, are able to effectively portray a relationship between a teenager and an 80 year old woman in a believable and endearing way; Harold and Maude is one such exception. In this fascinating and most unusual screenplay from the writer of the feminist fun-house Nine to Five, Colin Higgins tells the story of young Harold (Bud Cort), a depressed existentialist who's only passion seems to be staging his own death and attending funerals. Ironically, Harold comes across his polar opposite, the kind and generous Maude (Ruth Gordon), a woman whom values life to a great degree. The two form a strong platonic friendship at these funerals eventually leading to intercourse and a proposed marriage of the unlikely pair.Hal Ashby does a fine job of making such an unlikely and morbid character, Harold, someone whom is in turn, actually quite likable. This is done through the displays of the cruel and sometimes detestable world around Harold justifying how he has become so detached from society, especially through his abusive and wealthy family. Bud Cort captures this character in an emotionally gripping way by somehow appearing to be the most content miserable person on the face of the earth. Harold and Maude rarely seems to fall flat other than when its bizarre surrealism begins to leave the realms of dry humor and approach more of an obvious and slapstick approach seen in many of the farcical suicide attempts. Cat Steven's soundtrack is a gripping and essential compliment to the film as one would recognize Simon and Garfunkel alongside The Graduate. This is definitely an experience-film, to say that you will leave your viewing of Harold and Maude with a unique presence that can only be given by a film such as this; it has a very distinct style and makes sure to exploit this throughout its every turn. "},{"Title":"Well this is my all time favourite","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess everyone has an all time favourite movie and this has always been mine. I do not know how many times I have watched the film but each time I find it wonderfully uplifting. There are moments that bring a tear to my eye every time. Like when Maude throws away the gift HAROLD Why did you do that Maude? RUTH Now I will always know where it is. Maudes advice to Harold about the flower and individuality. The film was of course very much a product of its time and I am not sure if the more cynical modern audience will get it or like it. Bud Cort is a perfect Harold and as for the great Ruth Gordon she was never more sublime. It is probably the second best love story I ever saw. First place for me is Brokeback Mountain but Harold and Maude is a great love story. The scene with the cop is hilarious and Harolds mum, Viv Pickles is a stand out. "},{"Title":"Sad in the most beautiful way it could be","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that this film is very touching in that it is the most true love story ever created. I say this because most love stories that are told are sloppy and there is nothing more than physical lust attached to it but this is so much more, its about love no matter what, Harold is risking his reputation and his family name and forsaking all boundaries just to be with Maude because of his love for her. They are each others release in some ways Maude needs Harold because she needs to know what it is to be young again and Harold needs Maude for him to see how beautiful everything can be if you just live. Harolds unhealthy obsession with death is never 'cured' as such but it is modified, changed, if you will, because of the effect Maude has on him. They make a beautiful pair.My favourite quote in the movie isMAUDE I think much of the worlds sadness comes from people who are this (she holds up the small ordinary flower in her hand)MAUDE But allow themselves to be treated as that (she indicates all of the other flowers of the same species around them)I give this a rare ten because it is beauty in a movie so intense and concentrated that the only thing you can do is laugh while crying. "},{"Title":"Eccentric comedy still has fresh appeal...","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For sheer audacity, you have to congratulate the makers of HAROLD AND MAUDE for taking such a chance on this black comedy material and making it work, largely due to the title roles played so perfectly by RUTH GORDON and BUD CORT.The highly improbable story is entertaining enough to let anyone dismiss the flaws of logic--a suspension of disbelief that must be had in order to enjoy the wacky tale of how two people from opposite viewpoints (not to mention different ends of the generation gap), meet and fall in love.Funniest sequences are Cort's various attempts at suicide in front of his pragmatic mother, who then decides she must match him with a suitable girl so he can get married. She fills out a questionnaire for him, reciting all the questions posed by the survey and then answering them as she herself believes, rather than waiting for Harold's answer. VIVIAN PICKLE does a rib-tickling job as the mother.RUTH GORDON and BUD CORT play their roles straight, he with an expression of angelic innocence and a rather blank stare, and she with her customary skill at portraying zaniness with an air of eccentricity that is engaging.It all moves very swiftly and tells its tale in an hour-and-a-half, well within the limits of its slight story. The Cat Stevens songs on the soundtrack add a piquancy to the tale, but the ending is just a tad bit disappointing. On a cheery note, we note that Harold has now taken up a musical instrument and intends to live a little as he walks jauntily away from the camera on a hilltop.Summing up You won't know whether to laugh or cry in some places, but it's a rather sweet little story beautifully executed. "},{"Title":"Oh my, how the world still dearly loves a change.","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With one of the most surreal opening sequences ever, Harold and Maude goes on to create a unique black comedy, uncharacteristically teaming up teenager Harold Chasen (Bud Cort) with an older woman. Not the kind of older woman found in The Graduate, but a nearly eighty year old free wheeling free spirit named Maude, convincingly portrayed by Ruth Gordon. Together they form a symbiotic relationship that proves both charming and unnerving, as Harold searches for the meaning of life, and Maude does nothing more than show him how to live it.Once you get past Harold's first two suicides, the rhythm of the movie switches gears slightly, focusing now and then on Mrs. Chasen's (Vivian Pickles) attempt to hook up her son with prospective wives utilizing a computer dating service that screens out the fat and ugly. With composure equal to the task, Harold convincingly asserts his preference to remaining single with almost comic results if his tactics weren't so gruesome. You have to pay attention to Mom's answers for the dating questionnaire, it's about the funniest deadpan you'll ever hear.All the while the picture utilizes an effective Cat Stevens soundtrack, the songs appropriately selected for the scenes they play against. They would have worked better for me had Stevens never endorsed the Ayatollah Khomein's call for the death of novelist Salman Rushdie, but that's another story. Stevens' music strikes just the right melancholy, interspersed among assorted funerals, manic car cruises and a display of inspired lunacy between the title characters to thwart a military induction for Harold.In the end, Harold and Maude is a life affirming film that takes a road less traveled to convey it's lessons. Not entirely believable of course, but then the film would have lost some of it's quirky power and resonance. Also not for every taste, but for anyone eager to 'greet the dawn with a breath of fire', the film has enough going for it to recommend at least a single viewing. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended unconventional classic!","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a lovely film this is. I have seen it a few times since the early eighties and it's a different experience as one gets older, you change perspective, but it's always so fine! Very typical of it's time (clothes and soundtrack) and yet a classic. Life, death, growing up in a surrounding who does not take interest in you, relevant to how many youngsters!?! Then the fact that it makes you laugh as well as (almost) cry, what else can you expect! Maybe Ruth Gordon's girlie behaviour is a bit too much, she might be quite irritating in real life, good then this is a movie. Gordon's character becomes a good inspiration for everyone who wants to keep his/her naivity through life and live an unconventional life. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Psst.","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold is a young man who likes to go to funerals, scrap metal yards and he just loves to make his cheerful and proper mother's life a living hell. His complexion is pale and he always seems to be wearing black.Maude is almost eighty but doesn't look it. She has a zest for life, plants, flowers and stealing. She loves yellow umbrellas, posing for art and also going to funerals.Harold meets Maude at a funeral and the bizarre love story begins and although Harold's mother sets him up on dates so that he can get married, it is Maude that he truly loves. Throughout the entire movie, Maude seems to change Harold's point of view on life and death. That is the best part of the movie, where Harold changes from the expressionless, pale young stone statue to the happy and somewhat playful child in the grass. In a way, he reclaims his childhood and learns how to love.This is my favorite movie, it is my species. I will always know where it is, in my heart. "}{"Title":"Oddly entertaining","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't see this until a couple of years after it's initial theatrical release as it was becoming a college cult classic. I knew a lot of people who raved about this film and I do like original quirky films but when I saw it I couldn't embrace it as others did. It's an interesting story of an 80 year old widow who gets her kicks out of looking at the obituaries and selecting funerals to attend as if she were looking for movies to see in the entertainment section of the newspaper. At one of the funerals she meets a 20 year old man who is a loser and they began a unlikely alliance. Ruth Gordon is charming and funny in her role of the elder woman. A revered stage actress she made few films and fewer still where she had a lead role. Bud Cort as a promising young actor had a few films in the 70's beginning with a small role in Robert Altman's M*A*S*H and with Altman again in the starring role in Brewster Mccloud. His career quirky tapered off to supporting cast film roles in mostly forgettable movies and some supporting television roles. Gordon is funny in this film but he is not and his character becomes irritating after a while. This was only the second film from promising director director Hal Ashby. He would fire off a series of good films after Harold And Maude including The Last Detail, Shampoo, Coming Home, Bound for Glory and Being There. Ashby then went through the 1980's making only four forgettable feature films and one documentary and destroyed his health through drug abuse and never re lit the spark he had in the 70's before his untimely death. Screenwriter Collin Higgins turned in a good story here as his career was just beginning. He would go on to write some a handful of good comedies including Silver Streak, Nine to five, Foul Play and The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas before his untimely death. I've seen this a couple times since when I first saw it in about 1974 mainly for the Cat Stevens soundtrack and Ruth Gordon's performance. I would give this a 7.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Cult Classic","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is truly one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. So funny, in fact, that you can miss a really deep message hidden amongst the laughter...Harold Chasen (Bud Cort) is a young man of privilege, who is, nonetheless, very unhappy. He fakes suicides in order to get his domineering mother's (Vivian Pickles) attention. Unfortunately for Harold, he's done this so often that for the most part, his mother just ignores him. For fun, Harold goes to funerals. It is on one of these outings that he meets Maude (Ruth Gordon), a lively woman who will turn eighty in a few weeks. Surprisingly, they hit it off, and Harold begins spending a great deal of time with Maude, who starts teaching him some of life's most important lessons. Harold learns, but the last lesson Maude has to teach him may be more than he can live with.This is an absolutely brilliant script - funny, poignant, intelligent. And the points it makes about life are indeed very important. But mostly, it's just a delightful romp that sweeps you along in its current, laughing all the way.The acting is wonderful. Vivian Pickles' performance as Harold's mother is perfect, playing Mrs. Chasen as a woman who attempts to control her son, only to be controlled by him. Shari Summers, Judy Engles, and Ellen Geer, all have excellent cameos as Harold's hapless dates. Bud Cort does a phenomenal job in giving a deadpan rendering of Harold. But arguably the movie is Ruth Gordon's as she carries the film with delightful results.While the movie makes some interesting statements about life, the living of it, and the ending of it, mostly it's just a lot of fun, which is the best recommendation I can give for watching it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful coming-of-age film that everyone needs to see","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is one of those obscure movies that not many people see, but almost every one who does loves it. I saw the DVD cover with the bubble letters and goofy font on the title, and I thought that this would be some worthless screwball cheese fest. Boy, was I wrong. Rith Gordon and Bud Cort give A+ performances, and the secondary characters are a hoot. The end of the film is very bittersweet, and it sends across a powerful message on life and how it's worth living for every waking and beautiful moment. Cat Stevens provides an incredible soundtrack. See this film, folks. It's one of the best and most touching, funny, and lovable films you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"One of the hundred films I'd want on a desert island","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watch this film about three or four times a year. It's one of those late 60's early 70's films that just to seem to have fun with irreverent subjects - only one car crash! To see Bud Cort again in Dogma was crazy! My God, have we all aged that much?? The music by the former Cat Stevens adds a sweetness to the film that is sadly lacking in many films today. I was one of those kids - like Harold - who felt left out because of what I thought were weird thoughts. This film helps us not to take ourselves to seriously. The only scene I felt was not really needed was the obligatory bedroom scene - not that I was offended in any way - it just seemed unnecessary. "},{"Title":"A Deserving Classic","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film defies description, other than to say, like Truly Madly Deeply ( which you must see), it is a celebration of love, life and death. All three are funny and poignant and this film points up the beauty of all three.Ruth Gordon was an extraordinary person, not to mention actress, and this film is a film about her, as much as it is by her. It is also the finest performance ( and certainly the best known) performance by Bud Cort.I have watched this film with people who have not gotten it. It has some of the same off beat angles as American Beauty. The film is timeless, and although made during the Viet Nam war, carries a lot of message and impact. "},{"Title":"Funny, moving, and even still a little shocking","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie in many years, and I didn't remember being terribly impressed by it the first time. I think I might have been too young. Harold and Maude now turns out to be a delightful surprise, often very funny, genuinely moving in its climax, and even still a little shocking (quite a feat in this jaded age). Yes, its basic message it on the simplistic side, and the twist at the end hinges on one of the title duo (I won't say who) behaving in a very out-of-character way, seemingly just so we get a conclusion in which everybody learns something. But along the way are many moments of wit and great charm, with the performances of Ruth Gordon and Bud Court bubbling over to get us to believe this improbable storyline. The supporting performances are rich too, especially those of Vivian Pickles as Harold's pretentious mother (her French is hysterical) and the always priestly Eric Christmas, whose speech near the end might be the movie's single funniest moment. Hal Ashby's direction is simple and graceful, with some beautifully composed and memorable shots, especially those in which he highlights the conformity of the cemeteries that Maude and Harold frequent. In the end, several of the film's individual moments stay with us, and it's hard to look back on Ruth Gordon singing and dancing to the player piano without smiling about it.It's also hard to believe that mainstream studios ever produced films like these at all &#150; we're not likely to see another Harold and Maude from them anytime soon. Highly recommended. 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Made at the peak of the cultural/sexual revolution, an iconoclastic comedy masterpiece!","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every moment of this movie is genius.  I first saw it in my US history class in high school and, along with the rest of the class, I alternated between shock and laughter, just as the filmmakers (and our history teacher) had planned.  Of course the late-60s/early-70s were all about questioning traditional values, freeing the mind of old, artificial boundaries, and exploring new ways of living, and Harold and Maude both embodies that ethos (being a movie that breaks out of the filmmaking box, both stylistically and subject-matter-wise, from start to finish) and satirizes it by taking such currents as the sexual revolution and draft dodging to stunning extremes (and setting them against oppositely extreme, caricatured figures representing establishment culture, to great comic and ironic effect).  At the same time, the movie manages to be both a touching coming-of-age story and a tender love story as well.It's difficult to imagine Harold and Maude being made today, but that makes it all the more important for anyone who wants to understand the crucible that American culture went through in the 60s/70s or anyone who just wants to experience the pure joy of watching one of the greatest, most truly creative feature-length movies from an era when movies were at their fearless and inventive best. "},{"Title":"Do you enjoy knives?","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If the answer is yes, then you may also enjoy Harold and Maude. This 1971 film is a great black comedy, a deadpan look at youthful disillusion and an interesting answer to The Graduate all rolled up in one. Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon give wonderfully off-kilter performances that perfectly complement one another. In spite of the vast emotional, cultural and generational differences between their characters, their romance is completely convincing, if a little unusual.The film does beg a few comparisons to The Graduate a 20-year-old, disillusioned with his parent(s), ends up in an intergenerational affair, and drives some fast cars in the process. Of course, Benjamin Braddock's affair with Mrs. Robinson was emotionally empty and ultimately very destructive, while Harold and Maude have something much more sincere. There are a couple of specific references, one involving a lengthy double take followed by the interjection WHAT?.One more thing In the first blind date scene, look very carefully out the window. Something very illogical and therefore absolutely hysterical happens. "},{"Title":"The Odd couple","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film proves when two outcasts fall in love can make a difference, not to the world(they still are invisible to everybody)but to each other.Maude found solace in Harold but she did not changed her plan,Harold felt less alone when he met her,  He thought he was a victim of a over protecting mother but To me Harold was a boy who refused to be an adult and Maude was an elderly woman who refused to live without true love.Both rare people both lovely.Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon were one of the most fascinatingmovie couples   they were born to play their roles!. Cat Stevens songs works perfectly for this movie.Harold and Maude GIVE US A WONDERFUL VIEW of life,we can choose how to live or to love no matter what, if I choose not to be... would you question me?.                8/10 "},{"Title":"Must have been shocking in 1971, but still potent in 2002","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was my favorite movie when I was a teenager.It's the perfect movie for that age, on so many levels - rebellious teenager who is obsessed with death falls in love with the wrong type. Of course, she turns out to be exactly what he needed, so there we have a lovely romance and learn some valuable lessons.The ending is particularly rewarding, and well dealt with. Cat Stevens' music is the perfect companion to Harold's depressed, but ultimately optimistic state of mind. "}{"Title":"Best Film","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you don't fit in and you find something you discover is worth loving...go for it...and love it for all you can.  Maybe something good will come from it.  It did to Harold.  I find this film uplifting and rewarding everytime I see it.  It is a classic in a world where classic is over used for everything from Coke to 70's music.  Accept no substitutes  this one is a real classic.  This film had it's biggest success in Minneapolis, where it ran in the mid 70's for 3 years at the old Westgate Theatre in Edina.  The theatre then closed it's doors, realizing maybe that this could never be topped.  At it's 1000th showing Ruth Gordon (Maude) visited in person. It's dark, but it's got a bright side of hope too! No thumbs...I am tired of thumbs...but this is one masterpiece of film work and feeling. "},{"Title":"Give back the head, woman!  We'll have no trouble!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the greatest films ever made!  Charles Tyner's performance as Uncle Victor is the epitome of how absurd right-wing conservatives truly are.  Vivian Pickles should've been nominated for an Oscar for her priceless portrayal of Harold's mother.   Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort are perfect as Harold and Maude.  You can't help but feel a little sorry for Tom Skerritt's police officer.  He just can't win!  Possession of a stolen shovel, indeed!  Anyone who can't appreciate this film has a boiled turnip for a brain. "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic, A Must See!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can I say that the other reviewers haven't. THIS IS A WONDERFUL FILM!!! A lesson for all of us about growing, living, and loving. It is all very innocently and sweetly delivered. Ruth Gordon is brilliant as Maude and Bud Cort as Harold is right behind her. The music in this film is just as great as the storyline and the peformances. The Cat Stevens soundtrack is the best thing he has ever done and unfortunately you can not find it in any store(bummer!). Bottom line You MUST see this movie. This is one of the best ever made!! "},{"Title":"My favorite film. ***Spoilers!***","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold & Maude is my favorite all time film. The story revolves around a bored, lonely, and disenfrachised young man who is obsessed with death-so much so that he stages mock suicides for his mother's (with whom he lives alone) amusement and attends funerals for people he has never met. Harold has many eccentricities, but deep down, he just wants to be loved. At one of the funerals he meets Maude, a free-spirited optimist who doesn't see the crime in stealing cars (or trees) because they are materialist and sentimental objects ..here today, gone tomorrow, so don't stay attached to things.... They fall in love and not long after, Harold decides he wants to marry Maude. The only problem is, he's 20-ish years old, and she's turning 80 next week. Both Harold and Maude are two of the best characters the screen has ever seen; Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon both do great jobs in bringing them to life, and the black comedy that this film is rife with is absolutely brilliant. Hal Ashby's directorial skills are on full display, and the cinematography is flat out great (the picnic in the graveyard, need I say more?). A truly amazing, great, earnest movie with scenes that will make you both double over in laughter and wipe away the tears. 10 out of 10, this movie has no flaws. Put this at the top of your must-see list if you haven't seen it, and at the top of your see-it-again list if you have. I recommend watching it at least once every few months. -Kenneth "},{"Title":"In a class by itself...not perfect, but still wonderful","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Along with Dr Strangelove, Groundhog Day, Koyaanisqatsi, The King of Hearts, this movie is sui generis--in a class by itself.Which is not to say that it's perfect (whatever that means)--it's not. Harold and Maude in bed together is especially silly. And Maude's outwitting the cops, though good for some laughs, ultimately detracts from the storyline, by suggesting that she really is out of it. (Did she really want to spend her last week of life in jail?)But it's rather wonderful nevertheless, and Maude has much wisdom to impart--about life, and beauty, and individuality. A one-of-a-kind movie that should be watched at least once by everyone. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is one of those rare movies that never grows old with me. I've seen it a number of times and appreciate something different about it each time. Cat Stevens' Footsteps in the Dark CD contains most of the songs from this wonderful film. Harold and Maude is an uplifting, inspiring film about living life to the fullest whether you are really at the beginning of your journey or near the end. I can't think of a more beautiful message. "},{"Title":"Charming, subtle comedy in a very original film.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would rank this movie my favorite black comedy of all time, and one of my favorite love stories. Please realize that the black comedy of Harold and Maude is not meant to be slapstick or laughing-out-loud hilarious, but the humor is there. The late 60s/early 70s style doesn't date the movie, so much as place it in a certain context (perhaps it's a comment on the infamous generation gap of the 60s?) and add a certain style and flair. I agree that Cat Steven's soundtrack doesn't blend seamlessly into the film, but after several viewings, it's come to seem really appropriate to me.This movie is eccentric and charming, like the characters involved. There are some great touches -- Harold investigating Maude's sculpture, Maude's smell-o-rama machine, and of course the opening scene... "},{"Title":"I've seen this film more times than any other.","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film about life, shown through the eyes of two people focused on death.  Harold, who faked death because he didn't know how to live, and Maude who knew better than most how to live life fully, yet made her plans to die.  And, it is a tragic love story, doomed to fail from the start. And, it is a protest to war.  From it I learned how to focus on what's important, and not sweat the small stuff.  A very motivational film. "},{"Title":"Still funny and moving after all these years","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had heard nothing but good things about Harold and Maude when I sat down to watch it. And I have to say after seeing it for myself, it is a wonderful film. It looks lovely with striking scenery and photography, and Cat Stevens' soundtrack is highly memorable and adds to the emotion of every scene better than any movie I've viewed recently. The story is charming and heart-warming, Hal Ashby directs wonderfully, the pace is just right and Harold and Maude themselves are characters that still are in my head and also found myself empathising and identifying with them. The script also deserves a lot of credit, the black humour is very funny but it is also very poignant, I don't think I have ever seen a movie that depicts a love that can blossom at any age so movingly and charmingly. Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort are both superb, and Vivian Pickles also makes an impression. Overall, funny and moving. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Very good indeed","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, what is there to say about this classic. Great cast, great script, great direction and great music. Is there a point this film falls short, I'm not sure, and if you thought there was one I probably wouldn't believe you.Watch it and if you don't like it watch it again and if you still don't like it watch it again, at some point you might get something from it and be better for it. Excellent.I would wish to be as concise as I could writing for this, but web criteria says I have to put a bit more in. There is a certain subtlety in this film that comes at you from new perspectives. There are a good deal of scenes that are both artistic and poetic that lead me to the conclusion that this is a one off, enjoy. "}{"Title":"This is a story of the power of love and acceptance and how these two qualities of life can change people.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is my favorite movie. I love it because it shows the power of love and acceptance and how it can change a person's life. Harold and Maude are such refreshing characters that their eccentricities make them even more endearing. Maude is my hero and I do want to be like her when I'm eighty years old. In fact, today, at age 53, I've recently become a member of the Red Hat Society - a club for fun-loving women 50 +. We have aliases and mine is Maude the 2nd - a tribute to my hero. As a matter of fact, I believe that Maude should be considered the original Red Hatter. I have gotten my Red Hat friends to watch the movie. Now they can see why I've chosen Maude the 2nd as my name. I try to encourage my friends and relatives to watch the movie at least once. I find myself going back to it over and over again when I start to take life a bit too seriously. "},{"Title":"A must-see movie classic","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As the DVD box blurb says, Harold and Maude is a classic cult film. But it should be more than just a cult film. Everyone should see this film. It is just the best ever. Despite the themes of suicide and funerals, this movie is extremely funny, uplifting, inspiring and beautiful. It teaches us to see the beauty in everything and live each day to the full, and is the ultimate feel-good movie. If you are feeling down, watch this film and be reminded again of all the wonder in your life and in the world. A marvelous anti-depressant(just make sure you watch it right through to the end though, or it may have the opposite affect!). "},{"Title":"A Perfect Movie","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt, Harold & Maude is an absolutely perfect movie. From the acting to the editing, direction, music, and mis en scene, nothing is out of place or superfluous. I've seen this movie at least fifty times, and the experience is as captivating the forty-ninth time as it is the first. Every viewing offers a new observation because a subtle detail, unnoticed before, will provoke a new appreciation and a deeper understanding of Harold & Maude. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful and life-affirming film, that appeals to social outcasts as myself.  I first saw this about 12 years ago, when I was suffering from tortured young man syndrome.  I completely identified with the morbid and hilarious Harold.  The film taught me that there really is a different way to see things, even in the pit of despair.  Life is what you make of it. The Cat Stevens soundtrack is terrific as well.  It's too bad that he left the world of music to dedicate his life to Islam.  A truly gifted songwriter.  This movie made me a tremendous fan of Bud Cort. "},{"Title":"Cat's a hit but the movie's a dog","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was full of expectation for this movie - I have known about it for years and the description sounds right up my street.Perhaps the movie (unlike Maude) is not ageing well, but I found the film tame, uninteresting and not funny.  This movie is often described as seminal, a precursor to black comedy greats such as Thelma and Louise, Groundhog Day and The Royal Tenenbaums.  Maybe.  Yet elements of this movie seem derivative or at least of its period - consider Easy Rider, The Graduate, Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Sex, etc.  All much more interesting.It is the lack of character development that particularly grates with me.  What motivates Maude?  Is she an eco-warrior, a psychologically scarred holocaust survivor or just The Little Old Lady From Pasadena having a last laugh before she dies?  Of course there is some fun with Harold's fake suicide theatricals - the live funeral pyre routine being the best of those.Cat Stevens was at the height of his powers when this film was made and his superb sound track kept me motivated sufficiently to see the movie through.  Cat's a hit but the movie's a dog. "},{"Title":"Over-rated?  I think not.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fell in love with this movie and it's music within 5 minutes of it's start.  The characters and their development was rather endearing, I found myself accepting of a romantic relationship that would normally make me ill, and as it ended, I was in tears.  I was highly moved by the story and intrigued by it's depth.  It is apparent that Maude enbodies many Buddhist philosophies and Harold represents the search for meaning in our lives we all face in different ways.  To truly appreciate this movie, you must view it several times to catch all the depth and subtle messages it holds.  Kat Stevens' songs also are filled with deep meaning and intertwine Maude's outlook and approach in life.  The movie and lyrics succeed not only to amuse and touch our hearts, but also to help us think in a different way and approach life with arms open.  I highly recommend that you see this if you haven't.  It is known as a cult classic, but should be remembered as so much more.  If anything,  this movie is not given the credit it deserves to be remembered as one of the best written, casted, and acted motion pictures of our time.  Out of 5 stars, I'd give it 5. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, funny and original!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the three words that describes this film best.Harold and Maude is a fantastic film about two persons; Maude the old women and Harold the young boy. Harold is interested in death and he feels an attraction to funerals. Maude have the same interests and she likes to LIVE (on the edge) the last years of her life. After meeting each other in the church, they start a special relationship.I have never seen anything like this film. Its original, unique and interesting. It features one of the most unusual pairs in the movie history, and proves love has no boundaries. The director Hal Ashby and writer Colin Higgins have made a film that is original directed and scripted, and it is unusual and funny. It is now wonder why it's one of the original cult classics.Cat Stevens musical score provides the film a nice atmosphere.Along with Being There, Coming Home and The Last Detail, this is Hal Ashby's best picture. I'll give it 5 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"A Counter-Culture Manifesto","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is neither the cinema's greatest movie, nor is it the worst. Instead, it is a highly original, quirky black comedy that combines inventive characters with a devastating attack on the pillars of America's Establishment.It's no accident that Harold comes from a conformist upper-class family, over which mom presides lavishly, but like a petty demeaning tyrant. Nor is it happenstance that Maude's origins lie outside a youthful US, in an older, more experienced Europe devastated by the death-dealing Holocaust of which she is a survivor. Hers is understood as a life-affirming perspective that has been earned, and stands as the perfect antidote to the zombified Harold, whose soul has shriveled in the midst of repressive norms and repressed instincts. Probably no movie from that rebellious era captures the counter-culture's positive image of itself better than this one. Nor are the forces in conflict more sharply and humorously drawn than the encounters with organized religion, psychiatry, the military, and other of America's domineering institutions. Even at age 80, Maude represents the pure flower child riposte, showing that age is no barrier to affirmative values, while Harold overcomes alienation by at last responding to enlivening people rather than deadening duties. In capsule, we have both the class origin and universal ambitions of that insurgent period, when suburban white kids sought to lead a global parade that would break the shackles that bind us. H&M celebrates that spirit, and while I grow a bit weary of Ruth Gordon's unrelenting girlishness and Harold's hollow-eyed deadpan, they do remain unique and compelling figures. As does the movie, even 40 years later "},{"Title":"Hits its black comedy targets with accuracy - but leaves you asking moral questions.","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A suicide obsessed young rich kid meets up with an eighty year old free sprite at a funeral - for someone neither knows - and starts an unlikely love affair.A bittersweet movie unlike any other that has been made before or since. The world cult could have been invented for this film. Indeed it is featured in many books on cult movies - including Danny Peary's wonderful work Cult Movies - now in its third edition. (The first two are must-reads for cult movie fans. The third I haven't even flicked through.)On one hand it has a limited agenda while on the other it leaves a lasting impression and takes you places that you have never been before. This is as unique a mainstream-targeted studio movie as I have ever seen outside of Psycho. (In the same way that Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven was the first an anti-western western this is the first anti-romance romance!)Cort is just so good as the blank-eyed young man who, it seems, is a manic practical joker - but a manic joker that never laughs at his own jokes or even seen enjoying them. His mother - who seems to be the main target - generally ignores him as if he was a spoilt brat showing off. Which maybe he is. Maybe the lack of a father figure is my significant clue? (A joke needs an audience or it is pointless. Who is the audience for his jokes - it can't be us because we are not supposed to be there!)I question Cort's sexuality. What is it? An asexual maybe?Certainly he shows no interest in women, indeed he seems hell bent on making them squeal with his bloody stunts. Who could love this self-obsessed pasty-faced personality disorder in real life? He is doing the girls - who his mother sets him up with via a computer dating agency - a favour by chasing them away.He sees his ideal mate in the old lady (Ruth Gordon) he meets up with at the funeral - but is she not just a fellow misfit who intrigues him? Maybe more a fellow traveler than a lover. We learn - later in the movie - she has been in a concentration camp? So she can take other people's cars and vehicles because of this? While this is a black comedy looking for laughs wherever it can find them, is this not a sin as well as illegal? Jean-Paul Sartre said all property is theft, but how would react if someone took her possessions? Would we laugh at a scene where we saw a male burglar climbing in through the window and taking her TV because he hadn't one of his own? I doubt it.This has an atmosphere that I cannot really pin-down. The world is just a giant playground in which to play jokes and try and find entertainment. Work is for others. Bad things have happened - The Holocaust being the headline event - but life is only for living. Even when it focuses on the dead and the dying!Despite being a fan, I am not sure the Cat Stevens soundtrack works - generally too upbeat and optimistic. It would be better served with underlining classical strings rather than acoustic guitar-driven bouncy pop.Whether you fit in this parallel universe or want to visit is up to you - but it dragged me in for its ninety minutes. It even made me laugh out loud a few times as well. Black comedy is rare and a good black comedy is even rarer still. If you can forgive the bad messages and some of the fudges it is a very touching product. "},{"Title":"I wanted to buy it but it was too contrived","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've heard about Harold and Maude from lots of friends. My wife's best friend swears by this film. We finally got around to renting it and although I really wanted to like it, I found it wearying. It's contrived. I kept trying to imagine what it was like to be a disaffected 20-something in 1971, thinking that the milieu of the times surely contributed to people's inclination to overlook the film's glaring faults and buy its rather forced situation. It wants to be dead-pan and over-the-top at the same time. It wants to be madcap and deadly serious. But it doesn't want to ever take the risk of holding up the two main characters to any kind of standard for three-dimensional behavior. Let's say we buy that Harold really is as morose and unhappy as his several faked suicide attempts indicate, are we ever shown any other reason other than that he has a reprehensible and insensitive parent? Are we even shown any other ways he has tried or failed to connect with others? Why should we care about this kid? What has he ever done for anyone other than a bunch of cruel pranks? And as for Maude, why the constant hypomania about living and life! -- all the feel good thoughts about trying new things. If that is really true to character for her, why? And if the hints at a dark past are what she's playing off of, then why the decision to end her life rather arbitrarily? We get lots of Cat Stevens in the soundtrack to tell us how to feel when the characters can't. It's pretty paint by numbers in the emotional department. Essentially, it's fairly manipulative -- like any good melodrama -- the only difference being that this has a counter-culture theme running through it. Good for it. It's a shame it's so enamored of it's own ironic wit and cutesiness. The title characters get the likeable traits and the everyone else is there to make their lives seem interesting in comparison. We are given nothing of anyone's back story, nothing of their motivations. We're just supposed to think that they find each other fascinating and beautiful because no one else in the film is bearable.I'm not buying it. Almost from the get-go, I thought Ruth Gordon's kooky old lady routine was too cute to be true. The horrible driving and stealing of cars are supposed to make her funny and lovable but they just made me feel like I was watching cheap filmmaker ploys at character. There's barely a single line of dialogue that's memorable or clever. But, more to the point, it's the lack of internal conflict that makes the whole thing seem rather cheap.In the film's defense, I have to say I now wonder how much of the film felt clichd and unoriginal because it's conceits had been copied so often by others. Perhaps the fascination with eccentrics that still plays out with every movie that has Shirley Maclean in it, and every other Johnny Depp movie owes a debt to this movie for paving the way. I wish I had seen it when I was younger and it was less dated. But, more than anything, I wish it had simply been better written. There's a beautiful sentiment bedded in the film, and I wish to take away from anyone's enjoyment of it.But you have to buy it in order to enjoy it -- and there were too many forced cute moments for me to buy it. "}{"Title":"Cold, pinched, sour","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is strangely cold, pinched, and sour for a movie that is supposed to be a celebration of warmth, generosity and joy.  It's all surface, telling its viewers what to believe rather than trusting them to make up their own minds.Contrast it to a similarly named movie from the same era, Harry and Tonto. Where Harold and Maude marches headlong like the soldiers it mocks, Harry and Tonto wanders along, digressing here and there.  Where Harold and Maude brooks no uncertainty, painting the world in black and white, Harry and Tonto shrugs its shoulders.Harold and Maude is supposed to be about the value of LIFE, but it brays that the vastness of the living world is doltish, empty, and fit only for mockery.  Harry and Tonto suggests that life has its ups and downs, you do what you can, and maybe things won't be half bad.  In Harold and Maude, LIFE is a secret thing that only a few can know; in Harry and Tonto, life is everything, everywhere, and we're all in it together.Harry and Tonto certainly isn't a perfect movie, nor is it the only one which you could contrast to the sneering face of Harold and Maude.  Shop Around the Corner, Our Town, Cool Hand Luke, To Kill a Mockingbird, Local Hero, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Babette's Feast, the list goes on, all movies which focus on humanity in a way which Harold and Maude wants to claim as its own, secret corner of the world. "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible, terrible.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a terrible movie.  With a few exceptions, everyone I knoe hates it with an EXTREME passion.  The only people I know that like it do so because they want to be Maude when they turn 77 or whatever.  What about Harold?  *PLOT SPOILER* He ends up more messed up after the relationship than he did before he ever met Maude.  What is this movie trying to say? This is one of the few cult classics I will probably never understand.  The themes are too scatter brained to make a point, the characters are completely screwed up.  Is Maude a hero or a villain?  I don't think we know.  Maybe that's what we're supposed to discuss, but, quite frankly, I don't care. My rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"We'll put down C - not sure","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What makes Ruth Gordon's Maude so surprisingly enchanting is that we don't expect a seventy nine year old to be so full of life, so vivacious, so contrary to her appearance. Of course it seems trite these days because every indie film has copied the same mantra into sexier, younger characters that go about life-affirming journeys into the vast unknown. It works and feels natural here because she doesn't have that infinite lifetime to look forward to, that youthful aimlessness; she's tethered by her age and instead of letting it define her, she makes the most of her time left. Opposing her is Cort's Harold. They both embrace death but with different attitudes - it is ironic that it is the nineteen year old who feels so suffocated by the idea of dying one day as opposed to the seventy nine year old. They are fascinated by it, but for different reasons. Cort is a great casting; gangly, impossibly tall, like an overgrown teenager who hasn't quite physically matured but wants to seem so. During the therapist sessions the formal dress is a mirror image itself, and he initially has the same lofty, cross-legged pose. His blank, unblinking face seems to be deathly close to collapse at any moment; perhaps it is an extra layer of ghostly white make-up (Roy Andersson recalls a similar technique). His deadpan approach is crucial to the dark humour of his 'deaths' that become a running gag. Some of these unfold with an almost magical realism behind them - a figure outside in white cloth sets fire to itself, and Harold walks into the frame the next second. And the same goes for the way he re-appears on the cliff in the ending. The others are hilarious because of the non-reaction of his mother, whom has long become accustomed to these pranks and does not show the emotion that Harold wishes she shows. Her dismissive chuckles as she fills in his dating profile and waves off his shooting in the head, and the funniest reveal of them all, as she gets into her rhythm for her daily laps in the pool, and completely ignores the floating, lifeless body of Harold as if it were just a fallen leaf. Or perhaps the opposite, the hysterical over- reaction from the last date, a thespian who marvels at Harold's act of seppuku, and falls into her own dramatic rendition of the Romeo & Juliet climax. Viewing it from a modern lens Maude's hippie philosophy seems a little less inspiring, and a little more exasperating, especially as she circles around and then steals the police motorcycle. But isn't that sort of perspective exactly what she is trying to combat? Harold admits a desire to fit into society, and if not, he might as well die because there is little else to treasure in this short, miserable existence. Maude accepts that same fleeting view, but pushes him to find that spark and will to live and not waste anymore of his young life moping around because death might be around the corner anyway (and she shows this by throwing away the necklace). And so, farewelling him at eighty, she teaches him the most important lesson of them all. The constant Cat Williams is a little coy, but it's perfect for that soft banjo solo that symbolises a revitalised outlook on life and a goodbye to that former obsessive morbidity (the hearse). "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude is A Cult Classic that Represents the Woof and Warp of the 70's!","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hal Ashby's Harold and Maude attained cult status for its portrayal of a morbid youth who falls in love with a spirited woman not twice, but four times his age. Harold is a withdrawn rich boy who has a proclivity for staging elaborate - often gory - suicides to torment his very-proper control-freak of a mother, who remains blissfully unaffected by his theatrics. When he is not trying get a rise from his maternally inept mother, he is attending funerals of complete strangers, just for the fun of it. It's at one of these staid ceremonies that he meets the free-spirited octogenarian Maude. It turns out that attending strangers' funerals is about the only thing they have in common, which is why they turn out to be a match made in heaven. Soon they are spending time together, and Maude's full-throttle zest for life opens Harold up to its possibilities. His death obsession remains, but it begins to recede as Maude's life-affirming philosophies, however oddly enacted in her anything-goes lifestyle, cuts through his malaise. She speaks in hippie-friendly aphorisms, but coming from the mouth of such a delicately poised octogenarian, they take on the weight of accumulated wisdom. More than a friend or lover, Maude infects Harold with her carpe diem attitude, freeing him from the inner demons of boredom and self-pity. The pair soon fall into a romantic relationship that shouts in the face of societal mores. It's a disquieting premise for a movie, certainly, but to dwell on the age difference of the characters is to miss the movie's point. Part of the beauty of Harold and Maude is the way you quickly lose sight of the age difference between Harold and Maude and begin to see them simply as people who connect and love each other. They are oddballs in a world that doesn't understand or appreciate them, although the film sidesteps simple us-versus-them banality by portraying the establishment as kooky in its own right. The film spends much of its time in a unique space between reality and farce, towing a fine line that director Hal Ashby maintains with seemingly effortless grace. Its bleak morbidity is uncommonly matched by its over-the-top hilarity (Harold's long series of faux suicide attempts are hysterical), buoyed by Cat Stevens' amazing pop soundtrack, providing just the right wistful, mournful touch for this glimmering jewel of a movie. The casting is impeccable. With his baby face and elfin eyes, Bud Cort looks much younger than his age, which makes some of his antics seem even more childlike. Yet, once he spends time with Maude, he seems to mature in front of us, losing the angry-child glint in his eyes and becoming a reformed innocent. Ruth Gordon's sprightliness lends the perfect counterbalance to Bud, as she plays Maude as a one-of-a-kind without turning her into a kook. She evinces such sweetness and genuine care for what she loves that you can't help but admire her constancy.By turns funny, moving and outrageous - sometimes all at once - the film is Hal Ashby's masterpiece, thanks in no small part to Colin Higgins' nearly perfect screenplay and the incredible performances by everyone. If you've never seen Harold and Maude, that needs correcting. "},{"Title":"Unexpected - a hidden gem of macabre quirkiness","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The most indie-esque film to come out of the '70s that I have seen, Harold and Maude wallows in irreverence. Suicide is played around with as a theme - never trivialised, but used frequently as a source of dark humour. The unlikely relationship between the titular characters is remarkably sweet and loving, if a little rushed, and the jaunty folk soundtrack uplifts the mood despite the heavy themes. The script is superlative, counterbalancing all the incidents of gore; the film almost comes across as a pre-emptive Breakfast Club for the Fight Club generation. Desperation and listlessness weighs Harold down, until Maude lightens his existence by showing him how to live for once. Her bubbly persona is the yang to his yin, and the film's quirky comedy cheers the audience as well as Harold with its subtlety. A true unexpected pleasure, Harold and Maude is surprising and charming throughout, with enough dark substance to mark it out as truly unique. "},{"Title":"A Little Too Weird for my Taste","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My brother told me this was one of his favorite movies, so we watched it together. It was not at all what I expected, not that I had really any expectations to begin with. I'd heard the name mentioned, but never known anything about it, nor cared enough to do any research.As stated in the summary, it was a little to weird for my taste. Sure, it was funny (in a dark way) at points, and the relationship between Harold and Maude was all fine and dandy, but it went a little too far. And it was weird to witness. The ending was unexpected though, which added to it. I felt that the movie was a little rushed, with none of the intended change in Harold being found until the very end of the movie. The movie felt like it wasn't particularly paced well in this sense. Overall, this just isn't my kind of movie. Sure, it was enjoyable enough, but it really just didn't click with me. If you liked it, great. If you loved it, good for you. It's not for everybody, and it certainly wasn't for me. If your looking for something different and have a darker sense of humor, then take a look at Harold and Maude. "},{"Title":"Is Harold Gay?","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Mother loved this movie and so do a lot of older baby boom women I know. However as a baby boomer man when I finally it saw recently I was struck by the fact that to me Harold was obliviously gay and not interested in women except for Maude in a very weird non sexual grandmother way. True they sleep together but I suspect that was just some non erotic hugging and keeping each other warm. Harold is like Sheldon in the Big Bang Theory a man child that doesn't know he is gay or even what that is about just that he is not interested in women in a hetero way.The movie however is fun and quirky, but please keep the romance out of the way this is really about friendship at any age not love/lust way. It is worth seeing as an adventure of 2 people who need and like each other- nothing more "},{"Title":"Sensitive and well done","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Did this film live up to the expectations? Not exactly. It was strongly recommended for me by many friends and I think the less known about it, the better. in this case, the film is well done on a narrative level. Its narrative is actually pretty simple, but the circumstances around it are not. The film knows how to set up its two lead characters well, and boy does it do it well. Both are among the weirdest characters I've seen in quite a long time, and in that way the film will be sort of hard to forget. Was it incredibly intriguing as a film? Not exactly. I felt like the film could've done with more in its story, since it's kind of obvious where it's heading. Eitehr way, good film definitely. "},{"Title":"Finally seen and greatly enjoyed","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I waited years (maybe 35?) to watch this movie and was not disappointed. All I knew about it beforehand was that it involved a May-December relationship where the younger partner pretended to hang himself. I assumed it was a black comedy. The film can, I suppose, be defined that way but is very life affirming in its contrast of the futility of some lives versus the joyous acceptance of an individual's place in the world as lived by others. Despite my familiarity with the era and experience predicting where plot lines would lead the final scenes were not what I expected. And the one, quick, simple, un-glorified shot that explained a lifetime of behavior was nothing less than brilliant.Well worth the wait - and an hour and a half of your time - if you enjoy films that were refreshing in their era and continue to challenge the Hollywood norm. "},{"Title":"Existentialist's Dream","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude let me say was one of the funniest yet sentimental movies I have seen in quite some time. I watched this film in my Philosophy class to discuss the theory of existentialism. The first scene really takes one off guard and has angelic music playing while someone (whose face is withheld till the end of the scene) is lighting candles. Then without warning the scene cuts to Harold dangling by his neck in a noose in the living room; the last thing I suspected. As if that wouldn't take you off guard enough, his mother walks into the room and is completely amused with Harold's childish games and continues to talk with him as he dangling from the rope as if he is just sitting in the chair next to her. It is this kind of witty dark humor that fills every scene of this film. That first scene really sets the tone for the whole movie. I most definitely enjoyed Maude just as well and would love to spend a day with her crazy and carefree logic. The contrast seen between Harold and Maude displays two sides to the way an existentialist's view life; either the life has no meaning, I'm not going to take part or life has no meaning, I'm going to make up my own rules as I go along. Two both very different extremes of this theory. I will also admit that Harold and Maude are probably the cutest together which make them hilarious. Overall, I think this film gave me some of my own inspiration for a view on life, but will definitely have to watch again to absorb everything after relaying the movie to the theory of existentialism. "}{"Title":"Boy meets (somewhat different) girl","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude was the film from almost 45 years ago that brought Bud Cort to attention and a Golden Globe nomination. Sadly, he was out of the limelight as quickly as he entered it although you can still see him act here and there in his 60s today. Not so Ruth Gordon. She was already an Academy award winner and one of the most respected actresses of her generation at that point. Director Hal Ashby also had an Oscar already at this point, for his editing work in a previous film. Picket Faences lovers will enjoy Tim Skerritt in his small appearance here. This one runs for 90 minutes and features several Cat Stevens songs, a very beautiful one at the start already.Harold plays suicide pranks for most of the film. His mother is well aware of his tendencies, so she doesn't even panic anymore. Not so the girls she brings to meet her son. Harold, however, only is interested in Maude, an old lady he builds a non-sexual relationship with which becomes stronger and stronger as the film progresses. Gordon gives a very fine performance here. If you want to see more from her, I recommend the Columbo episode she starred in. Its tough to say if this is really more of a comedy or drama. Maybe that is also why the film missed out on a comedy Golden Globe nomination despite its two leads getting in. There are some funny scenes, for example when Harold's mom takes the test with him, or I should probably say for him. The suicide attempts I don't know if they are funny. They got a bit repetitive though.The emotional dramatic highlight for me was when he talks to Maude about his childhood and the fire. A truly sad scene. It had even more impact to me as the actual ending. I did not really like it that much. Maude seemed like she was enjoying every minute of life and then she randomly goes in the last 5 minutes of the movie. Sure, you could argue she is the type who decides when it is time to go and not let anybody else make that decision, not even God, but it just didn't feel right to me anyway. What I liked better was the one camera shot on her Nazi tattoo. It would have not been so effective on its own, but with her talk about kings earlier on, it made perfectly sense. I also liked the very last scene with how we see him standing up there and the car gone. It seems like the fact that he got out in time shows that his desire for suicide is pretty much gone, so no more attempts in the future perhaps. He perceives death as loss now with Maude gone and not as something to aim for anymore.All in all, it is a good movie and I recommend it. It's not one of my absolute favorites, but it's pretty solid. It's not a waste of time at all, but it's difficult to point out exactly as I personally felt something was missing for greatness or a higher rating, but go decide for yourself and watch it. "},{"Title":"That was your last date Harold.......","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold is a depressed, death-obsessed 20-year-old, who spends his free time attending funerals and pretending to commit suicide in front of his mother. Harold befriends Maude, a 79-year-old who has a zest for life. She and Harold spend much time together during which she exposes him to the wonders and possibilities of life. After rejecting his mother's attempts to set him up with a potential wife, and committing fake suicide in front of all of them, Harold announces that he is to be married to Maude. However, Maude has a surprise for Harold that is to change his life forever....for all those EMO's, Hipsters and Goths who think it's cool to praise suicide, and roll their eyes at people enjoying life to the fullest, whack this in your Blu Ray player and just watch, and enjoy.It is certainly a different romantic comedy for sure, and Maude thankfully does change Harold's world view, but there where times when I wished his mother would just grab him, give him a slap, and tell him to get a grip.The cast are excellent, and although the film is very sweet natured, you can't help but get unnerved by the film a little.Plus it features one of the best breaking of the fourth walls I have ever seen "},{"Title":"When death meets life, life becomes somewhat happy and sad at the same time.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When death meets life, life becomes somewhat happy and sad at the same time.Harold is a teenage boy obsessed with death so much that he innovates new ways of dying and even shows them to his mom or his friends. He meets Maude, a 79 year old woman at one of the funerals and his life changes significantly that he starts hating death. Till the final act Hal Ashby held this up well, and then just when I started liking Harold, he gave up on him and made Harold a simple human like most others. Maude, please don't go Ah, I disliked this part of Harold and thats where this movie fell apart for me. It's a disgusting depiction of death and yet it is very interesting, coz we have rarely seen such a boy who is so much obsessed with death and rarely we have seen a teenage boy falling for a 80 year old woman. Ah, this is a love story of a completely different kind. On one side, his mother is setting up dates with young women and on the other side, he is liking this old woman who lives life to the fullest and does not seem to be giving up on life. When he decides to get her into his life by marrying, she reveals that the time is up and says 80 is the perfect age to die and thus guy weeps as if he never was even acquainted and what it feels like dying. Hmm, I would have liked this transition to be more on the slow side rather than a rushed up thing. The writing is good and so is the direction and even acting. Ruth Gordon as Maude and Bud Cort as Harold brought something fresh to their characters, you can name that innocence or amateurishness, but it was refreshing. Hal Ashby the director who is now considered great did a good job in trying to portray two different attitudes of life and death and marry them in emotions by making the dead learn about life. It would have been a beautiful marriage of course, but what I did not like only is that our protagonist Harold changes what he thrived on his own life. Technically, I wish the production values, the cinematography were better than shown and all else seems to be right. I liked the sound design though specially for the death scenes. I am going with 3/5 for a good film that makes two poles meet and engages them in a relationship. "},{"Title":"quirky comedy","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a quaint and quirky May-December romance between a 20-some morbid rich kid Harold (Cort) with a holocaust-surviver Maude (Gordon), who is approaching her 80-year-old birthday. Harold is a torpid and pasty boy possessed with death, he frequently plays suicide pranks at home so much so that his mother (Pickles) doesn't take it seriously at all, which is designed as a peculiar opening gambit sets the black comedy tone of the film directed by Hal Ashby (BEING THERE 1979, 8/10 and SHAMPOO 1975, 5/10).Both are enthusiastic funeral-crashers, Harold and Maude meet at someone else's funeral, as opposed by their sex and age, so is their personae, compared with the hearse-riding Harold, Maude is a live-in-the-moment embracer, living inside a disused trunk which she has transformed into a cozy and exotic harbor, she is an adroit car thief and a reckless driver, her devil-may-care spirits diffuse Harold's unwholesome disobedience towards the bourgeois hollowness, and she opens a new world for him, they enjoy olfactory memorabilia, rescue dying tree, open up to each other, and sex is well-hinted too. Decidedly uplifting vignettes are the three blind-dates organized by Harold's mother, during which Harold scare off his dates by self-immolation, cutting off his arm and hara-kiri respectively, the last one Sunshine Dor (Geer) is a dilettante actress, her histrionic improv of Romeo and Juliet strikes as a potential match for Harold's temperament. Another wacky scheme is pulled off by Harold and Maude together, to dissuade Harold's war hawk uncle (Tyner) from enrolling him in the army, a manifest derision in the face of militant blind-faith. Clearly, Maude is the savior of the young Harold with her insightful wisdom and attitude, however, for Maude herself, she is beyond any salvation, her covertly suggested background subtly indicates that it is a hard-earned privilege to decide when to leave solely on her own volition, it is determined long before she meets Harold, which is a bit pejorative towards senility because she is so energetic and life-loving, and for Christ's sake, she has just met her soul-mate! It would be wiser to inflict some ailment (e.g. dementia) on her to justify her self-serving resolution. Still, it is a wondrous comedy anchored by two outstanding performances, Bud Cort's man-child ambiguity is redolent with indelible marks as a spoiled child from the beat generation while Ruth Gordon unleashes her infectious vitality unremittingly, and the tricky part is their liaison never falls into self-consciousness or over-contrivance, i5 can smoothly strike viewers' emotional core near the end. It will be a vital remiss if I don't mention Cat Stevens' omnipresent soundtrack, a tuneful product of its time, but the theme song IF YOU WANT TO SING OUT, SING OUT is stressed at least three times, thus during the end credits, it sadly overkills. "},{"Title":"If You Want to Sing out, Sing Out","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is a Seventies movie that is very controversial by topic; it was made right around the free love movement and is the story of a young boy, Harold, who believes he has no worth in the world; his mother means well but is an aristocratic snob at times and cares little of Harold's interests, only how he looks to her friends. He is obsessed with death and dying, considered corrupt and disturbing in society, his mother has tried to cure him of his love of death with a psychologist, a priest and his soldier uncle, none of whom care of his interests and emotions. At one of the many funerals he attends for enjoyment, he meets Maude, a life-loving antithesis of himself who soon becomes his best friend and confidant although they disagree on his love of death. She does help him however to escape the dates his mum sets up for him, by staging elaborate fake suicides such as lighting himself on fire, chopping off his own hand and Harri-Kiri. His dates, believing him to be really dead, always run off screaming. As the days go by he falls in love with Maude; despite himself being in his twenties and her in her seventies he learns from Maude that age, race, gender and interests shouldn't separate them. He finally breaks down and explains the reason for his love of death and dying, and Maude takes him on adventures, dodging a cop, outwitting his snobby mother and exploring derelict junkyards and oil refineries, as well as going for walks in a local greenhouse. She explains to him that he shouldn't be judged for liking death; despite it being different from the opinions of others it is his personality. He confesses his plans to marry Maude to his mother, who freaks out and tells Harold's doctor, priest and uncle, all who try to talk him out of it, but he loves her and proposes to her that very evening. To his shock she overdoses on sleeping pills so that she can die at what she feels is the proper age to go, and he tries to save her, to no avail. She dies and rather than drive his hearse off a cliff with him in it like he planned, as a tribute to the life-loving Maude he leaps from the hearse at the last minute and stays alive as he watches the hearse explode.This is an amazing movie, for several reasons. First off, for pointing out that you can still be friends with those who disagree with your opinions, and that judgment based on hate is no way to view anyone.Secondly, for Maude's life story. In the play, which was published as a novel, Maude was a survivor of the Auschwitz concentration camp during the holocaust, and came to America still with a positive outlook on life and people.In case parents were wondering,the movie has gotten mixed emotions, mainly for Harold's fake suicides, some of which appear very violent and gory ways to go, and people considered it highly irregular to be on-screen. Also some people considered Maude a pedophile, for the age difference between Harold and herself. However, Harold is in his twenties, therefore if he gave consent to loving Maude, the idea of her being a pedophile would be false.This is a comedic yet strangely beautiful movie that anyone can relate to, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Dark elements aside,entertaining enough.","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While there were moments in this film that made me chuckle,I find the overall film to be somewhat too darkly humored for my taste.I have no problem with a teenager falling in love with and gaining a whole new outlook on life from a 79 year old woman.That plus the brief elements of slapstick,such as the woman tormenting the motorcycle cop on the road were quite appealing.What I have a problem with is the running gags associated with the boys fascination with death.The fake suicide scenes were not particularly funny to me,though I can see where some might see it the opposite.Overall,the film had just enough entertaining elements to get a thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having registered five years ago, I was shocked to see I'd never contributed a single review herein. While nobody saw fit to chew me out for this oversight, I decided to make my maiden contribution with Harold and Maude. Why? Because of the thousands of films I have watched, none has resonated with me more. I saw it the first time shortly after its 1971 release and was flabbergasted from its opening scene. Soon I found myself immersed in a surreal world that was at once the most subversive and compassionate thing my ten-year-old self had seen. I fell head-over-heels in love with Maude and I suppose with Harold, too. Certainly, each left their mark on my own personality and priorities. Unfortunately, some critics at the time really raked the film over, calling it debased and morbid, and doubtlessly hurting its box office. That these grown men failed to recognize it as the life-affirming film it was made me realize that sometimes kids can see things that adults can't. Or won't. Admittedly, I don't know that the film merits ten stars in a more objective vein. But in my subjective view it warrants a hundred. It has everything that I always wanted in a film but all too rarely encountered given my subsidy of the medium. Blessed with a script that was tight, funny, and sad, it then went one better by having the good sense to have itself directed by Hal Ashby whose uncanny ability to marry images with music anticipated the advent of MTV a decade later (for additional evidence, see his films Shampoo and Coming Home. Richard Sarafian did give Ashby a run for his money with Vanishing Point). Admittedly, it takes a certain sensibility to fully appreciate this film. But it's the kind of sensibility I like. If only there were more Harold and Maude's out there. "},{"Title":"Celebration Of The Eccentric","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Two eccentric characters, one young (Bud Cort) and the other old (Ruth Gordon), find each other and celebrate their offbeat lives together. It's a film that pokes fun at American culture, with its emphasis on traditional family, the military, the police, standards of decorum, and other institutions and traditions. Neither Harold nor Maude really fits in to such a staid society, so they participate in their own ways, however unusual or problematic.I'll watch almost any film that Ruth Gordon is in. She's so spunky and fun, with a distinctive voice and a unique personality. She's the perfect Maude, with a zest for life (at 79 years old), wanting to experience everything that life has to offer, even if it's not quite lawful. In one scene, she mentions to Harold, almost as an afterthought At one time I used to break into pet shops to liberate the canaries. No big deal, apparently; after all, birds want to be free just like humans.But Harold, as portrayed by long-legged, round-eyed Bud Cort, is something of a dud. His nondescript manner pales in comparison to vivacious Maude; maybe that's the point. The hearse is something of a prop, but I like the way Maude (supposedly) drives it. The script is uneven. Some scenes play out like a Hogan's Heroes situation comedy.That some people don't like this film speaks to their dislike of nonconformity, I suspect. The film, with its counter-culture theme, was made during an era when eccentricity was celebrated, not shunned like it is now. Which shows how America has changed in the intervening forty years. The Cat Stevens music, too, really makes the film dated. Cinematography and editing are fine.Something of a dark comedy, Harold And Maude is a product of its era, with its celebration of nonconformity, however morbid or bizarre. The film's value lies as much in its historical themes as in the plot or production. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I put watching this film off from when I first heard of it from seeing it in the AFI 100 Years... 100 Laughs list to a few weeks later because of the premise of the plot. Boy, oh, boy was I wrong to think that way though! Harold and Maude is one of the greatest comedy films I have ever seen. Yes, a bit depressing, but hilarious in the comic moments.The story is full of heart and one really can't help but fall in love with Maude's personality. The acting is great, not to mention. The jokes are actually funny. One I liked in particular was when Maude was protesting for peace and Harold, acting as a militant nut, responds with you commie pig.The film is really quite wonderful. I wish I had never let the fact that the movie was about the romance between a 20-some-year-old boy and a 79 year old woman cloud my mind for so long. I am really glad I ended up watching the film though. I recommend this cult classic to anyone who appreciates a GREAT comedy. "},{"Title":"The baby boomers have seen the enemy ... and it is themselves!","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is sooo 1971 - and that is not a bad thing. It was directed by a member of the greatest generation (Hal Ashby) about a member of his parents' generation (Maude) helping a member of the baby boomers' generation (Harold) choose to seize life rather than go on embracing a kind of living death. The details of the film have been rehashed by several hundred previous reviewers, so I won't do that once again. I will point out that it is interesting that the intended audience for this film - the baby boomers of 1971 who were then in their teens and twenties who so embraced this film then and still do through all of the websites dedicated to its nostalgia - have become what they claimed to abhor in this movie over the last 35 years. They have, in fact, become the most prudish bunch of old people since the Puritans landed at Plymouth Rock. Their collective slogan has changed from Let It All Hang Out to Let All Who Do Not Conform Be Hanged!. Thanks to the collective legislative efforts of the baby boomers - shortly to begin their second stint in diapers - we do not dare let a 20 year old (Harold's age in the movie) drink one beer even in the bedroom of his own house. We do not dare let bar owners allow smoking in their establishments by anyone no matter what their age, and worst of all the land is dotted with zero-tolerance policies in which a child who shows up to school with an unauthorized aspirin is often treated the same as a child who shows up to school with crack cocaine or a gun as far as expulsion goes.The point of my rant is this - If the Maude of the film were somehow brought back to life today, more than likely she would find Harold acting more like his mother than even his mother did and would likely want to take that handful of pills that ended her life a second time - for completely different reasons.This really is a great film, and I would really hope that when I am 79 I am a cross between the Maude of this movie and Einstein and his compadres in the film IQ. More than that though, I watch this film to remind me how it is a daily battle to stay young at heart and open to the simple pleasures of life. A battle that so many of my older fellow baby boomers have long since lost. "}{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything about this show was great- the writing, the casting, the story, and, of course, Cat Stevens! This is one of the most uplifting stories ever. This is a story about life, love, and learning to love life, yourself, and others. It is about learning to grab life with both hands and experiencing as much as you can. The beginning is a little slow. There is nothing flashy at all about this movie. It is as straightforward as Maude. Unfortunately I have a feeling that the story would be lost on today's youth which is a true shame. This movie got me through some of my lowest points in life. It is tied with The Wall for my all-time favorite movie which is interesting because one would be hard-pressed to find two such diametrically opposed films. This is a must see. If your spirit is in need of being lightened, then this is your movie. It delivers its message without being sappy, trite or overly sentimental. "},{"Title":"Weird, but fascinating.","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first heard about 'Harold and Maude', I thought it seem like it would be an awfully strange and disgusting movie that I was easily going to hate, but I sat down with an open mind and found it to be (like I said) pretty fascinating.The weirdness of 'Harold and Maude' surrounds a young man named Harold Chasen (Bud Cort), who is royally and oddly obsessed with death. Some of his favorite hobbies are attending funerals of people who Harold doesn't even know and staging these fake suicide acts; like hanging himself on a noose, shooting himself, setting himself on fire, and so forth. He does those acts just to get a reaction from his mother (Vivian Pickles).What makes the movie even weirder is when Harold is attending a funeral and meets an 80-year-old woman named Maude (Ruth Gordon), who is obsessed with life. So, they start having this relationship with each other, and Harold starts to get a sense from her, which starts to change his own life forever.The main focus of this movie is the two main actors Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort. They both do a brilliant job interpreting the meaning of life and death. They both had great chemistry and they are both interesting characters.This movie has a dark sense of humor. There are scenes that make you laugh-out-loud just how odd they truly are. For instance, Harold's suicide acts, Maude stealing other people's vehicle, and what not. I know people are probably going to be quite offended by its humor, but maybe the others will be oddly amused by the humor, like I was.I loved the cinematography; it's some of the most beautiful cinematography I've seen. The soundtrack is simply awesome. Featuring songs by Cat Stevens . . . what more do you need from a movie that has to do with life? The songs are just very meaningful and fit the themes perfectly.10/10 "},{"Title":"That Almost Perfect Film...","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Young, rich, and obsessed with death, Harold (Bud Cort) finds himself changed forever when he meets lively septuagenarian Maude (Ruth Gordon) at a funeral.My biggest problem with this film was the abuse of Cat Stevens. Did we need an entire soundtrack from him? No. Did we need to hear the same song three (or more) times? No. I am not opposed to Stevens and his music, but it never felt right and always brought me out of the film.Roger Ebert gave the film a lukewarm review, and I can sympathize. I love the concept of a man obsessed with death, and the suicide attempts were pure genius... even the idea of a young man who is turned on to life by someone who is elderly is a beautiful thought. It gets more complicated when you make the friendship into a romantic bond -- was this a bad idea, a good idea, pushing the envelope or what? "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remembered this very well from the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and reading about the plot it sounded like a suitable film to be featured, and definitely one I was up for for trying, from director Hal Ashby (Being There). Basically Harold Chasen (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Bud Cort) is a wealthy twenty year old young man living a very unusual existence, he likes to attend (gatecrash) funerals, watch building demolitions, visit junkyards, and he is obsessed with death, including simulating suicide attempts to get attention from his snobbish mother Mrs. Chasen (Vivian Pickles), and he sees a psychologist. It is at a funeral that his life starts changing when he meets equally eccentric and anarchic seventy nine year old Maude (Rosemary's Baby's Golden Globe nominated Ruth Gordon) who has the opposite attitude to life, she takes every life as it comes and gives him a new zest for life, as they have lots of small adventures and fun together. While Harold's mother is trying to find him a woman he will eventually marry, inviting some to the house and all being scared away by his committing fake suicides, Harold as he spends time with her is finding a close connection with Maude. After three attempts at finding Harold a wife, and trying to get him to join the army like his father did, he comes to the decision that he is in love with and will be happy with Maude, so as her eightieth birthday approaches he plans to propose marriage, and he tells his disturbed mother this too, and he ends up seeing more psychologists who advise him against it. On the night of Maude's birthday she is given a surprise party, and she says she can't think of a better farewell, as she reveals she has overdosed on sleeping pills, she states that her age is the appropriate time to die, but he rushes her to hospital. In the end Maude is treated, but the attempt to save her is unsuccessful and she dies, and the final sequence sees Harold supposedly driving his car fast over a seaside cliff and crashing on the beach, but we see that he calmly sitting on the cliff with his banjo, and he dances away. Also starring Cyril Cusack as Glaucus, Charles Tyner as Uncle Victor, Ellen Geer as Sunshine Dor, Judy Engles as Candy Gulf, Shari Summers as Edith Phern, Mousehunt's Eric Christmas as Priest and Alien's Tom Skerritt as Motorcycle Officer. Cort is brilliant with his almost completely expressionless performance as the depressed young man given a new lease on life, and of course Gordon is lovable as the old free spirit who lives life to the fullest and proves you can find love at any age, also worth mentioning is Pickles as the wonderfully snobbish, bored and ignorant mother. The moments that made me laugh the most were the teenager and his wacky fake suicides, obviously there are plenty of funny dark moments as well, but there are also the tender moments between the young man and the elderly woman, all in all it adds up to a great black comedy drama. It was number 45 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully quirky without over doing it","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a teenager and my mother sat me down to watch this movie. I loved it. It was strange and ever so slightly outdated but its message and storyline was incredible. I feel in love with both characters and intrigue by their relationship.It was definitely worth watching and it should be more popular than it is.This will always be one of my favorites.The only downside to this movie was when I watched it my mother didn't tell me about the ending at all, so when it happened I burst out crying because it came as such a shock. "},{"Title":"The Strangest Romantic Comedy Of All Time.","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold is a troubled young man. He lives for funerals, and committing suicide. . Maude is a 79-year-old woman who lives life, plain and simple. They make the quirkiest couple I have ever seen on screen. The story follows their friendship, which slowly blossoms to romance.The film, directed by Hal Ashby, could be called the strangest romantic comedy of all time. The romance is at sometimes cringe inducing, but sweet at the same time. The comedy is satire, of the highest order. The laughs come uneasily, as we're not sure we should be laughing. The film manages to balance the thine line of satire. It does it's job well, not becoming to slapstick, or too dramatic. That said the performances by Bud Cort, Ruth Gordon and Vivian Pickles are above excellent. Gordon gives perhaps her best performance. Cort manages to turn his character into something that I've never seen before. It's a brilliantly done performance.That said, the only thing holding me back from giving Harold and Maude 10 stars, are the cringe inducing love scenes and the music. The songs by Cat Stevens are simple, but after I while I got tired of them. Harold and Maude is a quirky film. For those who expect formulaic romantic comedy, this is not for you. For those who expect something different, something you haven't seen before, I definitely recommend Harold and Maude. "},{"Title":"A good black comedy, not so good melodrama","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is a partially successful film when it comes to balancing aspects of black comedy and melodrama. A lot of this is boring and uninvolved especially the melodramatic stuff and the majority of the scenes with Bud Cort and his mother. The scenes with Ruth Gordon driving the car however are hilarious and Gordon pretty much dominates every scene she is in as usual. Yet director Hal Ashby cannot draw his line between the two narratives and it leaves the audience confused in the end of how to interpret this piece. Connecting with the audience is something Ashby often fails to do in a way that leaves us enthralled or at least with our eyes on the screen. "},{"Title":"Black comedy, Unlikely Romance, and Cat Stevens","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is one of the original cult classics. A critical and box-office disappointment when released, it has in subsequent years become a classic, if unlikely, romantic comedy.Harold (Bud Cort), who appears to be in his late teens or early 20's, lives in a magnificent mansion with his mother and several servants. He's a quiet fellow, brow-beaten by his (comically) domineering mother, and has a fixation on death his main pleasures come from attending the funerals of strangers (driving himself in his hearse) and from staging imaginative fake suicides to shock his mother.Harold notices that a woman in her 70's is also regularly attending funerals, and she introduces herself Maude (Ruth Gordon, of Rosemary's Baby fame). Maude is a whirlwind of a woman, a genuine free-spirit--she enjoys stealing cars for joy-rides (and as a reminder to car-owners to not get attached to things), she poses nude for an artist, she plays multiple musical instruments, and her home is filled with interesting mementos, keepsakes, and art. Maude is also a font of wisdom--she is a holocaust survivor, she grew up in pre-World War I Vienna and danced at balls at the Palace, she freed animals from cages decades ahead of the animal liberation movement, and she protested and fought for the biggest issues. Maude's wisdom is supplemented by the score by Cat Stevens, who was at the height of his powers as a hippie-dippy mystic able to write profoundly catchy folk-rock songs.Meanwhile, Harold's mother (memorably played by Vivian Pickles), has decided that her son needs to take on adult responsibilities, so has arranged a series of dates for Harold through the services of a computer dating company. Harold, who is becoming smitten with Maude, decides to utilize his experience with fake suicides to horrify and drive away his arranged dates (none of these women are well-matched with Harold since his mother took it upon herself to fill out the application for the dating service). Harold's mother is so incensed that she concludes Harold should be drafted into the army, but Harold and Maude utilize their talents at deception to make that an impossibility.Harold and Maude become lovers, and Harold decides to propose marriage. As alluded to earlier in the film, Maude has other plans--on her 80th birthday, when Harold proposes, she tells him she's taken poison and will be dead by midnight. Apparently, long ago, perhaps in the Camps, she had taken a vow to end her life at 80 if she survived that long, and she kept that vow. Despite Harold's efforts--he calls for an ambulance, Maude is taken to a hospital--she is dead by dawn of the next day. Harold, utterly devastated, drives his customized Jaguar (it looks like a hearse--Harold altered the vehicle after his mother had his previous hearse hauled away) off a cliff. Or so it appears. Though the car goes crashing down, we see that Harold has saved himself--the film ends with him ambling down the road, tentatively playing If You Want to Sing Out, Sing Out on the banjo Maude gave him.Harold and Maude is genuinely hilarious and touching, and Harold's journey from death-obsessed boy to life-affirming man is only made possible because of Maude's profound influence. The irony of Maude's suicide is that she intensely loved life and lived it fully. While many will disagree with her decision to end her own life, no one can say that Maude did not fully embrace life until the very end.The look and sound and much of the content of the film's message was clearly influenced by Summer Of Love-style hippies, so the likelihood you'll be receptive to the film's message is increased if you are 420-friendly (wink), and if you like the music of the 60's and early 70's. It is also a particularly good movie for teenagers--this is a coming-of-age tale, and if you are still trying to figure out the world, or are feeling alienated and alone, then this movie's message can do genuine good. Harold's obsession with death is a clear precursor to Goth, so if you are somewhat gloomy, or are feeling somewhat depressed, Harold and Maude can be a sort of antidote. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before posting this review I decided to take a peek at other reviews. While some reviews commented on it as a sick perversion, others as dark comedy. For me it was more of a dramatic film.Harold is a young, rich, purposeless, attention-seeker who is looking for meaning in his life. Maude is a old woman, a holocaust survivor. She has lived a meaningful life and continues to do so. It is their juxtaposition that is crux of this movie.Maude is actually an unusual MPDG, manic pixie dream girl. A character mostly female who teaches the male protagonist how to live life to its fullest. It is unusual because MPDGs are mostly young and their male counterparts mostly doing jobs. Here we have a old MPDG showing the joy of life to a young guy.There is the ick factor too considering the romance between the two and a scene of them together in bed, but you forget that. What remains is a beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"A very special movie","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I was younger, I can't remember how many kids wished they either were Harold, or wish they were his friend.Why? I guess because as a young adult, going through adolescence, there's such a strong feeling of isolation, of being different.They're coming into a new world - the adult world, and so many things, emotions, are either new, or take on new meanings.Harold is a 'misfit.' Even though he seems to have been born with a silver spoon in his mouth, he's lost. He's emotionally, isolated, and he deals with these feelings by separating himself further - by constantly pushing his mother's 'buttons' as she (vainly tries to introduce Harold to several young women.Harold's mother, played marvellous straight-faced by Vivian Pickles sits Harold down one day, and says to him that it's time for him to grow up. But, like most young people, Harold has to find his own way, and on that path he meets someone who does help him grow; Maude (in a performance that fits Ruth Gordon like a second-skin).Maude is all that Harold NEEDS to be. Needs to feel.With Maude as his 'teacher,' Harold has the best friend - and first love he could ever have dreamed.As the film progresses, Harold lightens up - both figuratively and literally.I can't give away the end, though, in a way, it - like life, is inevitable. But, through it, Harold is able to grow up - and learn lessons of life, love, and maturing into one's own skin.Harold Ashby makes one of the most epoch-defining (and pushing) pictures of the 1970's, with a terrific soundtrack featuring Cat Stevens, who was just beginning to emerge as a huge star of the 70's .I can't stop hearing 'IF you want to sing out, sing out' as I write this.Even though I'm older - and, hopefully wiser, this film is, if anything more life affirming to me, as someone who has lived, as it show how valuable relationships and life are - no matter what someone's age.I still would love to have a friend like Maude. "}{"Title":"Good stuff but definitely not for everyone","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hal Ashby's Harold and Maude neatly fits into the category of cult classic, chiefly by virtue of its subject matter. In brief, the film concerns a morbid young man who befriends a free-spirited septuagenarian. Together they make about as unlikely a pair as you'll ever see in a romantic comedy.The stars of the film, Bud Cort & Ruth Gordon, play their parts with relish. Furthermore, the two have excellent chemistry together. Besides the stars, Vivian Pickles, as Harold's overbearing mother, and Charles Tyner, as his uncle Victor, stand out in support.Ashby's direction is well-handled and the film sports some nice visuals. However, the film's best element on the technical side is arguably the soundtrack. The songs of Cat Stevens are heard throughout and they truly capture and enhance the spirit of the film.In the end, Harold and Maude is certainly a unique little film and one that seems way ahead of its time. It's the sort of quirky movie that would be right at home next to some of today's independent films. Given it's eccentricities, I'm unsurprised that it was a commercial flop at the time of its release but, thankfully, it has gained in stature over time. "},{"Title":"Very unique","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you want to talk about absurd, see Harold and Maude. It is the story of the teenage boy, Harold, who is obsessed with death and all things morbid. He's very antisocial and secluded. He finally begins to break out of his shell when he meets Maude, a feisty and spirited old woman. The two eventually fall in love, making for one of the strangest and most irreverent on screen romances you've ever seen.I can really respect Harold and Maude because even though it isn't a flawless film, it is very different and takes a lot of risks. It can be very ambiguous at times and it doesn't hold your hand all the way through. The story itself is obviously very different, but the way it is told is also interesting. It doesn't take the route of your typical storyline. It feels like more of a collection of stories that build to the ending. The overall style of the film is difficult to put into words, but it was a pleasure to watch unfold.I honestly did have a difficult time getting into the story. It begins pretty slow and it wasn't exactly my cup of tea. By the end I can't say I loved the story, but I definitely have to respect it for what it is. The two leads are a delight to watch together. Bud Cort is pretty peculiar through out the movie and personally I had a hard time connecting with him, but Ruth Gordon as Maude is hilarious and a lot of fun. I loved them both by the end of the film.Now my favorite thing about this film was undoubtedly the soundtrack. The music in this film is all music by Cat Stevens. There are some great tunes in the film, and in the context of the story it makes them even better. The music enhances every scene of the film and really gives it a lot of its unique spirit and life. I'm even listening to the soundtrack while writing this review I loved it so much. I'm not even sure I would have liked this film if not for its perfect soundtrack.Harold and Maude is definitely a good movie. I can see how plenty of people would consider it to be a classic, but personally I wasn't crazy about it. I can respect it for its unique 1970's feel. It is definitely not your average film and there are plenty of good things to say about it. Overall I enjoyed it enough to where I think I will remember it down the line, and perhaps even rewatch it with a different attitude. "},{"Title":"The Uncoventional Hollywood","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Do the words in the title contradict each other? It is a definite yes ,if we cast a glance at the nowadays impotent and soulless productions, which are akin to computer games;it is a definite no, if we look a few decades back, when Hollywood was not bound hand and foot by political correctness. In the 70ies, Hollywood's audience could be surprised, shocked, made gasp and - most important- ponder over the films by very talented directors and brilliant cast. Harold and Maude is the most characteristic example.It makes us all think not so much of the weird (as some think) plot,twisted characters,but of simple and natural things without which we cannot live,i.e. love and understanding. Maude,a dinosaur by the measure of the younger people, happens to be much more alive than her teenage friend; more than that, she manages to breathe her vivacity into the withered soul of the boy,who lacks that sense of real companionship and mere attention from adults around him.Speak of the generation gap after that! True, they come to love each other, but this is not a romantic infatuation , but a deep-rooted friendship of soul-mates - a rare happening in our world, which is absolutely out of joint. Cheers to the makers of this timeless cinematic treasure! "},{"Title":"Magnificent.","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Possibly director Hal Ashby's best film, and one of the true cult classics of the 70ties. HAROLD AND MAUDE is a superb tale about a young man who according to himself enjoys being dead, but his life takes a radical turn upon meeting an elderly lady who tells him to love more. One of the saggy things to say about director Ashby is that he often sprawls his films with too much of his favorite music, like a child gluing pancakes with too much syrup, but happily and successfully this film only contains the fabulous music of Cat Stevens, and takes on a deeper meaning than Ashby strutting his taste. Beautifully acted, tragically comic, and very moving, this film feels somehow unique in its portrayal of life and death. "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude Review","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude A Wild Ride; A Must SeeHarold and Maude, directed by Hal Ashby and released in December 1971, is a quirky story about two unexpected lovers. The two wacky main characters, Harold (Bud Cort), a 19 year old boy is obsessed with faking his own suicide and Maude (Ruth Gordon) a 79 year old woman who enjoys stealing cars and joyfully riding around, but never forgets that in just a small time she'll be 80. When the two meet at a funeral, an unusual friendship results. While the plot line is somewhat unbelievable, the eccentric characters and the fantastic filmmaker's craft make for a phenomenal movie. The bizarre characters keep the viewer on edge the entire movie. The scene in which the viewers meet Harold, he has hung himself. Soon we see that he is not really dead, but because the viewers were momentarily horrified by the fact that a movie would open with such a scene, an immediate love for Harold ensues. It soon becomes clear that he is just trying to gets his mother to pay him some attention and show that she loves him, and with this he has already stolen the hearts of the audience. And then there is Maude. How could one not love a 79 year old woman who enjoys stealing cars and lives so carefree? We first meet Maude eating an apple as she watches a funeral. Soon after, we see her steal her first car and we love her for her seize the day lifestyle, because who wouldn't want to live like that? The viewer continually is shown subtle hints to her past life, which allows the viewer to appreciate this attitude all the more. The terrific craft used in making this film allows the absurd plot to almost be sensible. The cut from Harold shooting himself, to yet another funeral scene creates a momentary gasp from the audience. They can easily predict that this isn't his funeral (as he has already faked his own suicide twice and been to several funerals), but for that split second they have to wonder what if? These moments in the movie deepen the emotional connection the viewer has with the characters. Every time Harold fakes a suicide, the cinematography allows the viewer to think, just for a moment and although they know it is not true, that Harold may have actually killed himself. The directors and editors use this to their advantage until the very last scene, making a remarkably edited film. The eccentric, but lovable characters and the terrific art used in making the film allows the viewer to completely forget that the plot is absolutely ridiculous. Because we have an immediate love for the characters, it doesn't bother us that Harold is always attempting completely unbelievable suicides and because of the editing, we almost believe them. Maude's attitude toward life makes us love her and we are completely entertained by all the ridiculous stuff she does and as the viewer gets more and more subtle hints as to what her past as consisted of, our respect and love just keeps growing. This movie is a must see, if not for the fall-out-of-your-seat laughter, than for the artful editing. "},{"Title":"Review of Harold and Maude","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is the name of the film. It was directed by Hal Ashby and written by Colin Higgins. The main characters are Harold who is played by Bud Cort and Maude who is played by Ruth Gordon. This film is about this young man named Harold, who gets enjoyment out of pretending to commit suicide and going to funerals, that is until he meets this very strange 79 year old lady, Maude, at a funeral. They end up becoming great friends and enjoy being together, that is until Maude's 80th birthday when she takes some pills because she believes that you shouldn't live past 80.In Harold and Maude Harold does many bizarre things, things people don't really do for fun, but they are very interesting to the audience, for example going to funerals for fun. He enjoys going to random peoples funerals and sitting there and watching the whole thing. He also in the beginning of the film several times fakes his own death, but not in a peaceful way, he does it with such anger for example with the scene of him in the bath tub with blood all over the bathroom. He does it in a way that makes it truly look like is dead. Most of the things he does in this film are very entertaining though. Like his and Maudes relationship. He is about 18 or 19 and Maude is 79 and 80 by the end of the film. Their friendship begins with them at a funeral and throughout the rest of the film they are great friends and even become more than that by the end. The strangeness of their friendship is what helps make the movie so funny and entertaining. Maudes this old woman who loves to borrow things from total strangers, like other peoples cars. Throughout the film you see her steal many different cars and one time it's even Harold's hearse in the scene between 2135 and 2434.I think that the importance of this film is to entertain you. It was made so that you could have a laugh at Harold and Maudes strange but cute friendship. I think that it was also made to show that no matter what, you always have a friend, even if you are a strange person like Harold. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Funniest Movie of the 1970'sThe movie Harold and Maude written by Colin Higgins and directed by Hal Ashby is one of my all-time favorite movies. Made in '71, it is a hilarious movie for teenagers on up. The humor is dark and at times gruesome, but viewers will find it hard not to laugh out loud. The movie stars Bud Cort as Harold and Ruth Gordon as Maude. Harold, (Bud Cort) is a nineteen year old man who is depressed and seeks a strange sort of attention from his mother. He fakes his death multiple times. For pleasure, Harold attends funerals, where he unexpectedly runs into an old woman, Maude (Ruth Gordon), who also goes to funerals for fun. The pair have many adventures together in the San Francisco Bay area of California, where Maude ultimately brings Harold out of his shell. Because of it's talented acting, excellent cinematography and unconventional story line, Harold and Maude is one of my favorite movies. Both Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon are very skilled actors in their roles of Harold and Maud. In the beginning, Harold never smiles, has a stark white face and bulging eyes. From his facial expressions alone, the viewer can tell Harold is a morbid kid. His faking suicides are also very believable. It takes an up-close camera shots to tell he's not dead in many of the cases. Although beyond the beginning it looks like Harold doesn't change his expressions a whole lot, he shows quick flashes of deep, surprising emotions. When he and Maude are flying around the corners in Maude's stolen blue car, Harold looks scared. This is surprising because he seems so fearless. These quick facial signs show he wants to live after all. Also, in multiple places, his face shows a deep admiration and love for Maude. This also is strange because she is almost eighty while he is nineteen. Ruth Gordon portrays Maude's fearless sense of adventure and will to lives everyday to the fullest, very well. She even sings remarkably well for an eighty year old. Without the skilled acting of Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon as Harold and Maude, the movie would not be the classic that it is. The cinematography is extremely off-the-wall making it so viewers can't look away. In the beginning, there is a shot of a mirror streaked with blood and Harold lying below soaked in blood. This is the first shot that makes the viewers go, Wow! Did I really see that? Also, Harold is seen at funerals mourning with people he doesn't know for a complete stranger. Nevertheless, the shots show he looks to be one of the saddest people there. When his mother first brings a possible marriage candidate for Harold, he does a strange sort of ritual by the pool. The next scene is Harold engulfed in flames. Following this, the girl runs out screaming while Harold casually walks in from the back and smiles at the camera. Another scene that is remarkable crafty is a reflection of Harold's military uncle saluting with his right arm missing. Viewers be warned never to to look away for you will be sure to miss a crafty shot. The movie follows a strong theme that everything is impermanent, so no one should ever get too attached. Maude especially lives by this code. She is constantly stealing other people's cars. When Harold tells her he thinks people are getting upset, she says, I'm merely acting as a gentle reminder&#x85; don't get attached to things. Another one of Maud's quotes is, Try something new each day, after all life doesn't last forever. Maude lives moment by moment and gets Harold to start enjoying life too. The ultimate letting go for Harold comes at the end of the movie when Maude does something very surprising, (although there are clues if you look for them) that forces Harold to let go of the intense love he has for her. Letting go and living life moment by moment is a lifelong lesson presented in Harold and Maude. Harold and Maude is an excellent movie that combines skilled acting, crafty cinematography and a unique story line. Though people don't usually turn to a 1970's movie for entertainment, this is sure to please. Besides serving a comical purpose, Harold and Maude defies all stereotypes and shows that it takes adventure and enthusiasm to open the heart of those suffering from depression. "},{"Title":"A very fun movie!","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What makes a great movie great? There is a wide spectrum of answers to this question, such as the film's characters, the actors, soundtrack, the director's craft, and even the sometimes-subtle lessons that can be learned from viewing the film. In the 1971 film Harold and Maude, directed by Hal Ashby, all of these aspects are each well deserving of attention, and when all are combined react in such away that creates a very colorful and fun viewing experience. Harold Chasen (played by BudCort) is a 19-year old boy who lives with his wealthy middle-aged mother, and spends his time attending random funerals and feigning suicide. As his activities would suggest, Harold has a sort of morbid disposition, which does not bode well with this mother. As Harold struggles to escape the lifestyle his mother believes is right for him, he meets Marjorie Maude Chardin, played by Ruth Gordon, is a very active 79 year-old woman who like Harold enjoys attending the funerals of strangers. Although they share that similarity, Maude lives a lifestyle in which she essentially lives everyday like it's her last. As the story progresses and the relationship between Maude and Harold grows we also see a change in Harold's attitude, as he has adapted Maude's way of seeing things. Many aspects of the film contribute tomaking watching this movie such a great experience. First of all, you have the contrast between characters Harold and Maude. When we first meet Harold nearly everything about him is symbolic for death; the hearse he drives around, often visiting random funerals, and faking his own suicide. Maude, on the other hand, can be seen as a symbol for actually living life, which can be seen through her everyday activities, like stealing cars, playing music, being a nude model, and something to do with a hookah. The contrast between the two characters,along with the changes we see in Harold (becomes interested in things other than death, and becomes less pale) create some element of comedy, and is overall a fun thing to see. Secondly, the film's soundtrack doeswonders to establish the 'feel' of a scene. For instance, during amontage in which we see Maude and Harold participating in various activities (i.e. dancing on a hilltop) we hear the song If you want to sing out, sing out, of which the lyrics go Well, if you want to singout sing out/And if you want to be free, be free 'Cause there's amillion things to be/ You know that there are. Another example is when Harold is pretending to have drowned in his pool, and we hear classical music as the camera pans out from a closeup of his face. Perhaps the most important aspect of the film though, the director's craft involved with developing the film. An example of clever authors craft is the progression of Harold's skin tone throughout the film. As we see the story progress and him become more active with Maude, we also see Harold's complexion become darker, a result of him spending more time living. This physical change is symbolic for Harold's shift in mental attitude. In addition to many subtle messages that can be found, like the example just given, is the overall theme of the film, be who you want to be.Overall I would say that this is a great movie, especially from a time of which the attitudes, opinions, etc. from the characters matched that of the counterculture at the time. The soundtrack (by Cat Stevens) accompanies the story snugly and provides something fun and easy to listen to, while the constant activity and body language amongst the characters keeps it appealing to the eye. Looking deeper than the physical aspects of the film lies the artistic beauty that can be found in the contrasts of two opposite people. "},{"Title":"Over look of Harold and Maude","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold & Maude directed by Hal Ashby and the written by Colin Higgins tells the story of the young Harold (Bud Cort) and Maude the spontaneous and elderly woman played by Ruth Gordon. The story starts with a confused 19 year old Harold and his various acts of fake suicides to catch his mother's attention with an overall obsession with death. As with Maude however, a 79 year old woman who seems spontaneous, doing whatever she pleases, seems to have a view of all people should live to 80 and that should be it. Whereas the characters seem to be a bit unique in their own ways the plot seems to carry that throughout the film. The use of narrative elements, film maker's craft, and acting allows for this film to be truly phenomenal.  The narrative elements in this film produce a stable structure for the rest of the film to build off. The movie itself takes place in an area around the San Francisco Bay; this can be seen through various screen shots of the bay and the cliffs overlooking the ocean. The viewer can see that much of Harold and Maude's time is spent in Maude's home composed of a Pullman car when Harold enters her house for the first time. The conflict can be seen through mostly his mother. Harold's mother, Mrs. Chasen, is obviously the antagonist in the story she does not seem to pay her son enough attention and in doing so he fakes suicide to get some. Eventually she gets sick of his unusual acts and tells him it's time now to put away childish things&#x85;time for you to get married. Whereas the conflict seems to be his mother trying to get him to marry the plot seems to be him continuing to commit fake suicides and falling in love with Maude. Even with all of these very unusual events going on I was able to pull an overall theme out from all the controversy. Maude says that she likes to watch things grow&#x85;cycle of life. Both Maude and Harold seem to have fascinations with death so it would only seem right that one theme would be about the cycle of life. The film maker's craft adds to the content to make the movie one worth watching. Editing seems to be one element that stood out the most to me in this film. The director did a great job cutting in and out of shots to make things appear to happen that did not. We can see Harold create this mock immolation of his own death. To the viewer it almost seems evident that it is actually Harold, but as the scene continues Harold comes into the picture and its impressive how the director is able to confuse not only the other characters in the scene but the viewer as well. SPOILER ALERT Another example of this in genius editing by the director is another fake suicide we see Harold attempt when he runs his car off the ledge it does not seem reasonable that Harold lived through it, but we are again fooled by this amazing editing skills by the director. Another element that the director does a good job showing is the realism of the suicides. It is obvious to me that he put a lot of time into making these scene seem so real. We see Harold cut his arm off and blood comes out it looks so real and the viewer is fooled just like the date in the scene. The realism of the fake deaths put on by Harold is so well composed by the director it helps this movie in being as incredible as it is. The acting is also unique and played very well within the film. All of Harold's acts of faking suicide are very well played out. The first scene when he pretends to commit suicide by hanging himself could not have been played any better. I was almost appalled by the start of the story thinking for sure that this character was already dead. The believability of Harold's fake deaths' is amazing it was hard for me at times not to think that Harold was dead even after the second and third times of seeing him fake them. When he is pretending to be drowned in the pool this is just another example of how well the acting in this scene is. When we meet Maude we are able to see how well Ruth Gordon plays her part. Maude is sitting eating an apple during a funeral of someone she did not know either. Ruth Gordon does a good job at perceiving a character that seems to know what she wants and a very spontaneous personality. Not only are the narrative elements, filmmaker craft, and acting spectacular in this film it does however shed a bit of humor. The scene that takes place between these two intervals is shocking, very unexpected, and unconventional. When I combine these three descriptions together and the circumstance I find this part of the movie to be very humorous. Other times in the film that seem humorous occur not only when people are talking but just screen shots as well. His mom and his date come out to see his Jaguar, but it has been remodeled and the expression on his mother's face leave myself laughing. Overall this film seems to have all the components to being great and I myself believe that that is an understatement. "},{"Title":"Odd lovers, Great film","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When first viewing the film Harold and Maude, written by Colin Higgins and directed by Hal Ashby, the viewer would think the movie is completely ill and insensitive. This movie begins like no other movie that has been reviewed; the story takes place in the San Francisco Bay area in 1971, where it starts off in this beautiful old fashioned large house with a young man walking through it. The music in the background and throughout the film is mostly all Cat Stevens. With almost a blink of an eye this happy (or what seems to be happy) man hangs himself; but only for pretend. Bud Cort stars as the young man, Harold, who enjoys pretending to kill himself to get his mothers attention. Little does he know, he has not been living to his full advantage, but practicing how to die to gain attention? While Harold is at his usual place for enjoyment, that is a funeral, he meets a crazy, spiritual, happy-go-lucky 79 years old woman, Maude. Maude, played by Ruth Gordon, eventually shows Harold how to live and what being alive is all about. When first seeing this movie, it strikes me as a wacky, not thought completely out movie. But, as the film continued to go on and build a story, I find it a beautiful story. Even though the story is unlikely and not usual, it gives people who are lost the hope that friendship, and love are out there somewhere no matter the age. Harold and Maude tell a great story of true love and happiness and the ability to live your life to the fullest.The way the film is conducted is rather modern which fits the era when it was made. The characterization is developed well through little hints that the viewer either sees a quick flash of, or is told a little story about background. For example, Maude has a troubling background, and for that she is insisting she will die when she turns 80. Maude continues to say this throughout the movie, but it is not until almost the end until we find out why she is going to die when she turns 80. The viewer does not get told why, but we are able to see a little bit of her arm that shows she was a prisoner in a concentration camp. An example of the film telling us little detail to help understand the past of Harold is when he tells Maude the reason he pretends to kill himself to scare his mother. Harold tells Maude, I enjoy being dead. With Harold and Maude becoming closer, there begins to be a problem. There great friendship is becoming friendlier. Most likely in other movies, this would not be a problem, but with Maude, whom is 79 and Harold whom is early 20s, people can predict this will lead to some trouble ahead. Not only are they falling in love with each other, but Maude in almost every shot says when she is 80, she will die.The theme is represented through the crafty dialog used, which viewers get the sense of Harold being a quite, dark young man through his lack of social talking. When Harold is seen in shots with his mother, and even Maude in the beginning, he answers with a simple, short sentence. 'What's the matter?' 'I have a sore throat.' This scene is at a fancy dinner Harolds mother put on where he answers her question with a straight to the point answer. When the viewer meets Maude, the speaking begins to be more abrupt. Maude is the most talkative person featured in the film; she almost never stops talking, which is the exact opposite of Harold. The dialog between both characters develop theme by showing how opposites can attracted, (literally) happiness can be found anywhere, and live your life to the fullest.The acting that Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon give is tremendous. They both portray their characters with grace. When witnessing their acting, you can not help but fall in love with them even with their appearance difference.Harold and Maude is definitely not like any movie I have seen from the way it begins, to the way it ends. The only complaint I would say is the sense of knowing what is going to happen in the future, but the movie is so different it works that the viewer knows what is going to happen. Plus, once the viewer is hooked, they forget what is going to happen down the road. Also, the film is full of awkwardness, laughter, joy, death, and other emotions that blow the viewer away. It would be easy to say that this movie is the weirdest, crazy, odd movie of all time, but there is also meaning that is built into it. This movie shows how to care, love, and live. With the lessons that can be learned, and the weirdness of this movie like no other, I rate this movie to be one of the best of its time. "}{"Title":"If you want to sing out","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I attend funerals for fun to most people attending funerals is something you wouldn't want to do as a hobby, however it happens in the movie Harold and Maude written by Colin Higgins in 1971, and directed by Hal Ashby, the film is ranked number 45 on the American Film Institute's list of 100 Funniest Movies of all time. It's a film recognized today for its drama and numerous accounts of humor. The movie takes place around the San Francisco Bay area. Harold played by Bud Cort and Maude played by Ruth Gordon, are the two main characters, they become very close friends; during the journey towards their friendship; we realize the reasons on why they do. The main reason is that Maude teaches Harold her motto in life, which is here today, gone tomorrow, so don't get attached to things We are shown this over a great amount of activities that take place and the songs that represent friendship, that are played every time Harold and Maude are together. In the movie Harold; is a 19 year old boy that seems to not really like his life, he is first introduced to us, as he walks down the stairs of his house, by looking you can tell he seems to come from a very wealthy family. As he walks he goes over to an LP record and starts playing Cat Stevens Don't Be Shy, he then goes over to a chair where he sits down and writes some sort of a note and pins it to his suit jacket. We then see him placing a stool or a chair in the middle of the floor, lighting a candle, and then stands on the stool; he hesitates to step off but then does, all you see after that is his feet dangling; indicating that he just hung himself. However Harold had done that and other ridiculous and fake suicides to try and get the attention of his mother. Because he has an obsession with death, and has done several of his own pretend suicides, he attends funerals for fun, and eventually buys a hearse as his first vehicle. Seventy-nine year old Maude is a crazy driver who takes random cars for the heck of it, loves listening to music and believes living each day by day as if it is your last. We first meet her for the first time when Harold went to a funeral. She was sitting in the back by a tree trunk, eating an apple, she sneezes and Harold looks over at her. Maude seems to be very out going and doesn't care what people think, she does what ever she wants and doesn't let anyone or anything get in her way. She shares her interest in attending funerals for fun. At the second funeral she introduces herself to Harold. At one point that Maude and Harold are together, we can see a tattoo on her arm of numbers, showing that she was in a concentration camp when she was younger. The two soon form an incredible bond, during that time Maude slowly shows Harold her love in music, she teaches him how to sing and dance, how to play the banjo and how to admire art. After a week of spending time together Harold realizes her belief in living every day as if it was your last. Which is why they take a tree out of the city because she thought it was dieing and needed to be moved into the forest so it could live longer. Since Maude had a huge impact on his life he eventually stopped pretending to commit suicide, and didn't feel like he needed to strive for his mothers' attention anymore. However his mother attempted to find a wife for him to settle down with, because she was tired of him faking his own death(s), and thought that sending him to a therapist and setting him up would change how he acted; not knowing that he had been with a 79 year old women for the past week, who he had fallen in love with. Because he would much rather spend time with Maude he wasn't interested in spending any sort of time with any of the girls his mother tried to get him to be with; to send them off he would act crazy or in better words sketchy. For one of his dates he sets a sheet on fire, even though he wasn't in them, she ran out of the room screaming, for another one he uses a fake knife to kill himself, because he would much rather be spending time with Maude. Harold announces that he will marry Maude. As her 80th birthday arrives, he throws her a surprise party. As they dance, she says that she couldn't imagine a lovelier farewell. Confused Harold asked what she meant by that, she then tells him that she has purposely taken an overdosed on pills and will be dead by midnight. After her time in the hospital he felt he shouldn't let it get him down, because Maude had changed his life and he learned to not be so depressed, and to live life on the edge. At the end of the film Harold drives his car off a cliff however he wasn't in it he was at the top of the cliff where he started playing If you want to sing out; on the banjo Maude taught him to play. I really enjoyed this movie because of Maude life lesson. In a short amount of time she changed a boy's life, who always attended funerals, pretended to commit suicide to get his mothers attention and always had a pale look on his face, like he really didn't want to be alive. However after spending time with Maude he stopped all of that, and is now not depressed because Maude would say something like, it's not worth it to be sad. "},{"Title":"H&M is funny, engaging, and can teach you things. 2 thumbs up","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is a strange film for sure, and it might turn some viewers away at first, but this film can teach good life lessons and that is what makes it so great. This film is about a strange old lady who helps a young man to be happy and be himself, and they fall in love at the same time.  This movie was directed by Hal Ashby, and Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon play the main characters. The acting in this film is very good; Ruth Gordon is perfectly crazy and fun, Bud Cort is strange and gives off the feeling of needing love and attention, and Vivian Pickles as Harold's mother seems very high class and like an odd mother to live with. Film elements and production quality are also very good in this film. Every shot and scene seems planned out very well, and the cameramen got to be creative since there are scenes clearly shot from helicopter like the scene where Harold and Maude are escaping from the cop on the motorcycle. The soundtrack for this film is also very good. Cat Stevens does all the music for the film so each song is perfect for the story and the situation. The main song of the film If You Want To Sing Out, Sing Out, was made for the film by Cat Stevens and it reflects the main theme of the film very well; That theme is to live life to the fullest and freely.  The plot of this film is another good point because it is engaging and exciting, but it also perfectly shows how Harold changes to become a happier person. At the beginning of the film it is clear that Harold has issues, he keeps committing fake suicides and he never seems to be happy or enjoying himself. Then he meets Maude at a funeral and after a while they are out doing strange things together slowly changing Harold into a more freely acting person. The change in Harold is so subtle and perfectly done you don't even notice exactly how he changes through the film. For example, through the film Harold gets more tan and starts dressing more colorfully.In conclusion, this is a feel-good, happy, and funny film that can really teach you things about living a happy life, and that is what makes this film so good. One warning though, nobody should watch this film if suicide is a touchy subject because you see Harold commit many realistic looking fake suicides throughout the movie, and because, SPOILER ALERT, Maude actually does commit suicide at the end and it is a sad part in the movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is CRAZY epic!","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is CRAZY epic!Harold and Maude is a film that Colin Higgins wrote and Hal Ashby directed, between the two they have made one of Americas modern (for the time period) and most beloved pieces of film. The premise of the story is about a young man (if you can even call him that), who finds a need to get attention from his mother. In efforts to do this Harold falls deeply in love with a 79 year old woman named Maude. The character of Maude is played by Ruth Gordon, who goes about life as though life is a day by day thing. The viewers first meet Harold at the beginning of the film where Harold (Bud Cort) stages his own death with one of his many odd and morbid unsuccessful suicides. The movie opens up with a nameless person's feet and legs walking down a spiral staircase to a LP record player that starts to play a Cat Stevens song, which soon becomes the one of the theme song for the entire movie. The nameless male figure (Harold) puts a noose around his neck and kicks the chair that he is standing on out from underneath himself. The music cuts out and Harold's mother comes in to find Harold hanging himself. It's these acts that lead to Harold's mother to send him to a therapist. We learn very little about Harold until in one of his sessions his therapist asks him what he likes to do for fun. To this question Harold simply replies that he likes to go to funerals. The next scene is Harold at a funeral where he and the viewers get introduce to Maude. The two together seem like such an unlikely pair it makes you won't them to work out. Well watching you can't help but think that the relationship is strange and a bit unconventional, you really don't care. The characters are so strange and so far from what people think is normal and boarders on the clinically insane. It seems that every angle of every shot has a meaning behind it or something to silently show you. On one of the scenes Harold is on a date that is mother has set up for him on the internet. The way that its shot holds Harold's mother and his date inside the house in a sitting room waiting for Harold to come and join them. Harold is caught threw the window dousing himself with what we assume is gasoline, and then lights himself on fire to his dates horror. Harold comes in seconds later as his date runs out of the room screaming. It's this scene that shows the meaning between the frames so to speak, Harold looks at the camera in a very somber pale face that slowly turns into a slight grin. This shows the great acting ability and relationship between the actor(s) and the director. This scene is quite funny but its also shows Harold's need for attention from his mother. In another scene Maude and Harold are sitting on an old pier looking at a fair across the water. As Harold and Maude talk the camera shows a quick shot of Maude's wrist. On her wrist there are numbers tattooed on it. This insinuates that she spent time in a concentration camp, which could explain her unusual ways. The relationship between the 79 year old women (Maude) and Harold seems strange to most audiences across the board but that's what makes the journey more powerful and heartwarming. The lessons that are taught through this movie are hidden by the witty lines and the crazy actions between these two characters. This lets people that wont something to do on a weekend watch a movie and enjoy it, as well as the people that are looking for a deeper meaning and understanding. In essences this is a movie for all people. "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold & Maude is written by Colin Higgins and directed by Hal Ashby. Harold is a boy about nineteen and is played by Bud Cort. Maude is a woman about 79 years old and is played by Ruth Gordon. The movie is set in the San Francisco Bay area. Harold is a boy who is depressed and attempts many times to get his mothers attention by pretending to commit suicide. Since Harold is depressed and attempts to kill himself he likes to attend funeral in his spare time. That's where he meets Maude. Maude may be 79 years old, but she has a lot of spunk. She is like a life lesson teacher and does a lot of things that are against the law. Some of the things she and Harold do are steal a car and tree, and then when the police pull them over they steal the motorcycle. Harold's mom sets Harold up in this dating service so he can meet girls his own age. Every time Harold meets a new girl he does something immoral to get the girls to leave because he doesn't want to be with them. Harold falls in love with Maude and wants to marry her. The day of Maude's 80th birthday Harold purposes to her and then she tells him that she is going to die because she took pills. I think this movie is good and there are a lot of things that keep the audience entertained. The things that stand out the most and make it a good movie are Harold's suicide attempts, Maude and Harold's relationship and the lesson Maude teaches Harold.One of the big things that makes me say it was a good movie was the suicide attempts Harold does. The special effects are really good and it makes it look like Harold really dies. There are a few that stick in my mind the most. One is when Harold is on one of his meetings with a girl names Edith from the dating service. Harold doesn't really want to deal with her so he does things that he shouldn't to get rid of her. He pretends to cut off his hand. It really looks like it happened because you can see the bones and Harold even made noises and faces that make it look real. Another incident was when Harold was meeting Sunshine and he tried to kill himself. She was interested in the knifes that were sitting on a table. Since she was interested he stabbed himself and then she did the same just it wasn't pretend she really killed herself. It looked so real when Harold did it because of the blood and the way he acted. The last one that was really believable and made you think it really happened was that the end of the movie. Harold is driving his car and he drives it off a cliff. All you see is the car hitting the ground and smashing. Then you see Harold at the top of the cliff and then he starts to play his banjo. The stunt crew do an amazing job at making these suicide attempts look so real.One of the things that keeps the audience intrigued is Harold and Maude's relationship. Harold is young and Maude is old so it's a little weird but it adds a lot to the movie. If the movie wasn't like that it would be very boring and wouldn't be as good. Harold and Maude's relationship is what the movie is about. Maude is the one that changes Harold. One of the ways Harold changes is when he purposes to Maude on her birthday and she says she's taken a pill he doesn't let her die he calls the ambulance. If it was anyone else he would have let them die. One of the really weird but funny scene is where Harold is in Maude's bed with her and his is blowing bubbles and you can tell he is shirtless. You don't know that Maude is in the bed till the camera zooms out to a bigger shot and then you see Maude sleeping and it looks like she has her shirt off too. Harold falls madly in love with Maude. He even purposes to her on her 80th birthday. Their relationship is what made the movie and is what kept the audience hooked. The Last thing that made the movie good was the lesson Maude taught Harold. She was like a life teacher to him and she taught him not to get too attached. One of the things Maude told Harold was here today, gone tomorrow, so don't get attached to things. Maude cared about Harold and she knew he loved her but she knew she wouldn't be around forever so that's why she told him that. This lesson isn't just for Harold its for everyone out there. It means don't get to attached to something because it may not always be there. This is what Maude was really saying. It was something Harold didn't really get because he was young and in love. This movie was really good and the one thing that can be taken away is the lesson Maude teaches because its not only a good lesson but a true one. Some things are not always going to be there.You have to not get to attached because someday they will leave. "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hal Ashby's movie Harold and Maude was released December 20, 1971. The very well developed script was written by Colin Higgins. Ashby's movie stars Bud Cort as Harold and Ruth Gordon as Maude. He set the movie in the San Francisco Bay area. Harold And Maude is a good movie it shows how one person can impact another's life and change how they view it while using sound effects and editing clips as well as the characters working through a well developed plot making it easy for the viewers to understand. Harold is a young boy who is 19 years old who seems to be depresses about life and becomes obsessed with death. He buys a hearse which his mother does not like the idea of. He has multiple fake attempts at suicide to get his mothers attention as she is always busy doing something else, the last three of his attempts are done to get rid of the many his mother sets him up in because she thinks they could be his potential wife. During one of the fake attempts he is in a sitting room with his mother and one of his potential date. While his mother and date are talking he pulls out a meat clever and precedes to use it like he is chopping of his hand. Even though it was a fake hand his date was freaked out by it and hiss mother seemed to be in disbelief while being mad at the same time. Harold's last three attempts were done to get rid of the dates his mother set him up on while the ones in the beginning were to get his mothers attention. The change in why he was doing them was due to meeting Maude who is a 79 year old women at one of the many funerals he attended in his free time. Maude then takes Harold through many things that teach him to look at life differently. Such as when they stole multiple vehicles all while taking the tree from the city and putting it in the wilderness as Maude thought it was going to die. By the end you can see he has changed when Maude said she had taken pills and is going to die and instead of Harold letting her die he has her rushed to the hospital in hopes of keeping her alive.Sound effects are one of the greatest things about this movie. It is often used to set the tone and atmosphere while developing the character and furthering the plot. One place where this is greatly used is during one of Harold's fake attempts he is in the living room with one of the potential wives and she asks about the knives that are sitting on the table next to them. He says he will show her what it does and lays down a mat while Japanese music is playing in the background showing his focus. He them pretends to stab himself in the heart and die. While the women thinks he is being serious she then recites a few lines from The Tragedy of Romeo and Juliet before taking the knife out of Harold's hands and killing herself as she thought he had. Another great example of his is during the final credits when the movie ends. It ends with Harold walking away playing the banjo all while in the background you can hear a song playing saying you can do what you want and change it yourself. It shows how Harold got a new look on life and now perceives it by the words in the song.The editing in Harold and Maude was also done very well to help further the plot and the dramatic effects and feelings of the characters. Many of the shots are panned to get the full effect while following the characters or objects in them to show the true emotions and how the characters moved. It also gives the viewer a better understanding of the location and what is happening as they see the character moving to that location. For instance when Harold has Maude brought the hospital it switches between the long walk shown in the hallways of the hospital which felt like they took forever, because they were trying to show how long it. felt to Harold where every second counted towards Maude's life. In between the long walk in the hallway it also shows Harold's drive to his final attempt at suicide, where he was upset about Maude and war driving to fast and not safely. Another good place where this is used is when Harold and Maude are in the junk yard and the camera starts out at a farther distance and slowly moves into Harold and Maude talking while moving in we see Maude has numbers on her arm which signify she was in a concentration camp when she was younger and once again show she is an older women. Also after Harold tells Maude he likes her while they are there the camera angle changes again so you can see them and the fireworks that are taking place by there side. The fireworks are put in to show that they are at the climax of the movie through fireworks representing celebration and the end. Harold and Maude is a well devolved movie and is very worth while watching. It shows how life lessons can be taught in such little ways and how one person can change another's view on life. It also does a very good job at developing characters and moving the plot along. "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude is a crowd pleaser but not until the second half. in depth review of the film.","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is an unlikely love story that takes readers on an unexpected adventure as the lives of two unique yet perfectly matched people intertwine. In this story the underdog, Harold, comes out a changed and better man in the end of the movie. This story line appeals to many viewers whether or not they can directly relate to his situation.The movie was filmed in the San Francisco Bay area and released in America in 1971. The film was directed by Hal Ashby and written Colin Higgins, with featured music by Cat Stevens throughout. Although the film was a box office disappointment, it has since reached new heights, being praised by film critics and avid-viewers alike as a funny, believable, charming movie.Harold's character, played by Bud Cort, is a young man coming from a rich family who goes against his mother's every will in a desperate attempt to gain her attention and affection. He continually stages his own deaths and suicides, some more ridiculous than others, until she reaches her wits end and orders him to marry in an attempt to fix his attitude for good. Unlike most young men his age, Harold enjoys visiting funerals, graveyards, and demolition sites. Although he doesn't find a bride his mother would approve of at any of his hangouts, he does find a new and wonderful friend.Maude's character is the pivotal person in Harold's life. Like him, she enjoys the morbid, but for different reasons. Through her eccentricities and unconditional love for living things, she shows Harold that life can be good if it's truly enjoyed and appreciated to the fullest each day. A lot of people enjoy being dead, but they're not dead. They're just backing away from life. Maude is considerably older than Harold, and seems to take him under her wing through the movie, helping him find things in life that make him happy besides being dead.The culmination of this happy-go-lucky movie is Harold and Maude falling in love, or Harold falling in love with her. He shows her the things that he has learned in a birthday party he throws for her 80th birthday. All is going well until Harold discovers she has poisoned herself in order to die because she doesn't believe she wants to live beyond 80. Harold is distraught and takes her to the hospital, but not before it's too late. The audience can sympathize with his sadness and grief at the loss of what we believe is his only true friend in life, and his lover.The life lessons Maude taught Harold are obvious at the end of the movie, when the shot angles and scenes lead us to believe he will drive himself off a cliff in one last suicide, but walks away from the cliff with a banjo in his arms, plucking out If You Want to Sing Out, Sing Out by Cat Stevens. He is going to go on and live life to the fullest, so he can truly live before he dies.The film is full of interesting shots and scenes. There are some strange angles and locations that keep the viewer intrigued and following the story. A great scene that allows the viewer to think that they are really watching the couple as they evolve as people is the scene where they are dancing in Maude's house. The camera pans out through the window and tracks them at their eye level as they dance down her streetcar home to a Cat Stevens song. This is just one example of the brilliant filming abilities and directing used in the film.The film also uses the music of Cat Stevens to illustrate scenes in a new light. The scene where Harold and Maude are in the military graveyard is one example of this. As the camera view pans out and up to show more and more of the massive graveyard, the song Where do the Children Play cries out above the dark scene. This seems to be a reference not only to wars in general but possibly the Vietnam War specifically. The scene is just one political statement made in the movie, but one that stood out strongly to me.The movie starts out very strange, and very slow. The viewer isn't given much information to go on or use to enjoy the film fully until Maude appears and shakes up the structure of Harold's life. The ending of the movie is the culmination of a warm and exciting journey that the audience has followed Harold make and felt as though they were apart of, and the way he handles Maude's death is a closing scene that is sure to stick on minds and hearts of all kinds of viewers. "},{"Title":"A cult classic","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold And Maude is a classic, or at least a cult classic. Whatever it is, I liked it a lot! This movie has charm and wit and humor and a delicious cynicism about things. I love movies that make you think. That make you want to change your perspective about how things should be.A 20 something guy is obsessed with death. He attends funerals and pretends to commit suicide in front of his mother. At a funeral, he meets a 79 plus woman They spend a lot of time together. He announces that he is to going to marry her. But she may have other plans.From a very sharp and smartly written screenplay by Colin Higgins, Harold And Maude fell into the hands of director Hal Ashby, who adds a real charm and sweetness to these seemingly eccentric characters. Ashby plays the satirical humor with a light touch that makes it palatable.Actors Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon are exceptional in their respective roles as Harold And Maude. "},{"Title":"Pope Pius XIII?","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A classical fairytale of free love between an asexual young man and a senior bohemian, =HAROLD AND MAUDE- tells the tale of Project SETI as it was conceived by Carl Sagan and his team of international scientist, including some form Cornell University. The registry of the movie is impressive classic Bulgarian, and a -faux- mother, a lookalike of Nancy Wood, the professor from Britsh (a retarded lookalike), arrange sessions for the young lord from Cornell University so he can a hand at women. Since he does not like jelly, and he despises luscious behavior above all, and he is a Prince, he mocks acrobats to lure anti-matter into his reign by arranging a set of F/X over 54% semi-conductors (in his briefs), while demi-aroused and after being caught by hospital security for POLO RALPH 1967, he escapes a one meter jump into the swimming pool just to redirected into a POLO game here the young lord stick his -toothbrush- out and begins to swallow the girls! A most brilliant -QUOD MATREM- movie ends with a virtuoso of the young lord of the Cornell University who flashes in a 90o turn to leave his guitar and enjoy the peace and tranquility of the Egyptian after-life. The guitar is his instrument when I studied at Cornell University I saw a couple of little demons showering their instruments to the pals! Carl Sagan was known in town as Satan, because he is intelligent, sage, attractive, strong, drives a nice Porshe, is from New York and sells Milky Way around the corner. I saw him once selling a hot dog to an undergraduate! My only mistake at Cornell I could not take a photo of the Subway-Man! "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" HAROLD AND MAUDE is certainly one of the funniest movies of all time, but is also one of the most important human stories as well. I only saw this film quite recently but it hopped straight to my number one film of all time. It is beautiful. Bud Cort is charming as Harold and Ruth Gordon - dare I say cute? As Maude. If I look like her when I'm eighty I'll be out there nicking cars and fluttering my eyelashes at policemen too! Maude wrenches Harold free from his morbid and lonely existence to show him how lush and amazing the world can be and he emerges from his experiences a happy man. This is definitely one of the films that (along with say, Fight Club, American Beauty and The Rocky Horror Picture Show) show you can be who you want to be, and you needn't let anyone oppress you. It's brilliant. "},{"Title":"Touching and Sweet","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, this was a topic that I have not often come across. A much older woman and a young man falling in love makes for an interesting premise, but it also seems it would be quite difficult to pull of well. Harold and Maude did it perfectly. It helped that it wasn't just about their love but also a character study how Harold was obsessed with death and pretended to kill himself in the opening scene in the movie, or how they meet at a funeral. It is a morbid humor, but funny none the less. I watched it with my friend, who says it is her favorite movie, and by the end we were both sobbing. The fact that they were such an oddball couple isn't even the whole reason the simple beauty of it, the tenderness in which the subject is approached, and how at the end it is sad yet you also feel a sense of happiness for the love they shared. When Maude tells Harold that she is going to die, the way the scene is played out will leave you in tears for the rest of the movie. At the very end when Harold stands on the cliff, watching the car burst into flames, playing the banjo, even the most unfeeling, cold person will simply lose it. This is a masterpiece, funny, sad, tender, and interesting all at the same time, which are rare to come across. "}{"Title":"authorship question","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Back in the 1970s I had a college friend whose mother was a grad student at UCLA. In a screen writing class the prof's assistant was one Colin Higgins. My friend's mother turned in a story, supposedly the story was the same as Harold and Maude (without those names and with some minor differences from what we've come to know and love). Not sure why she never really went after Higgins on this, if it was true. I believed her, though, knowing who she was.I saw the film before I ever met the (author's) daughter, and was very much moved by it as a high school student--saw it several times in one week, in fact. Still consider it one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film about a depressed lonely boy searching for meaning in life. He is ignored by his parents and tries to get their attention through his attempted suicides, which I might say are very humorous scenes. He is eccentric, drives a hearse, and is infatuated with death. Its not until he meets Maude that he becomes interested in life. Maude is an 80 year old woman, about 50 years his senior, and they fall in love. A very interesting relationship, intriguing characters that we really start caring about. We follow them on their journey, as they teach each other about life, and we learn from them. Love in any form can be beautiful......just as long as you are lucky enough to find it. Mickey and Maude are that lucky......you must see this 70's classic if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"a romantic black comedy of the most light-hearted/sinister psychological ideals","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wouldn't say I really clicked into Harold and Maude entirely on a first viewing- maybe I may never will. It almost has something to it at times that I found a bit unique for that un-trustworthy brand of cinema known as the romantic comedy. It's not the last time it's happened, but what I found fascinating about the psychological interest the character of Harold (Bud Cort, dead-pan to the point of inertia sometimes), is that we see really what is going on inside Harold's head in the midst of the actual scene as it's playing out, subjectivity in the guise of objective, cold shooting. The best example(s) can be found when he tries to commit suicide- more than once as it were. It's actually kind of manipulative, and if you've ever known someone or even been a survivor of suicide it might be very off-putting to see it put on such bizarre display here. But it adds to the perverse fun of the picture to see that hopelessness is really the only thing from keeping these fantasies going on as Harold's head-strong, perpetually bourgeois mother (Vivian Pickles, a perfectly one-track performance), keeps trying to set him up with women...or else it's off to the army. It's a creative cinematic trick, though it might have even worked itself greater in a short film, or even as an actual novel where Harold (and Maude for that matter) could be revealed even more with their psychological insides and emotional bearings and depths.So in a sense Harold and Maude only sometimes gets under the surface. But said surface ends up making for the kind of unusual movie that doesn't give 'unusual' a bad name at all. It was the second feature directed by Hal Ashby, and his acute sense of the visual with the purity of either eccentric/bottled-up people, or just stiff rich folks, is uncanny. His strengths at keeping Colin Higgins rocky, predictably unpredictable screenplay in check is also a plus. Yet Harold and Maude, for all of its successes at making some uproarious comedic moments as Harold keeps himself systematically detached not just from his mother, psychiatrist, and crazy army-lifer uncle, but from the proposed ladies as well (there is one, the last one, who is an actress who actually 'gets' what Harold is doing with a Kari-Kiri ritual, is maybe the funniest of all), doesn't do as much as I thought it might in really getting underneath this young man and old woman. There's an interesting split of the two sides of life- despair and joy- that make up the sort of existential mishaps both characters get into, and likely draw one another to each other as mutual funeral crashers. If only it wasn't so quirky all the time- sometimes too much whimsy can backfire.Still, the bit of unease I felt from the film's mis-fires in its broad strokes at black comedy (my least favorite being the one with Harold, the uncle, and Maude as a protester on the rocky cliffs), there was enough that was attained by the actors to make it worthwhile and at least worth one viewing. In fact, I'd say I would watch this again just for Ruth Gordon, who we learn just from one quick shot (a tattoo on her arm, don't miss it) about why perhaps she is who she is at this age, and it's maybe too quick yet crucial to understanding who she is. She is, on the surface, a kind of overly bright, near-crazy fire-fly burning on into that crossroads of 79 into 80. She also is a wonderful contrast to Cort, who along with his dead-pan qualities down pat, can also have fun too in doing his weird little suicidal moments (I loved the bit in the bathtub), or when he has to get more emotional revealing his first brush with death. In the end, I'm reminded of a line from Scorsese's the Departed 'death is easy- life is much harder'. We may never know if Harold becomes joyful, especially with such a sad ending that ends up coming, but there is a slight skip to his step as he plays the banjo, which is a kind of catharsis from seeing this glimpse into the lives of these two 'made-for-each-other' characters.Harold and Maude, with its sweet and puffy folk songs by Cat Stevens, and fine cinematography and editing, is a very good effort at stretching what is expected out of the dreaded 'rom-com', by giving something completely different and still sticking to a template of love conquering all...in a manner of speaking. Not Ashby's best, but far from his worst either. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"35th anniversary of a classic","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Turner Classic Movies is currently showing this, perhaps due to the 35th anniversary, perhaps not. Regardless, I saw this in a theater when it was new, and is making me feel old. But that is the only part of this movie that makes me feel old! The plot is refreshing to both mind and the spirit. What is really interesting to me is how the movie seems to be in that in-between period of 1960's conservative family values and 1970's more liberal, experimental type films. It really does feel like 1971. Excellent performances from all, and good action scenes in a movie that really is a non-action movie! Cat Stevens soundtrack helps define the story, and to this day when I hear Cat Stevens music, I think of this film. That is what a soundtrack is supposed to do, and it scores! "},{"Title":"Still Quirky and Funny Black Comedy Tells the Ultimate Opposites-Attracts Love Story","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1971 black comedy is still a stitch, even if it doesn't feel as audacious as I'm sure it once did. Directed by the maverick Hal Ashby, it is the epitome of all opposites-attract love stories as a twenty-year old depressive connects with a 79-year old life-loving woman. They actually bond over their mutual interest in death, as they keep showing up at the same funerals. However, the root of their respective interests couldn't be more different - Maude shows up to reconfirm how lucky she feels to be alive, while the hearse-driving Harold simply likes the morbidity of it all.The plot is really about their burgeoning relationship, while his mother constantly attempts to make the death-obsessed Harold more socially acceptable. First, she uselessly sets him up on a series of blind dates. To foil any hope of romance with these women, however, he stages mock-suicides which simply perturbs rather than disturbs his mother. She then recruits an ineffectual analyst and even has her brother Victor, a hawkish officer and Vietnam War amputee, to try to convince Harold to join the Army. The episodic structure of the story by Collin Higgins (years before becoming a director in his own right with Foul Play and Nine to Five) allows the characters to develop in subtle ways with a completely deadpan approach despite the outward shenanigans of the characters' actions. The movie eventually moves toward a greater gravitas but despite some soap opera elements, surprisingly not at the expense of the pervasive whimsical tone.Ruth Gordon is her typically pixilated self, an archetype she played for years afterward, while Bud Cort is terrific in conveying his particular brand of wide-eyed cynicism. It's really their unforced chemistry that keeps the film feeling fresh 35 years later. There are funny sideline performances by Vivian Pickles as Harold's eye-rolling mother, Ellen Geer as an overly actressy blind date named Sunshine, and Eric Christmas in a very funny cameo as a disapproving priest. Cat Stevens' soundtrack hasn't aged as well as, say, Simon and Garfunkel's music in The Graduate, but it still works as a folkish commentary on the quirky proceedings. Unfortunately, the 2000 DVD contains a rather compromised print and there are no extras included. "},{"Title":"oh sweet Harold and Maude","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" glad i happened upon some quotes of Harold and Maude's beautiful exchanges. this memory of this movie makes smile and teary-eyed. and as i sing praise to the loveliness of above mentioned film, why is it this system insists that i capitalize???? i think MAUDE would agree that this is a LITTLE fascist. minimum of ten lines of text, eh? just watch it..... and re-watch it. i think about once every five to seven years, so it doesn't lose it's brilliance. so the memory isn't spoiled by the imperfections. i'm looking forward to seeing it again... i think i have another year or so to go till i make it to my fifth viewing. the honesty, sincerity, awkward bliss. "},{"Title":"what's on her wrist","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, now everybody remembers the scene in this movie where harold and maude are sitting on the edge of a pier overlooking the ocean. at first everything is very stilted between the two of them initially until harold pulls out a ring that he wishes to give to maude. (it may be a wedding ring, it may not, i'll have to check on that) maude's reaction is to throw it in the water so she'll always know where it is, a beautiful, but somewhat impulsive action. getting up to leave there is something revealed on maude's wrist, what is it? i've been trying to figure it out forever and so far have found nothing but dead ends and false starts. "},{"Title":"A Movie I Will Always Love and Cherish","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude is one of those movies that touches people in so many ways. The setting was one (I grew up in the Bay Area so the scenery is familiar), the music of Cat Stevens is another, and mostly it is the wonderful work of Ruth Gordon. If a movie was ever made for someone..this one was made for her or maybe she was made for the movie.The comments the movie makes on life and death are so true. It leaves you feeling sad yet also happy. Amazingly I do not own this movie yet, but will get it soon to add to my collection. I urge you to do so too.Funny, sad, touching and even controversial...a memorable film that is timeless and simply lovely! "},{"Title":"Four stars all the way!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love has no boundaries. This quote is true when it comes to describing Harold and Maude. This movie tells the story of a death-obsessed 20-year-old and a lively 79-year- old woman. Harold (played by Bud Cort) is a boy who likes to do fake deaths and go to funerals in his free time. Maude on the other hand, loves life and can't wait till her 80th birthday. Their relationship turns from friendship to love.I would recommend Harold and Maude to anybody. The acting done by Ruth Gordon is unforgettable. Her spirit and liveliness in this film makes anybody watching want to be her. And Bud Cort. . . even though he doesn't speak much, his actions are memorable in many ways.Many people think that this relationship between a young man and a VERY old woman can't work. But this movie crosses the line and works well. Hal Ashby and Colin Higgins did a great job directing and producing this film. They did everything that supposedly couldn't work in a film.My Rating 10/10, Romance/Comedy "},{"Title":"A cult favorite","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold and Maude has long been a cult favorite since its release in 1971. It's Hal Ashby's quirky black comedy about a strange rich boy named Harold, played by bug-eyed Bud Cort, who is so bored he stages trick suicides to annoy his uncaring mother. Harold meets octogenarian Maude (Ruth Gordon) an eccentric who loves life. She helps Harold out of his depression and teaches him to love life again, as well as a few other things. The theme of a May-December romance was quite novel in its time. The soundtrack is by folk singer/songwriter Cat Stevens and features many of his most popular tunes. The movie is a minor film but has its own charm and an uplifting message. "}{"Title":"I like it A LOT","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Words can't begin to describe my affection for this movie. I have put off seeing it until now just because I had the wrong impression of what this movie was about. Harold the kid who is bored with life and everyone around him. Yes he likes to fake suicide and attend funerals. Maude is the person everyone would like to become or at least I would. She enjoys life and takes what she wants from it with no guilt. They meet because they both like to attend strangers funerals and it leads to a great friendship (romance I suppose). It's what everyone movie is trying to achieve but few do it truly is a classic in my book. "},{"Title":"Still wonderful after all these years","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A small, quiet movie that packs a punch. My favorite years ago and even still now.I just saw Harold and Maude again and I still love it after all these years.Unlike many movies I know well, I wasn't looking forward to the next good scene, but found myself enjoying every scene, every bit of dialogue and perhaps most, every nuance of expression. Bud Cort reveals depths if you watch carefully, just as this movie does.I won't be exhaustive; just a few things that struck me this time (again)Harold is such a restrained person that much is conveyed silently. The range of expression as he's driving his car to the cliff at the end is revealing and poignant.Contrary to most movies (I was about to say contemporary, but I think this has been going on throughout movie history) H&M isn't afraid to let the action carry the scene and doesn't depend on background to enhance or disguise. However, Cat Steven's music is used appropriately and to very good effect.The pictures behind the uncle, the psychiatrist and the priest.I took my roommate to see H&M in college and she was rolling in the aisles.Favorite line 'Everyone has the right to make an ass of himself. You can't let the world judge you too much.'  "},{"Title":"An eccentric, quirky story of discovering life and love...","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bored and desperate for love and attention, young Harold dwells in his own misery and tries to bring everyone around him down along with him. Obsessed with death, his morbid personality is a reflection of his dissociation with the world around him. His rich mother simultaneously ignores him and smothers him, leaving Harold starved for affection and longing to join his deceased father, yet lacking the conviction to actually end his miserable existence.Enter Maude, a totally over-the-top senior citizen who is loopy, lovable, and overflowing with life. Played magnificently by the late, great Ruth Gordon, Maude is a true eccentric with an insatiable lust for life, and Harold is immediately drawn to her. They form a unique bond and develop a relationship which changes Harold profoundly.This movie stands the test of time. While the cars and clothes may be dated, the characters express feeling and emotion which does not change over time. And while all this sounds very deep and dramatic, this is actually one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. You really have to see this one for yourself, and I'm happy to hear that new generations of film lovers are continuing to enjoy this cult favorite.  "},{"Title":"How dramatic and cinematic elements bring out literary elements...SPOLIER","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this movie many dramatic and cinematic elements bind together to help bring out the characters and the plot. In the beginning of the movie the music starts to play and Harold lights the candles setting a dark mood of death. This setting leads to Harold's suicide attempts. Being able to see actual facial expressions on Harold's face as he was attempting his fake suicides helped to show his inner thoughts of death. The sight of drool dripping off Harold's lips during his hangings, the sight of blood spread across the bathroom, and the expressions during the drowning at the pool help to covey Harold's seriousness about suicide. After Harold met Maude the differences and similarities of the two characters become apparent. Maude is portrayed as the lively but crazy old women, and Harold is portrayed as the mysterious and unique character. Maude's crazy character shines when she came driving to and from the funeral driving all over the road in a car that does not belong to her for she had stole it the other day. When Maude and Harold ride to Maude's house and the things in the house are placed in disarray the camera angles help to convey how the house actually looks. These camera shots are used to help show Maude's uncaring attitude toward how people feel about the type of person she is. Later in the movie once the image of Harold acting like he was committing suicide was portrayed the shot when the camera zooms out over the graves and incorporates many tombs was another example of how cinematic elements help to convey Harold's views of death and the uniqueness of Harold and Maude. When Harold and Maude are driving on the dirt road and the dust is flying from the back of the car this compares the two characters driving abilities. Harold drives sensibly and Maude takes driving for grant because she does not believe in driver's licenses. After Maude was stopped by the police officer blaring his sirens she told the police officer that she did not believe in having a driver's license, so the police officers expressions lead to thoughts of disapproval of Maude's actions. When Maude proceeds to get back into the car and makes circles around the police officer to show her disobedient personality. When Maude reached the sign that said that the bridge was closed she proceeded on at full speed as a continuation of her civil disobedience of not stopping for the police. Once Maude was pulled over by the police again she showed how crazy and uncaring about rules she was because she then stole the police officers motorcycle.As the movie continued on there were many instances when close up shots, special effects, and sound effects help to bring out the personality type of the characters. "},{"Title":"CK's version explain few ways that dramatic and cinematic elements help advance the plot","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude directed by Hal Ashby is by far one of the best movies I've ever seen.  It is full of humor, many hysterical puns, and many creative references to death that just seem to add to the humor greatly. The camera angles seemed to be set perfectly to catch the exact desired effect the director was looking for; such as in the beginning of the movie the camera is placed in a way, so that you only see Harold's lower half right up to the point where he hangs himself Leaving you in suspense as to what has just happened.  The lighting in this particular scene also helped to set the mood. It was rather dark up until the point of the hanging where back lighting from the window behind Harold seemingly show cases his hanging body.  The odd thing about this scene at first though is that the music sounds really up beat, and you wouldn't think Harold was getting ready to hang himself.  This in actuality is one of the clever things the director added to the film.  You find out later on that Harold enjoys death, so why not have an uplifting song play just before Harold does something that he loves.  It's pure genius I think. I also believe that the actors in the movie were chosen wonderfully to fit their character.  Harold for instance played by Bud Cort actually looks like someone who would have this slightly dark or morbid sense of humor.  He had dark hair and dark eyes and wore a lot of dark clothing.  His monotonous voice also added to his character because it would be a little less effective to have some happy go lucky person trying to get the point across that they love death.  Maude played by Ruth Gordon was also a great pick to play the part of a spicy, little old lady. She just seemed to epitomize the older version of every 8 year old girl in America and she did it well. The way she scurried around on camera, the smile that was always on her face, even right down to the curiosity. She always seemed to have this look about her that just fit perfectly.  Hal Ashby definitely knew what he was doing when he chose these two actors for the roles of Harold and Maude. I don't think he could have cast anyone who would have done a better job at fitting these characters and carrying out the plot so well.  "},{"Title":"What Helps the Plot Along","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maud's main asset is its interesting plot and use of dark humor. Though it is mainly driven by its original premise and compelling plot, there are many dramatic and a few cinematic elements used to aid in character development and setting establishment. The plot was advanced immensely by being able to watch the characters interact with each other. Maud's carefree and childlike expression and joyous motions make her a more believable love interest for her young lover. Harold's deadpan expression and body movement help us to understand his bizarre character as well as add humor to the movie. One terrific example is Maud's body language when Harold finds her modeling for an artist at her house. Her expression indicates that she is not taking herself particularly seriously, but her body moves with a grace that denies her age. The way Harold looks at her at this point marks the beginning of their strange romance, one that would be hard to comprehend if not for the characters developed by the dramatic elements of the film. The setting added a huge amount to the effect of the movie. The field of daises added to Maud's speech about individualism and the rows of gravestones gave a shocking illustration to the movies theme of the eventual mortality that everyone faces. The dark lighting during the scene where Harold professes his love for Maud provides foreshadowing of Maud's imminent death. The harsh lighting cast on Harold's mother makes her into a rather humorous figure by portraying her as rather militant. The dramatic elements add the most to the humorous aspects of the movie. Harold's fiercely military uncle would not be nearly as funny if we were not able to see him pull on a string to draw his missing limb into a salute. Harold's fake suicides certainly would not be as funny if we weren't able to see his mother's utter indifference (or just plain frustration) every time she finds him covered in blood, lying in the most inconvenient places. If it wasn't balanced out by funny images and expressions used by the actors, Harold and Maud would be downright depressing. The dramatic elements swing the movie from the drama genre to a superb and subtle dark comedy. The beautiful natural settings (and not to mention the wonderfully appropriate music) also relieve the darkness of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Spoilers) Ruth Gordon, Bud Cort, and Vivian Pickles are all great in the ahead-of-its-time Harold And Maude.  Gordon plays an apparent Holocaust survivor who has decided to live life to the fullest and by her rules only, and does a very good job of playing the free spirit.  Cort has some hysterical scenes as Harold, mainly playing off his mother's (Pickles) non-reactions to his fake suicides, and then to the shock of his blind dates.  This movie stays grounded the whole way through, and never goes for cheap and sappy sentiment, surprising me quite frankly.  The funniest scene in the movie is toward the end, when Harold has finally expressed his love for Maude.  You think everything is going to be big smiles and lush music, but instead we get a priest (Eric Christmas) articulating what is no doubt in the back of everyone's mind.  Big twist of an ending, too.  You really didn't see this kind of filmmaking again until the late 1990's.  Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Little Movie","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ah! What a perfect, beautiful little movie. A dark comedy, that is not for everybody, but for those who are game...it's bliss. Death-obsessed young Harold meets up with much-older Maude, and his whole outlook on life is transformed in just a few remarkable days. Probable? Probably not, but this is the movies, so who cares?Bud Cort as the moon-faced Harold, gives a gem of a performance. Ruth Gordon, as Maude, well...can you think of a better performance of hers? Vivian Pickles as Harold's snooty, oblivious mother is also memorable. Extremely sharp writing by Colin Higgins, with some really wonderful lines. Terrific location photography in Northern California also adds to the general ambiance, as do Cat Steven's spectacular songs. It's no wonder this has become a cult movie classic. Unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Life and Death","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Hal Ashby did an outstanding job of portraying how life and death are entwined together in the movie Harold and Maude (1971).  Harold (Bud Cort), a college age man, is bored with life in general.  He is from a wealthy family, yet has no pleasure in life but to envision dying and attending strangers' funerals.  His mother (Vivian Pickles) sent him to see a psychiatrist who asked Harold how many ways he has faked his suicide; it has been around fifteen so far.   She keeps trying to find ways for Harold to make something of his life and to let go of his fascination with death. She has realized he is wasting his life away so decides to find Harold a wife.  She joins a dating service for him by filling out the computer forms from her perspective.During one of Harold's visit to a funeral, he meets an elderly woman named Maude (Ruth Gordon) who also enjoys attending strangers' funerals.  After one of the funerals she tells Harold in casual conversation that she is seventy nine, and will be eighty, in one week and then it will be time to pass on.Maude has lived life to the fullest, and tried to make an impact on Harold to do the same through music, dancing, and not trying to make his life an imitation of others' lives.  Harold falls in love with Maude, and tells his mother, after three dates from the dating service  did not work, that he is going to marry Maude.  Harold's plan is to propose to Maude at his surprise eighty birthday party for her. This is a must see for viewers to find out how life and death are so much alike.  The music by Cat Stevens set the emotion for the film.  We can learn from those who have lived life to the fullest that we have endless choices in how to live. Each of us can just reach out and find our own. "},{"Title":"Great, but not for everyone","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can go wrong in a film in which a suicidal 17 year old boy falls in love with a free-spirited 85 year old woman?  Surprisingly, not much. Directed by Hal Ashby, Harold and Maude puts a spin on the traditional coming-of-age story and turns a seemingly taboo relationship into something that the audience can actually swallow.  There are still some uncomfortable moments, like when Harold and Maude are laying in bed together, but overall Ashby was able to eliminate most of the discomfort surrounding such a typically unacceptable relationship. The film begins with one of Harold's many staged suicide attempts, and it sets the mood for the entire film morbidly humorous and incredibly odd. You find yourself laughing in places you think you shouldn't and caring for characters you never thought you could care for.  As the film progresses and Maude eases Harold out of his shell, the age gap between the characters seems to shrink.  The relationship and its evolution create an interesting and evocative story that keeps you entertained through the entire film. It is important to keep in mind that not everyone will like this film. Those who gravitate towards traditional romantic comedies and mostly realistic love stories will probably want to steer clear of Harold and Maude.  Much of the film functions on an absurd level, like Harold's early relationship with his mother, and the series of dates that his mother sets up for him.  But, anyone who enjoys black humor and inventive storylines will probably be satisfied.  "}{"Title":"If you want to sing out, sing out!","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you want to sing out, sing out! I think that's the name of one of the songs in the movie, which is one of my greatest favorites ever. This movie is a rather weird comedy about love and freedom. It seems to say that you can be weird, if you want to, and it is all right. "},{"Title":"Fun Stuff","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually with my favorite films (like this one) I want to talk about why I love it. But I feel the need to address some of the comments of other posters this time. Just because Harold is a spoiled rich kid, doesn't mean he doesn't need Maude's help. Did it ever occur to anyone that by helping Harold realize what life has to offer, that he might go on to help others and fight for worthwhile causes, like Maude herself did? Also, I think the criticism of flashing Maude's concentration camp number is misguided at best. I'm reminded of Martin Scorcese relating how his experiences in Little Italy shaped him. Her concentration camp experience obviously shaped her, but if they had been the only experiences that shaped her, this movie probably would have been a lot more like Rod Steiger in The Pawnbroker So just enjoy the wit and wisdom that Maude imparts on her short journey with Harold. "},{"Title":"Maiden, Mother & Crone","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read the book(the screen writer's thesis paper). There are bits left out of the movie that would have put even more of a spin on the plot. Maude draws smiles on the saints' statues in the church--she believes that anyone intimate with the Divine should be blissfully happy.It works on the level of ancient pre-Christain religion archetypes of the cyclical nature of life and rebirth. It gets mentioned several times in the movie. She is the Crone of the triune goddess, teaching the youth about life and love.The context of the movie must be seen as a retort to the Vietnam war, where men even younger than Harold's character were being used as mortar fodder on a daily basis. The draft was inescapable for the majority of young Americans at that time, which makes his uncle's diatrabes about the glory of Army life extremely ironic. Maude's soliloquy in the military cemetery is bittersweet. I feel that much of world's sorrow comes from people who are this(living things), yet allow themselves to be treated as that(endless rows of tombstones in the VA cemetery).Harold has it all but having and being are two different animals. Bliss is not something that can be picked up at Macy's. His mother keeps trying to fix his outsides to make the inside all right, with disatrous results for her pawns.If you look at the symbolism for the Major Arcana of a Tarot deck, you find the ground that Harold & Maude flourished in. If you take this movie too literally, you will miss a lot of the humor. This started out as a rock opera. Hal Ashby had a very wicked sense of humor. Look at the sly wit of Being There, his last film.Unfortunately for our world one of Maude's observations still rings true Zoos are full, prisons are overflowing--oh my, how the world still dearly loves a cage!When Harold describes his adventures with chemistry, she gives him more excellent advice--A lot of people enjoy being dead, but they're not, really; they're just backing away from life. Reach out take a chance; get hurt even--play as well as you can--L-I-V-E, live; otherwise you've got nothing to talk about in the locker room.When was the last time you heard a character in a movie be that direct? This is the opposite of self-absorbed. Words to live by (bad pun). It took a time, a place, and a generation to make a movie like Harold & Maude. We weren't self-absorbed, we were reaching out for understanding in a world turned upside down. If you don't get this movie, don't despair. There's Prozac, internet porn, Botox, and a volunteer army. Play it safe... "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, but a true classic","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold is one messed-up teenager.  He's obsessed with death, and drives a hearse. His mom isn't helping, she ignores him except to throw normal girls at him.  Then he meets Maude, who is not your usual grandma.  She teaches him to enjoy life in ways he's never imagined before.The Cat Stevens soundtrack is a highlight of this film.No violence, no nudity or explicit sex, no foul language, no special effects, but this movie definitely tries to shock. Don't show it to kids. Watch it yourself before showing it to teenagers.Some of Maude's explanations for the ways she behaves, though, really did make me stop and think.SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS below this line SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERSThis movie shows a number of scenes where Harold fakes his own suicide, which his mom brushes off. Some viewers will find this disturbing.A key plot feature is the romance between 14-year-old Harold and 70-something-year-old Maude. The sexual aspect of that makes it onto the screen in a single short scene with them smoking in bed afterward, decorously covered by a sheet. Again, some viewers will find this disturbing (as do some of the characters.)The third time I saw this movie I finally noticed the single brief flash of a concentration camp number tattoo on Maude's arm. It dramatically changed the tone of the rest of the movie for me, putting Maude into a much stronger context. She's definitely weird, but I could see how she got that way.  "},{"Title":"unique","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was born right around the time this film was released and I live on the peninsula, so the sight of the San Francisco Bay Area 1970 in Harold and Maude was utterly astonishing to me.  For me, much of the movie is like watching a ghost story.The whole film is something of a time capsule.  The charming music, the outrageous fashion, and the Maude character seem like things that could only have happened in that time and place.  If a character like Maude existed today, she'd probably be on reality TV being pelted with offal or something.The humor of H&M is wicked and mannered.  I'm not sure people take the film as the class-conscious statement it must have been at the time, since these days even the poorest people in comedies seem to be living in vast apartments and driving new cars.  (That is one thing I really loved about H&M - the total absence of that weird feeling I have more and more with comedies that every last thing on the set just came off the rack, out of the wrapper and was positioned just so for a product placement.  It's like watching people act in the middle of Target.)Much of the film's message was kinda lost on me.  The portrayal of a rich kid vaguely probing for something to care about seemed interesting to me chiefly in the context of the 70's counterculture rather than anything emotionally involving.  The opposition between Harold's mom and Maude is between a force that wants to integrate Harold into a ridiculous society of status-obsessed dopes and a `follow your bliss' approach.  That underlying story became the plot of quite a lot of disposable 80's comedies, which is probably why people are sick of it.I just didn't get Maude, though I admit that could have something to do with the limits of my imagination and experience.  (I'm a Kubrick/Lang/Sternberg fan, so it could be said that I just like art to be a little more sterile and people-free than H&M).  It's a unique film that I found quite beautiful in spots and often hilarious.  I dunno if I'd recommend it to very many people though.  It's a pretty rarified/accidental/cult pleasure.  "},{"Title":"What a fantastic film","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to class this as a lost classic. I have only ever seen H&M once before on late night BBC2 TV in the UK in the 1980's. I remember loving it then but great news it is now available in the UK on DVD.What can I say about this film other than its simply wonderful. Funny, touching, great music, great story. There is just so much to be gained from watching this film.As for the acting. I think that Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon were mesmeric. The way she looks at him at times makes you think she was really coming onto him. And when she drops the bombshell at the end and he starts to shout...great editing.And I just love the Jag hearse.A film that should never ever be remade...ever.If you want to live high live high eh! "},{"Title":"Knowing-Everything Elder Stepping Down as Friendly Lover Finds Cult Niche","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This dark romantic comedy, where a depressed rich 20-year-old boy falls for an eccentric 79-year-old woman, is typically made in the aftermath of late-60s' incidents, in both film and real life histories, but is an absolutely atypical mutant. The film's not-so-huge but long-term sustainable success as cult favorite relies on the combination of various factors most notably, the eccentric and funny outlook which leads the audience to innocent laughter, and the protagonists' attitudes of challenging the authority and social norm which have been appreciated by frustrated youth all the time. Besides, the way to describe Maude not only as a mysterious, experienced, knowing-everything elder but also as a vivid, ordinary, lovable individual from youngsters' point of view has distinguished the film from any other, having subconsciously tickled young males' Oedipal Complex. Deliberately over-caricaturized characters and precisely calculated cinematography, along with art direction, costumes and Cat Stevens' theme song, perfect the film's encapsulation of nostalgic early 70s. "},{"Title":"Spring and Winter Romance","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a thing for odd couples, and have written a couple of stories about such pairings.  The gap in age in HAROLD AND MAUDE is made more acceptable, I think, because of the comic treatment.Harold is put off by girls his own age, who lack the gravitas that he has come to associate with death.  A peculiar taste, and a morbid one, but one shared by Maude--perhaps with more reason.Strange as this film is, I don't think it compares in strangeness with the one about the necrophiliac girl who works in a funeral parlor--I forget the title.HAROLD AND MAUDE is a movie I would recommend to anyone with a taste for dark or warped humor, and anyone interested in offbeat romances. "},{"Title":"A celebration of life and the eccentricities that make every person unique.","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In life, people are often faced with circumstances that can leave them changed, or lead to eccentric behavior. This is the case of Harold (Bud Cort) in the film, `Harold and Maude.' Known as a cult classic, `Harold and Maude' is a film that transcends its time with a daring love story between a young man between the ages of 18-20 and an elderly woman nearing the age of 80. The film is reminiscent of the story of `Auntie Mame' in that despite its dark comic approach, `Harold and Maude' is in fact a celebration of life and the eccentricities that make every person unique.  	The story follows that of young Harold (Cort), a rich teen who constantly fakes suicide perhaps to gather attention from his mother, a shallow socialite who has no comprehension of her son's afflictions. One of Harold's favorite past times is to attend funerals, where in fact he meets Maude (Ruth Gordon), an elderly woman whose peculiar behavior leads her to steal cars, among other things, and to appreciate life beyond what the average person does. The two meet at a wake and become close friends. Maude teaches Harold the importance of life beyond the norms by seeing the beauty and intrigue that exists and every object that inhabits this earth. The two generate a connection that ultimately leads to love, and makes Harold question his own wants in life with a family and society that are too conventional for his tastes.  	 `Harold and Maude' isn't just a love story; it's a dark comedy. One can't help but laugh how Harold's phony suicides are portrayed. From stringing himself up in a noose to pretending to chop his arm off, Harold thinks of anything that will shock and disturb his mother. But to his chagrin, nothing works. What's more, the actions of the unusual Maude of stealing cars and fooling police officers, it will leave anyone giggling.  	Aside from its whimsical nature, `Harold and Maude' is relatively bleak as it deals with issues such as death and suicide. Similar issues were raised by a recent theatrical release, `The Hours,' which followed the story of three different women, in three different time periods who were all profoundly affected by Virginia Woolf's novel, `Mrs. Dalloway.' In one scene of `The Hours,' Woolf's husband asks her why someone has to die in her book. Her answer, `Someone should die in order that the rest of us appreciate life.' That's basically the message that one receives from `Harold and Maude,' as well. Death is a part of life although upsetting and sometimes unfair, it happens. Ergo, perhaps people should gain a greater appreciation for their own life when someone close to them dies.  	All in all, `Harold and Maude' is a delightful treasure among other films in the romantic comedy genre. It's begs the question of love existing between two very different people who have so much in common that to avoid love would be a mistake. The film is available for rental at local video stores and for purchase. ***1/2  "},{"Title":"Everything you've heard about this wonderful film is TRUE!!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hal Ashby's masterpiece still resonates with charm, warmth, absurdity and one of the best soundtracks in movie history. If you've ever questioned your reason for living, if you desire a transcendental film experience....or if you just want to laugh, DO NOT miss 'Harold and Maude'. There's a very good reason why this film is on AFI's Top 100 list of American comedies. You'll love this treasure. "}{"Title":"NOT over-hyped","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a hilarious classic.  It's kind of humor isn't brainless (although wickedly ridiculous), but intelligent, dark and twistedly fun. The soundtrack is all Cat Stevens, and lends the film the perfect audio appeal.  Don't expect a normal film - this is completely original and unique.  Maude's character is whimsical and fresh and Harold is a real classic.  The underlying messages in this film lend it an important bite that lifts the film from enjoyable to important.  Highly recommended not just for viewing, but for your film library. "},{"Title":"Spoiler alert","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold may never be a great banjo player, but I could watch him dance forever. In fact, I don't think I could be happy with anyone else. These days he  might be diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome. I mean, why do we have tohave facial expressions? He might also be labelled a Goth for his whitemakeup and fondness for driving a hearse to strangers' funerals. But he'sonly following a family tradition - his mother dresses in dark colours and their  mansion is done up like the Tower of London. Ruth Gordon shows that youcan go on being pretty and feminine as long as you like. I love the way sheplays with her long hair. Yes, the movie is of its time rescuing trees, poking  fun at the establishment and the military. A brief sight of the number tatooed  on Maude's arm goes some way to explain her determination to celebrate life.Love is the answer agrees this old hippy. xxxxxx "},{"Title":"Enjoy life","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film that tells us the value of enjoying life and fulfilling one's promise.Harold's pallor is sickly, almost dead. Then he meets Maude and is revitalised. Their relationship is touching and genuine.This should bear repeated looks7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I ran into this movie on cable one night late last year.  I actually only got to see the last 20 minutes of it, but it was enough to make me run out and find it on DVD.  I think I must've gone to 5 stores when I finally found it.  There was only one copy there and I was so happy it was mine.  I had always heard of this movie over the years.  One of those cult classics I hadn't ever seen but was always curious about.  I can't imagine liking a film more.  I've never seen two more interesting characters than Harold and Maude.  It's amazing to see the changes Harold goes through over the course of one week in his life.  You can literally watch the color come into his face the more he gets to know Maude, and gets to know how good life can be. But Maude is really my favorite.  She looks at the world in a way most people don't.  She stops to appreciate what we take for granted.  She is truly grateful for life and takes advantage of it.  Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon give amazing performances.  Their chemistry on screen has rarely been matched.  I'm so glad I finally got around to seeing this beautiful movie. It ranks as one of my all time favorites and always moves me everytime I see it.  It makes me want to wake each morning, and greet the day with the breath of fire.  -)  Thanks, Maude. "},{"Title":"classic!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the best party movie ever?Perhaps, indeed!This is one of those movies that should never stop being watched.  It's perfect.  It fits anytime.  Good for groups of people to watch together, good for anyone to watch alone.  It commands ones' attention.  I've probably seen this fourteen times, each time I was in a different mood.  When I needed cheering up, it cheered me up.  When I was on some sort of sugar high, It calmed me down and (however cheesy it sounds) made me think about life a little more.The acting is astounding, and I had a crush on Bud Cort after seeing this, (knowing he was MUCH older that I am), and I always wondered why he never did anything mainstream again.  The old lady who played Maude was terrific too.  I can't imagine Maude being anyone else.One of the best movies ever.My grade A+ "},{"Title":"The earth is my body, my head is in the stars","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. It is original, hilarious and witty. Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort are wonderful together. I read that when it first came out, the relationship between Harold and Maude shocked people, but I thought it was pretty cool. This movie shows that it doesn't matter how young or old you are, love can happen anytime and with the person you least expect. One of the essential movies of the 70's. "},{"Title":"Love It!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful wonderful film, I have never seen another movie that so effectively made me think!  See it often and tell everyone about it!  You will not be disappointed.  If I ever end up stranded on a desert island, a copy of Harold and Maude will be enough for me!  "},{"Title":"The importance of friendship","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a wonderful movie about the importance of friendship and self-discovery. Maude decides to befriend Harold and, as a result, Harold's life is completely transformed-for the better. Harold and Maude only knew each other for one week; however, both were forever altered by the experience, especially Harold.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably my favorite movie of all time. I'm naturally attracted to dark comedy, and when you add up the stellar acting, the fantastic script, as well as Cat Steven's music... well, this is a winner. I can't count the number of times I've seen it, yet I still cry at the end! It's a powerful movie about overcoming obstacles and pitfalls (with flair, and a sense of humor), and learning to love yourself and others. All of us 'eccentric folk' out there can appreciate this movie from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Unconventional, which is to say, good. Really, really good.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tired of formulaic Hollywood love stories? Of course you are.  Like its eccentric characters, Harold & Maude is charmingly original and the black comedy (note the black part; if your idea of comedy involves episodes of flatulence or Adam Sandler, you probably won't - how shall I put this? - appreciate the humor in this film, altho' it really is funny, in a kind of bent way) has developed a cult following over the years because of the profound effect it has on those of us who spend most of our lives feeling like outsiders. (Turns out there are a whole bunch of us.) Eighty-year-old Maude's youthful insouciance, reverence for life and self-styled philosophies give Harold (and us, as viewers) a new and refreshing perspective on both big and small things, and after seeing through her eyes for only a short time we'll never approach our own lives quite the same way again. By the way, if you liked Rushmore, do yourself a favor and see this movie. It was a big influence, right down to the wonderful Cat Stevens music. "}{"Title":"An uplifting comedy, that proves that love has no boundaries","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is my all-time favorite, and that is saying a lot (since I teach film classes and see a lot of movies).   I've seen it over 100 times.   It tells the uplifting story of the unusual friendship that develops between 20 year old Harold and the life-affirming 79 year old Maude, as they cope with the big issues of life.   It also is a very funny social satire of the times in which it was made, lampooning repressive institutions like the Army, the police, the church and psychiatry.   And it contains a great score by Cat Stevens.  When I was younger, the film appealed to me (and many others) because of the many ways Harold and Maude rebel against stifling conformity, eventually demonstrating that love has no boundaries.   Even now, in middle age, I find the film relevant, and I hope to grow up to be Maude! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is the best movie I have ever seen.  In an age where the amount of action usually dictates the size of the crowd, it was a thrill to see a movie like this.  It is a flawless film with rich action, unbelievably natural performances, brilliant cinematography, a wonderful score by Cat Stevens, and a great and often hilarious story.  Maude's pholosphies and thoughts in this film, when though about and applied to Life, can change yours.  I have since bought the script to the stage play, the short story, and the movie itself.  Unfortunately, the soundtrack was never made available in the States, but if you have enough Cat Stevens albums eventually you'll have all the songs in the movie. "},{"Title":"Anti-VietNam War Classic","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, though unappreciated for its true theme, is still a classic today. Colin Higgins wrote the screenplay as an undergraduate--as a lark, and was flatly told it was a flop. It was finally shot during the height of the Vietnam War. When it appeared, it was received by the Woodstock generation as an anti-war film. The romance between Harold and Maude is incidental (but definitely the break point for viewers). One must look beneath to see Higgin's focus. If you enjoy it, count yourself lucky that you can see deep meaning where others see disgust. Ruth Gordon said she enjoyed making this film more than all her others.    "},{"Title":"Everyone should see this movie!!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have ever seen. Not only is it hilarious, clever, and oddly romantic, but it has a strong message to LIVE LIFE. I wish more movies like this were out there. Everyone should see this film! EVERYONE!!  "},{"Title":"When I grow up, I want to be just like Maude","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film in college and fell in love with it. Maude is one of the most beautiful characters I've ever encountered, and nobody but Ruth Gordon could have played her. If you are fed up with life, or feel as if you're just existing, not living, get hold of this movie and take in its life-affirming message.It's a shame Harold and Maude has been dubbed a cult film and a hippie flick. I'm sure such labels have scared away lots of people who could benefit from it. If you know such a person, simply tell them it's a black comedy, then sit them down to watch it!  "},{"Title":"an enduring minor classic","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my top ten favourite films. Just like The Wizard of Oz and It's a Wonderful life, this movie was not well received at the time by many critics and did only adequately well at the box office. Although it will never have the broad appeal of those films, time has proven it to be a classic and it will probably endure long after many more critically acclaimed features fade from memory. "},{"Title":"A Splendid film on life, and HOW to live it. Cat Stevens provides a great Soundtrack. A Film with a Lesson!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've ever thought how wonderful life is, you must see this movie. Truly a feel good movie that leaves you with something every time you see it.  The wonderful lesson it gives is to enjoy life, live to the fullest, and don't live in death.  You have to see the subtleties to enjoy the humor, but when you see it, it is extremely funny!  This is a comedy, a romance, a drama, and a Wonderful movie.  I recommend to all, unless you are going to give it a bad vote. "},{"Title":"Always looking for the new experience - Maude","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's rather easy for me to get a wee bit hokey when talking about this film, but the sentiments are real.To me, it's about a young Harold, voicing his desperation for love and freedom through 'fake' suicides, who meets a lively Maude, who's anthem is individuality at all costs.The endearing dialogue, the dead-on soundtrack (courtesy of Cat Stevens), and the inimitable and unforgettable performances by Bud Cort, Ruth Gordon, Vivian Pickes and the rest of the cast make for a charming film that just might change your life !If you want to sing out, sing out! And if you want to be free, be free!Harold And Maude is definitely an experience to be had ! "},{"Title":"still holds up well after 1/4 century","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite its '60's sensibilities and flower-power overtones, this is an outrageously funny (and touching) movie that still holds its own after nearly 3 decades. When it was first released by Paramount during the Christmas season of 1971, it was met with scathing reviews--and largely ignored. It was quickly discovered  by college students though, and continues to be a cult classic--particularly among college students. A surprising number of people (including myself) list this among their favorite movies, if not their *favorite* movie...how many other movies released so long ago can make such a claim? It's certainly different 20 year old death-obsessed boy meets and falls in love with new-age octogenarian. It's not tasteless though. This film looks beyond the surface and there is great beauty in their doomed relationship. Cort and Gordon here complete each other--each has something the other desperately needs. Many of the lines are priceless--and immensely quotable. This is probably part of the reason it's achieved staying power. The dialogue is still as fresh and witty as it was in 1971--and Cort's fake suicides are truly hilarious. So is Vivian Pickles as his mother. Things wrap up a little too quickly--and the ending is ambiguous--but I think this was intended. Like a great painting, its meaning is open to interpretation, and asks more questions than it answers. A movie that begs to be seen more than once to fully appreciate. The underrated Bud Cort and late Ruth Gordon have an on-screen chemistry that transcends their ages--and just blows you away. "},{"Title":"An affirmation of Life","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great film with some really hilarious scenes (i.e., the faked suicide scenes and the modified sports car). However, it deals with those sticky, basic questions concerning what make makes us happy and how to live life to its fullest. Ruth Gordon exhibits a spontaneous drive for life that is a perfect counterpoint for the boy's hesitance to engage in his life.In reviewing it, it's probably more relevant now I'm closer to Ruth Gordon's age than the boys. It's also a cool period piece (for those of you who lived through that period) with music by Cat Stevens and the crazy popular in the 70s. An enjoyable film with just a bit of an edge. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Love Story of All Time","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Harold and Maude based solely on it's mention in Something About Mary, so i didn't have high hopes. I was surprised to find it a movie far ahead of it's time. For a movie made in 1971, Harold and Maude manages to intelligently communicate with a sophisticated teen audience, and pulls of an otherwise (before i saw this movie) implausible concept, probably largely due to the clever plot of the novel.Bud Cort controls the character superbly as does Ruth Gordon, and they make roles that could be overdone and hackneyed as smoothly as warm butter. The entire movie is believable and moving, and deeply affecting. "},{"Title":"A classic case of what if . . . .","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know if the following qualifies as a spoiler, but, out of an abundance of caution, I'll say that it does.I've read that some screenwriters for creative inspiration will sometimes play the what if game. That is, they think of the most unlikely things they can think of co-existing together, and then say to themselves, What if x, and then y, and then z happened? What would happen then? How could I tell that story? And that is what it seems happened here. What if you took a cloistered, depressed, suicidal 20-year-old male who believes that he has nothing to look forward to in life, nothing to live for, and then hooked him up with a 79 year-old woman, a woman full of vim and vinegar and zest for life, and who shows him how to live? And what if theirs then ends up as a romantic --sexual-- relationship? What are the various ironies and paradoxes and oddities that could be explored? What kinds of things could that story tell us? Where would these people end up in the end?I saw this movie back in 1971 when it came out, and found it quite funny.But, I gotta say, I thought then that the idea of a sexual relationship between a 20-year-old male and a 79-year-old woman was very strange, even borderline sicko, and now, 34 years later, I still do. I know that's a big part of the point (i.e., exploring the unusualness of that mating), but, sorry, I can't get past it. It becomes a negative.6/10 for humor "},{"Title":"beautiful film","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly my favorite film of all time. I love it and I'm shocked and pleased to see that this many years after it opened people are still talking about it. Concerning the numbers on Maude's arm....if you watch closely, I think Bud Cort plays it in such a way that you SEE that Harold DOES know what they are. The message of loving life and the importance of expressing yourself artistically is so strongly put forward in this film without being saccharine or didactic. I love her urging him to drink oatstraw tea (very good for you). Also, the laughs never go away. I've seen it many times and his mother answering the dating questionnaire, the dates themselves, the military one-armed uncle, and the line about him co-mingling with the withered sagging buttocks still crack me up.  "},{"Title":"An E-type hearse and a zest for life","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude rates highly in any film connoisseur's list as, perhaps, the black comedy of all time. The film was released in 1971 and has a superb cast, lead by Ruth Gordon (who won and Oscar for her role in Rosemary's Baby in 1968) as the 79-year-old Maude, and Bud Cort (Romero in Coyote Ugly) as the 20-year-old Harold.Harold is a rich kid, who craves attention from his mother, but only gets it when he fakes his own suicide. Discovering the power of death, his curiosity takes him to the funeral of someone he doesn't know. His fascination leads him to more funerals, where he sees Maude and realises that she, too, is an uninvited guest.Harold doesn't have much of a life; he has left school, but doesn't know what to do with his future. His mother lives in a social whirl and isn't very interested in him &#150; apart from her aim to find him a wife and get him off her hands.Maude is a dear old lady, with real vitality and a zest for life; she wants to cram in as much as she can before the Grim Reaper knocks on her door! From the day they meet, Harold and Maude become inseparable. She has so much to teach him about life, and he has so much to learn.On his journey of self-knowledge, Maude helps him as no person ever has done before. The film has some excellent humour and comedy lines, bordering on slapstick that hit the nail on the head every time.As the relationship between these two eccentric souls strengthens, Harold's personality and self-respect grows, whilst his mother, even more worried by his affection for an old lady, goes to all lengths to save him &#150; even buying him an E-Type Jaguar (which he converts into an E-Type hearse).This black comedy is not all black. It has a certain feel-good factor about it and it is incredibly funny. There are elements of suspense, romance and intrigue, as well as a large portion of satire.The opening sequence will make you wonder if you really want to watch the rest of the film, but after the first few minutes you will not feel so uncomfortable and will be gripped by the storyline that will not release you until the credits come up at the end. And what an end it is!Ironically, the soundtrack music is by Cat Stevens; surprisingly, it doesn't feel out of place, and it helps to bring the 70's ambiance to the screen.There are so few films around these days that do not insult your intelligence, if you get a chance to see Harold and Maude you really should. And if you can, take a very close friend so that you are both guaranteed a shoulder to cry on.  "},{"Title":"forever","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been watching this movie since I was thirteen, and I have to say that on so many  occasions it's helped me. It's such a beautiful concept..all that spiritand those big ideas. Now I live in the same area that Harold and Maude were out to free, and  the traffic alone just makes me want to cry. I think now, more than ever, this film is  important. Take it for its anti-war message, take it for its idea of free love, but, most of all,  take it for its undeniable love of freedom.  "},{"Title":"A deserving cult classic","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this many years ago as second in a double feature. The first movie was a James Bond movie. It was one of the weirdest movies I had ever seen. Eraser Head is another weird one, but Eraser Head better qualifies as horror, where it is very hard to place this movie. It has an ominous overtone that runs through the whole movie and yet there are many light and uplifting moments as well.Harold is an adolescent boy who is living a wretched and stultifying life in an American upper class family. They live in a castle. His life is run by his mother who is very nearly completely ignorant of his real existence. He struggles to get her attention by performing very realistic and violent suicide attempts. He amuses himself by going to funerals where he bumps into the ancient and flaky old lady Maude. Maude has been around a little bit and has managed to craft a life every bit as eccentric as Harold himself, but with considerably more happiness. She lives in an old passenger rail car. They begin to have some adventures together and what finally happens is a grim confrontation with Harold's obsession with death.What makes the movie so strange is its very casual relationship with the real world. Scenes have an occasionally lucid hallucinogenic quality to them. It strays into odd counter-culture themes with no political orientation. The characters are stark and graphic. I borrowed it recently from the library on DVD and was also glad to see scenes from the Northern California Bay Area that are now gone forever.Background music is rather perfectly provided by Cat Stevens. "},{"Title":"elements","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Harold and Maude, an untraditional love story between a very young man and an eighty-year-old woman, the cinematic and dramatic elements certainly aid in bringing out the characters, setting, plot, and theme of the film.Although there were no outstanding special effects in this movie, the cinematic elements definitely advance the plot.  An example is that the mood at the beginning of the movie was set due to the fact that the camera focused on Harold's feet and legs, building up suspense until we finally see that he has `hung' himself. The character of Harold is unique because he is set-apart from most boys his age.  Instead of being obsessed with nice cars and parties, Harold enjoys driving his hearse to the funerals of people he doesn't even know. The dramatization of Harold is really what makes him who he is.  His facial expressions seem to be speaking more than his words.  For example, the way that Harold looks at his mother makes his disgust for her very obvious. Without these facial expressions, Harold just wouldn't be the character he is. The part of Harold's mother was also enhanced with dramatization.  The way she carried herself and the way she spoke really gave the audience a clear representation of her elite status.  Her wardrobe also reflects her luxurious lifestyle with fancy dresses and hats. Maude, a free-spirited old woman who defies all stereotypes of an elderly woman, wants to live her life to the fullest, especially in her last week. She doesn't let anything hold her back.  Maude's nature is reflected in both her costume and her acting.  The fact that she wears light and airy colors to funerals shows us that she doesn't participate in anything that is considered proper or appropriate.  Maude can not understand the reasoning behind doing things just because they are expected of you.  She doesn't view death as a sad thing, but as just part of life.  She makes this clear when she says that eighty-years-old is a `good time to pass on.' Harold and Maude's relationship with each other is shown partly through their eyes, especially through Harold.  His affection for Maude is obvious by the way he looks at her.  I believe that his love would be obvious even if he never said a word. Perhaps a theme of this movie is that love has no boundaries.  This theme is brought out by both conversations and the interaction between Harold and Maude.  For example, Harold says `I like you Maude.'  Right after these words, he and Maude are shown dancing.  This scene is one of the parts in the film that shows both the contrast between the two ages, and the closeness that they share.  "},{"Title":" You're not yourself when you're officious-that is the curse of a government job.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   My favorite quote from one of my favorite scenes(the tree rescue) fromone of my favorite movies. Harold and Maude is a hilarious, offbeatcomedy and a brilliant social commentary as well-note various referencesto the Vietnam war-. For those who find this film to be sick ordemented, I would like to point out a specific scene Harold and Maudeare sitting in the middle of a sea of daises, and Maude points out toHarold all of their various differences, before taking a small handfuland concluding, You see, I believe most of the world's sorrow comesfrom people who think it's this, when actually, it's this(as sheindicates the entire field). Oh, the soundtrack is excellent aswell "},{"Title":"It will change the way you think.","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  contain spoilers...I honestly never know what I'll write.Harold and Maude is a difficult movie to reduce to words. It is much easier to simply watch this masterpiece and reach its end- only to discover that you've witnessed something that touches deeper than you may yet know.Essentially, it is a story about Harold (Bud Cort- literally a one-movie phenomenon for no explicable reason...) and his personal journey from wanting nothing more than to die, to living life with every fiber of his being. It is a very personal, enlightening journey (albeit hysterical, as well) thanks to the guidance of Maude (Ruth Gordon- absolutely brilliantly cast), a 79 year-old with a pension for trying something new each day. The world could due to take a page or two from Maude's book- her advice, ranging from the cure to individual sorrow to religion, is without peer.The screenplay is so wickedly well done, and the directing is so perfectly suited to the material, that oftentimes, the actor's facial expressions carry whole conversations. (Bud Cort, case in point- especially the Mona Lisa smile after his faked immolation).The movie is life-affirming without whacking you over the head with ideals and morals. There's something to be said for subtlety in the ideas a movie is trying to express-Harold and Maude makes it look effortless. In the final analysis- while I can plainly see how this movie isn't for everyone (jabbing a finger in the eye of the military and religion) for those with enough open mind left- it is an experience you will never forget.  "},{"Title":"Well done, Yusuf Islam!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, the soundtrack of the movie was (mostly unknown) Cat Stevens songs, and they somehow fit the story like a glove.I detest superlatives in film critiques -- those people who bandy about terms like the best, the greatest, and so forth, must speak thusly about their breakfast every morning.  I will say that H&M is one of the most unique films I have ever seen.  I didn't see it until nine years after it came out, but it has stayed with me ever since.  This is Bud Cort's masterpiece, and ranks highly with the best work Ruth Gordon has ever done.Harold, whose life is so deadly dull that he fantasizes about death as a release, is finally confronted with the real thing.  It is his trip to that realization that provides the sheer enjoyment of this story.  It is funny and poignant at the same time.I think you'll like the old and definitely non-commercial Cat Stevens tunes. Give it a try if you like offbeat romances.  "}{"Title":"The Greatest Film Ever Made","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is amazing!  Along with Amadeus it is my favorite film of all time.  The story has so much depth to it that you can watch it 50 times and still find new things in it.  It also combines comedy and drama exceptionally well, which many films cannot accomplish.  If you like this film, I would highly recommend Being There with Peter Sellers, which is also directed by Hal Ashby. "},{"Title":"What an eccentric, funny movie!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I originally went to see this movie, I was very skeptical since I am in college and it was my mom who dragged me in to watch it.  It is surprisingly funny, although the humor is extremely morbid.  But I am all for the morbid humor!  And the soundtrack is all CAT STEVENS- and that guy has some awesome lyrics to his songs. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Harold and Maude again, for the first time in about a year, and it is still fresh and uplifting. * SPOILER ALERT * Harold's morbid attempts at suicide to either get the attention of, or irritate the hell out of, his otherwise disconnected mother, are progressively hilarious.  Maude's love for life and variety, even for the zaniest, most illegal ways of expressing her independence and love for a free life, is hilarious, especially in the earliest scenes showing jaw-dropping reactions from Harold.   In short, this is one funny, touching movie, and it is liberating, at that.  Thanks to Hal Ashby for some classy direction, to Bud Cort and the late Ruth Gordon for two excellent comic roles, and to Cat Stevens (now Yusuf Islam) for great, uplifting and relevant lyrics and music.A classic.  10/10 "},{"Title":"A deeply black comedy with a serious message and hilariously shocking scenes!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw Harold and Maude as a teenager in the early eighties and, even then, was moved by the moral of the tale... celebrate life while you can, don't dwell on impending death - however near or far it may be. What puts this film above any other morality tale, however, is the side-splittingly funny way it gets this message across.The scenes where Bud Cort's mother introduces him to potential partners only to have them scared away when he commits 'suicide' are some of the funniest I have ever witnessed on celluloid.The 'affair' between Bud and Ruth Gordon imparts another underlying theme of inter-generational love and does so in a tender and sensitive manner.The finale serves to drive home the message so well that this film rose to and has, for nearly twenty years since, endured as my personal favourite movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Harold, what do you do for fun? I go to funerals. <Harold to his Shrink>","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - This is Harold's story. He is 22, father is gone, mother is rich, he has no friends, has difficulty identifying with the material world. He drives a hearse, and attends funerals of people he didn't know. By his own admission he has tried to commit suicide 15 times. Not seriously, of course. Like the opening scene when he puts on a record, Cat Stevens' Don't Be Shy, walks over to a stool, and hangs himself. His mother walks in, uses the phone, walks away. Over dinner Harold is hoarse, has a 'sore throat.' Another time he smears himself with fake blood and is in mom's shower as she finds him. Or he is floating face-down in the family pool as mom takes a swim. Mom decides it is time for him to get married, she signs him up for 'computer dating.'  One 'date', he sits at a side table, and while she is talking to him, he pulls out a large cleaver and hacks off his fake left arm. He is adrift in a strange ocean.Then at one of the funerals he meets Maude, a 79-year-old eccentric, non-conformist, who has no drivers license, no car of her own, but drives everywhere. She 'borrows' things from others, to 'remind them that stuff is here today, gone tomorrow.' Funny chase scene with a motorcycle cop, he finally gets her to stop, get out of the 'borrowed' car, and she and Harold take off on the motorcycle! Sometimes they have fun just by going down to the salvage yard and watch the operation.Mom gives Harold a new car, a Jaguar sportster. He takes a blowtorch, and presumably lots of other tools, and makes it look like a hearse sportscar! Harold announces to his mom that he is getting married, to Maude. Harold surprises Maude with a party for her 80th birthday. However, Maude says she has to be going soon -- she already took the pills. Rushed to the hospital, they try to save her but can't.  Harold weeps, drives his cars to the cliffs and sends it over, crashing to the beach below.  Then he takes out the banjo that Maude had given him, and dances up the hill, playing.So, just when he needed it most, this person, Maude, came into his life, gave him the understanding of appreciating what is around you, and for hoping for a better life. This is a comedy, with a somewhat dark ending. But a good story, and very well done. Bud Cort (22) as Harold and Ruth Gordon (74)were just right in these roles.   "},{"Title":"A MUST OWN Movie!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one movie that people can watch over and over again.  A classic movie in every sense of the word.  Ruth Gordon plays this part beautifully, as only she can.  Bud Cort plays the suicidal young rich kid in one of his finest performances.This is a touching and very funny movie.  It makes you think, and feel for the caricatures.  A real slice of the early 1970's.  This is one well worth buying.A MUST OWN Movie! "},{"Title":"It got me through junior high.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very unique film. For something so sickly humorous, it is surprisingly uplifting.  It's well worth seeing at least once no matter what your cinematic tastes.  The first scene is particularly brilliant. "},{"Title":"Wishful thinking","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever since I first saw this movie in 1971, I have wanted to take something of mine that I treasured and put it in an unreachable place so I would always know where it is but never have. I think of that, and this wonderful movie often.  "},{"Title":"Unusual","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of those movies that I *wanted* to like, but I really did not. Harold was pretty well done, but I thought the character of Maude was kind of clich - the spunky, non-law-abiding old lady with free-love tendencies. I was sort of irritated by how perfect/idealistic she was.On the positive side - I did see some important themes in this film that go beyond its hippie appearance. The final sequence was great, and a very effective bookend to the rest of the movie.It was Maude that detracted from the movie's potential power. She was such an absurd character, I couldn't get far enough past that to really appreciate this movie. It has a really good soundtrack, though. "},{"Title":"Exceedingly Clever","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very clever film.  If it doesn't make you think about your own life and your place in society, you may very possibly be clinically dead.Director Hal Ashby also tweaked the minds of audiences with Being There a few years later.  Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Best movie EVER!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by far, my favorite movie.  It's quirky and kooky.  It's got a great soundtrack.  But aside from being funny, well-directed, and well-acted, Harold and Maude shows us how to L - I - V - E !  I know I've had much more to talk about in the locker room since I saw this movie! "},{"Title":"One of the most spiritual uplifting tales of all time.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold is a rich kid who sees no value in the shallow lives of the people he knows. He has turned to visiting funerals for fun. Then he meets Maude, a crazy old broad who just might have a mountain of wisdom hidden under that veil of senility.If you're a mainstream type, you won't like this film. That's your loss. There's a lot to learn here. "},{"Title":"truly one of a kind","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is one of the few films that I have had the privilege to see cold without any prior knowledge of or opinions about the film before having seen it. I fell in love with the movie after the first few minutes, and I have loved it ever since. Although it is obviously a product of the 60's/70's, its message is clear, simple, and still relevant Live life to the fullest, one day at a time, and don't sweat the small stuff. Harold and Maude may have been outrageously eccentric characters (even for the 60's/70's), but deep down they are two of the most genuine characters ever projected onto the big screen. The movie and its characters can only be described as funky, but in a very natural and entirely unself-conscious way. Actually, the movie's eccentricity is its most remarkable and endearing quality; I don't think that anybody will ever be stupid enough to try to imitate it or (God forbid!) remake it. Obviously, it is high on the list of my ten favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Best, most shocking/surprising opening in Hollywood history.","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great black comedy. The story, characters, actors, music and script are all wonderful. See this movie often. Always take someone with you who has not seen it.This is a great movie to take a girl to because they will need a shoulder to cry on at the end. "},{"Title":"Harold's Journey to Salvation","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a profoundly spiritual film. It is a story of a death-obsessed 22-year-old neurotic Harold and an eccentric, touchingly childish 80-year-old sorceress Maude. The whole movie is seen through the prism of Harold's internal struggles. He is hungry for life, yet is mortified by what he perceives its utter lack of meaning. He wants sympathy, affection and attention, and tries to attain all of them by means of committing fake suicides -- but all for naught Harold's ice-cold and haughty mother ignores him, ignores him as a sovereign human being, while treating him as a domesticated pet. At a certain juncture, Harold meets a highly non-conformist and easy-going old lady, Maude. She is sent to poor Harold by the dint of fate in order to rescue his soul from the utter morbidity within which it had sunk. The relationship which develops between them is beautifully portrayed in the film. Maude is conjured up into existence by Harold's guardian angel. She heals him. She cures him. She shares with him her internal sources of vitality. She teaches him the science of happiness, the most difficult science to master. She gives her life to Harold. The film leaves you with a lingering bitter-sweet feeling. Harold and Maude is a philosophical elegy, a film of lasting value, a movie the importance of which is only bound to increase. Wonderful work of art.  "},{"Title":"If you want to sing out, sing out...","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't really want to be a 'George' (Hotelgeorge) of this world and slate (or say how wonderful) the film is, but I do want to say that this film should make you think. If you don't 'get' it the first time you see it, don't then think oh, that was bad. Watch it again and think of WHY Harold feels why he does and WHY Maude might 'lead him on'. The film is about freedom of expression and of love...very relevant in todays age. And if you think the film has 'dated badly', then you need to realise something... WHO CARES if the film looks old...IT DOESN'T MATTER!!!!!!! It's the content of the film that counts. (And for the record, the Cat Stevens soundtrack is fantastic!). It will continue to be an influential and provocative film for years and years. wado101 16, UK "},{"Title":"Sour","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sour movie.  Supposed to be about spiritual and emotional awakening, it's really about spiritual and emotional deadening.Harold and Maude is a pinched and bitter view of the world, and as the movie proclaims that the main character is growing and deepening, the movie gets increasingly parched and empty.While the real world is complicated, confusing, engaging, fun, tragic, and a thousand other things in a million shades and variations, Harold and Maude bitterly divides the world into two, perpetually warring camps of Maude vs. Harold's Mother.   And strangely, the movie suggests by the end that the Maudes of the world are better off running and hiding instead of engaging, challenging, and persuading.If you're looking for a complex, thoughtful, and humorous movie, you'll need to look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heard friends' hype.  Funny!  Touching! Insightful! Saw the movie. Waited for funny scenes.  Waited for touching scenes.  Waited for insightful scenes.  Looked at watch.  Re-read description on box.  Waited some more. Fiddled with remote.   Movie finally over.  Scratched head.  Thought what were friends thinking? "},{"Title":"If you wanna be trite, be trite; cos there's a million ways to be trite, you know that there are!","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the late 1960s, a trend in literature and film -- that of attempting to make the lives of WASPy East Coast tycoons-to-be look wretched and soul-destroying -- swept over America. Those of us in the flyover states, contentedly munching our cake and participating in league bowling and working for a living, were profoundly mystified by this trend, particularly since films like Harold and Maude, Love Story, The Graduate, etc. tended to make the richie parents paragons of evil, to the point they were cartoon characters. Oh, yeah, it's so terrible that you stand to inherit more money than 20 of my relatives put together will make in their whole lives. Let me hold the hankie while you blow your nose. NOT.It was, as another reviewer pointed out, hard for me to get past the squick factor of contemplating a 20-year-old guy in bed with a 79-year-old woman, but it was even harder for me to like dour Harold or annoying Maude. They both seemed utterly amoral and unsympathetic.The only reason I watched this movie is that I love Ruth Gordon. But I did not like her character in this film. "},{"Title":"amusing cult classic","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nineteen year-old Harold is pampered to death by his rich mother. He is a shy boy obsessed with death and likes to drive his mom crazy by graphically pretending to kill himself in front of her on a daily basis. His idea of a decent time is attending random funerals. He is a loner and bored with life even though he hasn't truly lived it.....that is of course, until he meets a reckless old woman named Maude. Maude is a loud, aggressive, live for the moment, type of person who Harold takes an interest in. Her interests include funerals and stealing cars and she's never afraid to speak her mind. She makes Harold's life exciting and he soon finds himself falling in love with her. Needless to say, his mom doesn't approve of the relationship. Harold is played by the odd-looking but talented Bud Cort and Maude played by Ruth Gordon whose every line in the film is memorable and amusing. There are some funny moments in the film involving Maude and the police but I won't say much more as not to spoil anything. Although the movie is silly and far-fetched at times, it does encourage you to live life to the fullest. It's a funny script and well acted and although panned by critics upon it's first release, it has found a deserved cult following through the years. Good Stuff! "}{"Title":"I'd Never Seen the Whole Thing","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold & Maude came on the satellite the other night and I became gradually transfixed. I'd never been a great fan of Cat Stevens but his music was perfectly fitted to the story. I'd seen bits of the movie before but not the whole thing. I'd have remembered it.Many movies of the era come across as dated and annoying but this one doesn't. It evokes emotions that are always relevant and the period elements become inconsequential.I was struck looking at the IMDb rating chart that it rates almost equally across all ages and gender. It is rare to find a movie that we Over 50's and youths both find great appeal in. "},{"Title":"An idealistic post-Graduate story","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was made four years after The Graduate, which has now become much more popular and infamous than this film. The subject matter is similar. Like that film, Harold and Maude focuses on a disaffected young man from a wealthy family who develops a relationship with an older woman. One scene in particular--where Harold is shown in a pool, underwater, in one of his fake suicides--seems directly reminiscent of a scene in The Graduate. Yet here is where the similarities seem to end.While the relationship between Hoffman's Benjamin and Anne Bancroft's Mrs. Robinson is purely sexual, Harold actually falls in love with Ruth Gordon's lively, optimistic Maude, whose passion and vitality are the antithesis of everything in Harold's sheltered, spoiled life. As a result, while The Graduate seems more of an exploration of the cynical, disillusioned elements of the late 60s, Harold and Maude rejects these ideas in favor of a more poignant, heartfelt story. Harold's romantic/sexual attachment to Maude is incidental; it is more important that Harold learns how to live life day by day, to embrace different experiences, and, most importantly, to love.And while this message today may seem dated, it's not one we hear nearly often enough today. The movie also transcends its message with memorable, likable characters Harold, a rich, lonely twenty-year-old who frequents funerals and feels that fake suicides are the only way he can get the attention of his inattentive, self-absorbed mother, and Maude, a vital, lively octogenarian who borrows cars, poses nude for ice sculptures, and smokes bongs in her spare time. Their attachment to one another is genuine, and in spite of the ick factor of their age difference you find yourself rooting for the characters.Harold's faked suicide attempts can be a little disturbing for the faint of heart, but if you can get through the gore of some they turn out to be some of the funniest scenes in the movie. This is one of my favorites. With its unique characters and upbeat message, it is a movie that is about being happy and loving life, something that many films of subsequent decades seem to have lost sight of. "},{"Title":"Wes Anderson Influence?","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Royal Tenenbaums has been one of my favorite films since its 2001 release. Watching Harold and Maude, I could not help but be reminded of Anderson's film style, both in choice of plot and technique. Anderson films explore eccentric characters who are often stoic and their reactions to life's events. Harold is such a character and his actions remind me greatly of those of Luke Wilson's character Ritchie Tenenbaum. Furthermore, the manner in which Ashby conveys his character's emotions to his audience must have influenced Anderson. Anderson often places emotional scenes against a background of folk music, which is reminiscent of the entirely Cat Stevens soundtrack that Ashby uses to keep his story clean and simple. I have long been an Anderson fan. I am glad to have found a film that I feel must have served to influence Anderson's unique style. I am also intrigued that Bud Cort is, in fact, a character in The Aquatic Life of Steve Zissou. This connection seems to enforce the idea that Anderson was impressed by Harold and Maude. "},{"Title":"A very unique film...","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was whilst watching There's Something About Mary when Cameron Diaz said Harold and Maude is the greatest love story of our time that this film attracted my attention.Six years after standing at my local video store, there was Harold and Maude and I thought I'll buy it.Having just watched it, I must say it is a very strange film, not your average everyday movie. Not a bad movie but not a very good one either.It is about a death obsessed young man, who meets an odd old lady (80) they become good friends, then they fell in love, decide to get married but on the wedding day the bride takes pill to die, and the young man obviously upset and still obsessed with death fakes his suicide after which he sings with a guitar.A truly unique movie "},{"Title":"Cinematic and dramatic elements work together to bring out the literary elements in the film","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Harold and Maude is a unique tale of love and how it can blossom at any age.  However, while the movie does possess many unique qualities, its best quality is how the dramatic and cinematic elements work together to bring out the literary elements. This movie has some of the best use of zoom in to show the slightest change in facial expressions.  For example, after Harold sets the dummy on fire to scare off yet another date, the camera zooms in and shows a slight smirk on his face, and while the smirk could be described in a novel, the combination of the zoom in and the actor convey a subtle character change in Harold that could not be accurately conveyed by words.  Another part of the cinematic elements that works to better bring out the characters is the use of the edit and cut.  For instance, after Harold reveals to his mother that he is going to marry Maude, there are several cuts where various people, like Harold's psychiatrist, a priest, and others express their opinions about the matter, and a novel would not be able to do that without causing too much confusion to the reader.  A weakness of the novel is the fact that an author cannot jump from time to time without confusing the reader of implementing literary elements like a flashback, but a movie can jump from time to time easily, without having to worry about confusing the viewer. Not only did cinematic elements work to bring out the literary elements, but dramatic elements also helped as well.  Costumes can be very helpful in the process of characterization, and costumes were definitely used to their fullest extent in the film.  Maude is always in seemingly random clothes, which show her free spirit and her accepting personality, while Harold's costume seem to mimic the costumes of those around him, like the psychiatrist, and that shows how he does not exactly know how to act. Also, the use of props greatly helped the process of characterization as well. Maude's house is full of various and sundry things, which shows her eccentric personality.  Harold's house, on the other hand, has what his mother wants it to have, and shows the viewer that his mother is trying to control every aspect of his life. Without the use of cinematic and dramatic elements, the literary elements would not be understood or appreciated.  While some may prefer cinematic to dramatic, or dramatic to literary, or even literary to the previous two, it is my opinion that this film, Harold and Maude, shows how wonderful the product can be if all three complement each other.  "},{"Title":"dramatic and cinematic elements","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The dramatic and cinematic elements of Harold and Maude bring out characterization. Dramatic and cinematic elements show characterization through actions, clothes, and comparison to other characters through camera shots. The dramatic elements that bring out characterization are the clothes that Harold and Maude wear through out the movie.  Harold always wears nice, dull-colored clothes that show seriousness. Harold always wore dark suits that helped him blend in with others around him and become another face in the crowd.  Even with Harold's fascination of faking suicides, he stills seems very serious because he rarely laughs or jokes before he meets Maude. After meeting Maude, he relaxes and this change is shown through his movement toward brighter clothing.  Maude wears bright, noticeable clothing that suggests she is young at heart.  The clothes make her stand out and show that Maude likes being noticed and center of attention, and does not care what people think.  Maude jumps around, yells during funerals, and acts like a little girl showing her free spirit.  During the movie, Maude continuously breaks the law.  She steals various vehicles, a tree, and outruns law enforcement officers.  The way that Maude shows no sign of caring and seems to enjoy breaking the rules shows her child-like characteristics. The cinematic elements that bring out characterization are the camera shots that compare Harold and Maude to other characters in the movie. While at a funeral, Maude is shown in a bright dress with a yellow umbrella while the other characters are all wearing black and behaving in a serious manner. In the beginning of the movie, Harold is compared to his psychiatrists. They are shown in the same exact outfits and they are acting the same way in a camera shot.  This camera shot shows the viewers that Harold is just another face in the crowd.  In the camera shot at Maude's house, Maude is dancing and prancing around while Harold is sitting there. This shot depicts Maude's youthful energy compared to Harold's glum, lack of energy. It seems as if the roles have been reversed.  Maude has the energy that Harold should have at his age, and Harold has a lack of energy which would be commonly associated with people of or around Maude's age. The literary elements in Harold and Maude are shown throughout the movie through dramatic and cinematic elements.  The characters' personality is shown through their many actions and comparisons.  "},{"Title":"How dramatic and cinematic elements bring out the literary elements of the film. School assignment.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films are forged by directors from all the tools available to their use. In `Harold and Maude,' dramatic and cinematic elements work to effectively bring out literary elements.One of the themes, becoming a free spirit, is brought out time after time by means of the lyrics of the theme song. It is also used as a way to advance the plot. It sets the viewer up for Harold's fake suicides, serves to describe his relationship with Maude, and tracks his growth throughout the movie, climaxing at the end. Another theme brought out by dramatic elements is growth. A particularly symbolic example is Harold and Maude's illegal rescue of a tree from the city where it was suffering and dieing. It symbolizes how Harold is rescued from his depression and suffocating lifestyle, and his spirit is made free by Maude. The way the scene is carried out is what makes this dramatic through the use of the tree, in particular, as a prop. It is shown in every scene related to its abduction. In the beginning it only looks a bit exhausted, during its journey it is almost torn to shreds, but when it reaches the forest it shows growth. The close ups on the faces of those involved bring home the humor of the scene while still allowing it its symbolic seriousness.When Harold learns of Maude's plans for her 80th birthday, a nice bit of editing, Harold's scream evolving into a siren, is used to jump immediately to the next scenes. This creates a rushed feeling that cannot be done in drama or literature. It ties quickly to the next scenes where the rushed feeling is maintained through parallel editing. The parallel editing also helps advance the plot quickly and is a tool strictly available for movies.The setting is also brought out by dramatic and cinematic elements. Lighting in particular is essential to relating as complete a vision of the setting as possible. For example, Harold and Maude's romantic time on the hilltop at night is lit only by a few pinpricks which are presumably lights from the town. This lets the viewer know that they are far from anyone and that it is a romantic scene. In literature, several paragraphs would be used to even partially reconstruct the scene. Cinematical elements in this scene are how Harold and Maude's voices are loud enough to be heard, even though they are obviously talking quietly. Another cinematic element used to create a scene is the zoom out of the huge graveyard where the thousands of gravestones are shown alike but all different.In summary, throughout the movie, dramatic and cinematic elements are used to bring out certain literary themes, advancement of plot, and settings. "},{"Title":"Elements","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Harold and Maude is quite intersting it offers a number of different qualities that can appeal to just about anyone in some way. Like in the opening scene of the movie Harold is coming down the dark stairs,and once he reached the bottom he begins lighting all of these candles then he hangs his self right as his mother enters the room, and then you realize how hings are going to be the rest of the movie when you find out that he does this kind of stuff all the time, because he gets satisfaction out of it. Later once Maude enters the movie at one of the many funerals that Harold attends you begin to learn a little literay characteristic about each of the two main characters just by there actions that would be considered dramatic. Both characters throughout the movie continue to add some detail to there character as the movie progresses further and further. For an example Harold had an obsession with driving a hurse around even after his mother brought him a brand new car he turns it into a hurse anyway. There are so many dramatic elements that turn into literary characteristics later on its hard to name them all. The other interesting thing is that the zooms and such with the camera make the movie what it is. Also the darkness in ceratin scenes all find a way to appeal to the audiences senses. I think by the characters being the way they are in the movie by dressing the way that they do also as alot to do with the literary stand point. Like when harold emulates the way his Psychartist is dressed, and the same when he goes to visit his uncle and fails to showcase his hands which could have something to so with the fact that is uncle is missing an arm. All the little deatils in the movie seemed to have some kind of role in some kind of element of the movie which is why the elements of the movie all work together to showcase one another in some way. "},{"Title":"Overall This Movie is Great!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films consist of mainly three different elements; Literary Elements, Dramatic Elements, and Cinematic Elements. `Harold and Maude' is a movie that was produced in 1971 and directed by Hal Ashby. One thing that made this movie interesting is that it used all three of these elements.Harold's first car was a black funeral car from the local junk yard. This dramatic element helped reveal Harold's true personality in this movie. It helped support the fact that Harold loved the thought and site of death. This fact was also supported by other props such as the blood; that was scattered around the bathroom, the rope; that was used for him to hang himself, and the butcher knife; that was used to chop off his hand during his search for a date. During this search for a future wife, Harold had felt that his heart belonged to an 80 year old woman; named Maude.Maude had a similar or almost exact role as Harold; she also loved death in an unusual way. Maude's character was exposed through her costumes. She was seen in a yellow outfit during a funeral, and as she leaves she is followed by an adolescent who is in the exact outfit as she. The director used this to demonstrate that Maude had a childish sense of humor. Just as in Harold's case, the director also used props to help discover Maude's character. The cars were used because Maude used them to as get-away cars from the police. As she drove the cars, she could be seen running over side walks, turning curves while letting the car sway recklessly, and speeding.Costumes and props also help set the setting of the story. Harold can be seen eating at his dinner table with fine chandelier and crystal drinking glasses surrounding him. If that doesn't help to demonstrate that Harold's family is wealthy, then you can extract from the dialogue when his mother states `Harold you can have any car you want, why pick such a thing?' Many movies have the tendency to lose the humor in their jokes over a long period of time. But, `Harold and Maude' is one of the few movies, which have held its value in humor over the years. This movie is one of the few movies that I would recommend that everyone should take the time to see. Do not take into consideration age limits; because I guarantee you that this movie will touch the hearts of all age groups in some way.  "},{"Title":"looking for the prelude to harold and maude.called de duva","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  one of the all time best.want to know where to find the short film before the movie.de duva both my wife and i just love this movie.we want our kids to watch it.but we would also love to find the beginning short film.de duva "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  On the plus side of this film, the 2 characters were both likeable, 3 infact if you count the mother who probably was the pick of the lot & the roles were acted well. I wouldn't call this a laughing out loud film, for me personally, but there were a handful of amusing scenes throughout. I would definitely go along with the people who call this a feel good film. It is. Sadly though, I didn't think it was a great film.It struck me as one of the most American films I've ever seen. Nothing wrong with that, but some of the jokes & the satire weren't meant specifically for a world wide audience. Some of the jokes like Maude's driving & eccentricity & the suicide attempts were amusing initially, but drummed home a little too much by the end that they got dull. There was also a little too much Cat Stevens for me, though the final tune was a good one.A high 5/10. "},{"Title":"absolutely *PHENOMENAL*","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  absolutely amazing movie - by far one of the best movies i've ever seen! its shocking, funny, touching, ...even a little disturbing!if you havent seen it yet, you should!!! hopefully they'll have it on DVD soon....it'll be my first DVD purchase ;) "},{"Title":"Truly a black comedy, but so were those times. . .","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If there was ever a movie that makes you want to fake your own suicide, this has got to be the one. But seriously...I saw this movie in an art house theater in the U district in Seattle back in '71 or '72. Being only in my mid-teens at the time, it made for compelling viewing. Then, just the other night on AMC channel, I watched it again. It's the first time I've seen it in many years, and I must say - not having seen it in quite a while - I had almost forgotten what a moving film it really is.On the surface Harold and Maude was, and still is, a delightfully bizarre jet-black comedy. I still laugh at the absurd, twisted physical jokes, but... this movie also works on other levels. I must admit it is heart-piercingly uncomfortable for me to re-watch this film, namely because the troubled, directionless and apathetic Harold (Bud Cort) is such an apt symbol of what I and perhaps many others felt like during those foolish and awkward days of youth. The movie brings it all back with a roar. (Gawd, like we need to be reminded!).Also, the movie does a fantastic job of recreating the unsettling zeitgeist of that era. History lesson The late sixties/early seventies were such a troubled time; for those of you who don't remember, the U.S. was involved in a very unpopular war, and very little of the patriotic, support-the-troops fervor that you see nowadays existed back then. You don't have to look very deeply in this movie to see and/or feel the anti-war, anti-military, and anti-establishment sentiments. This movie aptly captures that spirit of the times (again, yeah - like I wanna' be reminded!). I know growing up is always difficult, but it was truly difficult to grow up during those times when so much of what you had been taught to value, trust and respect was constantly being questioned, desecrated, revealed as sham and so forth. That's not to say that this movie doesn't project its own positive vibes. It's just that, in some respects, the movie opens up old wounds.So yes, this was (and still is) truly an anti-establishment picture if there ever was one. Just the whole premise of a 20-year old young man dating (and bedding, and proposing marriage to..) an eighty-year old woman simply flies in the face of all that is holy and sacred to just about anyone, anywhere on the planet! But that's what makes this movie great, and well worth watching. It dares to be different, but is smart enough to do so with a pleasant eccentric charm rather than vulgar excess. And, the hippie-days Cat Stevens music, playing at just the right times, is wonderful icing on the cake.Some of the humor I particularly liked I enjoyed Harold's visits to his one-armed Army officer uncle, who fills him with tales of military glory whilst in the background, totally off camera, you can hear the pounding cadence of a firing squad, marching a prisoner out to be shot. I also liked the this fills me with revulsion talk from the priest, replete with references to Maude's sagging breasts and flabby buttocks. (Alone worth the price of admission!).Anyway, I love this movie; it works for me on so many levels. It is indeed a black comedy - but then again so was my youth, which took place about this time. It's only taken me 30 years to figure it out.   "},{"Title":"'Cause there's a million things to be...","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For years, I'd heard numerous good things about this low-budget cult comedy, but somehow I never ran across it. Well, last night I did, and I'm pleased to say that it truly is a superbly nuanced, beautiful piece of cinema. You probably wouldn't think a film could work as a black comedy, a biting social satire, and a sweet, sincere romance all at once, but Harold and Maude does--brilliantly.Harold Chasen (Bud Cort) is a repressed young man whose main outlets are attending funerals and staging of elaborate pseudo-suicides, much to the annoyance of his controlling rich-bitch mother (Vivian Pickles). At one of these funerals, he meets Maude (Ruth Gordon), a wise, free-spirited old woman who careens around California in borrowed cars. What follows is one of the funniest and most touching pairings in screen history, exploring love, death, and the importance of living.All around, a witty, intelligent, wonderful picture, from the sparkling performances to the seamlessly executed material. I'm not much of a Cat Stevens fan (records like Wild World make my teeth grind), but the soundtrack here is truly great. In fact, the sanitized, get-along world could stand to learn something from Gordon's delightful heroine Existing is not the same as Living, and not living is a fate far worse than death. Thanks, Maude. "},{"Title":"This is a REAL love story!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We saw this movie when it first came out and loved it!  I had never encountered this type of humor before and wasn't comfortable with my own reactions.  I was laughing when I 'should' have felt compassion.  I don't believe this!! kept going through my mind.  We should all be so fortunate as to experience love that truly comes from the heart and beyond. "},{"Title":"Black comedy/ Love story. The two working unusually well together.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love this movie.Gives you that pure sense of pride for doing what you want, that few movies do. Follows the story of young Harold and old, old Maude falling in love with roughly 60 years between them.Sound gross? I can guarantee you, it's one of the sweetest movies I've ever seen, as well an incredible jet black comedy.Hilarious, insightful and touching (not to mention the great Cat Stevens score.)Watch it. "},{"Title":"best comedy/tragedy you've never seen","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The plot of this movie is upsetting to some I have talked to. Some people can't get past the idea of a young man dating an 80 year old woman. If you can see past that, this movie will make you laugh cry and even stop to think occasionally. It is as far out as World according to Garp (another truly great offbeat character study) as funny as Ghostbusters and as tragic as Leaving Las Vegas. The characters are delightfully wacky and the story even more so. It makes a great movie to pop in your DVD changer ahead of the more serious sex, lies, and videotape as the ending of H&M thematically links with sex's opening, and both stories deal with unconventional characters searching for love and an understanding of the world around them. If you can't find it in your heart to love this movie... well then maybe you don't have a heart. "},{"Title":"Incredible.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In some ways, it mirrored my own experiences as a child (without the benefit of a great deal of money or a 79-year-old girlfriend). I was completely enthralled with this film. I resisted watching it for a long time - I will resist anything someone else insists I must watch. SPOILER ALERT The only part that bothered me was the ending at a time when the two could be peacefully celebrating their last few hours together, he panics and she spends the last hours of her life with strangers poking tubes and needles into her. Therein lies the tragedy. "},{"Title":"Should be hailed as a Modern Classic...","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is really good and very funny, I put it on to waste some time, I wasn't planning on watching the whole thing, but the beginning is so well staged that you have to watch it all. Hal Ashby did a great job with this film, not enough people give him the credit he deserved for the handful of good to great films he made. I don't want to say to much about the film, because when I watched it I knew nothing about what was going to happen next, and I really liked it, so maybe that's the best way to view it. I'd just like to point out that the performances by Ruth Gordon and Vivien Pickles are superb, and as for Harold, well I couldn't of imagined anyone else in that role besides Bud Cort... To finish, this movies is a must see, everyone should at least see it once. Plus great Cat Stevens' folk soundtrack fits the spirit of the film perfectly. "},{"Title":"bloody marvelous, quirky charming 60's do.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an incredibly charming love story, that well portrays the fey nuances of young affection. With cat stevens crooning in the background and such strong performances from all of the cast this is one of the all time greats, for those with affectations to the quirky. "}{"Title":"what is this movie?","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In There's Something About Mary (which is also a good movie, but I'm not commenting on that one right now), Cameron Diaz called Harold and Maude a poignant love story. That sounded kinda weird to me, since I always thought this was a dark comedy about a guy who kept pretending to commit suicide.This is a film of oxymorons. This movie is a touching romance-drama, it's a hilarious black comedy. It's a subtle movie, it's a movie that goes to every extreme. It's a great guy movie, it's a sad tear-jerking chick flick. It's a film about life, it's a film about death, it's a film about love.Either way you look at it, this movie is hilarious. And very, very sad. So rent this movie and be prepared to laugh and cry all at once. "},{"Title":"You thought you had to kill to be funny in a black comedy?","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The black comedy, in recent years, has become an excuse for filmmakers to kill off people in grisly ways and then say `Hey, lighten up, it's a comedy!'. To find the *real* black comedies, you'll have to dig a little deeper. Black comedies from the 60's and 70's are less violent, not only due to censorship but also because people had sense back then. A good example of a black comedy that doesn't rely on over-the-top violence is Harold & Maude.Bud Cort plays Harold, a spoilt rich kid living with his mother. Harold is old enough to have finished school, but not old enough to be doing much with his life. So what does this jolly little fellow do for kicks? Does he&#133; play football? Does he&#133; play guitar in a band? Not quite. You see, Harold goes to funerals. Funerals of people he doesn't know. Harold is obsessed with death. Not only does attend funerals, he also fakes suicides to drive his mother crazy. One day, Harold goes to a funeral and sees an old woman. She does not seem to be here because she knew the deceased, either. After the ceremony, they speak. She is Maude (Oscar winner Ruth Gordon), an eccentric old woman who lives life to the fullest. Harold and Maude become inseperable buddies from that day, doing everything together. Maude teaches Harold how to appreciate life and helps him out of trouble, especially in a side-splitting sequence in which Harold tries to weasel out of joining the Army. Harold & Maude's bond becomes stronger, burgeoning into love, much to the shock of everyone around them.Despite the presence of death in most of the movie and the grimness of the character of Harold, this movie is suprisingly feel-good. The jokes are almost entirely direct hits. Only a few jokes hit shy of the mark, but its all incredibly funny. Harold's fake suicides are a thing to behold. The dialogue is also great. Surely, this is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.The acting is also great. Ruth Gordon, an underappreciated actress, is superb here.Her performance hits the right note of eccentricity (?) and yet does not push the character over into over-inflated satire. Bud Cort, a promising actor who fell into a career rut most of his life, is effective if not always perfect emotions-wise. The supporting cast are also good, with props to whoever played Sunshine-Dore. Watch for Tom Skerritt as a highway cop.To say that this is a jet-black comedy is not lying, but bending the truth. The black comedy is there, but there are also elements of romance, slapstick and of satire. As a result of this, the movie is odd and hard to settle into at first. In the first few minutes, you feel uncomfortable, especially with the opening sequence. But this movie grows on you. Once you get into it, you won't get out. The ending is especially great and symbolic. I loved it.The music is by Cat Stevens. There. I said it. No, it doesn't make any sense. This movie and Cat Stevens should be placed as far from each other as possible, right? Wrong. WRONG. I have no idea why but you're wrong. At first, I had no idea what Cat Stevens and his inspirational New Age music was doing here. Truth be told, I still don't know. I do know, however, that his score is great. The music fits in perfectly, even though it shouldn't.Harold and Maude is a great comedy and I cannot recommend it enough. Anyone who wants to see a comedy that won't make fun of their intelligence while still remaining silly at times should see this. 9/10  "},{"Title":"A love story","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is one of my all time favorite films. I've seen it at least 50 times. Before I was married, I would use the film to screen prospective dates. If a girl I was dating didn't like it, she wasn't for me. To appreciate this film, one needs to transcend the darker and more eccentric moments of the story to understand its profound affirmation of life. It is a story of a young man who, for all intents and purposes, is dead to the world. His encounter with an 80-year-old woman, in the twilight of her life, teaches him a lesson in how to grow out of his morbid, narcissistic fascination with death and learn to live life to the fullest. It is also hilariously funny at times, especially Harold's faked suicide attempts that he performs to send his overbearing mother into hysterics. Yet the comedy acts as a medium by which to open the viewer enough to feel the deeper emotional movements in the latter half of the film, when Maude swings the door of the world wide open for Harold. Ironically he comes to love and live more fully when confronted with the genuine experience of the fragility of life.  "},{"Title":"Great blend of satire, farce, and pathos with a great score to boot.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of Cat Stevens' best tunes highlight this marvelous serio-comedy of a romance between a young neurotic and an old philosopher.  Ruth Gordon hits the pinnacle of her illustrious career with this take-no-prisoners performance. Bud Cort, fresh off Brewster McCloud and M*A*S*H seemed to be well on his way to establishing himself as one of cinema's top comic artists (If anyone knows what derailed him, please let me know).  An excellent supporting cast blends absurdity and reality with great aplomb. "},{"Title":"Love, death, sex, and coming-of-age angst set off by humor","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie handles the Great Topics of life with such compassion and humor that the audience doesn't realize that the movie is not really a comedy... until it's too late and the viewers are drawn into the April-December romance.  Spectacular acting adds to the rich flow of the story.  And, Cat Stevens's voice slides us along through the transitions.  It's the ultimate 60's coming of age movie, but it shows well in the 00's, too.  Thank goodness its now out in DVD!  "},{"Title":"fabulous = a must see","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the very few movies I would see more than once.  I've seen it well over 10 times because it makes me laugh and fills my heart every time.  If you like Cat Stevens it's worth it for the musik.  If you ever need a fresh look at life and /or love,   This is it. I save this movet for very special friends, like a very special cognac. You deserve to see this at least in your life "},{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of my all time favourites, it's intelligent, witty, surprising, simply brilliant. There's not much more I can say You can't tell this movie, you have to see it.However, it does require an open mind to enjoy Harold and Maude,  it's definitely not of the MTV-Generation, and maybe people who thought Starship Troopers was patriotic do better to avoid it. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and subtle","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has both humor and meaning.  It is one of those wonderful movies that cause conversation with friends over coffee after seeing it.  A warning it is dated!  Bell-bottoms and somewhat foggy film quality are evident.  However, the premise is unique and the messages are timeless. Inspired me to marry a man nine years younger!  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever made","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best comedies ever made. The beginning sequence is wonderful, even after I've seen it over and over. The use of Cat Stevens' music is perfect. And the acting is letter-perfect, especially Ruth Gordon. She is unique, but also a type that we recognize. A great film.  "},{"Title":"Greatest Love Story Ever","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the greatest films of all time. Although it received a rather lukewarm reception when it first came out, the film has received cult acclaim over the years. And it deserves it! For those who don't know The film is about the growing relationship between suicidal 20 year old Harold and the charismatic 79, soon to be 80, year old Maude. Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon as the film's two stars are perfectly cast and play off each other flawlessly. Highlights are meetings between Harold and his would-be girlfriends, arranged by his mother and Harold's plan to get himself out of the army. (This scene has to be seen to be believed!) The film's soundtrack, done all by Cat Stevens, is equally wonderful. "}{"Title":"terrible","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is critically acclaimed, but it it terrible.  I've never been so disappointed in a film in my entire life.  To call this a black-comedy is like calling water wine.  I don't understand how it can be called a comedy--it seriously is not funny at all.  I'm not just being spiteful or exaggerating; this movie is simply not a comedy of any kind. If one had to classify it, it would be a drama I guess, but the film really isn't a drama either.  I personally would classify it as wish you didn't spend 90 minutes of your life being submitted to hippy propaganda.  The only person who would even remotely like this film is a tree hugger or a wannabe hippy, and even then I would think that they were lying to justify their lifestyle. My recommendation is if someone tells you to see this movie, never take any movie advice from that person again, because they have extremely poor taste in movies.   "},{"Title":"NOT AS HILARIOUS AS EVERYONE SAYS","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film today in film and video class, and boy did I wish that the teacher would just shut it off.  I don't know why he even put it on.  He gave us the option of watching this film, Dr. Strangelove, some other film from a million years ago, and Men in Black.  Personally, I would've rather watched Men in Black.  The jokes in Harold and Maude are just not funny. The kid Harold was just annoying.  His suicides made me feel like telling him, hey buddy, stop pretending to kill yourself, you're an idiot.  And he looked so sickly. I guess that's what the director wanted, to have a sickly looking kid play a character with bad psychological problems.  But man, this guy, his whole look, he looks like a young Bill Gates, and I don't know why, but whenever I see Bill Gates, I really get annoyed just by the way he looks.  Do you ever get that feeling, you get really irritated just by someone's physical appearance? Ya, Harold did it for me.  I was screaming for this film to be turned off after the first 10 minutes.  I got so bored of this film that I stayed bent over on my desk showing plumber's crack for the whole class period in hopes that a hall messenger would walk by and get a hairy surprise.  That's the only thing that kept me up through the film the anticipation of seeing the disgusted look on an unsuspecting hall messenger's face.  If I wasn't ballsy enough to show my a$$ to people, then I would've been in hell for 85 minutes.  So the moral of the story iswatch Harold and Maude if you feel like showing some plumber's crack for 85 minutes straight.  "},{"Title":"Easily one of my top 10 favorite films.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An incredibly hilarious and simultaneously touching film starring Bud Cort (M*A*S*H) in top form and Ruth Gordon (Were's Poppa?) equally as good.  One of the best I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Does the cult hit live up to it's reputation?","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hal Ashby's 'Harold and Maude' fits into a genre of it's own. Too serious to be a comedy, and too funny to be a drama. The story centers around Harold (Bud Curt), a lonely and depressed teenager obsessed with staging fake suicides. In his spare time, he gets his kicks out of attending funerals, to people he has never seen or met. He befriends another frequent funeral attendee, Maude (Ruth Gordon), nearly his total opposite, an older woman who wants to get the most out of life.The script here is great. Taking somewhat of a lubricious subject matter, and making it completely believable. Ashby, the film's director, should also be credited, as the film is very vibrant and full of life. But, mostly, the film is carried by Curt and Gordon, who play off one another to nearly perfection. Their relationship never comes off as simplistic, as these actors add another layer to make it an even deeper and more fulfilling experience.The film's end, without giving it away, left me very disappointed. It's totally predictable, only to serve as melodrama and get an emotional reaction out of the audience. It really left a sour taste in my mouth when the film does wrap up, after the first hour and twenty-five minutes are very solid, then the last five minutes totally veers off the track.That aside, 'Harold and Maude' is an extremely charming film that holds up to is cult following. Worth seeing.8/10 "},{"Title":"Movie-making the way it should be.","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After hearing various references to this movie throughout my life I finally rented it this weekend. I thought that something fresh was needed given the never-ending crop of crap emanating from Hollywood for the last several years.Getting to the point...I loved it. I loved it so much, I immediately watched it again. (I hadn't done something like that since I was a small kid in the public movie theater).If you haven't seen this movie, and you are not one of the current loud-mouthed individuals in the world who has a terminal case of cranium-rectal insertion, you'll love it! Take 91 minutes and do your mind a favor...set it free and enjoy the ride! Bravo! P.S. Hollywood...Hands off! Any attempt to remake this movie would only ruin it. "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!!","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only wish I was twenty years younger! I would give anything to see this movie in it's release. It was a mind blowing expirence for me watching it for the first time. I had never heard of or seen anything of it's kind in my life. Myself being a young adult and unhappy with my life and flirting with death many, many times and to have found love in the most unexpected places, this movie hit home.I just can't get over the ending. It's so sad, but so releiving at the same time.I LOVE IT, I LOVE IT, I LOVE IT!!!  "},{"Title":"Genuine discomfort","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess I can understand why 'Harold and Maude' has become a cult classic -- its love story is defiant of convention and the movie celebrates and romanticizes society's outsiders. While it's an innocent enough film, I suppose, or maybe simply a nave film, I can't think of many other movies that have made me feel such genuine discomfort.The problem is not that 20-year old Harold falls in love with 79-year old Maude. The problem is that Maude is not sexy, not endearing, and not real. Harold may have been written as an asexual, but I somehow doubt that screenwriter Colin Higgins (whose career has not been an impressive one, having since yielded movies like '9 to 5' and 'Silver Streak') considered that. Harold has no interest in girls his own age and thwarts each of his mother's matchmaking attempts with grotesquely faked suicides.Harold, as played by Bud Cort, is nevertheless the only character in the film who takes on the dimensions of an actual human being. Everyone else is written as a caricature, and that's one of the film's major flaws. Harold's mother, for instance, is an obnoxious, classist heiress who asks her son questions and then answers on his behalf. The character is written in one key and is played in one key by Vivian Pickles. The filmmakers' attitude toward this character is so obvious that by simply placing poor Harold as her son, in her company, a certain angelic aura is given to him in contrast. Harold is laconic and glum, wears mourner's attire and drives a hearse, and his economy of verbal expression elicits the viewer's sympathy almost by default, since every other character in the film may as well be using a megaphone.Then there's Maude. Ruth Gordon is a fine actress, and it's heartwarming to see a woman of her age exhibit as much verve and energy as she does here. But her character of Maude is yet another caricature, and her every line drips with saccharine forever-young sunniness that sounds like flower-child parody. She brings some joy, some sunshine, into Harold's life, and some excitement; it's supposed to be ironic and funny when Maude steals a car and speeds away from the police.The movie is entirely too precious about Harold, about Maude, and about Harold and Maude. Even Harold's suicide forgeries are framed with a glow of Gothic tragedy, which just prevents them from being funny (although one prank, where Harold pretends to chop off a hand in order to scare off another arranged date, is funny). Making matters worse is the musical score by Cat Stevens, which is now painfully dated and sugar-coats whatever remaining black comedy could have been salvaged from this material. All of these touches are intended to make the film feel-good and liberating, I would presume, but it's ultimately just depressing and made me feel pretty queasy.Watching this movie, nothing about it screams 'classic.' It looks like it should have remained some forgotten and embarrassing relic of the early '70s. "},{"Title":"A Movie to Treasure","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember the first time I saw Harold and Maude in the late 1970s.  It hadbecome a cult classic playing for years in Minneapolis, and gaining all sorts of  press as such a unique cultural phenomenon.  Seeing it that first time, Iremember laughing so hard, loving that great Cat Stevens music score, andgetting so caught up in such a quirky story with such vivid characters that I cried  at its overwhelmingly touching conclusion.  Seeing it again almost 30 yearslater, I had all those feelings again.  Harold and his mother, so brilliantly  portaryed by Bud Cort and Vivian Pickles are hysterical.  With his barelywhispered, understated acting style, Bud Cort was so intriguing and bizarre.  But  then with a burst of spectacular energy, Ruth Gordon's Maude takes the film on  a wonderful wild journey.  We feel like we are in those cars she drives, holding  on for dear life, but loving every second of the rollercoaster ride.   In the middle  of the laughter and the story are her wonderful words of wisdom that resonante  long after the movie has finished.   This is a film for all ages and times--one to  cherish, learn from and see again and again.   "},{"Title":"Dramatic and Cinematic Elements of this film lead to the importance of the literary element.","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a film that has been a part of numerous conversations where everyday people remark that the piece was simply 'good' while a critic would say otherwise. It is apparent tht the most intreging elements of such a divine masterpiece are the literary elements, which would be accented by the dinamic dramatic and cinematic elements. In any film, two of the main points are substance and depiction. Not only is the story line essential, but also the way in which the plot is portrayed to the viewer. In looking at Harold and Maude the director uses many cinematic and dramatic elements to bring the viewer to a consensus, as to what is happening in the storyline. By giving snap shots of Harold in the beginning with only music playing, gives the viewer a sense of who Harold is. The director uses silence as a virtue. It is seen that by allowing dramatic silent pauses at the end of chaotic siutations, the next few lines spoken have attention drawn to them. At times acotrs movements, or a setting, correspond with the music; hence, the words of a song are pulled to focus and for further meaning or importance. For example, when the scene changes to sunshile, I see the light plays in the background. Listeners also focus on the words of a song when the music begins to play softly at first, then as it gradually gets louder, again, causing the lyrics to stand out. Harolds encounters with women, particularly the women his mother set him up with, and his smiles, frowns, and nonchalance faces made the viewer focus on what was being said, to make him make such faces. When the camera zoomed in on a characters face, depending on the tone of voice and the speek in which the character spoke, allowed the listener to know where the key points of the story were and exactly what was going on in the highlights of the story line. Maudes vioce seemed to change each time she spoke, which also put emphasis on what it was she was saying , such as her whispering and spelling words out. When the music of one scene gradually gets louder, reachers its peak, then abrubtly stops, the worrds from the voice, beginning the next scene are the focus of the next scene. The characters dress was also a major part of knowing the importance of the characters words. Harolds mothers costume she wears when she tells Harold he must enlist in the Army emphasises the seriousness of her words. Many scenes began with a holding glance of scenery, then a persons voice would overlap it, by using this technique, all focus is on the words.  "},{"Title":"amazing use of various elements","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Using dramatic and cinematic elements of editing, realistic sound, music, and special effects the literary elements of theme, and characterization Harold and Maude are highlighted a significant amount. The realsitic sound foucuses on some minute details that normaly viewers would not notice, the sound of the nuese tightening in the opening scene, choking on the nuese, the sound of doors shutting, and the sound of the hurried steps during a staged chase. All these instances help the viewer grasp the reality of the humor in these cases, as well as the true nature of several characters, such as Harold's chocking to get attention, the sounds also serves as a climax in scenes later relaxed by some comical statement. Special effects, as in most feature films plays a major role in Harold and Maude. Again adding some tidbit of humor, but also revealing more of the nature of the characters, and then of course the theme. Muade falling through the floor during a planned chase showed to the audeince the precision that went into such a small event, showing Harold and Maude's love for the chase, the game, and the love of fun. Later on, the scene of the porshe turned hearse owned by Harold is sent carreening off a cliff to smash onto the rocks below, a heartstopping event that poses major significance in the resolutoin of the film, and the peace that Haorld finally comes to, as well as seriving as the dish for wich the theme of living life is served on.  Editing, the single most influential aspect on nearly any movie, is nonetheless just as powerful in Harold and Maude. With choices to show Maude driving in circles to flee a police officer, stealing an officer's car and shooting a POV shot to show Maude waveing to the officer.  Even the parallel editing in the final minutes of the movie, showing the race, and wait at the hospital and the stress drive afterwards simultaneously leads to the  great understanding of the movie's characters and themes.  Harold is finally content with who he is, Maude is happy that she has lived and lived so wondrously, and the viewer is presented with a magnificant teaching on life, and how to live and live happily, not worrying about outside influences, not worrying about what others think, to live and be happy. This happy tone is only enunciated by the consistant use of an upbeat, positive flowing soundtrack that highlights individuality, and happiness, the major foundations of the themes of the movie. Even to the last scene, the melodies are played, as a zoom shot shows Harold overlooking a cliff playing his banjo, the audience comes to the realization that finally Harold will live.  "}{"Title":"English class assignment","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude's dramatic elements, and cinematic elements, such as accents, lighting, shots, and scenery bring out the literary elements.  In the beginning of the movie when Harold is walking down the spiral stairs, the lighting is dark and the shot is focused only on his feet as he descends.  This suggests the dark and ominous mood that is set in once Harold proceeds to hang himself.  The music that Harold plays as he is getting ready to commit suicide contradicts the dark mood with some up beat tunes, suggesting a sick humor that resides in Harold.  Harold's mother paying no attention to him hanging by the neck sets off a whirlwind of confusion, which plays nicely into the contradicting mood along side the music.  Another part that goes in well with the mood is the cinematic element of a close up on Harold's eyes.  Harold's eyes are sunken and wide, imposing a uncomfortable mood to every other character he talks to, all except Maude.   The music throughout the entire movie is great, wonderful music all of which is done by the same artist; it's really like a hippie's 70's soundtrack, very full and lush.  Cat Stevens did a wonderful job on the entire soundtrack.  His sound brought of the theme of living life to the fullest.  Maude's character always wore bright clothing, like that of a young person.  The zoom in on her arm shows the tattoo code from a concentration camp, without the close up its something you wouldn't normally see.  The parallel editing between the hospital scene and Harold's drive to and off the cliff advanced the plot quickly and effectively.  Maude's birthday party was decorated with flowers all around, gave one a concrete idea of the joy Maude feels and a more spectacular view than could be imagined from literature.  The fact that the plot was reveled at different points in the movie from Maude's dialogue was subtle.  The psychiatrist that Harold sees is mocked or provoked by Harold when he dresses exactly like the psychiatrist.  Maude's clothing at the funeral is bright and cheerful, and its there that she meets Harold and says that 80 is a good time to die, that's the first indication of the plot.  The second comes from when Maude talks about it all ending on Saturday which happens to be her 80th birthday. All these elements complement the literary elements in the movie. "},{"Title":"How the dramatic elements and cinematic elements work to bring out the literary elements.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In some movies, there are dramatic elements and cinematic elements, which help to bring out the literary elements. Harold and Maude is one of the many movies that this applies to. Bud Cort, the actor who played Harold, made his hand shake when he was holding the gun up to his head. It showed that he was going to kill himself, which he only pretended, and by shaking his hand he made the fake death look real to viewers. During the whole movie, Harold wore black suits. The costumes were a symbol to Harold's view of life and that he thought the world was all dark and scary. He loved to fake his own deaths and the black suits represented how death was a part of him. Also, during funerals people usually dress up nicely and wear black clothing. Harold went to a lot of funerals, of people who he did not know, so the costumes also represented what he wore to the funerals. Another way that the dramatic elements and cinematic elements helped to bring out the literary elements was Maude's home. It was bright and colorful on the inside and it also had many different things in it that made it seem like a peaceful place. On the outside of her home, it was black and it looked like it had just been in a fire because it was burnt. This showed that the outside world is mean and scary for people to be in and people just need to find a place where the world will not be scary for them and they can be themselves. This setting also confirmed the famous saying, `don't judge a book by its cover'. People just need to look past the outside of things and reach deep inside to find out that there is more on the inside then other people notice on the outside. At the end of the movie when Maude killed herself, Harold made his car go off the cliff. While he was on his way to the cliff, the camera showed the side view of his car and also the front view of his car. While showing the front view, the camera made the car look like it was coming straight toward the viewers. The camera angles made viewers think that something was going to happen in the plot of the story. This was because the camera went back and forth between the two views, which gave suspicion.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, funny, insightful","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hal Ashby's Harold and Maude is probably one of the strangest romantic comedies that was ever made, and indeed the term romantic comedy seems to be inappropriate to describe this film. To begin with, it has two protagonists that couldn't be more different - and I'm not only talking about the age difference of almost 60 years.  Harold is a 20 year old, introverted, neurotic boy who suffers from a dominant mother and drives around in a hearse. His favorite hobby is faking his own suicide, something he did already roughly 15 times (at least that's what he's telling to his psychiatrist; we see six staged suicides (including drowning and self-incineration) and as a bonus one scene when he pretends to chop of his hand.  Maude, on the other hand, is an extroverted lady just days before her 80th birthday who still tries something new each days - we see her singing songs by Cat Stevens, posing to nude to a painter and many things more, but her favorite hobby is stealing cars, something she's quite good at - especially if you consider she doesn't even have a license.  But there's one hobby they share They both frequently go to funerals. While Harold is wearing a trenchcoat and sunglasses, Maude is the one with bright dress and the yellow umbrella. When Maude one day offers Harold to drive him home (in his hearse she just stole), the are becoming friends. Maude teaches him to enjoy life (her lessons consist of playing banjo, dancing, smoking weed, saving a tree or stealing a police motorcycle), and meanwhile Harold begins to fall in love with her. She also helps him to escape military school in scene so funny it is worth the price of rental alone.But the film also shows Harold's (non-)relationship to his bourgeois mother and his militarist uncle (a very farcical parody of a right-wing conservative). His mother is rather indifferent towards her son (something which is shown best during his various 'suicides'), and she's almost completely unemotional to him. After she decides that Harold should marry, she fills in the questionnaire that she ordered from the marriage bureau herself, not caring whether her son agrees with the statements - or whether he wants to find a wife at all. After Harold tells her he's in love with Maude, she has him take counsel, and the photos on the wall demonstrate what institutions she believes in president Nixon, Sigmund Freud and the pope (the scene with the catholic priest is only one minute long but one of the funniest parodies of the catholic church I've ever seen).The film is a masterpiece of character development and of secretly hidden hints to understand the characters (consider a scene where the observant viewer becomes aware of the fact that Maude is holocaust survivor). It is also a film of terrific acting. Ruth Gordon's Maude is one of the most memorable, most lovable and most unique characters in film history, Vivian Pickles is wonderful as Harold's mother, and if Robert Altman hadn't recommended to Bud Cort to turn down that offer to star in that film named One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, where would he be now?There's another reason why the term romantic comedy seems inappropriate its ending. I won't reveal it to those who haven't watched this wonderful film yet, but I assure you it isn't your average 'And they lived happily ever after'-endings. It is a more or less open end, an optimistic end, maybe even a happy end, but one that you'll never find in your Sandra Bullock or Julia Roberts loves Hugh Grant or Ben Affleck films.  "},{"Title":"Truly awful.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film simply does not hold up one bit.  The performances are very bland and entirely meaningless.  The only character that is even remotely enjoyable is Vivian Pickles as 'Harold's' Mother.  Ruth Gordon falls flat on her face and Bud Cort is essentially being himself.  The only other truly positive thing about this film, other than Vivian Pickles, is the excellent musical score by Cat Stevens.I find it extremely difficult to believe that there was any real love that existed between these two characters.  The humor is clearly speaking to a specific generation, and often fails to be effective.  I haven't much else too add, other than the fact that this film is pretty much a waste of time. "},{"Title":"silly","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  so unrealistic, but i guess that was the point.  this movie would have worked if maude was like 40, but even then, her annoying and quasi-hippie romanticism makes one relieved when she finally departs, abandoning harold so she can fulfill some lofty ideal.  hm.  the plot was lost there for me.  and harold and maude in bed?  muahah.  would have been a comedic relief if it had not been so painful to watch.  and psh.  harold would have pursued that bizarre actress that took an interest in his fake suicide rather than ditching her for grandma.  harold's wide-eyed expressions at first are a bit hammy, but he actually turns out to be an interesting character study. "},{"Title":"Watching this movie required effort & attentiveness","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Harold & Maude on video with high expectations, but could never quite adjust to its erratic rhythms.  I found the Cat Stevens sound track intrusive and constantly had to adjust the volume between the loud songs and the barely audible dialogue.  Though I admired Harold's quirkiness (and his self-expression through automobiles), his pallid face looked more like 14 than 20, which made his mother's meddling in his social life even more surreal.  The character of Maude was amusing & great at talking her way out of trouble, but definitely strange.  The 1970's clothes & decor date the movie strongly and the characters seemed more British than American in their accents & sensibilities, which was disconcerting.  I just couldn't get into this movie beyond an occasional scene or two.  The abrupt scene changes and random characters took so much effort to figure out that I never relaxed enough to enjoy it.  Harold & Maude felt more like work or obscure philosophizing than entertainment. "},{"Title":"Phony and Unfunny","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Twenty-year-old man finds his soul mate in 80-year-old woman. This is a movie of its time. The main point of the film is that eccentricity is good; authority is bad. As such, it became a cult favorite with the hippie generation, but it is a chore to sit through it now. Harold and Maude are two of the most self-absorbed characters in the history of cinema. They are meant to be endearing but are extremely annoying, particularly Maude, as she is played by Gordon, an actress with annoying mannerisms. The humor is forced and unfunny and the emotions are phony. The scenes featuring Pickles, as Harold's mother, provide very mild amusement. Everything else is lame. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, slightly unsettling film with a few amusing moments","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a strange film about a disturbed teenager from a wealthy family whose sole hobbies are going to funerals and faking suicides. The young man, Harold, is able to find an unlikely friendship (and more) with Maude, a free-spirited 80-year old woman. This is intended to be comedy, as there are indeed some funny moments, namely where Harold's mother is filling out a computer-dating profile for her son, although it is more bizarre than truly funny or amusing. There are unsettling moments, as the premise itself of a love affair between a couple with a 60+ year age difference makes one kind of squeamish, as well as the gruesome fake suicides, but the worst moment for me was where Harold customizes his brand new Jaguar Sports Coupe until the hardtop resembles a tiny Hearse.  How dare he butcher such a fine a car! Unfortunately, I found the film rather ineffective, as either a comedy or as an unsettling piece that stayed with you (in that it really did not; after the shock value, I didn't care to think about any deeper meaning).  I would not rate this a must-see as many of my fellow reviewers do.  I admit I may certainly have missed the point, and I guess it's just not my type of film.  Still, I give it some points for a unique plot that (as far as I know) was never attempted before.  Decent performances all around. Score 5/10 "},{"Title":"Dumb, Gross and Unfunny. (SPOILER)","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tommy brought this into the liquor store saying it was a classic. A midnite movie. Something that was popular in the Seventies I guess. I've never seen a midnight movie but Tommy says they showed these MidnightMovies at Midnight in the Seventies. I don't know I wasn't there. But if this is the type of disgusting film they showed I'm glad I wasn't there.All kinds of gory scenes played for fun. Black comedy is what Tommy called it. I don't get this. And I guess I'm supposed to say SPOILER but he makes love to old woman. Gross. Why couldn't they get a nice younger woman for this film? It makes no sense. All reviews say this is a good picture but I think it's not. I think people like this film because they think they supposed to, like the way Russia used to be. Dumb and gross and stupid. They shouldn't be allowed to make movies like this. I'm Todd M. and this gets no stars.   "},{"Title":"At first glance, a counterculture love story; on second glance, flaky sentimentality...","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ruth Gordon plays a 79-year-old woman who's in love with life (she's sort of a flower-grandma); 20-ish Bud Cort is a misfit obsessed with death. They meet at a stranger's funeral and forge a friendship which leads to romance. Gummy, somewhat sickly screenplay by Colin Higgins narrowly avoids the grotesque, but not for the reasons you may think. Harold and Maude's more intimate moments are not detailed, however their mawkishly free friendship is, and in these instances Higgins has no shame. He throws in cutesy scenes for a cheap kick, and then finishes with a question-mark that would be a lot more thoughtful if the movie itself hadn't been such a doodle. The picture looks brackish and glum, and Bud Cort is a difficult actor to get a grip on (it takes a while to become comfortable with him, which might explain why fans of the film have seen it multiple times--the initial unease has to wear off). Ruth Gordon gives just what you expect from her; she isn't shy, yet she's shrewd not to overplay her ballsy appeal. Hal Ashby directed (in wistful spirits) and the Cat Stevens songs, though repetitive, give the film a whimsically melancholy feel. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Movie is out of Step with Times it was in & even more so now.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ruth Gordon is a great actress. Her performance in this film is the entire reason I give it 3 stars. If you like Ruth, this is a film you will want to watch although she is in better films than this one. This film is a dark comedy about a young rich brat who drives his control freak mom nuts by faking suicides, & having an affair with a woman (Gordon) old enough to be his grandma. What scared me when I watched it was the woman playing his mom was much more my type than Ruth but that would make this film an incestuous sin.It is an extremely dark comedy which matches the generation it was made in with Nixon still in office & the protests of a Vietnam War that still dragged on when it was released. I would not recommend this to young children now as the suicide theme would be damaging & confusing to a generation now that is more & more prone to it. As far as Gordon's character stealing cars & motorcycles, while it might have been considered amusing & charming then, I don't think it would be considered that way now. This film was a cult favorite of college students in the early 1970's. About that time, all college students were drugged & strung out. I'd say after viewing it, you'd pretty much have to be that way to enjoy it. Multiple viewings really don't enliven that experience. This film is a major contributor to the reason anyone needs to be stoned.I wish AFI had not put it on their list of 100 comedy films, as I can think of several others that belong there. One viewing of it will tell you that AFI sometimes makes mistakes too. It made the list because of a cult following, not because it is a quality film. AFI is as political in it's choices as anyone. "},{"Title":"Show not tell","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the cardinal rules of art is show not tell. That is what separates art from propaganda. This movie fails the test. It is so heavy handed that it makes you want to scream out stop beating me over the head. I saw this movie with a friend and both of us looked at each other at the key moment at the end where you suddenly see the tattoo that tells about Maude's past and said Godwins Law -- obviously the director was too scared to try to make his point without bringing up something that kills all possible debate. Well he killed the debate all right. He made it clear that he does not want to go to the effort to convince us why Maude is supposed to be so loving of life he just wants to force us to go wow what a lot she has been through. Well there are two of us here are left saying wow what a lazy director. "},{"Title":"This paper is about the relationship between two unlikely people and the power of friendship and love.","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Megan Gile Media 5/18/10 Review of Harold & MaudeHarold & Maude a 1971 movie takes place in the San Francisco Bay area written by Colin Higgins and directed by Hal Ashby this is a story of Harold played by Bud Cort who is a dark person who is always thinking about death to get attention from his mother. In the first scene you see a man walking in an old house with happy music playing then out of no where Harold has hung himself. The majority of the music in this film is by Cat Stevens. There are many scene's like these where there is happy music while Harold is dying you think he is dead, but in reality it's a cry for help. Maude played by Ruth Gordon is a free spirited, live life to the fullest sort of person who is 79 years old and when these to meet up it turns into a unlikely romance that won't be forgotten. The movie itself is a terrific story that shows that no matter what age you can still love life and have great friendships. In the movie Harold is determined to get his mothers attention even if that means committing a fake suicide. He does everything to get his mother's attention but it just won't seem to work. Harold's dark, suicidal side slowly starts to disintegrate when Maude comes into his life when they meet at a funeral, which is one of Harold's hobbies. Maude brings the best out in Harold and soon he seems as though he enjoys life somewhat, many of the scenes take place in Maude's home which is full of quirky gadgets. The theme of this movie would have to be friendship and love. These two people who you would never think to be friends a young man in his early 20's and an a 79 year old woman who thinks you shouldn't live past 80, these two become the best of friends and at the end of the movie you clearly see they are more than just friends. The scenes in this movie are somewhat dark and mysterious when Harold was around; Maude brought the light to the movie so to speak, whenever she would come into the room she would brighten the mood with her borrowing random cars and replanting tree's. Maude makes Harold feel as though he was important to someone and he shouldn't live life being mad. Harold always had this gloominess to him; he always had a pale face and dark circles under his eyes and thought about death all the time. Maude wore quirky outfits and lived life to the fullest. Both Bud Cort and Ruth Gordon did a fantastic job in the acting department. I don't think I could see anyone else playing Maude or Harold for that matter, the two together made the movie and they both did a great job.The importance of this film is that no matter what age you are you can always have fun and fall in love. Harold & Maude is a movie that I recommend watching, it's a touching story of two unlikely people who fall in love and the obstacles they overcome. This movie portrays that true love does exist and no matter what there is always a person like you in some way who will always be there for you. Harold & Maude is a terrific movie that you will love and want to watch over and over again, it's a love story that no one will believe unless you watch it. "},{"Title":"Ruth Gordon is the only reason to see this movie","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ruth Gordon was a marvelous actress, mainly on the stage. She's the only reason to see this preposterous (but often funny) film about a morbid young man who loves to attend funerals and drives a hearse as his personal automobile and the old lady (Gordon) who also attends funerals as a kind of hobby. The old lady more or less adopts the young man, who soon falls in love with her. That's the frame of the story and the humor comes mainly from the incidents that occur in the relationship, although in early scenes Harold's fake suicides are the principal diversion, along with the peremptory behavior of his mother (Vivian Pickles) who treats Harold like a child -- understandably since he acts like one even if he is old enough to be an adult. Later on, the movie features Maude's theft of any automobile that's handy to take her where she wants to go, driving like a maniac. Stopped by a police motorcycle officer, she soon drives off in his motorcycle with Harold in the sidecar. In truth, my wife and I soon tired of both the high- jinx and the premise of Harold and Maude, but loved watching Gordon. Too bad it wasn't in a different movie where her talents might have been displayed in service of a more credible and interesting plot. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Treasure","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched Harold and Maude again on HBO. It had been years. I was about Harold's age when the movie came out. Then, the movie represented my generation from both Harold's and Maude's perspectives. The rebellion of Harold, the optimism of Maude. As a 50-something Baby Boomer now looking back and watching the movie from this perspective, it is such an affirmation of life. A reminder that no matter what, you can always find something new. A reason to live life beyond the mundane, beyond what is expected. One of the best films ever made, not because it is great literature, but because it is so alive and human. It cuts to the chase. It doesn't need a lot of words or intellectual chatter. It just is, and that is what makes it so wonderful. "},{"Title":"A fantastic piece of Art","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first heard about this film- i expected it to be one of those films where you sit with family or friends, and feel uncomfortable watching- but it was the exact opposite!. I had trouble sleeping one night so came down stairs to find my dad watching Harold and Maude, i watched the first funeral scene- and was immediately entranced and drawn into the movie. Its one of the few movies where you can actually watch over and over again and never get bored of it. its one of those movies where you can relate to the characters- however strange some might say they are.Its a film about life and how you can learn to love it- its just a fantastic film and a fantastic piece of art. "},{"Title":"Dramatic and Cinematic elements that complement the literary","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hal Ashby's `Harold and Maude' utilizes many dramatic* and cinematic** elements to bring out the literary*** element of characterization.  From the opening scene, Harold is portrayed as a quiet teenager that has an obsession with death; however, this is not explicitly outlined in dialogue, but instead through a depiction of one of many staged suicides that continue throughout the movie.  He generally wears dark colors and purchases a retired hearse to use as his first car.  In one shot, Harold is seen driving his hearse into his driveway, through a large gate in a tall, dark wall. Just before this shot cuts away, a jogger flashes through the picture wearing brightly-colored clothing as a contrast to Harold's solemn and relatively oblivious lifestyle.  Later in the film, his mother gives him a silver Jaguar sports car; instead of appreciating it for what is was, he combined it and his old hearse into one car and painted it black, again displaying his obsession with death. Harold attends a funeral where several separate, but very important events occur.  While the coffin is being carried past him, a P.O.V. insert shot focuses on the Permaseal logo on its side, which is yet another hint of his strange interest in death.  Second, when walking outside, a parade is going by down the street in front of the church; this adds an element of humor to be sure, but it is also important because it acts as a contrast to his lifestyle.  In the midst of all this, Harold meets Maude, an 80 year old woman that is very eccentric.  They have a short dialogue upon exiting the church and she then proceeds to drive away fast and erratically, running over curbs and narrowly missing other cars.  On top of that, the viewer then learns that the car was stolen-the very essence of her carefree and unusual life, and a stark contrast to Harold. After meeting several more times, the two begin to develop a friendship that is demonstrated by several changes made by director Hal Ashby.  First, Harold's costumes begin to show more and more color.  His demeanor at home is drastically changed and there are fewer staged suicides.  As he is forced to meet the suitors that his mother arranges for him, his mood always reflects boredom and carelessness about the entire situation.  In the scene where he meets his third and final suitor, the last shot is very still and quiet just before it cuts to a loud, bright, and busy shot of Harold and Maude at an amusement park.  This contrast represents Harold's feelings towards the two events; he enjoys his time with Maude, which increases all the time, but he very much dislikes spending time at home.  As the two spend more time together, they also spend less time at funerals and cemeteries where they both spent much of their time before meeting.*Elements shared between theater and film **Elements exclusive to film ***Elements shared between literature and film  "},{"Title":"Mr. Assael assignment","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude was a good movie that was full of dark humor that is only appreciated by some. All movies use dramatic and cinematic elements to bring out the literary elements of the movie. This movie was no exception. After Harold pretended to set himself on fire and the girl ran out of the room in terror, he stood next to his mother and gave a sly, cruel smile that showed his love for practical jokes, showing his fascination with death and suicide. Until the end of the movie, Harold always spoke in very low tones that showed the audience what kind of a person he was. He was calmly, yet not completely, sure of himself. Maude's dialogue developed her character and completely. She always spoke out her beliefs that life is short, so make the best of it. At one point in the movie, Harold and Maude were hanging out at a cemetery. The camera zoomed out to show the entire cemetery. The audience could then see hundreds or maybe thousands of graves. This was used to develop the theme everyone dies so enjoy life while you're alive. Harold told Maude that he felt like he enjoyed being dead after his mother had thought he was dead when he was a little child. This seemed to have encouraged his social anxiety because he obviously felt awkward around people. To show his discomfort more, the director had Harold's blocking point out emphasize it. Whenever Harold was not around Maude, he looks very uncomfortable and unsure of where to stand or look, especially before he met Maude. The lighting was very intriguing. At the moments where the lighting is usually dark and somber, it was fairly normal. For instance, at most of the funerals, the lighting was not very sullen or dark. In contrast, it was dark at the times the director wanted the mood to drop. When Harold's mom was chastising him for scaring away his potential dates, the lights were very dark and the music was sullen and somber. The music also set the mood and displayed the theme of living life to its fullest. One song encouraged the listener to do and be whatever he or she wanted. Maude played this song as she told Harold some of her beliefs about life and living.  "},{"Title":"Comment on how the dramatic and cinematic elements bring out the literary elements- RRM","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude was a funny, yet somewhat strange movie.  The topic of the movie is not something you usually hear about and it is something you probably would not think of.  This is truely a unique movie.As I watched this movie, I found that the director used many dramatic and cinematic elements to reveal the literary elements, as do other directors. In this comment, I will list and give my thoughts on a few of these.I will begin with one of the more effective techniques.  Throughout the film, the director used many edits to show the feelings and thought of a character, revealing who they really were.  As something was going on, the director would change the camera position or angle to show a close up of a character.  Through the facial expressions, you could tell how the character felt about the subject being discussed.  I found this particularly effective when Harold's mother would lecture Harold, showing Harold's expressions as she talked.Another effective technique would be the longshots the director chose to use to reveal the setting.  Two in particular stuck in my head. They were the cemetary scene and the cliff scene.  The Cemetary scene was amazing because it was so huge.  The camera continuously Zoomed out, creating a bigger cemetary.  The cliff scene was also pretty neat, starting with the car and Zooming out revealing how large the cliff was and also revealing that Herald was steal alive.  The Director also effectively used medium shots, especially when Herald visits the few men about his relationship with Maude. The shot was zoomed out far enough, showing their desk and things hanging on the wall, so that we could tell who they were or what they were by looking on the desk or wall.I also found the parrellel editing towards the end pretty neat.  At the same time, the director revealed what was happening in the hospital and what was happening afterwards, revealing the plot in a different, but effective way. It seems it would be hard to accomplish this as well as this director did. He did an outstanding job throughout the whole movie.This movie effectively revealed the literary elements by using other elements.  Although this technique was used many times, I chose a couple that i thought were most effective. -RRM  "},{"Title":"cinematic and dramatic elements help convey literary elements","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Through the use of dramatic and cinematic elements including music, costumes, scenery, special effects, and editing the literary elements such as plot, setting, characterization, and themes are advanced and enhanced a great deal. The costumes are very effective because by getting one glance at the characters and their apparel one is able to tell what the character is like. A glimpse of Maude's clothing instantly tells the viewer that she is by no means rich and a little bit off the norm. This is contrasted with the dressy clothing of Harold which show his rich background and upbringing. The scenery and sets are very effective in addition because the director uses the whole scene for action including the distant background for one of Harold's many fake suicides. Effective use of the scenery and sets advances the plot. In another instance of the set being used well is the opening scene in which Harold steps off the chair and the audience sees Harold's legs dangling. This view advances the plot by quickly grasping the audiences attention. It is a perfect introduction that works so well due to the set. The special effects and editing are also very purposeful and serving. The special effects such as the burst of accelerating car sounds help characterize the rashness and carefreeness of Maude. At the end of the movie as Harold is driving recklessly the special effects let us know this by the loud speeding sound of the car showing the recklessness of him because his life is in disorder. The parallel editing at this point is very effective because it flips back and forth with the focus on Harold and it advances the plot and tips off the climax of the whole movie. Perhaps the best thing of the movie may be the music. The music serves about every purpose that music can serve in a movie. The lyrics of the music are very straightforward and apply directly to the movie and its themes that are being developed by the characters. The lyrics, `If you want to be free be free and if you want to be you be you' are effective every time it is played because they come after crucial points and speeches by Maude. The music develops the theme that life is meant to be lived and to live it to the fullest. The music even concludes the movie without words but the importance and significance of the movie throughout the movie lets the viewer know that Harold is seizing life; thus, the movie is concluded. "}{"Title":"Overall This Movie is Great!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films consist of mainly three different elements; Literary Elements, Dramatic Elements, and Cinematic Elements. `Harold and Maude' is a movie that was produced in 1971 and directed by Hal Ashby. One thing that made this movie interesting is that it used all three of these elements.Harold's first car was a black funeral car from the local junk yard. This dramatic element helped reveal Harold's true personality in this movie. It helped support the fact that Harold loved the thought and site of death. This fact was also supported by other props such as the blood; that was scattered around the bathroom, the rope; that was used for him to hang himself, and the butcher knife; that was used to chop off his hand during his search for a date. During this search for a future wife, Harold had felt that his heart belonged to an 80 year old woman; named Maude.Maude had a similar or almost exact role as Harold; she also loved death in an unusual way. Maude's character was exposed through her costumes. She was seen in a yellow outfit during a funeral, and as she leaves she is followed by an adolescent who is in the exact outfit as she. The director used this to demonstrate that Maude had a childish sense of humor. Just as in Harold's case, the director also used props to help discover Maude's character. The cars were used because Maude used them to as get-away cars from the police. As she drove the cars, she could be seen running over side walks, turning curves while letting the car sway recklessly, and speeding.Costumes and props also help set the setting of the story. Harold can be seen eating at his dinner table with fine chandelier and crystal drinking glasses surrounding him. If that doesn't help to demonstrate that Harold's family is wealthy, then you can extract from the dialogue when his mother states `Harold you can have any car you want, why pick such a thing?' Many movies have the tendency to lose the humor in their jokes over a long period of time. But, `Harold and Maude' is one of the few movies, which have held its value in humor over the years. This movie is one of the few movies that I would recommend that everyone should take the time to see. Do not take into consideration age limits; because I guarantee you that this movie will touch the hearts of all age groups in some way.  "},{"Title":"Review of cinematic and dramatic elements and how they bring about the literary elements of the film","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude was the story of troubled 18 year-old Harold Chasen and his unlikely friendship with the youthful octogenarian Maude. Throughout the action of the film, there were a number of dramatic and cinematic elements that helped to bring about the literary elements of the film. For those who may not already know, dramatic elements are characteristics that films share with live theater like costumes and the influence of a director, cinematic elements are characteristics that are unique to films such as editing and the camera's point of view, and literary elements are characteristics that films share with literature such as plot, characters, theme, etc. These dramatic and cinematic elements were clearly evident throughout the film and helped to advance the plot, distinguish and develop characters, hold the audience's attention, etc. There were several dramatic elements that were used within the action of Harold and Maude. The inclusion of actors in the film such as Harold, Maude, Harold's mother, his Uncle Victor, Harold's psychiatrist, and others was one of the major characteristics that novels and this movie had in common. The costumes and makeup worn by the characters in the film also helped to distinguish and develop them as distinct individuals. For example, Harold displayed his dark, troubled nature by wearing many mute colors such as black, gray, and brown while Maude showcased her upbeat, youthful nature by wearing bright clothes, carrying an unconventional yellow umbrella, etc. The props and sets used in the film also helped to set up the various scenes in the movie and also aided in developing the different characters. An example of how sets and props helped to develop the characters in the film was how Harold is regularly at the psychiatrist, lying on the couch there while the shrink questions him about his troubled, and sometimes suicidal nature. The music of Cat Stevens was also a major dramatic element that helped to set the mood of the scene based on how fast or slow the specific song might have been. Lastly, the influence of the director of this film facilitated the appealing transition of scenes that eventually composed the finished movie product. Far fewer cinematic elements were used in the film Harold and Maude, but only because cinematic elements are unique only to movies. Several locations such as Harold and Maude's respective homes, Harold's psychiatrist's office, graveyards, and other different places helped also to set the mood of certain scenes, as well as to aid in developing characters distinct personalities. An example of the use of locations to help distinguish characters is how in his spare time, Harold enjoys attending the funerals of random individuals at a number of different graveyard sites. The camera angles, including close-ups on characters and the various kinds of shots, also helped to set the tone and mood of scenes. An example of the use of various camera angles is how the use of close-ups on Harold, Maude, and others helped to set up the mood of scenes based on the facial expressions of the different characters. Also, the camera angles also helped to develop the characters by showing their varied facial expressions depending on the action of the scenes. Lastly, the editing of the film helped to set up the pleasing composition of scenes that resulted in the final film product. "},{"Title":"A movie that fell from Heaven.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to hug this movie. I couldn't belive how much this movie had an impact on me. Everything about it makes it sad,funny,and brilliant. This is one cult classic not to be missed. If this movie does not move you in anyway I don't think I would like to know you! Everyone who has not seen HAROLD AND MAUDE, see it! ****. "},{"Title":"Exceedingly Clever","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very clever film.  If it doesn't make you think about your own life and your place in society, you may very possibly be clinically dead.Director Hal Ashby also tweaked the minds of audiences with Being There a few years later.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"This movie speaks to you in so many ways!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a breathtaking, wonderful and imaginative look at life and love!  It breaks all the rules, and has me begging for more!  If you have not seen this film, rent it and then brace yourself for the ride to come.....make sure everyone you know sees it as well! Can you tell that I gave this flik a 10* rating? "},{"Title":"Maude is not who she seems","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never been so undecided about how to rate a movie.Harold and Maude deserves a 10 for originality, black humor, storytelling, and chutzpah. On the other hand, it deserves a 1 for ickiness and its trite expressions of live life philosophy.As the end of the movie approached, I felt inclined to give it an 8, but I changed my rating to a 6 and a thumbs down because of the ending.My review includes spoilers as I explain my logic. Here's my problem with the movie &#150; Maude's suicide contradicts the entire point of everything that happened earlier!!! If she died via a car accident or stroke or if she revealed a terminal illness, I would have given the movie an 8.The writers exhibit thinking that infuriates me. They do NOT understand the difference between personality and character. I see this on the news whenever there is a murder and neighbors say the suspect is a nice guy because he starts conversations with them, smiles, and is friendly.In fact, the suspect has a nice personality and the neighbors generally know little about his character. The same is true here. Maude appears happy and nice because she is extroverted. In fact, the movie's conclusion reveals she is unbelievably selfish and/or depressed.She is very healthy so there is no reason to kill herself. The writers foreshadow Maude's suicide because she implies she will kill herself early in the movie. It's all going to be over after Saturday, she says, a line I forgot about until the end. Yet, for most of the rest of the plot she befriends Harold, goes out with him, and responds in kind to his I love you remarks.In short, Maude is a bad person &#150; not the lover of life who inspires Harold.I will NEVER accept the premise that dancing, as Harold does at the end, means a person changed. This was also a flaw in Zorba The Greek when the Brit acts like a wimp as his girlfriend is killed by a mob and the house of Zorba's wife is ransacked. Yet, I'm supposed to believe he changed because he danced. He was MORE wimpy at the end of the movie than he was at the start.If Harold has a brain, his experience with Maude will make him MORE negative about life.It's difficult to give a 6 to a movie I gave a thumbs down, but I loved the eccentric supporting characters, the audacity of Maude's teenlike rowdiness, Harold's fake suicides, the non-dates with young women, and the character conflicts, especially the Harold-Mom relationship.I watched the movie a second time to see if Harold ever talked to his mother before he briefly told her near the end that he was marrying Maude. The Mom spoke dozens, maybe hundreds, of lines to Harold. The son's only response was I have a sore throat &#150; a line he delivered in front of several people. He NEVER responded to his Mom in one-on-one encounters.The Graduate On Steroids was enjoyable, but failed because its creators do NOT understand that personality does NOT equal character.ZWrite "},{"Title":"I Don't Get It","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not the movie I don't get, I don't get why so many people love it. The age difference between the leads is a clever conceit and the movie is mildly amusing, but it is also ponderous and heavy-handed. The Cat Stevens soundtrack destroys any subtlety. The life and death themes are pat and detract from the black comedy. I don't recall too many serious conversations about life in the much funnier Kind Hearts and Coronets or Dr. Strangelove. I'm left to believe that the less discerning are attracted by the anti-authority, anti-military, anti-religion, anti-wealth tone. It's worth a watch, but don't expect more than some fitful chuckles and be prepared to sit through some lessons on the beauty of life. "},{"Title":"An entertaining but very strange black comedy. Almost too strange.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bud Cort plays the part of Harold, a young man who seems to feel that his mother does not pay enough attention to him. After not receiving much of a reaction from her after having staged numerous extremely elaborate suicide scenes, he soon loses interest, especially after meeting Maude, an eccentric 80-year-old woman with whom he eventually falls in love. Their relationship, obviously, is the subject of the majority of the story of this highly entertaining film. Maude is your typical elderly lady who likes to steal cars and mouth off to cops who are more interested in arresting her than anything else. While she speeds off after having been pulled over, she laughingly mentioning how the police always like to `play games.' This unique film follows Harold and Maude through their adventures and portrays the development of their highly unlikely mutual love, and the result, strangely enough, is quite good.One of the only negative things that can be said of this film (keeping in mind all of the things that it can get away with, given the kind of film that it is), is that it has dated pretty badly. When watched today, its age is very clear, but at the same time, this does not necessarily take away from the film as a whole. This is good comedy partly because there are really no other films like it, it is a true cult classic because of the following that it has developed over the years, and regardless of its shortcomings, it remains an interesting film.  "},{"Title":"Over-Hyped.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terribly over-rated film that has a young Bud Cort and the elderly Ruth Gordon falling in love with each other. Cort is a suicidal nut-case that just cannot seem to find happiness while Gordon takes life as it comes. A really whacked screenplay that just did not do it for me is the thing that sinks Harold and Maude quicker than anything else. The usually dependable Hal Ashby struggles with the whole project and no one in the relatively unknown cast does anything to leave a lasting impression. Watchable and somewhat interesting, but not nearly as good as many would lead you to believe. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Characters don't work","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know a lot of people really really love this film but I wonder if it's because they believe the hype instead of really watching it.  I find both of the the main characters (Harold and Maude) annoying and not sympathetic. I guess this is the reason when I watched this film that I hoped Harold's Mother would succeed in giving him something to really get mad about, and Maude would do something really productive to show how good she was, like helping out some people who really needed it instead of some spoiled rich kid like Harold.The photography and sound quality and editing are all poor, but that isn't such a major thing compared to the general problems with the film.  >  "}{"Title":"Why this film is a loser","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold is a bored, self-indulgent, spoiled brat who treats everyone like an inferior. With too much time on his hands, he's also obsessed with death. He finds, Maude, an elderly hippie with her own version of life and death and spirituality. Together they enjoy each other's company and end up having sex. Harold horrifies everyone by telling them he's going to marry Maude. The film makes everyone except for Harold and Maude look like complete idiots or worse. It insults religious faith and the military and society in general.Of course, after all of Maude's exaltations of the wonder of life, she takes enough pills to commit suicide. Why? We are never told but it clearly conflicts with Maude's joy of life teachings. Anyway, Maude dies and Harold is so depressed about losing Maude, that he drives his car off a cliff, jumping out in time to dance and play a banjo on the cliff-side. Thus, celebrating life.No doubt, this film is unique, yet the writer and director have a warped sense of life itself and as such are incapable of truly teaching the joy's of life. They attack religious faith and miss out how faith makes life all the more joyful. They attack the tradition of military defense against those that hate freedom and liberty. The very basis of our ability to enjoy life is achieved by those that have given up their lives so that others, like Harold and Maude, can squander it by belching their idiotic drivel.Harold takes from society but gives nothing back. His family is wealthy and he chooses not to work but instead to spend all his time indulging in his morbid fantasies. Maybe if he got a job and became an active participant in society he wouldn't find his life so empty. He's a pathetic moron and Maude is little more than a senile lunatic that should have been committed.This film misses the point by a long shot since the film-makers themselves have demonstrated that they couldn't possibly imagine what the real joys of life include. "},{"Title":"Maybe not a sequel, but...","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. I don't know if a sequel is in order, but maybe a twist on a remake. Get Bud Cort to play the role of Maude. We are obviously talking about switching genders. My only hesitation in suggesting any alteration or addition to this story is that Harold's suicide performances are exquisite, and integral to the film. A new story would also have to preserve the subtler aspects, such as the Jaguar-hearse, and how they add to Harold's character. And what about the small - but very significant - Holocaust reference? Would a new movie, more than 30 years later, have to invent a tragedy for today's audience to relate to more readily? At least 90 percent of sequels are a waste of time and money, and often detract from the original. However, there do exist sequels and/or remakes which are of tremendous benefit to the original movie.Now, having said all this for those who have seen and enjoyed Harold and Maude, for those of you haven't, let me say, See it. You will not regret it. If you can't find it to rent anywhere, buy it. It is probably one of the most under-rated movies in the last half of the century. Subtle and brash, twisted and real, there is no other movie quite like it. "},{"Title":"everybody has a classic that they simply do not enjoy","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everybody&#x97;and I mean everybody&#x97;has a classic that he or she simply does not enjoy. And it for me, it's 1971's Harold and Maude. Now I am fully aware that by panning this film, that I am standing out very far against the majority. Most people think of Harold and Maude as a cult classic; as a funny, offbeat, and one of the most interesting dark comedies every made. Well, I'd most certainly agree with interesting (in terms of how nothing in it was to be expected), but I would substitute funny and offbeat with appalling and off-putting with only a handful of humorous moments.The plot is absolutely preposterous and not one that really intrigued me to begin with. Bud Cort stars in the film as a young, death-obsessed man still living with his mother. He is so obsessed with dying and scaring people that he's attempted to scare his mother and other people by faking his own suicide with a variety of unimaginative methods. Then he comes upon and falls in love with a seventy-nine-year-old woman whose just as obsessed with life as he is with death. And together, they embark on a series of wild and eventually romantic adventures.Weird! Now the plot of the movie itself is very off-putting and let me warn you that the content that follows especially within the last third of the movie is most certainly wrongheaded and disturbing in a bad way. For the first two-thirds, I was not enormously entertained, I probably still wouldn't have recommended the movie, but I wasn't appalled. Then in that third act, it goes so over the top, so self-incriminating, and ultimately the movie shoots it's already-weak self in the foot and falls like a ton of bricks. The third act my itself destroyed the movie for me because it was completely creepy to me. And in the worst way possible. Now, I am not against being creeped or grossed out in a movie, but it has to be done right. I still consider The Silence of the Lambs (1991) as the creepiest movie I've ever seen and graphically, it's more disturbing than Harold and Maude, but the content of The Silence of the Lambs is, strangely, off-putting in a fantastic way. How it's treated here in Harold and Maude is wrong in literally every sense, it's disturbing, and left me eager for the credits to roll and overjoyed when at last they finally did appear.Now Harold and Maude is not a COMPLETE disaster for me, but it's only a hair's length away from being one. It's saved from being a catastrophe and ends up just being mediocre because there were three genuinely humorous moments in the film that were not off-putting, not creepy in a bad sense, and were imaginative and welcome. They boosted up my rating for this movie a little, but still not enough to save it. I will commend the two actors Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort for good performances of off-putting characters and the cinematographer John A. Alonzo for the noir look of the movie.But still, in the end, Harold and Maude proved to be nothing to me but a grim, disturbing, and eventually and appalling excuse for a romantic comedy that I also fear will offend a great many people over a broad variety for various reasons. Again, I am completely aware that I stand with the minority&#x97;a very tiny minority&#x97;but I would be lying if I were to say that I liked this movie. To some, this alone will be proof of my worthlessness as a reviewer, but to you who say this, look at yourselves and then check the IMDb top 250 list and tell me how many classics on it you do not enjoy. This is one of the few for me, but it exists. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the well-thought Contains Spoiler check box is an overkill for Harold and Maude. Here's why The cold face Harold and annoying outlaw-to-be personage of Maude fail to tell us a story of any kind.The director and the writer were probably being misled by the illusion of attractiveness of nonconformity and eccentric lives of an unattractive painless couple jumping up and down the screen to deliver their message.Despite being listed in AFI's top ten romantic comedies of American film history, this movie is simply boring and the creators have done their best to add even more annoying characters, say Harold's disabled uncle, to the legion of other annoying creatures in order to make us pause the DVD player and rush for aspirins.The whole message of the movie, if any, fails the mission because it wraps an empty box in a pack of toilet papers with some writings on it patch-pasted from random pulp magazines of 70s. "},{"Title":"Gateway to understanding a generation","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold and Maude is a movie that captures the spirit of a generation. It's a movie that crystalizes late 60s and early 70s -- isolated, self-absorbed, self-congratulatory, and condescending.It's about losses without struggle, preaching without understanding, drawing conclusions without insight.  Where the movie claims to be about growth, it is really about shutting down.Harold is shown as being totally justified in closing off the world -- the world is black and white, with Harold's Mother being totally, irredeemably wrong and Maude being totally, irredeemably right.  Harold's world isn't wrong because it's smug, closed-minded, or simple -- it's wrong because it exhibits the wrong kind of smugness, close mindedness, and simplicity.Harold and Maude maintains this grim, relentless march toward Meaning Enlightenment Life with barely a glimpse of true humor -- viewing it is as much a cultural artifact as would be a 2 hour film of Yakoff Smirnoff performing his standup act before a Republican crowd in 1987.Slouching Toward Bethlehem by Joan Didion is a perfect counterpoint to Harold and Maude -- read it after you see this movie for a return to sanity. "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude as a ruler for dating","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have watched this movie in an attempt to see why everyone likes it and alas....Nada! I do however use this movie in my dating life and as a rule if the girl in questions voices her love of this movie, I generally go the other way. I have yet to meet many emotionally balanced fans of this flick. But...yeah, for it anyway it does help me weed out the manic depressives in my life. Anyway, more power to those that find it entertaining. I also find those same H and M fans tend to like pedantic junk like Prairie Home Companion also. Again, it is a useless horrible movie. Anyway, feel free to comment me back on your opinion I'd love to hear a witty retort. "},{"Title":"weird, but neat","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harold Chasen (Bud Cort) is a rich boy uninterested in wealth. What fascinates him is death, and he often pretends to commit suicide. But his life changes forever when he meets elderly Maude (Ruth Gordon), also fascinated by death.Overall, Harold and Maude is sort of a weird movie (a twenty-ish man hooking up with an eighty-ish woman?), but kind of neat. Obviously, a lot of the new directors - including Hal Ashby - wanted to try new kinds of stories. And they did a pretty interesting job with this one. I wouldn't call it the greatest movie ever made, but it's definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Cool but a bit dated","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen Harold and Maude, finally ! Not that I really wanted to see it. For me Harold and Maude was one of those movie you always notice on the video store's shelves but never want to rent. You rent The Abyss instead or something like that.. I knew it had a good reputation but I always had the feeling that a movie with Harold and Maude as a title could only be boring. Why rent that when you can go with Predator? And for some reason I always got confused between Harold and Maude and Miss Daisy and her driver. Maybe because they both have old people in them. Well this week-end, around a campfire, my parents said that when they were going out, in the seventies, they saw Harold and Maude and thought it was great. Great for the time or great in general they did not know. So I rented it to find out.So ? So even if I don't think Harold and Maude is a masterpiece it clearly has the charm of the best films of that period of greatness in American cinema  the early seventies. I always thought that the main strength of movies like Scarecrow, Panic in needle park, The Graduate and, now, Harold and Maude was the blend of vitality and melancholy we can see in the wonderful way those movies are shot. The story of Harold and Maude is quite simple  a young man and an old lady fall in love and they share the best moments of their lives in a celebration of life. Of course the characters and situations are, for the most, original but I would not think it is as groundbreaking as some people might say. In my opinion, the similarities with The Graduate are too many to be purely coincidential. I like Cats Stevens when I hear him on the radio but I don't necessarily want to listen to his best-of while watching a movie. Maybe the production team of Harold and Maude took their influence in the use of Paul Simon's songs in The Graduate but in that movie we didn't have to listen to the Sound of Silence every other scene.The acting in Harold and Maude is top notch  I especially liked the actress playing Harold's mother. She's something of a caricature but we believe it anyway. In fact I think the movie succeed the most in the fake-suicide scenes. That's where the movie is the most cynical and funny. When Harold rediscover life, tough, I think the director is a bit clumsy (when Harold is blowing bubbles for instance). Sometimes it's a bit embarrassing really... As for the last sequence I think it sums up the message of the movie  that Youth will prevails even in Death... or fake-death ! 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I first thought.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my first review for this film, I called it Terrible, terrible, terrible.  However, I felt this was perhaps too strong, as I have many intelligence friends that enjoy this film.I had many discussions about the nature of the plot and the nature of the relationship between Harold and Maude.  A few of my friends said they loved this film, simply, because they were were female and thought it would be cool to have an affair with a 20 year old guy when they were in their seventies.  This was not a good enough answer to me, but other friends liked it for better reasons, more to do with the psychology of the characters and why they are attracted to each other.I understand the appeal here.  The suicide humor felt a little bit too much like a writer begging for a laugh, and I did feel really bad for Harold going through such an emotionally devastating experience.  However, Maude's character is often hilarious, and Harold provides a lot of charisma in a Ghost World Enid-type way.  I guess the best thing that could be said about the relationship is that it is unconventional, and therefor provides a new perspective on just what love is.  My main problem with the film has always related to this as well, which is why a character as thoughtful and (secretly) good-natured would fall as Harold would fall into someone as self-serving as Maude.  Perhaps I can never get over this fact, but the second viewing provided me with more amusement than the first.  I think knowing how the story ended helped me live in the moment, and enjoy the film's direction a whole lot more.I now feel this film can at least being considered as being close to the same level as Hal Ashby's other masterpieces, such as  The Last Detail, Coming Home, and, my favorite, Being There.  There is a lot in this film to love, even though I'm not the biggest fan of the nature-of-true-love story that the film contains.  I will probably see this film a third time one day, and perhaps I'll change my opinion of it again.  Current rating 7/10 (or **1/2 out of 4) "},{"Title":"Elements Abroad","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Harold and Maude, there are a lot of examples of cinematic and dramatic elements.  These elements often help bring out the literary elements of the film including plot, character development, and emotional connections. Most of the elements are cinematic, but there are many examples of dramatic elements as well. In the opening scene, there are several examples of dramatic elements including the patchy lighting on the staircase, light and happy music, candles being lit, and he even writes a letter.  These things open the story with a contradictory mood.  The patchy lighting brings a dark mood, but the music has a lighter mood.  The mix is confusing, but the mood is severely altered to a depressing mood when he hangs himself.  Although, the mood quickly changes back when his mother walks in and completely ignores the fact that he hangs there.  The movie is full of these confusing mood swings, but the viewer gets used to the fact that this is not a normal story. There are many cinematic elements that bring out the literary elements of the story.  For example, there are several different shots taken that contain no dialogue, and the viewer only sees a scene with music.  When Harold gets his new Jaguar, a shot is taken of him welding something.  The viewer cannot see what he is welding, but this shot foreshadows a change in something metal.  The conclusion that he is changing his car is made by the viewer during this scene, and it is confirmed later on when his new sports hearse is revealed.  Another shot is taken of Harold and Maude dancing. This shot shows the connection growing between the two.  This one single shot develops both of the characters and shows that Harold is changing. One scene was taken of Harold playing the banjo which deepens the viewer's understanding that Harold is changing into a happy person because of love. The action scenes, especially the ones with the motorcycle cop, really dig deep into the characters and show more of their new-found connection. There are a lot of other examples of how the cinematic and dramatic elements in this film help to bring out the literary elements.  Irony is used a lot in this film, and the speech and actions of the characters, especially Harold, help show it.  These elements may or may not create a good movie, but they do create an interesting story. "}{"Title":"Indicative Of the Sick '70s","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"16 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's a strange movie! No wonder it's considered a cult classic, which usually translates into sick-movie-that-a-select group- of-sick people-love. In this case, it's a story of a 79-year-old degenerate (Maude, played by Ruth Gordon) hooking up with a 19-year-old Harold Parker Chasen (Burt Cort). Yes, sometimes it's funny but mostly just an excuse for Maude to give us her dumb New Age philosophies. This perverted film could only have been made in the sleazy '70s.Earlier in the movie, before Cort meets Gordon and falls for her, the teen fakes a number of suicides. That was very good dark humor and the best part of the film. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever made.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's very hard for me to write down my feelings and emotions for this movie. To be terribly cliche, it made me laugh and it made me cry. This movie is very touching. It made me truly appreciate life more. Some people may not like the dark dark dark (emphasis on the dark) humor, but I found it refreshing. It also has the greatest soundtrack ever. Cat Stevens is a genius and the songs on this soundtrack are all beautiful. I can't listen to Trouble without getting a lump in my throat. If you haven't seen this movie yet, I definitely urge you to see it, because it's one of the purest, most heartfelt movies ever made.  "}]