[{"Title":"Bruce Lee....There Will Never Be Another","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fists Of Fury was the second best of the Lee films.  (Chinese Connection was tops).  The speed, action and excitement in the film was unprecedented. The only thing that came close were the episodes of the Green Hornet and they were Lee also.  He was the epitome of being physically fit and had screen presence like no action star before him.  His fitness level and physical capabilities are qualities that some action stars have today, but at the time there was no one like him.  Fists of Fury had a good story and the acting was good.  In the last almost thirty years, you will be able to find films that are equivalent to the technical and production measures of this film, but none as good due to the fact that this was the first.DHM  "},{"Title":"The Beginning of a Legend","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After trying to make a name in Hollywood with the TV series Green Hornet with mixed results, young actor and martial artist Bruce Lee traveled back to Hong Kong where his popularity as Kato was very high, there met Raymond Chow and received the chance to star a film about martial arts. Tang Shan Da Xiong, or The Big Boss (known in the U.S. as Fists of Fury), was the final result and the movie that started Lee's career and his way to becoming a legend of celluloid.The Big Boss is about a young Chinese man named Cheng Chao-an (Bruce Lee) who travels to Thailand looking for a job. Living with his distant cousins, he finds a job in the ice factory where his cousins work and soon he finds a family in them, developing a close friendship with Hsiu Chien (James Tien) and a big affection for Chow Mei (Maria Yi). Although he is a skilled fighter Cheng sworn an Oath of non-violence to his mother, promising that he would not be a get in fights. However, things get complicated when two of his cousins disappear and is discovered that the ice factory has a dark secret. Cheng will have to break his Oath in order to unveil the mystery behind the disappearance of his new family.Directed by Wei Lo (who would also discover Jackie Chan), The Big Boss was a breath of fresh air to martial arts films as it showed a flawed hero in a modern setting. The story (by Wei Lo and Bruce Lee) is very well developed and filled with suspense and action, and in a bold move for an action film, the main character remains almost inactive for the first half as Cheng must avoid violence due to his oath. The film not only launched Lee's career to stratosphere, it influenced his own film-making's style and the way future martial arts movies were done.Wei Lo's usually restrained style was also influenced by his young actor's abilities, The Big Boss can be seen as his transition to a more explosive way of film-making that would be completed in his next Lee's film (Fist of Fury) and the subsequent Jackie Chan's films. The natural and raw look of the film added to the high dose of graphic violence (it is probably the goriest film in Lee's career) give the movie a harsh, gritty realism that adds to its charm.As many have already said (and will continue saying without a doubt), Lee was a very charming actor whose presence filled the screen and owned it completely. That statement is proved here as we see him not as a killing machine, but as a common man who just wants to live peacefully, giving us many scenes of Cheng enjoying his new found family and struggling with his own vices. Lee's performance is very natural although one could say that he was basically playing himself. The rest of the cast ranges from average to OK, with James Tien, Quin Lee and Malalene being the best among them. However, it's fair to notice that the poor dubbing, typical of movies of the era makes a bit difficult to judge them fairly.The Big Boss is considered among the weakest of Lee's films and not without a reason. Those accustomed to constant action scenes will feel it is slow due to the film's pacing and the way the story is built. The acting, as written above, is not very good and only Lee and Tien's performances are of constantly quality. And finally, Wei Lo's inclusion of some silly comedic effects feels terribly out of pace in an otherwise dark and gritty action film.To summarize, Tang Shan Da Xiong, or The Big Boss, is a terrific film on its own right, and together with Fist of Fury (The Chinese Connection) and Enter the Dragon, a basic film to understand Lee's career and the development of martial arts films during the 70s. It may not be a classic as the films mentioned, but this was just the beginning of the legendary Bruce Lee. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Power of Holding Back","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Throughout this film you see a constrained Bruce Lee. Lo Wei is deliberately holding him back in order to introduce him to audiences and to save the best of his fighting for the second film. What we see here is a humane Bruce Lee who has feelings, a sense of humour, enjoys sex and is in control of his temper. He strikes up a good friendship with Shu Sheng who life is eventually claimed by the antagonists. When Bruce witnesses the mistreatment of his family in the workplace, he still holds back. Until...they break his necklace. At that moment, he explodes into action with centrifugal force, picking off each opponent with pin-point accurate kicks. It is a work of art that is akin to 'Samson and Delilah'. "},{"Title":"Referred to here as THE BIG BOSS...","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After years of trying to get into Hollywood, Bruce Lee returned to Hong Kong and began his efforts with this low-budget martial-arts thriller.  The result - an Asian box-office smash which made Lee an overnight sensation in the East.  Whilst its not a great film or Lee's best work, it is an definite film classic that really opened the door for the martial-arts genre, as well as kicking off Lee's career.  The story sees Lee coming to work in Banghok with his cousins in an ice factory, where he soon discovers sinister operations taking place under the thumb of the title villain.  Like Lee's other films, the action builds up through the film to impressively staged fight scenes, all topped by a dramatic, all-out climatic bout between Lee and the Big Boss.  Breakthrough stuff but the best (and the West) was yet to come. "},{"Title":"Crude and uneven, but the first Lee-starring film still has a certain power","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first of the four Bruce Lee starring movies well, five, if you count Game Of Deathis technically the weakest. However, it's easy to see how it caused such a stir. Unlike most martial arts movies of the time, the film was set in the present day and attempted things like characterisation and even realism. These touches sometimes seem crude and even laughable now for instance, check out the scene when the other workers of the factory are waiting for Lee to return, with it's exaggurated 'passing the time' actionsbut when the film came out, it was a major step forward.Even more daringly, the film has less fighting, with the fights being structured around the plot rather than the other way round, and bravest of all, the star of the film does not go into action into half way through. Instead, it cleverly builds suspense by having Lee as a guy who has sworn not to fight, and when he eventually cuts loose the result is exhilarating. However, it's obvious that none of Lee's opponents are a match for him and only the sequence when he battles a group of heavies in and around an ice factory really stands out. The clumsiness of much of the action Lee was only allowed to choreograph the ice factory sceneis almost redeemed by the huge amount of gore and brutality.Despite it's shoddy aspects, the film does have an odd power,especially towards the end. Lee's character is a very flawed hero who for a while badly strays from goodness and there is a sense that killing all the bad guys will not bring him redemption. In all three of Lee's Hong Kong films, violence never really solves things, it just makes things worse. Maybe that is why Lee's dated, sometimes awkward films are still watched again and again while many other films of the same time and genre have faded into obscurity. Well, that and Lee. "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's Goriest Movie","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tang Shan Da Xiong/The Big Boss(1971) is of all the Bruce Lee movies the most censored and cut because of some scenes of graphic violence.  The violence in its uncut form seems to be on the level of the Street Fighter flicks with Sonny Cheiba.  Bruce Lee doesn't show off his fighting skills until mid way through the film.  What a great fighting performance Bruce Lee gives the viewer when he beats up the big boss's factory workers.  Interestingly, the film has a couple of erotic scenes that are unusual for a Kung Fu movie.  Both these scenes were either trimmed or cut from the picture.  Bruce Lee's films would get less bloody by the time he did Enter the Dragon(1973).  Mr. Vampire actor, Ching Ying Lam has a small part as the cousin of Cheng Chao An.  Film that brought Bruce Lee international stardom even though the film was not very good.  For a Kung Fu flick Bruce Lee is unable to show his full ability as a martial artist due to the filmmakers concern about his appearence in film.  Bruce Lee would not fully utilized his excellent skills until the fight sequence at the Japanese martial arts school in Jing Wu Men(1972)/The Chinese Connection.The Big Boss(1971) is noted for the infamous scene cut from the film of Bruce Lee spitting a man's head in half with a saw.  A scene that has been lost scene since probably the film's debut in Hong Kong theatres.  Just as infamous as the lost Pirhana scene of Cannibal Holocaust or the lost eye sucking scene from Full Contact.  This sequence is definitely a scene that may have influenced similar sequences in The Streetfighter(1974).  This one scene makes The Big Boss(1971) a must find in its fully uncut and uncensored form.  Bruce Lee does well for what little material he had to work with.  One gory sequence that was trimmed for the film's US release was the scene where Cheng sticks his fingers deep into the main villain's torso.  It would be great if someone would find elements from The Big Boss(1971) in order to put together the longest print possible.  The Hong Kong version is superior to the badly cut and badly dubbed American version.  Its the version that I recommand the most for Bruce Lee admirers and fans. "},{"Title":"An important part of the Bruce Lee legend","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Big Boss (1971) was beloved Bruce Lee's famous breakthrough film. Script is not a very ingenious one and some of the lines are so naive I had no idea should I laugh or cry. Plot is really just a silly excuse to arrange different fight situations. What I'm saying is this is certainly not an outstanding masterpiece and if you're expecting to find something deep and profound from here I can assure you'll be very disappointed. On the other hand, if you want to see speedy, amusing and stylish violence without a single gunshot and legendary Bruce Lee kicking ass in a most entertaining fight sequences this is definitely your flick. I am not a diehard-fan of Bruce Lee but I do love good Asian action movies and although The Big Boss was a rather clumsy old kung-fu classic I think it was quite an enjoyable film to watch. In a nutshell I liked it. "},{"Title":"Very impressive","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing and admiring Enter The Dragon, I knew Bruce Lee wasn't just a name but a man with remarkable skills. Better than Jackie Chan and Jet Li. I figured the next Bruce Lee movies I'd see would have lousy plots but good action. That's how every Jackie Chan movie goes. Well, I was thrown a curveball. Fists of Fury has a very cool plot. It involves a company that smuggles heroin in blocks of ice and does away with employees who find out. An action movie with a plot. It's almost unheard of. The action is pretty good too. I'm always afraid when starting out a bruce lee movie that because it is so dated, the action will seem fake. Up until Lee starts fighting it ussually does. But once the man gets into it, the intensity is unquestionable. This movie was not quite as cool as Enter The Dragon, but it was very good. Much better than I would have ever thought. Its got a better plot than any of Chan's films and I've seen them all. Lucky me. At least Lee doesn't do corny humor. This guy is the real deal and this movie is dam good. "},{"Title":"be sure to see the uncut version","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sometimes a genre's defining films are some of the most unusual. In Bruce Lee's debut, Lo Wei's uncharacteristically interesting directing takes us to moody, almost giallo-esque nooks and crannies (the red room scene is outstanding), and some of the violence goes way beyond the boundaries of good taste and into horror/splatter territory as well. There's a sleazy sexist exploitation vibe I could do without (that, ironically enough, wouldn't be carried over into the cheaper mid/late 70s films Bruce Lee inspired), but it's fairly negligible.Some people might criticize the movie for being slow, but it has a deliberate, meaningful narrative arc that gives emotional value to the action that does occur. Give me this sort of pacing over this five-cuts-a-second MTV style movies have had since the 90s any day. "},{"Title":"Bruce the star","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, Bruce Lee did it he finally hit stardom with one of the coolest movies that I've ever seen. Tang shan da xiong (called Fists of Fury in the US) has him going to work in an ice factory after having taken a vow not to fight. But when he discovers slimy deals at the factory, he realizes that he has no other choice.As one might expect, the whole movie is an excuse to show off Bruce Lee's moves, and they do a great job with it. There's not much in the way of an actual plot here they get straight down to the martial arts, and I shouldn't even have to tell you what sorts of things he does.All in all, this movie will remain a classic for all time. These sorts of flicks make life worth living. You're sure to love it. "}{"Title":"Excellent screen debut from legend Bruce Lee!","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Lee explodes on the screen in his excellent debut in The Big Boss. Bruce is Chen, who moves to Bangkok to create a new life for himself and is under a vow to never fight again and is left with a green medallion from his mother as a reminder. He almost gets into a fight at his arrival with some local thugs, but abstains. Chen stays in a house with his cousins and they get him a job at the local ice factory. The ice factory is a front for drug trafficking and once a block of ice is cracked open, two workers discover their employer's nefarious packages and are never seen again. Events then escalate and a large brawl breaks out. Chen finds his green medallion shattered and Chen fights like mad. The violence then escalates throughout the rest of the film leaving Chen little choice on his mission of justice. The Big Boss is a cheap production, even for HK films of its era. However, Bruce carries the film easily with his eclectic, intense presence, flawless physique and super human fighting skills. Of Bruce's films The Big Boss is also the bloodiest. Audiences never saw anything like Bruce Lee before and the film was a huge hit. Bruce became an instant cultural icon on par with The Beatles in Hong Kong. Great debut and an essential martial arts classic! "},{"Title":"A Very Basic Martial Arts Film","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cheng Chao-an (Bruce Lee) is a young man from the country who decides to seek employment with some relatives and friends at a factory far from home. What he doesn't realize is that the factory is a secret conduit for heroin. Natually, where there are illegal drugs there are also hoodlums present. When they inevitably cause trouble for Cheng's group he has to decide on whether to obey a promise he made not to fight or help to defend those closest to him. Now, while this film isn't nearly as good as a couple of other Bruce Lee movies, it did have a big influence on starting the martial arts genre that we enjoy today. I believe that it is because of this reason that many people rate it so highly. However, upon closer inspection I think that most people would see that there are obvious faults to this film. The film quality isn't good, the dubbing is bad and there are parts that seem to drag on way too long. But there is plenty of action and a few pretty ladies to lend some nice scenery. I especially liked Miss Wu-man (Marilyn Bautista). Even so, this is a very basic martial arts film and I rate it as average. "},{"Title":"The movie that kick-started Bruce Lee's career","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I believe this movie, The Big Boss, was the first major Bruce Lee movie and it hurled him to international stardom. This is an essential movie because it showcases Bruce Lee's talents early in his career and thereby it is also probably responsible for triggering the phenomenon of martial arts movies. Don't expect too much from the story. It is a simple plot but still engaging.Bruce Lee is Cheng Chao-an, a simple factory worker. But there is something shady going on at the factory. Soon Cheng makes a startling discovery that will make him go on a crusade to seek revenge and justice.Everybody who is familiar with Bruce Lee knows what to expect and that is the martial art fight scenes. Bruce Lee's technique is unmatched and simply amazing. There was nobody like Bruce Lee and there will never be another Bruce Lee - he was one and only. "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's first big starring role","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i liked this film.it's very entertaining.the story is engaging enough to keep you interested.the fight scenes are very good.especially the final fight between Bruce Lee's character and The Big Boss.Lee had a lot of charisma and screen presence and it shows here on his first big feature film role.what really impressed about him though while watching the film was his amazing footwork in the fight scenes.he was obviously a very skilled martial artist.the version i viewed was the U.S. 99 minute version.it would be interesting to see the uncut version,if it still exists anywhere.but for now,this version will have to do.for me,Tang shan da xiong is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Martial Arts classic, but not consistently good","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Big Boss stars the legendary Bruce Lee as Cheng Chao-an, a migrant worker who visits his cousins in Thailand and begins work in an ice factory. Cheng has taken an oath of non-violence, and struggles to control himself and hold back as his cousins in Thailand begin to disappear...The Big Boss is certainly a classic martial arts film. It kick started Bruce Lee's film career, and made him a star in the East. One can see why. The fighting in this film is excellent, with Lee and fellow martial artists showcasing their talent, even with the films low budget look. The story itself is passable, as Cheng navigates an increasingly dangerous situation that he is trying his best to avoid. Supporting characters in the film are likable, and the thugs and villains suitably dastardly.A few small complaints would be the relatively weak, if passable story. It almost feels like the Big Boss is a sequel, as Cheng arrives with a back-story half told. Some characters acting skills are not on par with the fist fighting as well. The props and weapons also look laughably unrealistic.Those aside, this is a good martial arts film staring the legendary Bruce Lee. It's by no means the best of his filmography, but is enjoyable non the less. The Bog Boss is worth your time if you enjoy martial arts, or Bruce Lee's other films. "},{"Title":"Bruce kicks and punches his way to stardom","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film deserves it's high rating because it is the film that introduced Bruce Lee to the world.It is badly Directed by Lo Wei, badly acted by James Tien, Maria Yi and just about everyone else, but Bruce carries this film into Martial Arts history. The Big Boss is slow to start but that seems to emphasise just how good Bruce is. Compare James Tien's weak attempt at fighting off villains to the time when Bruce finally starts to fight and you can see why he made such a massive impact on the world of film.Bruce wanted realism and where he can he shows his skill and power. It is only Lo Wei's attempts to revert to silly comic book action that spoils it somewhat.It may seem to some an exaggeration but this film marked the beginning of something that changed the way all action films were made afterwards. Today all action films contain some Martial Arts whereas previously that wasn't the case.OK James Bond films had a go at showing some pretty unrealistic Karate, Judo and Ju Jitsui but Bruce changed the way Martial arts would be shown from then on. Without Bruce there would have been no Jackie Chan, or Jet Li or Jason Statham etc.The film itself does have some good points. The story is a good one and only spoilt by some really bad editing. I am sure there were some amazing scenes cut from this film and this makes the story jerky and unclear at times.So, if you haven't already done so, watch this classic, bear with it, and see the explosion that was Bruce Lee. "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's best film!","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A thoroughly entertaining martial arts adventure from start to finish. At least that's my opinion, which certainly seems to be in the minority here on the web; I think the problem with most people is that they watched this film too seriously and thus were dismayed by the bad acting and shoddy production values instead of viewing them as part of the fun. THE BIG BOSS is an undeniably light film, and even when blood is splattering across the screen, things never become too serious for a second.The story is so very simple that it frequently borders on the laughable; also, there are gaping plot holes throughout (if Lee and his pals are causing so much trouble, why doesn't the boss just sack them?), but this doesn't detract from the fun. At least it's easy to understand what's going on. The acting is of variable quality, from average to poor, and in a lot of the minor roles the actors and actresses are hopeless. Thankfully, when you've got Bruce Lee as your leading man, the rest of the cast don't really matter. Lee shows himself to be a surprisingly likable and charismatic actor here, and I actually liked the fact that he starts the movie off with a vow of non-violence - a plot device which Steven Seagal saw fit to borrow for a number of his movies.There is much to enjoy in this movie, not least the wealth of martial arts battles which take up its running time. The two best action scenes are the night-time ice factory battle and the finale, bloody showdowns which offer up loads of violence and fake fighting to great effect. The other, non-violent fight scenes can get kind of tiresome but I found that if you stick with this film, it gets better as it goes along. Another thing is that a high reliance on weapons is shown in this film, with frequent scenes of Bruce turning the weapons on those brandishing them; thus setting the scene for maximum bloody carnage. The finale is jaw-droppingly gruesome and has to be seen to be believed, and is definitely one of the best deaths for a chief baddie I've seen in a film.Until then we have loads of things taking up the running time; some gratuitous nudity doesn't go amiss, there's a young cute boy to lend some sentimentality to the proceedings, while the dubbing actors have a field day with the monkey noises that Lee supposedly makes whilst fighting - absolutely hilarious moments. With a fast pace and a high death toll, THE BIG BOSS is a shoddy yet enjoyable movie, not a classic but one that more than satisfies where it counts and proves to be a fine display of Lee's fighting abilities. "},{"Title":"The movie should have been more realistic to make the audience feel good watching it, make the movie believable","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fist of all, I have to admit that this movie(THE BIG BOSS) was one of my favorites growing up, because watching Bruce Lee kicking the hell out of his enemies was a great thing back in the days, and still being a great thing nowadays because he is a legend. Know reviewing the movie, I would say that The Big Boss might had been the best action movie during its period back in the 20s, but now is nothing compared with movies of this century. Talking about the movie, the hing i did not understand is, if Bruce Lee(Cheng) kept her mother a promise of no fighting again, there is no reason for him to break up that promise just because someone in the Fabrique broke his necklace, I do not thing is a big deal, because he could have fixed it. I think the director did it to make the movie entertained.I do not understand why people disappear on the movie just like that, with no reason, then realize they hide the inside the ice. If people start disappearing, I think the best thing to do is call the police, there is no need to handle the problem by themselves, because that would create more conflict between them and the bad people. "},{"Title":"kung fu movie classic","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cheng Chao-an (Bruce Lee) leaves his Chinese village to join relatives in Thailand. He is greeted by cousin Hsiu Chien who readily fights for others while Cheng promised his mother never to fight again. He joins his relatives at an ice factory owned by drug-lord big boss Hsiao Mi. When two of his cousins find drugs hidden in the ice, they are offered money but they politely refuse. They are killed and their bodies chopped up. Hsu Chien and Ah Pei go to ask questions but then they disappear. The men riot and Cheng is made foreman to appease them. Chiao Mei berates them for forgetting her brother. The boss throws him a party to get him drunk. Chiao Mei runs into him sneaking out of the brothel and the men are not happy that he forgot about Hsu Chien once again. Eventually, the hooker Sun reveals the truth and is killed. The boss's henchmen attack Chiao Mei and the family while Cheng is breaking into the factory. He finds drugs and the hidden bodies. He's confronted by the boss's son and numerous henchmen.It's a functional kung fu story. The idea that he promised not to fight is great one. It allows him to be on another level when he actually does fight. It also allows him to be human. He gets tricked by the boss. He falls for a hooker. He's restrained by his promise. That makes the fights so much better. It's like he had saved all of his energy for his big fights. The movie is also more brutal and bloodier than I expected. The main thing is that this is a Bruce Lee movie and he shows that he's obviously a superstar. He's burning with charisma and it comes across on the screen. "},{"Title":"Action StoryTelling Classic","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Lee movie which has some crudeness of production, but overall effect is great. There are some technical misgivings to overcome. I MYSELF, PERSONALLY, appreciate image and sound quality a lot, however am compelled to value movies as stories primarily. The STORY is very Nuanced and Sociological. THis is not an oversimplified action movie. I have heard some people listen to the music and watch the action and deem it a good action movie. My OPINION is that the action submits itself to this story. In LEE's later but perhaps more popular movie ENTER the DRAGON, the Story is very simple, and the action dominates the movie.The acting of Bruce Lee and his regular actors is quite good, some of the bad guy side acting is lacking a bit. The Fighting scenes are SOMEWHAT sparingly done, but all very poignant. The choreography of action is best in the popular world in my opinion. The realisticness of the hits, drama of fighting is fabulous. WHile the general cinematography is decent in this movie, the fight scene camera work, angles, editing, seems to be a science which few have perfected like Bruce Lee to this day. This spectacularness, along with well choreographed moves, sit on a foundation of a well developed story.T H A N K S F O R R E A D I N G ! ! ! ! "}{"Title":"Bruce Lee's explosive Proto-grindhouse debut","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw The Big Boss when I was about nine years old. My older cousin (who had introduced me to Lee a few years earlier) had given me a synopsis of the movie, and like him, I was genuinely enthralled. Unlike him, I hadn't experienced the Bruce Lee zeitgeist of the early 70's and, thus far, had only had real (reel) time with Lee in Game of Death (1978). For the better part of two years, I had idolized my hero mostly through photographs and because of this, he had taken on an additional mythical quality. As I slid in the videocassette, I remember a distinct feeling not too dissimilar to the one Indiana Jones must have felt upon finding the Holy Grail. I had lived with this film in my imagination for a child's eternity, and had a pretty good idea of what to expect. What I didn't know, was that the film itself would look and, more importantly, feel almost exactly as it had in my mind. For this reason, among others, Boss will always be a little extra special to me.Exactly what makes the movie so compelling? Unquestionably, it's the sheer magnitude of Lee's screen presence - a fact that prompted producer Raymond Chow to offer him the lead role initially intended for James Tien. Upon closer inspection, however, Boss possesses a primitive spontaneity and textural rawness that gives it an extremely tangible and visceral quality - a verisimilitude that's not unlike Tobe Hooper's The Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver. From the moment Lee's character, the humble Chinese immigrant Cheng Chao-An, arrives at the Pak Chong dock, right through to the evocative finale where he's hauled off by Thai police, there's a certain sense of reality taking shape. This energy is both kinetic and alive. Cheng is a young man with a troubled past. His newfound home offers an opportunity to seek his fortune through hard manual labor - a trade not uncommon to most Chinese expatriates- and, though never directly stated in the film, his pilgrimage was a result of his rebellious nature back home. Due to his new surroundings, Cheng's demeanor is both respectful and, oftentimes, painstakingly shy, but, there's an innate innocence to Cheng (represented by the jade locket given to him by his mother), and the more we spend time with him, we witness the gradual loss of that innocence. The set up works extremely well, as we don't see what Cheng is capable of till almost halfway into the film. Later, he'll come full circle, and embrace the animal he sought to suppress - the slaughter of his family being cataclysmic for the emotional arc he will experience in his journey.Particularly relevant is the way the violence is explored - uncompromisingly brutal, yet at the same time, strangely purifying. It's as if the violence serves as a confession, paving the way to Cheng's reputation as a muscular, young tiger. In the warehouse, bathed in eerie red light (that seemingly suggests the rage to come), Cheng discovers his cousins corpse. The flood lights switch on and we see Cheng glaring at a group of thugs approaching; lightning quick, he hurls his flashlight at them - impaling the metal through a man's skull. Using every weapon at his disposal - including a saw - he systematically goes through each man with what can be described as serene savagery. This Zen-like dispassion has two exceptions the moment the jade locket is torn from his neck, and the final battle where he puts his fingers through Mi Hsiao's ribcage and then proceeds to chain punch the villain's lifeless body to a pulp. If the broken locket represents the unleashing of the beast then the image of Cheng collapsing on top of the Mi's corpse is the exorcism of that beast.A major theme that separates Boss from Lee's subsequent films is its use of sexuality. Indeed, sex almost takes on its own character in the piece and abstractly mirrors the intensity of the violence. For the first (and only) time we see Lee sexually charged and uninhibited on celluloid. Eroticism runs through all of Cheng's relationships with women borderline incestual with Chiao Mei, a flirtatious school boy crush with the girl at the ice stand and&#x85;.promiscuous with local prostitutes - the latter of these two encounters was included in the original mandarin print of the film. In the deleted scene, Cheng, having made his decision to take vengeance for the murder of his family, returns to the town bordello. In direct contrast to his earlier encounter with Miss Wuman, he's straightforwardly aggressive - pushing the second Thai prostitute roughly onto the bed, and fully disrobing in front of her. Cheng's naked body becomes a symbol of the sacrifice he'll make to avenge his family, and his act of sheer pleasure with the prostitute represents his spiritual rebirth into the animalistic warrior that we witness during his fight at the Boss's mansion. Equally profound, is his departure from the room - specifically in the way he pays the prostitute for her service - delicately placing the last of his money on her belly while she sleeps. There's a sensual gravitas and a prevalent solitude that linger as Cheng leaves the room. The scene was later removed in an effort to preserve Lee's screen image, following his designated status as a cultural hero and role model to the Hong Kong and South-East Asian audience. "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's  first film.  Good story but sad.","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a massive fan of Bruce Lee, this film is not better than Enter the Dragon or Fist of Fury but the story is good, the fight scenes are OK but look silly, we all know that it's old fashion.I never buy video or DVD to watch this film but I recorded it on channel 4 in early 1997 and I still got the video tape. I think the Chinese language is mandarin, not cantonese, I might be wrong but it doesn't sound like cantonese. And the fight scene, Bruce killed the 'Big boss' with his bare hands and another scene, Bruce went to hotel to find out where the big boss is, both did actually show on TV, there might be more but I can't remember. While I copied the video to a new tape, I cut up the TV adverts and some unnecessary scenes because it was too long. I believe that some scenes were still exists that no-one have seen it before, I didn't realise and I should keep the whole version. "},{"Title":"Clichéd but quite a lot of fun nonetheless","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen a whole bunch of Bruce Lee films and I liked this one the best. No special reason. I always wondered how a guy who was so health aware ended up dead of a cocaine overdose. Maybe revenge of the great Wushu Spirit Warrior. Who knows. I liked the way this film built to a conclusion-a predictable one, but they always are, and that is part of their charm, to me. The DVD is available with Cantonese or Mandarin language options-I think it was done in Mandarin originally. (with English subtitles for people who can't speak either Mandarin or Cantonese, like myself) It is also kind of a funny film. but most people don't seem to think so. Bruce Lee had a good sense of humour, I think. I recommend this film to new fans of Martial Arts films. If you have never seen a Bruce Lee film, see this one, you might get a surprise. "},{"Title":"Raw Bruce Lee","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Raymond Chow of Golden Harvest called Bruce Lee to star in his first Hong Kong movie (and Lee's debut as the star in a movie), Bruce asked for $10,000 USD for his salary which at the time in Hong Kong was unheard of. Raymond Chow asked is it HK dollar or US dollar, and Lee answered US dollar. Chow agreed and a movie legend was born.Because the movie was shot with low tech style that was standard for Hong Kong movie at the time, we can see Bruce in a more natural setting. The emotions are raw, and acting is raw like you've never seen on a movie anywhere. This movie is one of my favorite because of this.Maria Yee and Nora Miao adds freshness to the screen like never seen from woman actor before or since.To see the kind of innocence this movie projects, you have to come here, because there're no other movie like this.Birth of a Super Hero kung-fu cinema. "},{"Title":"The Big Boss","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cheng Chao-an(Bruce Lee) moves into a village for work, finding employment in an ice factory only to discover that his boss, Hsaio Mi(Ying-Chjieh Han) is using the place to distribute drugs, trafficking them in the ice. Those before him die at the hand of the Mi's army of underlings and soon Cheng's own friends and relatives all fall prey to underhanded sneak attacks..raising Cheng's ire was Mi's huge mistake. And, kidnapping his potential love, Chow Mei(Maria Yi), doesn't help matters for Mi.I think The Big Boss might test the patience of Bruce Lee's fans for his first major fight doesn't happen until the ice factory showdown(..featuring Lee in an epic battle with Mi's son's hoods, the ones who knifed his friends while they were sleeping, including a young boy)towards the end of the movie. It's worth waiting for, though, as is Lee's combat with Ying-Chieh Han during the conclusion. James Tien, as Cheng's renowned friend, Shu Shen, a respected worker who cares for his people, is featured in a couple of fights with Mi's troublesome thugs, at the opening of the film, unable to upend the opposing forces who were simply too large in number for him to overcome. The story, what little there really is, takes precedent over the scattered fight sequences, but there's plenty of blood as knives(..among other weapons)are used quite often, leaving plenty of victims dead before all is said and done. The other major showdown features ice factory workers battling Mi's goons, not faring too well until Cheng reluctantly gets involved. Cheng's promise to his mother(..an oath sworn)keeps him from participating in battles early on, until his resolve is pushed to the breaking point. "},{"Title":"The debut of a legend","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As the years go by and more martial arts movies are made, we really begin to overlook how great and innovative Bruce Lee was. Not only the action sequences but the cheorgraphy and training themselves. Unlike todays world, Bruce Lee looked just as good at 34 as he did when he was 24.The plot to this one is Bruce Lee comes straight off the boat to be with his cousins, they get him a job at the ice factory they all work at and all is well until some of the co-workers discover the whole operation is a drug smuggling ring. After the head honcho has the co-workers murdered, Bruce Lee and his run-in buddy from Game of Death have to save the day and end the drug ring.The thing I liked the most was how Bruce didn't throw a single punch or kick for the first FORTY FIVE minutes of the movie, lemme tell ya why. The film had other guys show off their skills and then lets Bruce do his thing which happens to be ten times BETTER than what we've seen already. It was awesome buildup and it delivered beautifully.The only negatives aren't really negatives. First is the entire film is dubbed in English, which deprives us of Bruce's trademark yell but it does make for funny dialogue. Also, what was with Bruce Lee being able to hop 12 foot chain leak fences in a single bound and being able to out manuver 5 dogs no sweat? Thats about all there is to crow about, the rest was spectacular and a good revenge story. Definitely worth the price and martial arts display.The highlight of the movie is the final fight with Big Boss. Too many movies have the final fight being completely one sided in favor of the hero, but this one at least shows Bruce in trouble at times. The mark of a great movie villain is to put the hero in danger so it was nice to see Big Boss get some shots in.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A complete movie with substance and style","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A very enjoyable kung fu flick, but it has its bad sides.1. The fights are impressive and, being numerous, are neither repetitive nor pointless. 2. There's blood and the blood looks real. 3. There are cubes of ice, which is an effective and very unusual piece of the background. 4. Mr Bruce Lee's character gets real drunk in the movie. 5. The prostitute turns out to be a helpful gal, not a bitchy wench. 6. The evil characters are not cartoonish (remember that irritating small Chinese guy in glasses and a monk with a re-adjustable hand?). 7. The development of the main character is true-to-life he's never a 100% good guy making only good decisions - he makes mistakes like any human. 8. A kid is slaughtered and the main character is an embodiment of pain when he sees it. 9. The whole film leaves some tragically ironic impression.Now to the bad sides. The scene with the dogs. It looks stupid and totally unrealistic. He jumps about like Tiggr from the Walt Disney animation serial and the dogs are also flying about like crows. How dumb is this? Very. And there also that scene when the hero and his friend jump over the hooligans (near the beginning of the film). A very poor stunt. Such wirework spoil the overall gritty atmosphere of the movie.A big surprise to me the main character was not killed off by the late-like-always police forces at the end.Well, that's about all. Good movie with a legendary fighter and stupid drawbacks 7 out of 10 only. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Bruce Lee's first big starring movie, one with a simple plot, mostly amateur acting and effects, but with some remarkable fighting, and gives us the first real glimpse of Lee's screen presence-one of the most powerful ever along with Mifune, Mcqueen, Pacino, Eastwood and De Niro. Lee's character is sent away to his family in the country with a promise from his mother that he will not fight or get into trouble, metaphorically held within a necklace she gave him. Of course, the second Lee comes to town he witnesses the bullying of a young woman and boy, but reluctantly does not fight. Soon he has a job in an ice factory, where his boss is trading drugs to The Big Boss, and killing those who find out. When a fight breaks out on site, Lee's necklace is broken. he snaps and wipes out all those around him in a flurry of kicks the western world had never seen before. His boss is impressed and promotes him which forces his family to become disillusioned with him. Soon his friends begin to vanish, and when he refuses to join The Big Boss, his family is slaughtered without regard for age or sex, prompting Lee to take revenge.Obviously the fighting and Lee are the main draw of the film, but it goes deeper make of the ending what you will. There are many funny moments, some unintentional, Lee is excellent when fighting and not. Maria Yi is also good, and The Big Boss is pure evil with a grin. A must for any action fan. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"He Had What It Took","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is for me one of the best Bruce lee movies, the other (Fist of Fury). Bruce plays a character that a lot of people related to (except for being able to fight like a Gung Fu master) he arrives in a new town starting in a new job and trying to make it on his own, for this he puts aside his anger and what he knows is right to keep a promise that he has made, he takes a step back and lets himself be mistreated to keep that promise, but after he has been pushed too far and his promise is broken (literally), he unleashes the fury that is Bruce lee. the violence in this movie is put in a different level as it is shown in an everyday knives and chains against bare hands, 2 to 1 or more odds, and how men in power will do anything to keep that power, even if it means killing. Bruce shows us what he had been telling people for years that in a situation like that anything goes if you got it use it. this film is a reminder not to underestimate anyone, even yourself, for if you push someone to far you might get pushed back, as Bruce proved to Hollywood with the Big Boss, He had what it took, and became a legend. "},{"Title":"Bad dubbing,dodgy acting and great fight scenes.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Remember no fighting!I'm a big Bruce Lee fan and I would say this film is my favourite film apart from the polished enter the dragon.The story centres around Lee who goes to work at an ice factory that is being used for drug smuggling.Members of work staff go missing as the Boss kills anyone in his way.The film is fun,plain and simple.Don't take it too seriously and you will enjoy it.Bruce Lee kicks ass and there are some excellent fight scenes.the dubbing is bad and the soundtrack is crazy but if like bruce lee/ martial arts films you will like this.And remember......no fighting!  "}{"Title":"Enter Bruce Lee","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (Minor Spoilers)`Fists of Fury' was the first film of kung fu giant Bruce Lee. In fact, so successful was this movie that it turned Lee into a star and helped him go on to better things. Lee plays a young man who has moved to Thailand to live with some relatives. He takes on a job in an ice factory only to discover it's being used as a cover for a drug-running operation. When his cousins find out about it, they mysteriously being to disappear. Lee knows the factory owner is responsible but he is unable to exact any revenge because he has made a promise to his mother to not do any fighting. But Lee eventually breaks his promise and in his typical style, he saves the day.I'll admit that this movie is a cheesy one. It has a thin story line, silly acting, and some very bad dubbing. Then again, this is a 1971 Hong Kong production so I guess that is to be expected. I was actually laughing during some of the early fighting scenes because of the silly sound effect that was used when someone took a blow. It sounded like a firecracker was going off!! That was so funny. Ignoring the corny aspects of the film, the one disappointing thing here is that Bruce Lee doesn't get into the fighting until the film is about 3 quarters over. I would like to have seen him in the action a bit more. Still, once he gets going, he's impressive. `Fists of Fury' has definitely aged but if you are Bruce Lee fan, this might be an interesting to watch if you want to see where Lee got his start.Star Rating 3 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Enter Bruce Lee","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (Minor Spoilers)`Fists of Fury' was the first film of kung fu giant Bruce Lee. In fact, so successful was this movie that it turned Lee into a star and helped him go on to better things. Lee plays a young man who has moved to Thailand to live with some relatives. He takes on a job in an ice factory only to discover it's being used as a cover for a drug-running operation. When his cousins find out about it, they mysteriously being to disappear. Lee knows the factory owner is responsible but he is unable to exact any revenge because he has made a promise to his mother to not do any fighting. But Lee eventually breaks his promise and in his typical style, he saves the day.I'll admit that this movie is a cheesy one. It has a thin story line, silly acting, and some very bad dubbing. Then again, this is a 1971 Hong Kong production so I guess that is to be expected. I was actually laughing during some of the early fighting scenes because of the silly sound effect that was used when someone took a blow. It sounded like a firecracker was going off!! That was so funny. Ignoring the corny aspects of the film, the one disappointing thing here is that Bruce Lee doesn't get into the fighting until the film is about 3 quarters over. I would like to have seen him in the action a bit more. Still, once he gets going, he's impressive. `Fists of Fury' has definitely aged but if you are a Bruce Lee fan, this might be interesting to watch if you want to see where Lee got his start.Star Rating 3 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"typical early 70s kung fu flick with 2 differences","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This kung-fu quickie introduced the world to the martial arts skills of Bruce Lee. Although the film itself is hit and miss, action fans will want to check it out for an early example of his prowess as an action star. Fists of Fury falls prey to a lot of the problems common in early '70s martial arts films; in other words, it has a predictable plot line, cartoonish acting, and awful dubbing. Despite these hindrances, Fists of Fury benefits from two strong attributes. The first is solid direction from veteran Hong Kong filmmaker Lo Wei. He keeps the plot's familiar elements flowing smoothly and brings a gritty verve to the film's many fight scenes. However, the film's key attribute is the presence of Bruce Lee; he carries himself with charisma of a star and brings a singular blend of gracefulness and macho swagger to the fight scenes. Strangely, the plot keeps him out of the action for half of the film, but when he gets to do his thing, the results are quite memorable. The best example is the finale, which features Lee taking on a gang of hired killers and their vicious boss without ever showing a second of fear or doubt. In the end, casual viewers may find Fists of Fury to be a bit dated, but any fan of Bruce Lee will be interested to see where he got his start.  "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's debut starring-role classic","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Lee's starring-role debut he plays Cheng Chao-an, a country bumpkin sent to Thailand by his uncle to visit his distant cousins who work at the local ice factory. When drugs are discovered in one of the ice blocks, the finders (two of Cheng's cousins) go missing and Cheng is soon forced to investigate. The big boss of the factory is soon discovered to be a drug smuggling criminal mastermind. More and more cousins go missing until Cheng is finally forced to confront the evil man in a full-on blood-soaked fight to the death. Unsophisticated, made on a shoestring and with constant tribulations, the end result is a cheap and amateur affair, but one that provides a great amount of fun. The film was a phenomenal success in HK and propelled its charming star to the top of his field Lee is truly electrifying, kicking and punching like never before with a cheeky and ever-present smile on his face; a welcome introduction to the man who would later revolutionise the martial art movie scene. "},{"Title":"Comic & low budget B.L. film. (or should that be 'comically')","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film is very cliched and cartoony, it show Bruce's almost unnoticed comic style. The fight scenes are fast paced and quite refreshing, but the plot is a bit mental. Little attempt was made to make it plausible, and this ties in nicely with some of the coreography. "},{"Title":"Incredible great!","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fist of Fury was my first Bruce Lee movie and I enjoyed it very much,it has fighting,violence,humour and and on top of that,Bruce Lee,he can act,he can fight and that is great. The only downfall of Fist of Fury is the dubbing,I prefer to watch movies/Tv-series in it`s originally language,so I would probably rated this movie higher if it weren`t from that.9/10 (highly recommendable) "},{"Title":"Nothing can protect you from the force of Bruce Lee's fists!!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a big Bruce Lee fan and I own all of his kung fu films. But out of his 5 chop socky flicks, Fists of Fury is his worst. Not saying its bad, its just an average film that is corny and has a whole lot of martial arts violence (Yah!). Bruce Lee is the only thing that makes this movie worth while. After all, he is the master. *** out of ***** stars "},{"Title":"IF YOU WANT TO FIGHT, FIGHT ME","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well Bruce i won`t fight you because your by far the best martial arts actor ever!! Bruce was and still is the best of the best!! On film no one comes close to Bruce Lee. jackie chan and jean-claude van damme are fun to watch but Bruce Lee wrote the book on what a martial arts film should look like. anyways, i`m not gonna say how great this movie is because if it wasn`t for Bruce Lee this movie would be just fair if not pitiful. the acting is not that good but really who cares it`s a martial arts movie, we don`t watch fighting movies to see great acting do we?? if you haven`t seen a Bruce Lee movie you really are missing out on classic martial arts action.. rating (best of 5 stars) .....3 1/2..... "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's breakthrough performance.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was Bruce Lee's first leading role and the movie was a huge hit for his career.  The Americans call it Fists Of Fury, but where I come from we call it The Big Boss and I refer this title to the American one.  This movie really influence me when I was a 8 years old, and I was really crazy about kung fu and Bruce Lee which he became my hero.  The Big Boss is a great movie and I kept watching it for 12 years and then after that I got tired of it, but when I watched the American version known as Fists Of Fury I found out that there were some scenes which wasn't shown on the British version, and it has made me refused to stop watching it and helped me to continue to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"See the Special Edition, if you can!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just aquired a copy of the Asian Special Edition DVD of this film, and it rules! Let's put it this way the version I saw was dubbed, pan and scan, looked like c**p with colors that looked horribly over-exposed, and had a pretty goofy musical score. The Special Edition fixes all of that. See the subbed versions and you'll be wrapped up in the story and characters and actually care what happens. Especially Fist of Fury (aka The Chinese Connection), which I didn't care for in its dubbed incarnation but is now one of my favorite movies! (as well as Bruce's best film) Strangely enough, though, even though they're supposed to be Bruce's original fighting yells, they sound nothing like him! And on top of that when he speaks in the middle of a fighting sequence it sounds like a totally different person! What gives? But anyway, the letterboxing adds a lot to the film, especially in the busier fight scenes. The film is cleaned up a LOT, which also gives it more credibility. It probably looks better than it did on opening day! Like, try watching an old video of the original Star Wars and then watch the Special Edition video - no comaprison, right? Same thing goes here. The new musical score is...interesting. On the one hand I like it more because it isn't as goofy and makes the film more dramatic. But on the other hand it's all really nondescript when comapred with the main theme from the original, and some of it (like the medallion theme) started to get on my nerves. For a really bizarre thing, check out when they play the beginning of Pink Floyd's Time! I couldn't believe what I was hearing at first.And finally, I must admit I was a little shocked at the violence not in the US version.  "}{"Title":"Come get some of Bruce!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hey now, forget the aesthetic qualities of film, etc, for this film is not about that.  It is HIS vehicle, and for what its worth, it takes him as far as any film could.  Very bad man (well portrayed, believe it or not) gets schmacked by Mr. Lee in a bitchin showdown.  PLUS Men are frozen in Ice in this film, always a bonus! Nice hoochies are supplied by the bad guy! What a flick! "},{"Title":"Martial arts was born","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't expect much of the acting  thought the very first Bruce Lee film is not bad. It shows what kind of sex appeal the guy had and how talented he was and why he became a great martial arts actor. It's still much better than Jackie Chan's classics. "},{"Title":"Dope in ice!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An excellent Bruce Lee debut! Raymond Chow and company sure knew how to make a good movie for a great star. The music score is intense on top of it! The climax fight scene at the end is well worth waiting for. Go out and buy the box set, that's the best way to have the greatest Bruce Lee movies. A++ "},{"Title":"You're headed for the freezer.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" See we it began, the Hong Kong produced The Big Boss would be the feature-length film debut of one of the greatest action stars Bruce Lee. The natural charisma, the physic and martial arts ability of its star were nicely packaged in this simple, but highly compelling revenge story. Lee stars as Chen, a young man sworn to his mother's oath against violence, travels to Thailand looking for a job and finds one working at a local ice factory with his cousins. But things turn bad as workers begin to mysteriously disappear, as the big boss brushes off the concerns of his workers. Add to that the factory is soon exposed as a front for drug trafficking. Now Chen is caught between helping his fellow workers fight back or sticking to his vow. Of his short-lived filmography, this would have to be my most enjoyable experience of the lot and it was a massive home country hit for Lee. The conflicting drama, comic humour and the violently forceful fight choreography are majestically implemented. It showcases everything that made him a superstar, even though for a good half-hour Lee takes a back seat due to his character's vow. Some might find it a bit of a slog, but it only wet my appetite. What starts of as stare offs and stance positioning breaks out the energy levels as wave after wave of henchman consisting of daggers find themselves at the end of blistering and agile action choreography. It's bombastic, surprisingly nasty (as a lot of red paint is chucked about) and is finished off with an outstandingly rollicking final standoff between Lee and the big boss (a marvellous Ying-Chieh Han). The only thing that was kind of a Jekyll and Hyde was its wonky, overwrought instrumental music score. Sometimes it worked, other times it was awkward. Sorry you refused my offer. "},{"Title":"yeah man","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite his figurehead status, Bruce Lee's films were for the most part pretty atypical of the kung-fu genre. This is a good example of the heavily westernized slant his stuff had modern settings (rather than that vaguely ancient lost in time approach), dated jazzy funk, cheap nudity and very little philosophical pretenses or emphasis on tradition.Not that the two dollar budget movies with white-wigged guys fighting in fields are in any way a pure representation of martial arts--of course they're not, that's half the appeal--but Bruce Lee's stuff is better seen as exploitation than anything. Which is fine, in a way. With that said, it's hard not to appreciate this movie for how aggressively 70s it is. All the thugs look like retarded anorexic sailors, and it's awesome. "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee elevates","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" excerpt, full review at my location.In 1971, Bruce Lee returned to his native Hong Kong after unsuccessfully trying to launch himself in Hollywood. Capitalising on the popularity of his US television series The Green Hornet, Lee took the lead role in this low-budget exploitation flick. How was anyone to predict that he was about to provide a watershed moment in Hong Kong film history?Bruce Lee elevates an otherwise rote and overly-familiar screen story to a level above 'guilty pleasure'. For its historical and cultural significance, The Big Boss is an essential work - a genuine time-capsule, capturing the moment Hong Kong cinema changed forever. "},{"Title":"Not his best, but fun","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I understand that this was Bruce's first starring role. And yes, it's true that he doesn't fight for the earlier half of it(meanwhile, others most definitely do). That doesn't mean that that portion is boring to watch. The martial arts are rather awesome and fun, and watching Lee do his thing never gets old. OK, maybe better has been seen, it's still cool. Genre-wise, this is comparable to a spaghetti-Western, and you are not meant to take what you see entirely seriously. It's downright cartoony at times, an aspect that appears to be mainly related to the director. There is a nice amount of humor, and it's fairly silly, though not cringe-inducingly so. The version I have of this is dubbed to English. Acting is pretty good, both original and the voice people brought in approach it with an enthusiasm that comes through in their performances. This is uneven and... not the most sophisticated flick out there. The pacing is reasonable. Editing and effects are seldom completely convincing, and this is stronger when it doesn't try to do fancy, clearly faked stuff(which is somewhat seldom, fortunately). This follows the staff of an ice factory, a couple of whom mysteriously disappear. There is infrequent, gratuitous nudity, and plentiful bloody violence in this. The DVD holds trailers, a photo gallery, the featurette Immortal Dragon which I will review on its own page here on the site, and A Fistful of Yen, a segment from The Kentucky Fried Movie, a hilarious, wacky, half-hour spoof. I recommend this to fans of chop-socky. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Thank God for Jackie Chan - that's all I have to say...","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Look. I was a big Bruce Lee fan back in the day, then I got into Jackie Chan, and realised that Bruce Lee is just, as we Brits say, an 'ard barsted. Chan cares about cinema, and doesn't just want to walk into a room and knock everyone out - he wants to entertain the paying audience, and not just prove how macho he is.Don't get me wrong. This film is okay, hence the 6 I've given it. Some of the fighting is very impressive - especially considering how much of a fool Lo Wei was, and considering the resources the cast and crew had, or lack thereof.Overall, this is a very watchable movie. However, the film fails fatally in one respect - the mind-numbing stupidity of the good guys, in not realising soon enough that two members of their family die every single day, when they go to see the Big Boss. How daft can you get? To start off with, there are about ten members of the family, and cannon-fodder is the best way to describe these idiots, as they each, in turn, go and see the Big Boss to complain that, yesterday, two of our brothers came to see you, and they haven't come home yet... which leads to their deaths, and the follow-up enquiry from the next two brothers. What a load of balls! Apart from that, the film is okay. Bruce Lee is iconic, as usual, and the fighting is impressive in places. The fake blood looks like...well, like fake blood, I suppose, but that's no reason to dislike this film. I just wish some kind of plausibility had been given to the characters. "},{"Title":"Nothing scarier than Bruce Lee armed with an ice pick.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard to believe this was Lee's breakout performance. Nevertheless, thanks to Lee, this is arguably Wei Lo's best movie, despite how brutally cold and unforgiving the film is. Not too many people walk out alive (OK, next to everyone is not left standing), and we see some of the strangest scenes in cinema. The dubbing plays a large role in how you enjoy the film, but it's part of the lure, I have to admit. Throughout Fists of Fury, you move around useless scenes and narrative, hopeless direction and countless characters that won't matter by the time the movie is done. Nevertheless, Bruce Lee had to go through some strange scenes to become the star he is.Peaceful Cheng Chao-an (sworn to non-violence) arrives to visit his uncle and cousins. They set him up in an ice factory and Cheng's first act on the job sets off a chain of events that lead to death and vengeance.Watch Lee fight four German shepherds! Watch Lee fight with an ice pick! Fists of Fury is remarkable in its dramatic irony. One of the best scenes, involves Lee celebrating with his cousins about his promotion, conveniently forgetting that they went to work with vengeance on their minds, for four of their kin have disappeared. Do they file the missing persons report after that? You have to see this movie to believe what happens next. But let us not forget the fight scenes. The climactic bout between Lee and the Boss is an entertaining one, in spite of all that happened leading to it. Every fight you see in Fists of Fury usually will be one or two against over a dozen. There's one fight where there's so many fists being thrown you can't keep track of who's who! But I do recommend Fists to any martial arts fan who has yet to see it. The martial arts genre had to have started somewhere and Fists of Fury introduced many people to it. "},{"Title":"Bruce might be dead, but the this film lives on!","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I watched this film, I was into quite a bit of rubbish, but instantly I loved this film, the first Lee film (though not the first I saw), it shot into the the top 101 movies, no kung fu film has or probably ever will acheive these levels again, Jackie Chan forget about it (except for Dragon Lord, that's my second favourite kung-fu film) ****/****  "}{"Title":"Great Bruce Lee movie.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fists of Fury is a very cool movie.  It's classic Bruce Lee.  If you like Bruce, then watch this.  It has the action you need.  Forget Enter the Dragon, this movie is so much better.  If you're going to have a karate-a-thon at your house, then this is one of the movies you should watch. "},{"Title":"Bruce At His Best","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favourite Bruce Lee film. It has the best plot of all his films,and,unlike some of them,it makes Bruce look human,until the end where he sets about killing the gang who murder his relatives.Until then,he is bound to non-violence,until things get nasty.The film is easily the best showcase for his fighting skills,especially the climatic fight,and in places you feel quite sorry for him,surprising for this action genre. This is a kung fu classic which should be seen by all action fans. "},{"Title":"The Chinese Connection","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What is there not to love about Bruce Lee films? You get top notch action from one of the world greatest material artists.The Big Boss has simple plot. Cheng Chao-an (Bruce Lee), a young man from China goes to live with his cousins and friends in a village in Thailand. He finds employment with his cousins in the local ice factory, but slowly questions are raised as people, including Chao-an's cousin Hsu Chien (James Tien), disappear. It is obvious that something is wrong at the factory, that it was a front for drug shipping. Chao-an has to renounce his oath of non-violence to get revenge and stop the Big Boss (Yin-Chieh Han).The Big Boss is Bruce Lee's first feature film, and it's pretty good. After set-backs in Hollywood, Bruce Lee moved to Hong Kong and tried to break into Hollywood 'through the set-door'. The film made him a international star, and he is the pace-setter for material-arts films.The plot is simple, but it stronger then it was in Fist of Fury. The drug plot line was becoming more popular in the 70s, and even the producers tried to cash in on the success of the French Connection and calling the film the Chinese Connection for Western audiences. Sadly for them the American distributors got the names mixed up and call the Big Boss Fury of Fist. This film is darker then other Bruce Lee films, with a lot of violence and death and the affects of the underworld. I enjoyed that. There are excellent material-arts fights and action scenes, and Bruce Lee play a conflicted character who turns from a peaceful man to a man of violence.This is an essential film for Bruce Lee fans. "},{"Title":"pretty cool movie","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie is pretty cool, i gave it a seven. its a sad movie but its got style. the  fighting scenes are very very well made. They had picked good actors. From the  5 famous bruce lee films. (collection + fist of fury) this would come 3rd. i enjoyed  this movie. what i find 'special' about this movie was that bruce lee got arrested  on the end. i thought it was cool. All his friends died, and he tried to save them,  but only managed to save one. (spoiler) ciao mei.  i do not suggest anyone to watch this movie more then twice. i do not think its a  movie i could watch more than 2 times. but its worth watching i think. i suggest  this movie for people who like eastern action. it has awesome fighting scenes.  but i think fist of fury is the best film of bruce lee. "},{"Title":"It's Bruce Lee, need I say more?","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie rules. Bruce Lee (inarguably the greatest fighter in the history of the world) stars in his first movie. There's nothing quite like watching a man who could do things that no other man in history has ever been able to do before or after. Pure poetry in motion. "},{"Title":"Not very impressive","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" PLOT 4/10 A very simple plot. By the time the movie was over, there were still numerous holes that needed to be filled.ACTING 5/10 The acting was not very impressive at all. Bruce Lee's acting, in particular, was a bit of a disappointment. His acting was no better than most of the other actors in the film.ACTION 6/10 The fighting in this film was very cheesy. First of all, the sound effects of the punches and kicks are much too exaggerated. Second, the blood in this film looks extremely fake as it is a bright red color rather than a blood red color. Also, there would be a fighting scene in which a man gets a large cut across his face. However, in the next scene the cut would no longer be on his face (there are numerous errors such as this in the film). There is also a fighting scene in which a man gets knocked through a wooden wall. Afterwards, there is a perfect body shaped hole in the wooden wall (very cartoon-ish). However, a lot of the cheesy fighting may cause the film to be funny to some viewers. Although the fighting is quite cheesy, it is still entertaining to watch Bruce Lee in action.It seems as if the writers really did not put much effort into this film. I definitely see why this film received poor ratings in the U.S. "},{"Title":"The Big Dud is more like it","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like Bruce Lee, but he had a couple of misfires in his career. Most people consider Game of Death to be Bruce's worst film, but I give that dubious honor to this movie. Bruce Lee's dormant attitude by promising to never fight gets old very quickly. He doesn't start fighting until around the 45 minute mark. Throughout the movie, when Bruce isn't fighting or somebody else is, it's very talky. I really shouldn't be surprised though, considering Wei Lo directed it. Even Bruce's fight scenes in this one are somewhat disappointing. I'm used to Bruce's fights being one-sided in movies, but at least they contained excitement. This doesn't really have any of it, aside from the final fight at the end. He's never in any immediate danger, even when he looks to be heavily outnumbered. Let's face it, Bruce Lee is probably the only reason you decided to watch this movie to begin with. He's so fast and acrobatic. He has to deal with poor camera work and fight scenes that aren't exactly fluid. His performance is nothing to write home about, he relies on intensity and facial expressions. It works very well. What was up with that internal monologue of his? I don't get why this is rated so highly. It's poorly paced, unexciting, atrociously dubbed (At least the version I watched is) , and hard to get through. Stick to Enter The Dragon and Chinese Connection in lieu of this one4.6/10 "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's first hit film is a bit of a hit-and-miss (but with a powerful message at the end)","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" (For purposes of personal continuity and preference, 1971's The Big Boss will from here on out be referred to as Fists of Fury.)1971's Fists of Fury (also known by its original title The Big Boss) is a bit of a hit-and-miss effort. But first things first, from a historical perspective, Fists of Fury has the distinction of being deceased martial arts legend Bruce Lee's first starring role in a film - and was also his first hit film - after failing to obtain any work in Hollywood because of negative racial stereotypes regarding Asians.As I already stated, the film is a bit of a hit-and-miss. I had previously seen Lee's greatest film - and the greatest martial arts movie ever, period - Enter the Dragon (1973) first, and Fists of Fury was the first of Lee's Hong Kong efforts that I saw not long afterward, and was disappointed. Then I saw Return of the Dragon (1972) (which I enjoyed a little bit more than this film) and then I finally saw The Chinese Connection (1972) (which I feel is Lee's greatest effort from China).In this film, Lee plays Cheng Chao-an, a young man from mainland China who has arrived in Thailand to work with relatives at an ice factory. Cheng has taken an oath of non-violence, his senior-aged mother having extracted a sacred promise from him to never fight again. Thus, Fists of Fury is a slow burn of escalating violence and tension, so people will be sitting on pins + needles waiting for Lee to get into action as Cheng and his cousins investigate the mysterious disappearances of other relatives and fellow co-workers.And when it does finally come time for Bruce Lee-styled Jeet Kune Do action, Cheng lets his fists and feet - his Fists of Fury, if you will - do the talking after he runs afoul of the corrupt owner of the ice factory, the so-called Big Boss/Hsiao Mi (Ying-Chieh Han), and his legion of disposable henchmen. (It's also worth noting at this point that Fists of Fury may very well be the bloodiest and most graphically violent of all the films Lee made while still in Asia - it reportedly had to be cut several times for its excessively bloody violence.)While I make it a point to mention that Bruce Lee doesn't finally get to see some real action until the film's climatic final 20 minutes, Fists of Fury is not a complete drag until then. There are plenty of other fisticuffs until then, including a big brawl at the ice factory involving Cheng's cousins and fellow co-workers against Mi's henchmen. Writer and director Lo Wei (who would later direct Lee's subsequent effort The Chinese Connection) has uneven direction, but is quite skilled in handling the various fighting sequences. Lo Wei also injects a bit of meaningful morality into the story, involving the consequences of violence, revenge, and taking the law into your own hands - a point made crystal-clear by this film's explosive, well-known ending.In Bruce Lee's all-too-brief life and career, Fists of Fury, while it was in fact his first hit film, is also his least accomplished effort as a lead actor and the most disappointing of his Hong Kong films.That's why I give it a 6.6/10 "},{"Title":"Bruce's breakthrough.","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The opening credits look like they were knocked up by a bunch of primary school kids in art class, the dubbing is diabolical, the acting is weak, and Lo Wei's direction is technically crude, but let's face it.... it doesn't really matter? This is the film that made Bruce Lee a star, and instantly qualifies it as an essential flick for anyone interested in martial arts cinema. And besides, the cheap grainy style, erratic editing, and cheesy acting only add to the authentic 70s kung fu experience, Bruce gets to show us exactly why he became a legend, and although the script could do with a bit of polishing here and there, the film actually has a decent story.Lee plays Cheng Chao-an, a young man who joins his cousins in Thailand to work at an ice factory which, unbeknownst to them, is the centre of a drug smuggling operation. After several workers discover the truth, and subsequently disappear without trace, Cheng and his ice-packing pals attempt to find out what is going on, which leads to big trouble.Those who have only previously seen Bruce in Enter the Dragon should be warned that, for much of its running time, the star doesn't get to do much in the way of fighting his character Cheng has sworn an oath of non-violence and prefers to leave the scrapping to his co-workers. Thankfully, Lee's undeniable screen presence and charisma mean that this isn't too much of an issue, and the film is still very entertaining, offering plenty to keep us happy until the inevitable bloody show-down between our hero and his despicable (and dentally-challenged) boss.Before Bruce finally gets mad and displays his amazing speed and power in the brutal finalé, we get to enjoy his awkward relationship with his shy, pretty cousin Chow Mei (Maria Yi), a funny scene in which Cheng gets sloshed on Hennesy and sleeps with a sexy hooker ('sleeps' being the operative word), plus there's quite a bit of bloody violence that doesn't involve Lee, including lots of fights, several stabbings and someone being sawn in half (not graphic by today's standards, but still fairly shocking). Keep an eye out too for an early performance from Mr. Vampire's Lam Ching-Ying as Cheng's cousin, Ah Yen, and a hilarious 'Looney Tunes' moment where a guy gets knocked through a wall leaving a man-shaped hole!7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Fun Kung Fu Flick","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rated R for Violence,Some Nudity and Brief Drug Use Fists Of Fury aka The Big Boss is Bruce Lee's first movie.Bruce Lee is a great martial artist/actor.I have seen all of this movies 5 times each...well except for Game Of Death but that isn't really a Bruce Lee film and I have seen it about 3 times.Fists of Fury is in my opinion Bruce Lee's third best film.Chinese Connection is his best film and Enter The Dragon is his second best.Fists of Fury doesn't have much of a storyline but its a fun entertaining kung fu film that is recommended for fans.What I disliked about the film was that it was censored for Violence.The film is about a young man who goes to work with his cousins in an ice factory run by drug dealers.Pretty soon, his cousins one by one go missing and he wonders why.Filled with fun action scenes! This is a fun movie you wont want to miss! "}{"Title":"Load of garbage, I enjoyed every minute.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Good Bruce Lee's first film, being a fan of the dragon man himself, I had to buy this (at $10, what a deal!). I immensly enjoiyed this film thanks to a few key ingredients Beer Friends Lowered expectations You can't take a film like this seriously, you have to enjoy it for what it is a Bruce Lee vehicle. And there is plenty for fans to look for, especially some nifty camera work involving the novel technique of zooming the camera in very quickly at key moments before a fight.And relatively speaking, the plot isn't horrible, especially for this kind of film. Lee's later works would be better written and feature some actual acting talent from lee, but this classic marks the beginning of a great chapter in the life of the legend. And there's boobies. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Enh.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A little disappointing. Golden Harvest seemed almost tentative in letting Bruce flex his muscles in this, his first post-USA movie. Maybe the production team thought audience anticipation would build if more than half-an-hour passed before Lee's first bonafide fight scene, but it doesn't quite work. In fact it's real annoying. Bruce Lee is charismatic as ever and a great fighter, but the surface for his potential seems barely scratched in this movie.For the new and uninitiated, try viewing any other of Bruce Lee's films (especially 'Enter the Dragon') before seeing this one.  "},{"Title":"Don't break his necklace...","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Lee plays Cheng Chao-an, and he beats up everyone who comes within his 15-ft radius, BUT only after some fool rips off his necklace which symbolized his vow to never fight again.  Hsiu Chen also acts as Bruce Lee's brother-like figure who is almost as good, but not quite; same actor reappears in Chinese Connection in similar role.  Amazing fights scenes. This Chinese Connection and Enter the Dragon are the only 3 (maybe even Return of the Dragon) Bruce Lee movies worth watching, and this is the second best.  Good story in this one, but its overshadowed by the pure tonnage of butt he kicks.  A few words of advice for those of advice for those who antagonized Bruce Lee in this movie  don't kill his family, don't kidnap someone he knows, don't hit him, and most importantly, never use a weapon because he'll just use it against you. "},{"Title":"good debut","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Lee's first movie.  It is about a man who goes to visit his relatives. He stays there and works in an ice factory with his relatives.  But, This is no normal ice factory, when Bruce figures out there is cocaine hidden inside the ice.  The ending is great when Bruce fights all of the bad guys in the ice factory. Unrated, containsViolence, and brief nudity. "},{"Title":"Simple, but enjoyable","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This Bruce Lee-film from 1971 is technically quite outdated by today standards. Sadly, this movie was dubbed into English, which I don`t like. The acting was pretty poor, the storyline was weak and predictable, but the fight-scenes made this movie enjoyable. Bruce Lee is cool and he did fight-scenes, which are still unsurpassed in actionmovies. 8/10  "},{"Title":"An o.k. Bruce Lee movie.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I was watching this movie back in 1971, I would simply LOVE it.  But after seeing all of Lee's 5 movies, this is an o.k. movie.  Like his other Hong Kong movies, the acting is terrible, the story is so lame it makes me laugh sometimes, but, unlike those other movies & the Warner Brothers Lee movie Enter The Dragon, in Fists of Fury, he starts out to not fight because he made a promise to his uncle.  I like Bruce Lee when he started a movie with a kick, and ended a movie with mass destruction.  This movie just didn't settle good in me, but it is a lot better than all of those non-Lee chop-socky flicks. ) "},{"Title":"I found more enjoyment watching a cat sit on a red folder.","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I must admit that I haven't seen many Bruce Lee movies (only Enter the Dragon and Way of the Dragon) and if they are anything like this one then I am not going to go out of my way to see any. The plot was shallow and the fight scenes &#x96; which honestly is what people want to see &#x96; were few and far between. Most of this movie was spent on trying to develop a pointless plot and a shallow character.There were many instances when the director tried to create an interesting and in-depth character, and failed terribly. The character had a dilemma which lasted only for about a minute before he decided to go off and kick butt. The bad guys were pathetic, most of them dying in two seconds and the two major characters lasting a little longer. There was no intense dislike of the bad guys and they were just really existed for Bruce Lee to beat them up &#x96; which would have been fine if there had been more interaction between them in a combat type of way.The film seemed to try and address some moral issues but these were only passing and came across in more of a comic way rather than confronting the viewer with serious problem. The movie was very much like a live action cartoon with over emotional characters and unrealistic stunts (which weren't even stunts).I found this movie long, boring, and found more enjoyment out of watching my cat sit on a red folder. The expose that the commentator gave at the beginning showed only a prejudice towards the fact that it was a Bruce Lee movie. The movie was low budget; but that does not excuse garbage &#x96; even a low budget movie can turn out better than this. It was said that Bruce Lee hated this movie and to be honest, if I were Bruce Lee I would hate it too. The best part of the movie was the end because it meant that I could actually come and write this and save you all the pain of having to sit through it. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie absolutely incredible!!","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hello!, this movie is the best!!, it is hard to express what i feel but listen just go and watch it, it has emotion, it is inspired, it is subversive, it has it all. The film happens in China in a small semi rural town, and it opens your eyes to realities of the world the way sometimes it is governed and is almost universal the way it describes the cruelty of the dominants, and it is still a modern movie, it is very artistic in this aspect. also its a metaphoric call to all of us to fight oppression (in different ways than the movie obviously), enjoy it... it is a classic. Quentin if you are reading this please comment this one in your favorites, its your kind of movie I'm sure, "},{"Title":"Quititng your day job...","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Lee stars as Chang, a Chinese immigrant who comes to Thailand to work in a ice factory, hang out with his cousins and refrain from fighting at all costs. His cousin Shu Shane (James Tien) is the leader of the group and Lee's closest cousin. (One would imagine since Tien and Lee are around each other a lot) Anyway after Shu Shane disappears, Chang steps up to get to the bottom of the matter, although he is alienated by his other cousins for having a big head he discovers that his employers are dope pushers and he discovers a sinister truth about what really happened to his cousin. Bruce Lee movies are simply put awesome, as a fan of martial arts action (Especially of this style) one comes to the consensus that all of Bruce Lee's movies are worth a look and are really must sees for at least anyone casual about the genre. Indeed The Big Boss is possibly my favorite Bruce Lee film (Yes over his more celebrated Enter The Dragon) because the story is filled with all the hallmarks of what a old school martial arts flick should have. Mainly lots of high flying kicking, campy dubbing, Bruce Lee and a simplistic story with broadly drawn heroes and villains. This is one of those movies that actually gets better on repeat viewings and since a teenager i've probably seen this 20 or so times. Easily a chop socky classic.* * * * out of 4-(Excellent, must see!) "},{"Title":"You watch this one less for the plot and acting and more for the action","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This review is based on the English dubbed version of FISTS OF FURY. This film COULD easily merit a 7 but his hampered by awful dubbing into English--something very common in early kung fu movies. While this isn't the worst dubbing I have seen (RETURN OF THE DRAGON, another Bruce Lee movie, is much worse), it isn't good either and definitely detracts from the film. Why the idiots who marketed it abroad didn't trust the audience to be able to read subtitles is beyond me.The film has a relatively simple plot about some dirt bags at an ice factory in Thailand who are smuggling drugs in the middle of these huge blocks of ice. When the simple workers start to catch on, they are killed off until their friends know that SOMETHING is definitely amiss. Of the friends, Bruce Lee is the most patient and tries to avoid fighting through much of the film due to some promise he made before the movie began to stop fighting. But eventually, of course, he has no choice but to fight and kicks HUGE amounts of drug dealing butt!! Unlike later and more polished Lee movies, this one is very bloody and the action is more intense and violent--with more crotch smashing and stabbing than all his other films put together. I actually liked this, as in most of the Bruce Lee films, our hero just uses his fists and doesn't seem as pragmatic as he did here! In FISTS OF FURY, he often stabs his opponents so he doesn't need to fight them again later!!! Good thinking, Bruce! About the only negative about the extraordinary fights are the two usual observations--why do the bad guys tend to attack him one at a time AND why didn't they just use guns---after all, they ARE bad guys!!! Provided you can ignore some of the minor plot problems you'll enjoy this film a lot if you are a kung fu movie fan. Otherwise, it's a tough call. Most guys will probably at least respect the quality of the action but I assume that most ladies won't enjoy all the violence--though this is of course a generalization and may not apply to you.A final note--Aside from lots of blood, there's a small amount of nudity in this one as well--something parents may want to consider. "}{"Title":"It's Alright.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Lee in his first proper major film is working in an ice production factory. Golden Harvest made this film but made Bruce look silly as the usual chinese films in that time where a bit babyish. Bruce should have gained more experience in acting. "},{"Title":"The best Bruce Lee movie ever!!!","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And for many reasons i say so, you know as Bruce Lee's fan i think i have seen all his movies thousands of times, but this one, i think i have seen it millions of times, since i was a little boy in Brooklyn until just a little time ago.. and i never get tired.The plot is maybe the more coherent of his movies, he wants to defend his people of the drug dealers, the settings are really realistic, you can really feel the gangs ambient, the prostitution ambient, you really feel it, maybe because they thought it were not going to be successful, they did the movie with more gangs ambient than the others, and i like that because of the realism.And the plot it's never repetitive or annoying, you're always there waiting for what would happen.The fights are really good, more realistic than many of his movies( of course there is some exceptions)but they're good, they did it well.Very pretty locations, filmed in Thailand you see beautiful country locations.And for female beauty lovers like me, we can't forget Ms Malalene performance, as a Chinese prostitute this Oriental beauty delight us with her natural beauty.For these and many other reasons this is my favorite Bruce Lee film, i recommend it to all Bruce Lee's fans.  "},{"Title":"As useless as a eunuch.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the sort of film which goes way beyond the term dated.Opening with a title sequence that looks as if it was cut out of a cereal packet, we're quickly drawn into a world of laughable direction and absolutely chronic dubbing. Admittedly this would probably fare better in its native Cantonese/Mandarin tongues, but even without the dire dialogue overdubs it's still a pretty lame affair.Thin plot is merely a showcase for Bruce Lee's martial art skills, his every punch and kick getting sound effects that resemble a thunderclap or gunshot. Han Ying Chieh is the big boss of the English title, a curious man who brags that he's a great master and pays his son to hire young chicks. After he arranges the disappearances of several staff to cover up his dope racket, it's not long before Lee questions his promise never to fight again.Shaky 70s soundtrack is strictly restaurant ad material, while an underdeveloped love interest appeals to a broader audience. There's also a sex scene which is as erotic as a bag of spanners. So bad it verges on parody, with a terrible script and abysmal technical values. It is, of course, a work of genius. "},{"Title":"High Points Sandwiched Between Boring Parts","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A young man (Bruce Lee) sworn to an oath of non-violence works with his cousins in an ice factory where they mysteriously begin to disappear.I have been watching Bruce Lee movies this week, and so far this one was probably the snoozer. There are some good fights in it. Heck, there is an incredible mêlée about a third of the way in where twenty or more men were kung fu fighting. Their moves were fast as lightning. Frankly, it was a little bit frightening. But that was the highlight of the film.Before this big fight, and after this fight, there is a lot of monotony. In other movies, this would be where you build a plot or work on character development. But here, I just did not get that feeling... it felt like an excuse to build the running time of the film. "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I had never before seen any Bruce Lee films, I had great expectations towards the Big Boss (and all of Bruce's films). Sadly, I was terribly disappointed. Appalling acting, non-existing plot-lines (as if those things even mattered) but most importantly, the biggest, crucial element of kung-fu movies -- the fighting was b-grade. Sure, Bruce knew how to do his thing and he did it rather well (and was the only small plus in this terrible, terrible movie), but the fighting sequences are so fake, unimaginative & horribly sound-effected (is that a word?) -- and yes, I do realize this style of sfx is a solid part of kung-fu, but c'mon it's bloody terrible! -- that I can't bear to watch this again.Huge disappointment. I can't understand why he became such a legend he did. "},{"Title":"The Big Boss","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I must admit that I completely lost my way through the film. I could not pay that much attention, I think I was nodding off (trying to sleep) and I thought Bruce Lee in Fist of Fury was a lot better for action and fights. As far as I can remember seeing this film there was only one fight sequence that lasted about two minutes, that's it. So I eventually decided to turn it off about an hour in. Only one good thing I can say about this film is that Lee's performance is not too bad, and nearly stopped me from getting bored. And obviously he kept me gripped for an hour. But like I said, not enough fighting to save the film. Bruce Lee was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Adequate, in my opinion! "}]