[{"Title":"The memory cheats, but it's still an important movie","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"135 out of 165 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching Silent Running for the second time, many years later, I was amazed how different it was from my recollection. I remembered a story with a slight environmental message, cute robots that talked and a totally sympathetic lead character played slightly woodenly by Bruce Dern.Seen again, the green message ISN'T subtle, the robots DON'T talk, and far from wholly sympathetic, Dern plays a man suffering a complete nervous breakdown. Not only that, but it has an incongruous, jarring soundtrack by Joan Baez.So, it was a different film to how I'd remembered, but perhaps someway the better. Dern is far from wooden, and gives the performance of a lifetime. Even though this performance was overlooked for an Oscar nomination, it is still remarkable that the film was made at all. Can you imagine pitching this film to a Hollywood exec of the 90's?There's this guy who's in his late thirties who looks after a forest in space. There's no love interest, instead the guy is  lonely, a little nerdy, socially inept, and kills all his friends in cold blood. The remainder of the film hangs not on tension but on whether or not his plants whither. Oh, and some robots help him out, but they might be psychotic, too.As a result, Silent Running is utterly unique, and even if not judged as the best sf film ever made, it is certainly one of the most important.  "},{"Title":"In a category by itself","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"126 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film doesn't hit you over the head with million-dollar special effects.  It doesn't contain action scenes every two seconds for the easily distracted.  It just rips your heart out, and makes you think long after the movie is over.  It is about isolation, alienation, lost causes, and the inevitable future.  In short, it is a genuine science fiction film, not a gunfight covered with techno-glitz and special effects calling itself science fiction.  Star Wars is great science fantasy, but the essence of science fiction is about what could happen, and is happening, and by the end of the film we have the disturbing feeling that it is a prediction of the future that will happen without intervention.The feelings of sadness and hope this film evokes are inextricably linked in this film, right up until the end.  If you rent this movie, you will be haunted by its images long after you have forgotten other films. Ten out of ten stars; from the writing, directing and acting, right down to the three robot drones (Huey, Dewey and Louie), there is nothing to fault with in this film.   "},{"Title":"You Can't Blow Up My Forest","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"112 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Universal Studios funded several low-budget productions in the early seventies. By far the best to come out of this program was 'Silent Running', an ecologically-minded 'message film' that stands out today as one of the truly great films of the science-fiction genre.Bruce Dern stars as Freeman Lowell, a futuristic Park Ranger minding Earth's last forests, sealed in gigantic domes aboard an equally gigantic freighter in space. When ordered to destroy the domes and return home, Lowell is forced to choose between his crewmates and his beloved forests.The motif of a polluted, or simply, homogenized Earth, the ultimate triumph of human progress over nature and wilderness, is a standard theme of science fiction in the 20th century, and the film is not too different from many other films and episodic television programs seen since the postwar period. Rarely, however, has the theme been explored from the point of view of ecological ethics. The storyline is kept deliberately simple, and asks not the question 'How Would You Act In Such A Position', it merely shows how one particular man might. The characters are given seminal, yet subtle opportunities to flesh themselves out (comments made during meals and card games are particularly noteworthy), and even if the character of Lowell is ultimately dislikeable, he remains oddly sympathetic. Dern produces a remarkable performance here, as a tortured, perhaps even mentally-ill, loner. His work here is still fresh and understated and certainly not of the over-the-top calibre, despite the insistances of some.The film possesses truly amazing visual images, from the spacecraft itself (the decommissioned and soon-to-be-scrapped aircraft carrier Valley Forge) to the domes (an aircraft hanger at Van Nuys Airport) to the unforgettable Drones, uncanny little robots designed around the amputee-actors that give them life. Visual effects are excellent, the direct prototypes of even more fantastical films to come. The music, composed for the film by Peter Schickele (known internationally as P.D.Q. Bach), is by turns boldly triumphant, softly mournful, and is quite effective; some viewers may hate the vocal work of Joan Baez, but she is a logical choice for this production and time period.While many films have suffered since the release of 'Star Wars'(which is NOT, strictly speaking, science-fiction) due to dated visuals and obsolete effects technology, 'Silent Running' is still startlingly clean and visionary. A worthy film for all science-fiction fans to see. "},{"Title":"Not just special effects, but a poignant question what would YOU do?","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"94 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Recently someone asked me what was the best sci-fi movie I'd ever seen. Best? On what basis -- story, acting, special effects? Generally one would usually choose one of the high-tech, high-priced, superstar biggies.But I had to say Silent Running. Oh, it has special effects all right, and I think they're good enough for the purpose; I certainly felt the cramped dimness of the station against the vast implacability of space. Maybe you'd say it doesn't have enough action, surprises, or gore. But maybe this story doesn't need them.Then why is it my nomination? Because when it was over, I had to turn off the TV -- couldn't let its mood and memory be violated by a late-nite commercial -- and just quietly weep for its poignancy. Anything less (or more) would have denied it the respect it deserved.If you must, watch it as just more fodder for your entertainment urge. But if your soul is deeper than that... if you can, as Bruce Dern does, put yourself in the place of a character who so cares about the earth and its place in the cosmos ... you'll appreciate the eloquent statement of this film and the way it's presented.A man, not a god. But if it were you, if you were there... would you, COULD YOU do what he did? "},{"Title":"An amazing, wonderful film","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"65 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember first seeing this film on television I think in 1973 and being mesmerized by it.  Even though I found the the premise to be absurd (more on that below), the story and movie triumphs regardless.  This is flim making at its most brilliant.  With the exception of Terrence Malick's Badlands, I cannot think of a finer directorial debut.  It is one of the tragedies of contemporary cinema, that Douglas Trumbull could not find any work as a director for years afterwards.  What a loss!  The studio completely blew it.The movie.  Yes, the premise is incoherent and it has to be dealt with.  Sometime in the early years of the next century what is left of America's forests are gathered up and put on space freighters and shipped to . . . Saturn.  Why is most unclear.  Putting the forest domes in orbit around earth would have made perfect sense. Moreover, the film goes to great lengths to show that the robots are fully capable of tending to them alone so the whole bit about the unhappy human crew is unnecessary.  But off to Saturn we go (where the light for the plants -- surprise -- is really bad).I understand that Trumbull was thinking of an alien contact story initially -- I am certain to be going out on a limb on this one -- which seemed to bear some resemblence to the Poul Anderson novella Southern Cross.  The aliens were soon dumped, however.  What remained turned out to be an utterly compelling psychological drama of a man alone in space that is unlike any SF movie I have seen (it does bear some similarity to a few Twilight Zone episodes, however).This is an astonishing technical achievement in movie making. Everything about this film works music, effects, photography, sets, acting, editing, direction, you name it.  Folks, this was done for all of one million dollars and is a hundred times more compelling than films that cost a hundred times as much.  This is art.  This is literature.  Get the DVD.  Just sit down an watch it.  This is a lovely, timeless, piece of work.Then weep because they don't make 'em like this anymore.  .  "},{"Title":"So good - please watch.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"79 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe one of the most moving things about this film is the fact that the drones (small droids) give such powerful performances without ever being able to utter a word. Maybe a nod in some ways to the days of the silent movie. The environmental message is as powerful today as it was in 1972.An extremely good yet brief film that I felt I had to comment upon it. Enjoyed the hippy theme tune as well just because it fitted right in. These types of film are rare but precious. I remember watching this as a child and it had an impact on me then so I thought I should revisit the piece 20 years later. Absolutely not disappointed. "},{"Title":"Unique and memorable science-fiction classic","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"57 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometime in the future all the forests on Earth have been destroyed. The last forests are transported in giant greenhouses aboard space ships near the planet Saturn. Freeman Lowell, crew member of the space vessel Valley Forge, is an outsider and the only one who cares about what is left of our planet's nature. When orders reach their vessel to destroy the forests, he goes mad. He kills off the other crew members and starts a lonely odyssey...There's something to be learnt in this movie. More than 30 years old now, it stands the test of time with its message, as mankind is still working on what possibly could end in a scenario like this. Bruce Dern may be overacting in some scenes, but his character is still much more likeable than his crew comrades. Scenery and music are beautiful, fitting well to the dark, moving and unique story. And this is the movie that made Star Wars possible. Director Douglas Trumbull and other SFX masters like John Dykstra and Richard Yuricich were chosen to work on Star Wars because of the state-of-the-arts special effects they did for Silent Running. In 1971, they were ahead of their time. In fact, they are easily as good as today's CGI effects, but much more memorable for their time. Even the droids that help Lowell are predecessors of the ones in Star Wars... A must-see movie for SF fans and everybody interested in Hollywood classics. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"67 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is by no means flawless. Its various problems have been well documented, but I have to say this is a film that stays with you over the years. The ambiance is unique, there is nothing else like it - although everyone else pinched bits of it! The film has a charm way beyond that which it is technically entitled to.If the environmentalism seems laid on with a trowel, remember this film would have been one of the first, if not *the* first, to put such things on the big screen. Subtlety would only work I think, when the audience is already familiar with the basic premise - that concreting over the entire planet is not such a good idea. It has a message beyond the fairly obvious environmental one though - the sheer contentment earned by those who do what is necessary, regardless of the thanks they won't get for it! The hero is not especially smart, but hes still smarter than everyone else. We are used to our heroes being mostly perfect, but where is that written in stone? This is just one bad tempered hippy, who for his crimes, gets followed around the place by a screaming Joan Baez.Notable also for one of the saddest scenes in the history of film - the two droids staring with complete incomprehension at the remains of their friend. "},{"Title":" An environmentalist and animal lover meets hunters in space!!","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"40 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not sure if SILENT RUNNING is up there with other sci-fi classics such as FORBIDDEN PLANET, 2001, PLANET OF THE APES or ALIEN but I think that it deserves a mention. It's a typical 70's sci-fi where the earth has experienced some form of Armageddon either through war, a biological disaster, overpopulation, pollution or massive environmental catastrophe. Often with these type of movies you are left scratching your head trying to figure out what happened to the earth and how did they manage to into that mess? The plots can become convoluted and the premises pretty far fetched. Although it is true in this film it never the less is absorbing viewing not least because of Bruce Derns performance and his portrayal of the character Lowell. Again we are years in the future and the earth is void of forests with it's natural habitat. It now only exists in an artificial environment in outer space housed in domes.Bruce Dern as Lowell was well cast in this and is very believable as the odd man out in the crew of the 'Valley Forge' space freighter. The other members of the crew come across as the equivalent of company roughnecks that can't wait to return to the earth whatever it resembles. They are the face of the ugly American that you would run into in any bar in the USA swigging beer and stuffing their face with hot buffalo wings who would be more interested in NASCAR, college hoops or a pre-season Mets game than anything of real substance or importance. Lowell comes across as eccentric by comparison because he has a soul and is troubled by the companies decision to destroy the last remaining forests, presumably because of cost, what else? Bruce Dern steals the show with his performance. At the beginning he is overbearing as he preaches to his crew mates, yet this is tempered by the viewers irritation towards them with their attitude, ignorance and stupidity . As they mock and make fun of him, Lowell becomes more likable despite his obsessive personality. The viewer begins to despise the rest of the crew and their crass attitude towards their responsibilities, you have little sympathy for them when Lowell decides to sacrifice them for the greater good as he see's it. However, because he has a conscience he is riddled with guilt over their deaths but never the less sees it as the only way to save what is left of the earths natural beauty. In the end you like Lowell, he is kind, is compassionate and is prepared to sacrifice himself to make sure that what is left will survive. Although the special effects are very Gerry Anderson i.e. UFO, THUNDERBIRDS etc and it is all made in a studio it's still an interesting and entertaining watch, it's very colourful with great definition and has been digitally restored. Perhaps a remake should be done, maybe George Clooney as Lowell? "},{"Title":"The Feelgood, Sci-Fi Save the Planet film of the '70's.","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Originally having seen this film years back, all I could remember were a few squatty little robots, some kind of personal crusade, and alot of tears from Bruce Dern.  Now, after a few years of having the film in my collection,  I'm relieved to say that I recall (know) alot more about the underlying storyline therein.  Silent Running is by no means a great science fiction film; it is instead a simplistic story about one man's refusal to destroy that which is dear to his heart, against all odds.   What makes this film stand out from others, however, is a combination of great special effects (Trumbull was, of course, mentored by Stanley Kubrick on the set of 2001), a good message and... All of that emotion from Bruce Dern.  I must admit that, even after all these years, those tearful moments when Dern breaks down stick in my imagination. Looking for a fabulous, laser blastin', grostesque alien, hyperspace shoot 'em up?  Then don't rent Silent Running.  However, if you are in the mood for a light, (not too preachy) thoughtful, sci-fi tale of a lonely, one-way journey, check this one out.   "}{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was 15 years old when I saw this movie. Tears ran down my cheeks as I walked home. It was the saddest and happiest I have ever been, and at the same time. I'm 51 years old now. This movie has been in my sub conscience for 36 years. It's like a prophesy, to what we are facing now. We have made such a mess of this beautiful blue planet. This movie taps into your inner fears, and mortality and for me it has never let go. Looking back I think I quit breathing at times during this movie, as it draws into your heart, and mind. It's about love, and loss, and a feeling of forlorn. Now more than ever before with global warming, food riots, peak oil. Anarchy and chaos is in our future. We will so regret what we have done to this planet, but it is to late. We should have been jarred into action after this movie was made in 1972. Stupid is what stupid does. "},{"Title":"SILENT RUNNING (Douglas Trumbull, 1971) ***","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"34 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made in the wake of both 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY (1968; the ultimate space opera) and EASY RIDER (1969; the era's biggest 'sleeper' hit), SILENT RUNNING was given the go-ahead by the executives at Universal &#150; in an attempt to recapture the momentum of those two films &#150; who even allowed special-effects wizard Douglas Trumbull to make his directorial debut, and this with unprecedented artistic freedom.The film is a visual treat, featuring marvelous if unassuming special effects, though Trumbull manages to keep the technology firmly under control &#150; it is all so simple but still very impressive (even more so in view of the budget). Bruce Dern is appropriately cast as the film's eco-friendly hero. Joan Baez's two songs are very much of the time, and yet add quite a lot of humanity to the 'outer space' events. The film's sets (an unused aircraft carrier conveniently converted into a spaceship!) are also notable. However, the film's most endearing elements are the two almost-human 'drones', Huey and Dewey, which contribute to some amusing and even touching interplay with Dern; they were an obvious influence on C-3P0 and R2-D2 from from the STAR WARS films.Still, I found the film to be somewhat plodding - especially since Dern is, for most of the time, the only human being on screen. In the end, SILENT RUNNING is a pretty good film, and a deserved cult item, but not a classic in the strict sense of the word. That said, it is a whole lot better than the only other feature film Trumbull directed, the dull and overblown BRAINSTORM (1983).Universal's SE DVD is so packed with extras, it's almost too much even so, there's actually little repetition throughout the lengthy documentary, numerous interviews and Trumbull's and Dern's joint commentary - and, all in all, it serves as irrefutable proof of the importance and worth (as in experience-enhancing capabilities) of DVD bonus material. While I was not overwhelmed when watching the film proper, after going through the mass of supplements on offer here I had a new-found admiration for what Trumbull intended - and actually makes me look forward to a more open-minded second viewing! "},{"Title":"Possibly the Stupidest Classic I've Ever Seen","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"28 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me preface this review by saying that I believe our planet's ecosystems are priceless, and their loss to human activity is a tragedy beyond measure. I appreciate that Silent Running attempts to convey that message. But that doesn't change the fact that it is an abysmal film on almost every level, poorly acted, poorly written, and downright insulting to the intelligence of any viewer who finished the second grade and who has even the most basic grasp of human motivation and interaction. The problems begin with the premise- the Earth's natural environment has been degraded to the point that plants can no longer grow, so the last remaining samples of forest have been put under domes for preservation. So far, so good. And then these domes are mounted on several spacecraft, and sent out into orbit of Saturn. WHY? It doesn't take any understanding of science AT ALL to realize that if you can grow trees in a dome in space, you can sure as hell grow them in a dome on Earth, and for a lot less money. And money is what the conflict in the film is supposedly about- the spacecraft are given orders to destroy the domes, after only 8 years, and the ostensible reason is that maintaining them is too expensive, and they need the ships to return to commercial service. Moreover, they aren't simply ejecting the domes into space, which would have been sufficient to destroy them- they're detonating them with nuclear explosives that were brought along for that exact purpose (we know this since each dome is equipped with a receptacle to hold the explosive charge). We're expected to believe that a government that invested in spacecraft to preserve the last vestiges of forest planned ahead by putting nuclear weapons on the ships, just in case they ever decided to destroy those forests in the most pointlessly wasteful way possible. Besides the illogical plot, Silent Running isn't even particularly entertaining. For most of it's running time, nothing happens- Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern), the conservator in charge of the forests aboard the spaceship Valley Forge, is for the most part, alone. He tends his garden or talks to his robots, or sulks and cries. His performance lacks any subtlety, every emotion and expression is exaggerated into a caricature, making it impossible to empathize with Lowell. He's alternately irritating and morally reprehensible, but never identifiable.The soundtrack, while mostly unnoticeable, features a couple of original folk songs by Joan Baez that are the most sickly-sweet, stereotypical, tree-hugging hippy claptrap you will ever hear- and this is from someone who LIKES folk music. These songs clash completely with the tone of the film, and yank you right out of the experience.---PLOT SPOILERS FROM HERE ON---Back to the plot. Everyone on board the Valley Forge, with the exception of Lowell thinks that the entire enterprise is a waste of time, and wants nothing better than to ditch the forests and go home. They show the project and Lowell no respect, crushing his vegetable garden under their high speed cargo transport vehicles, which they race around the ship in like go-carts. Lowell himself is clearly unhinged from the beginning, ranting at his crewmates about the beauty of the trees and the flowers, and the apathy and destructiveness of man with a mad look in his eyes. That any supervisor would be stupid enough to put these people together in a confined space, in charge of an important mission, for an extended period of time is absolutely incredible. When the order to destroy the domes comes in, Lowell's response is predictable- before they can finish, he murders his crewmates, trapping several of them in one of the forest domes and destroying it, going against his motivation. He pretends that the ship has suffered damage and alters it's course, trying to hide from the other ships in the shadow of Saturn. The captain of one of the other ships warns him that the Valley Forge's trajectory will carry it into Saturn's ring, which will probably destroy it, and gives him the time when this will occur. But Lowell doesn't even attempt to change course, risking the safety of the last forest which his ship is carrying. And he neglects to bring the ship's maintenance robots (to whom he is emotionally attached) inside before the ship before it hits the ring, resulting in one of them being destroyed. Despite being a professional conservator, Lowell fails to realize that plants NEEDS LIGHT TO SURVIVE, and that moving the ship into Saturn's shadow starts to kill the forest. When the plants start dying he examines the leaves under a microscope and exclaims I just don't understand it. I've looked at everything, and I just don't understand it. When he realizes his error, he just sets up sun lamps to restore the trees to health- which makes his earlier oversight even more glaring, since there were already lights mounted inside the dome, they simply weren't enough without the sun. Depressed and desperate to prevent the other ships from capturing the last dome, Lowell reprograms one of the robots to maintain the forest, ejects the dome, and then destroys the Valley Forge. But if the forest dome could be maintained indefinitely with a few lights and a robot on board, then there was no reason for humans to be out there in the first place, costing the government money. Even if the humans did a better job, when funding ran out they could have simply left the domes with robot attendants rather than destroying them. The entire plot is pointless. In the end, the last forest is still doomed since no one knows it's there. Eventually the robot will break down, the lights will burn out, the power will fail, or a rock will puncture the dome. Ultimately, Lowell accomplishes nothing. Neither does the film. "},{"Title":"Classic film with some novel 1sts","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this movie a number of times since it came out. My comments are as follows (going from memory here) 1. One of the few if not the ONLY movie I recall Bruce Durn taking a staring role in. (he always seems to be cast as a odd person) 2. Environmental theme. Very clear and very strong here. Despite mans otherwise seemingly noble attempts to right what we've done wrong, (and or do the right thing) where it comes down to the 'bottom line', saving our plant and wild life is optional and subject to budget cuts.3. I like the music. Each time I watch this movie the forest song plays in my head for days afterwards.4. The droids in this film mark the 1st appearance of need/desire to cast cute animated characters as supporting actors. Before this film robots took on the classic Forbiden Planet/Lost in Space shape and size. The robots here not only did NOT look remotely like anything we've seen before they also were decidedly NOT human.This is also the first example that robots can emit soft human feelings. The two robots seemingly staring blindly at the foot pod of their friend always brings a tear to my eye. These two would also cheat while playing cards. Not only were they cute but comical as well.Their actions at times were the funny/comic counter part to the darker main story line being played out by Dern.Without this film, I doupt that we would of ever seen R2D2 and a host of other robotic characters that later followed.5. The ending is a classic.... zoom out from looking in a window to show the vastness of space.... BOOM.... then the cut to the robots tending to the forest which may or may not last forever. "},{"Title":"Everest Flower","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a review for people who have already watched the movie or people who don't mind about knowing what comes beforehand.When I first watched this movie in my youth, I saw it as an environmentalist message movie. But I think in the original conception of the movie Trumbull didn't even have the film as being about the environment, it was a movie about encountering aliens. The second time I watched it I felt something very different going on and I felt a very close connection to Freeman Lowell. I've been intrigued as to receptions of this character as some have been applauding his death at the end of the movie.I think the key phrase of the movie is a story Lowell tells about being a kid, writing a message on a piece of paper, putting it in a bottle and throwing it in the sea, wondering if anyone ever picked it up.I think that no-one ever reads Lowell's message. I think the key thing about him is social ineptness, you can see at the beginning that his three crewmates, whilst (unfashionably outside of the diegesis) not buying his environmentalist arguments, are all to some extent sympathetic of Lowell at points, though antagonistic at others, more out of frustration at his ineptness. He isn't able to see their point of view and doesn't seem to realise that they aren't the enemy, he doesn't recognise either their sympathy or their antagonism, misreading these attitudes as either digressive or pigheadedly hostile respectively. Lowell eventually kills these three men, who are replaced for him by three compliant robots (played by bi-lateral amputees in a nod to Tod Browning's Freaks), who are a more fitting audience for him.I think that he kills these men and that's what he intended, but he has an empathy deficit and doesn't really know what he's doing, other than defending a cause. He becomes haunted by what he's done, by the comrades he's abandoned. Lowell's misplaced integrity is a kind of purity that deserves some sort of respect. His misunderstandings the stuff of high tragedy.I just wanted to point out as well that the first time I saw this movie I didn't see anything strange or unusual in Lowell's behaviour at all, I just straight saw him as a hero. As a background I have Asperger's Syndrome, an autism spectrum disorder that is characterised by significant difficulty in social interaction. I've been learning my way out of it since my late 20s, which is why I've seen this film differently the second time round. But I can hear the silence that Lowell hears, I was always confused as a youth by the phrase, No man is an island, which I regarded simply as inaccurate. There's something very wonderful about that silence, but incredibly sad as well. Maybe the saddest moment in many sad moments comes during his eulogy for the three men where he says that although they weren't his friends he did like them. This is an experience that I have shared a lot, perhaps up until only this year unilateral friendships where I admire people that don't like me at all, just because there isn't anyway you can express the love inside you when you're socially inept, you end up accidentally upsetting people all the time.I've tried to sum this all up in the review title, Everest Flower, because I wanted to think of the remotest place possible, with an amazing clean view, and just imagine a beautiful flower growing there amidst the snow, and that reminds me of Freeman Lowell, and the person I was.The plot of the movie can be a bit basic at some points, including long dark nights of the soul that a professional botanist suffers through whilst wondering why his plants are dying before realising the obvious, that the sun isn't shining enough when you're way out past Saturn. But I don't really care. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of all time.","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first watched this movie when I was 11, on TV around 1981, this was the first movie to ever spark a real emotional response in me and still does to this day.It is just as powerful today (probably more so) than it was in 1972. I really suggest you watch this movie, probably best watched alone, so you can really get into it, it shows the best and the worst in human kind, I really hope something like this doesn't come to pass, and the end sequence is extremely moving, the music excellent.I have given it a 10 out of 10 score, it really deserves nothing less.It's a real shame we don't make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"I will never forget this movie...","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really think everyone on Earth should watch this movie, the message is clear, and getting clearer every day. I saw this movie as a child and it is still firmly implanted in my memories. It helped form my views on ecology, although I feel like I have not acted on these feelings as much as I should. When I see shows such as Whale wars I see those folks as heroes, or anyone that works to help conserve our natural resources. We all need to heed the message in this film and do everything we can to preserve this beautiful, amazing planet we live on.I have seen many movies throughout my life, but this one always stands out in my mind...I cannot forget it.Well done! "},{"Title":"How can a mad man be the only sane person in the world?","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone who doesn't like this film is probably missing the point.It's a high concept, intelligent science fiction film I really really wish there were more of. Bruce Dern is brilliant in it and carries the whole film, ably assisted by the marvellous little robots.The soundtrack is terrific (especially the scene when the robots are fixing his leg) and the special effects very ahead of their time (you can see a lot of them reused in later, lesser films and TV.)There are very few films I find moving and this is one of them. And what an ending!Taking us back to a time when intelligent though was allowed in science fiction instead of revivals of tired, overworked franchises "},{"Title":"another fortunate gathering of the stars - a very worthwhile movie","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once upon a time there was a guy named Douglas Trumbull who could make space special effects that really made you feel as though you were in space. His first major effort was the special effects for Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, though his influence was felt for twenty years after that. If anyone could be said to have been the godfather for what happens at Industrial Light and Magic, it's Trumbull.Silent Running was Trumbull's first try at directing. And he did a good job. Of course, he had great help - Michael Cimino and Steven Bochco were two of the screenwriters on this movie; it shows in the dialogue, which is taut and crisp. The cinematography, especially in the opening titles, is nothing short of amazing; they even made Joan Baez sing something worthwhile for the opening theme.The action Earth has managed to amputate its environment. No flora, no fauna but humans living inside. All the plants, animals, all the wildlife has been moved off-planet to geodesic domes in space (as to why put the stuff in space? there's no objective reason that really holds water to a serious sci-fi buff, but it does set up the resolution of the plot). Bruce Dern plays the last dedicated conservationist, on one of the spacecraft carrying the wildlife.The opening tragedy the bean counters back on Earth decide they can't afford to tie up all those spacecraft to save a few hundred trees and bunnies, so the crews of the spacecraft are ordered to use miniature nuclear devices to humanely destroy all the wildlife in space.Bruce Dern's character can't reconcile following those orders with the passion of his life to save Earth's wildlife. And there is the action of the film - he fights, he resists, he refuses, and he acts.This is a strong, violent, thrilling ride. You don't have to be a tree-hugger to enjoy it; the movie converts you to its point of view - Trumbull, his writers and his cast do what good movie makers do, they convince you to suspend any skepticism you may have about what happens in the film.This is one of the few science fiction films I come back to again, and again for enjoyment, because it rises over its few flaws to captivate and entertain. At the end, no matter what your sympathies may be in the debate over ecology, you cheer for the protagonist, or you weep for him silently, but you aren't indifferent. A clear sign of a good movie. "},{"Title":"Silent Running is a compelling environmental sci-fi drama starring Bruce Dern","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my review of the first of only two theatrical feature films that were directed by Douglas Trumbull. If you're reading this and asking Who?, well I'll tell you. He first became known as the visual effects artist on Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, had just done the same for Robert Wise's The Andromeda Strain, and would later also serve in the same position on Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind. One of his associates on this film was one John Dykstra who would later be acclaimed for his work on Star Wars a.k.a Episode IV A New Hope. Okay, the plot has Freeman Lowel (Bruce Dern) taking care of a forest put in a dome in space because Earth had become inhabitable because of various ecological problems. While he's serious about his work, his work mates John Keenan (Cliff Potts), Marty Barker (Ron Rifkin), and Andy Wolf (Jesse Vint), are more interested in riding fast in some go-cart-like vehicles and generally getting out of space since they've all been there for a long time. Eventually, they're all told to go home. However, there's something else about the order Freeman doesn't like...While the lead character doesn't always generate sympathy, one does feel for him because of his passions and his struggles to deal with his situations. He even decides to name a couple of his robot friends Huey and Dewey instead of the numbers they previously were called. Written by Deric Washburn, Michael (Mike) Cimino, and Steven (Steve) Bochco (yes, the future Oscar-winning director and the future co-creator of Hill Street Blues), Silent Running is a very compelling sci-fi drama about what it would be like if one man had to choose between what he believes and what he'd do to maintain that. Dern is very good as someone who tries to be hopeful but gets increasingly desperate. This film is not without humor, however, such as when he teaches the robots a card game especially when he laughs. And the music of Peter Schickele with lyrics sung by Joan Baez are hauntingly beautiful when they play on the soundtrack. So if you love sci-fi and care about the environment, I highly recommend Silent Running. "}{"Title":"Endangered Species","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw Trumbull's saga 33 years ago, it was indeed the most advanced special effects movie that followed 2001, even though it did not reach the same technical level. The film has it's flaws only because it was an experiment; make a movie for under a million dollars and do it in 32 days. What was done is a miracle considering this much.It was visually more advanced in fact than other films that came after until Star Wars. So 2001 was the father of Silent Running and Silent Running was the father of upstart Star Wars, this by virtue of the fact that Douglas Trumbell worked on 2001 and then Silent Running and then John Dykstra who worked on Silent Running went on to Star Wars.For me at least this is the importance of the film as a filmaking milestone in terms of film history and for those who want to know this history it is worth viewing. The story is compelling enough to hold the viewer. At first Dern's character seemed over the top but decades later I believe that it's in fact right on.All of your other reviews are wonderful but I have one terrible confession to makeI am the only human being left alive on the Earth that still likes Joan Baez. "},{"Title":"The vastness of space","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" For some reason, during my second viewing of this movie I noticed several elements that had completely escaped me the first time I saw the film. Mainly, that the Joan Baez music is too loud and long, the main character is excessively neurotic, the entire movie is a hippie environmentalist project and the robots aren't as advanced as I had remembered.But for some reason I still love this movie. I think it has something to do with the original impact of the central themes isolation and love.It reminds me of several things -1. that loneliness can be eradicated by pouring love into something or someone else, -2. we are emotionally similar to the original Adam and Eve All they had was each other and I am sure they needed nothing else. They found joy and fulfillment in each other. We are the same as they are and the fact that we think we need more than they do is a result of societal pressure and cultural norms, not fact. It is society that distracts us from enjoying the essentials.Freeman illustrates the fact that because feelings are internal, we don't need as much externally as we think we do. We forget how sacred it can be to share our lives with others. Of course in the movie the 'others' are robots, but they suffice. "},{"Title":"A heartbreaking movie that offers a preview of monster talent.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The credits of this movie read like a Who's Who of film-makers about to hit it big written by Michael Cimino and Deric Washburn (The Deer Hunter) and Steven Bochco (Hill St. Blues, along with about a zillion other hits.) Bruce Dern gives the kind of complex, anguished performance that would characterize the body of his later work. He's certainly got issues in this film, as the biologist of a cluster of forests sent into deep space for safe keeping, the earth having been rendered all but uninhabitable by pollution. When the orders come from Dick Cheney (oops, sorry -- wrong movie -- or is it?) to jettison and destroy the forests, he has to decide between his shipmates and the animals and trees...The real star behind the scenes is rookie director Douglas Trumbull, who would become more famous for his ground-breaking special photographic effects on 2001 and Bladerunner than as the director he aspired to be. This was Trumbull's first time at the helm, a job he took reluctantly because no one else wanted it (the film was made for a shoestring, and shot mostly on location aboard the defunct aircraft carrier Valley Forge, which lends its name to the spacecraft in the film.)This was one of five movies made by Universal on the cheap, after the phenomenal success of the low-budget Easy Rider. Of the five, Silent Running was a modest success, though it suffering from lack of publicity, an erroneous decision made by the bean-counters in the Universal Tower. The other success was American Graffiti. Each movie was made for a paltry one million dollars. It would have been far too easy to turn this film into a movie of the week, with sentiment slapped on with a trowel. Dern and Trumbull deftly avoid this trap with ease, and the movie remains one of the sweetest, saddest environmentalist/Sci-fi movies ever. Trumbull describes himself in the accompanying featurette as a loner, more comfortable with technology than people, and it's clear that Dern picked up on this. His character is alienated, flawed, but very, very human. As fellow iconoclast Hunter Thompson once said, Buy the ticket -- take the ride.Although the story takes center stage, Trumbull's special effects hold up very well and have a far more organic feel than today's CGI. One of the youngsters hired for the model shop was John Dykstra, who would go on to the ground-breaking motion-control effects of the first Star Wars.Be sure to screen the DVD edition, with a commentary track featuring Trumbull and Dern, and a couple of nice additional features about the making of the movie and about Trumbull's most interesting career. "},{"Title":"Silent Running may be dated, but still the issues are still valid.","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie when it came out, (as a teenager) and Silent Running has stuck in my mind for over 40+ years. I thought I might be one of the few who enjoyed this movie, so I'm happy to see many fans as well as Mr. Ebert and other top critics also appreciated it. George Lucas is another fan who's creation of R2-D2 is highly influenced by Silent Running's 3 robots, Huey, Dewey, and Louis.Silent Running has its flaws, but is a worthwhile SF social-political drama. Bruce Dern gives one of his finest performances. Please don't expect high action or T & A. Expect a movie that if you watch it, you will probably enjoy it, but please remember to place it in it's own time, the turbulent early 1970s. Also don't be surprised if after watching Silent Running, you remember it throughout your lifetime. "},{"Title":"Silent Running","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future all plant life on Earth has become extinct and green forests only exist on remote space stations dedicated to preserve specimens of nature. One such station is maintained by a crew of four and led by an idealistic nature lover named Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern). When the crew receives an order to destroy the preserve and return to commercial service, Lowell sets out to protect his forests by any means necessary. As a result, he ends up being the only human at the station after it is presumed destroyed and begins a project of teaching his small robot servants to help him to look after the forest. The idyll is hard to maintain, however.What strikes the viewer immediately about the film is the quality of the sets and props on screen. Huge space stations floating through space reach towards a 2001-esque atmosphere and the production design of the small race cars, the toddling drone robots and the circular pool table looks very nice. The green forest and small animals also look great, and it's fun to see Lowell cultivate his private garden like a king, assisted by childlike drones who he lovingly names Huey, Dewey and Louie after the nephews of Donald Duck.Unfortunately, what the film wins in visuals, it loses in writing. The wistful wandering in the woods to Joan Baez songs comes across as very naive, even laughably so, and Lowell's idealism contrasted to the indifference of the other crew members doesn't seem too subtle anymore, if it ever did. Even though Lowell spends most of the time completely alone with the mute drones or a just voice on the radio, the film doesn't get much out of the delicious situation. I hoped there would be more focus on the effect of stress, loneliness and guilt on Lowell's mind, but since the forest always stays number one for him, there's not much psychological tension present in the story, or at least it is presented poorly. This ultimately reduces the film to a cute technology show with an environmental message, when it had potential for being a much more thought-provoking sci-fi tale. Even so, the visual style and the tragic ending are easily enough to make Silent Running a very watchable movie; it is also interesting as a product of its socially aware time. "},{"Title":"unique film of some considerable charm","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Runs at a leisurely pace and a bit silly now and again, but this was the early 70s and even the good old US studios gave some people some slack to see what might happen. What happens here is a unique film of some considerable charm is created. If you are a fan of Bruce Dern, this is a must anyway because its one of his best and there 's barely anyone else in it unless you count mute robots and the three fellow space travellers at the start. Dern maybe goes a little over the top occasionally but is great most of the time and it must have been difficult acting alone with special effects. Some pick fault with the Baez songs but I think with a film of this time you have to accept the 'hippy' stuff and not see it has misjudged sentimentality. No all action sci-fi spectacular but a thoughtful, engaging and very different movie from the usual fare. "},{"Title":"One of the first SciFi's I saw","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hi all.When I saw this movie for the first time, I must've been about 6-8 years old. I watched it quite late on German television together with my parents. So I think it must have been around 1975. In fact, I don't know when the German translation was published on public television, maybe it was some years later.The movie really struck and confused me then. The film induced to me a kind of forlornness. Of course this film was not meant to be watched by kids of my age then. And I still remember, that I looked away when one of the robots attended Freemans broken leg and I asked my father to notify me, when the scene was over. Because I was scared to probably see a bone ) What I really liked about it then, was when they used to drive around the spaceship-halls with that little cart-like crafts.The film is a quite untypical space-science-fiction, it's not Star-Trek-like at all ( which I appreciate as well ). The film's more a character study of a person in a solitude situation and how he copes with guarding the earth's only herbal heritage to an undefined destination. A possibly absurd objective, which could never be fulfilled. But still he goes on to defend the last remnants of earth, even on the faintest of chances and even by submitting himself to make it go on without him.I hope my memories are not mistaking me ) I never managed to see this film again, but I'm just about to get the DVD. I'm really curious if the movie hits me once again after 30 years or if it'll be different.Stefan "},{"Title":"Silent Running (1972) ***","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bruce Dern plays Freeman Lowell, one of four young botanists in the not too distant future, who has undertaken an assignment of caring for what's left of Earth's forests and vegetation. At a time where nothing grows on our home planet anymore and people no longer care about the trees, the plants, the birds and other wildlife, it's the job of Lowell and his cohorts to man a spaceship which contains several giant domed globes securing the world's last surviving forests, at least for the time being. This is a story of what happens when chief orders are issued for the astronauts to abandon their mission, return home to Earth, but to first blow up all of the forests. Dern is the only dedicated member of the crew who will do whatever it takes to defy his orders and save nature from man's destruction, no matter what the cost.This is a good science fiction tale with a message, and this is brought home by two Joan Baez environmental songs which she sings over the soundtrack. Bruce Dern is ideally cast as the well-meaning naturist who finds that his only true friends aboard his spacecraft are his three small assisting drones whom he affectionately christens Huey, Dewey, and Louie. These miniature robots were acted by real-life amputee actors without legs, who were placed inside the shells of these automatons, and who walked on their hands to bring them to life. Young first-time director Douglas Trumbull was also the special effects maestro who worked on Kubrick's classic 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, and he referred to SILENT RUNNING as my first student project. It's a great testimony to his talent that this film turned out as well as it did, even though today it plays more like a simple yet high-spirited telefilm. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite movie of all time.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie back in the 70s on television when I was in school. It really hit a chord in me. I realize it was a bit heavy handed but then again trying to pack this much stuff into 90 minutes isn't easy.Once you get past the original idea of the only remaining forest/nature being in pods on spaceships the rest of the movie hangs together very nicely. I've seen some critics go after Bruce Dern as being too overboard but in the context of the movie and his character it made perfect sense. In light of what was happening his character would have been overboard in real life.Some minor spoilers ahead!The basic plot is fairly straight forward. Due to pollution Earth has placed the last remaining forests and wildlife on board gigantic pods in long orbit until enough land can be reclaimed to replant the forests on Earth. Bruce Dern plays a scientist, Freeman Lowell, who has dedicated his life to the project and had spent more than a decade in space nurturing the pods on his ship, one of a fleet of such ships. The other 3 crew members are typical jock types that are rotated through and can't comprehend why Lowell cares about the forests. They grew up without being around them. Only one of them really tries to understand and relate to Lowell. After the set up the movie really starts. Due to budget cuts the project is canceled and the fleet is ordered to jettison and destroy the pods and return to Earth. Not hard to picture in real life with politicians being what they are.Lowell loses it when they start blowing the pods up and tries to save one of them. He reports a massive malfunction and the loss of control of the ship heading off into deep space. The rest of the movie revolves around his attempt to evade the rescue ships that are trying to help him and to keep the forest alive with ever dwindling resources. He is assisted by 3 robot drones, obviously named Huey, Dewey and Louie. The interaction between Lowell and the drones is really a high point to the movie. The drones become surrogate companions and help keep him sane.Eventually Earth manages to work out a rescue plan, which will mean the destruction of the last pod and thus the last forest. At that point Lowell has to make some hard choices. The rest of the movie flows very naturally from the choices.Every time I see the last scene from the film I get pretty choked up. Back in the 70s when I first saw it on TV my mother caught the last part of the movie. She was most certainly not a science fiction fan, and definitely not overly sentimental but she started crying at the end.Is it a perfect movie? Nope, but it's a thoughtful exploration of a man's dedication and of what looked like a possible future ecological  nightmare in the early 70s. I recommend this film to anyone with an interest in those topics. "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch this than 'Star Wars' any day of the week!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Silent Running' is very much a movie of its time, and therefore has both good and bad things things about it directly related to the period from which it was made. First up the bad things (and this movie IS flawed, to try and pretend it isn't would be a lie). The environmental message the movie conveys isn't all that subtle and veers towards New Age propaganda territory. Many will find it way too simplistic and hippie-like. The special effects are dated, which may be a problem for many contemporary viewers (not me, I could care less). And the songs by Joan Baez on the soundtrack are, in a word, horrible. The good points far outweigh the bad in my mind. The movie isn't obsessed with action, but ideas and character. Something which is sadly missing from almost all contemporary SF movies. Bruce Dern ('Bloody Mama', 'The King Of Marvin Gardens', 'The Trip', 'Family Plot') is terrific as Freeman Lowell, a scientist who refuses to terminate the project he has passionately devoted several years of his life to. Whether you agree or disagree about his course of action is up to you, but there's no denying that he makes the movie compelling viewing. Dern is a criminally underrated actor, and this is one of his most memorable performances. '2001' special effects whizz Douglas Trumball made his directorial debut with 'Silent Running', and it may be heresy to say this, but I get much more enjoyment out of watching this than Kubrick's more celebrated and discussed film. (I have mixed feelings about '2001', admiring it more than actually liking it. An important movie milestone without a doubt, but by no means my favourite Kubrick work). An interesting side note - glance at the screen writing credits. They include TV king Steven Bochco ('NYPD Blue',etc.) and Michael Cimino director of 'The Deer Hunter' and 'Days Of Heaven'. "}{"Title":" a childhood classic","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  just a short plug for a very under-rated film from a very under-rated director. as a collector of films, i must say its been worth the wait for this special edition dvd of silent running. i first saw this movie when i was 10, back in 1972. id seen a few sci-fi films before it, but it was running that turned me on to deep space science fiction. this, 2001 and planet of the apes included. this dvd is a must for silent fans and ESSENTIAL for anyone, young people too, for someone just discovering the wonderful world of early sci-fi film. the making of... is included on this disk as are other tasty treats. ONLY DOWNER..no stereo or 5.1 re-mix. its the same old mono. still...a great addition to your collection. "},{"Title":"OK, the connection between the hippies and 2001 is now clear","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" '2001 A Space Oddysey' in unforgettable in many, many ways, one of them is the tripped out acidness of the landing on Jupiter. 'Silent Running' directed by '2001's special effects man takes it all the way. Beautiful music by Joan Baez, evil commercial interests with no regards of anything but money and loving for mother nature.Effectswise its not completely on par with '2001', but its still darn good. I prefer this style over the expensive CGI of today. Or maybe rather its the set designs thats better on '2001', probably both.. but this is not about the 1968 movie which had more money on its hands anyway. The droids in this kicks ass! Its a very sad story and a very lonely journey. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but...","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a worthy film in many ways, and it has a good message behind it. It carries more of an emotional impact that most science fiction films. The irony of the drones being better human beings than Freeman Lowell's crewmates is exquisite, and their interaction with Lowell when he is alone is fascinating. Adding songs to the film was a nice humanistic touch... I just wish someone other than Joan Baez had been chosen. Douglas Trumbull's decision to film the interiors in the decommissioned aircraft carrier Valley Forge adds an element of realism rarely seen.My understanding is that in 2001, the original plan was to send the astronauts to Saturn, but Trumbull's special effects team could not create a convincing Saturn with the time they had, so they went for Jupiter. I have heard that showing the world he could do Saturn was one motivation for making Silent Running. He did a great job... but...*** Spoiler starts here *** The science fiction fan in me has to ask why were the ark ships in orbit around Saturn to begin with? Sending ships of that size to Saturn would be enormously expensive (trillions of dollars and decades for design/construction/testing and the voyage itself). It would make far more sense to keep them in Earth orbit. This ties in with the reason the forest is dying--it's too far away from the sun. (For a back-to-nature guy, it takes Bruce Dern a very long time to realize this.) But if the ark ships are in Earth orbit, you don't get to show off your Saturn special effects. And you can rotate the crews instead of stranding them two billion+ miles from Earth, which is a surefire recipe to make people crazy.I am sure my comments strike some folks as unnecessarily picky. But this movie was advertised as science fiction, and the science in a science fiction story has to make sense. (Note the triple appearance of the word science in the last sentence.) A good science fiction film, of which there are very few, should have an internally logical story--the special effects should enhance the story, not drive the plot. Trumbull would have been far better off enlisting the aid of his old boss's writing partner, Arthur C. Clarke, who co-created one of the great science fiction films. Aside from the holes in the story logic, I rated this film highly, because it does pose important questions, and aspires to be something more than the usual space opera. "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects, Good Content","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched this movie again, and part of the reason was to see how well it aged. Though some aspects now seem a little dated, the special effects have held up well, and the content even better! The movie has a G rating as well.The way the director went about getting such good special effects was also interesting. IMDb has some interesting trivia about it. The movie makes you appreciate nature and her importance, probably the reason a movie with violent content received a G rating. I suppose Joan Baez's musical score also contributes to making the viewer appreciate nature.The movie criticizes apathy about nature, and it does so in a way that reflects a time when protest cost too much but was not political suicide. It was a time even before Roe v. Wade, but again, the special effects have held up, and so has the message! It's great work for a director who supposedly learned how to direct on this film, and the actors do well too, most notably Dern and the robots. "},{"Title":"One of the best really","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I expect that modern viewers would not get much out of this movie, but even after some 42 years I still dredge up the memory of watching Silent Running. I'm not as good with words as I'd like to be, but words like poignant and soul searching come to mind easily. Some would undoubtedly say the story kinda drags out, but it seemed to me that it was paced just right. Some of the most memorable movies ever weren't packed with much action at all really. Silent Running just feels right all the way through to me. I mean, how can you not enjoy maintenance robots literally stealing scenes with their reprogrammed antics. I expect some of you would lose your hearts to Huey, Duey and Looie heh heh.I won't tell you the ending, but it is so poignant a moment that you'll be close to tears if not already blubbering...the movie is a superb statement on where our society is heading. I gave it a 10, and I'm not that easy to please really. I wish they would show it more on TV. "},{"Title":"A fantastic, sombre sci-fi film","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 1972 sci-fi film Silent Running is highly influential, but often overlooked film from period that produced a lot of great and bleak sci-fi.In the future all plant life on Earth has died and the last remaining plants are on a greenhouses in deep space. Four astronauts are the mission to maintain the space station and the plants. But when they are ordered to destroy the greenhouses domes, Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern) kills the other crew members and takes the station into deep space, committed to the ideal of protecting the plants and bringing them back to Earth. Alone, Lowell's only company are three drones and his sanity is slowly tested as they drift deeper into space.Silent Running is a very bittersweet film that has heart and sadness in it. It is centred around a great performance by Dern gives an intense, committed performance, made even more impressive because he had to work around for a majority of the film. Director Douglas Turnbull was also able to give the three drones plenty of personality and makes you care for them, from their looks to each other, there body language and actions.Silent Running is a very politically minded film about its themes about environmentalism, deforestation and protecting natural landscapes. The film through Lowell does become very preachy and forceful with his viewpoint, but that is compared to an attitude of apathy and not seeing a real problem on Earth. Even now we have this debate and back in the 70s the issues of environmentalism were less pronounced.Silent Running has a constantly bleak and sombre tone, both about in its grand themes and it the personal story about Lowell, all leading to a bittersweet ending.Turnball came from a special effects background and his experience shows on screen with fantastic, having great model work, art direction and costumes of the drones. There is a great scene of detail and scene of scale. Turnball put his experience on 2001 A Space Odyssey to good use. The interior shots of the station also well done, having that 70s version of the future. The only real criticism is the explosions are only shown as The music by Peter Schickele added to the atmosphere, from the soft piano to a moment with more grand moments when showing the exterior.It is clear how Silent Running influenced films like Moon and WALL-E with its story, style, themes and scenes. Silent Running is an excellent sci-fi that was made in a period that produced films like THX-1138, Logan's Run, Soylent Green and Alien. "},{"Title":"An Ecological Story In Deep Space","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the huge success of 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, the science fiction film had finally grown out of its obsession with evil aliens and bug-eyed monsters and into a genre worthy of exploration. Substituting the old, hoary clichs were films about Mankind's past, present and future. One such film of this kind was, ironically enough, a film that marked the directing debut of 2001's principal special effects supervisor Douglas Trumbull--SILENT RUNNING. Done on a fairly modest budget of just slightly over $1 million, SILENT RUNNING inevitably will seem dated to some after four decades; its message, however, remains all too timely.Set in a far distant future, where Earth's ecology has become a permanent train wreck, SILENT RUNNING generally takes place in the deepest and most isolated part of the Solar System onboard the American Airlines-sponsored deep-space freighter Valley Forge, which houses three different types of what is left of Earth's greenery in geodesic domes, all of which are tended to by a very dedicated scientist (Bruce Dern). But then comes the news that Valley Forge is being ordered back to Earth; and while that prospect pleases Dern's three human cohorts (Cliff Potts; Ron Rifkin; Jesse Vint), the fact that part of those orders also include nuking the geodesic domes and the remaining plant and animal life doesn't sit at all well with Dern. With the help of two drone robots, and even after Potts, Rifkin, and Vint blow two of the three domes up, Dern takes control of the 2000 foot-long freighter, leaving the one remaining domed example of Earth life attached to the main body of the ship, and putting the ship on a course that will take it around the planet Saturn and its glorious ring system and back to Earth. Having jettisoned his human companions, who showed utter indifference to the conservation project from the beginning, he then instructs the drones in how to maintain these last remnants of Earth life.Having achieved a lot as a special effects supervisor, first on 2001 and then on THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN in 1970-71, Trumbull managed to wangle his way into the director's chair for Silent Running, which was loosely based on an idea he himself had written a treatment for just after 2001 and which then was shaped into a screenplay by Deric Washburn, Mike Cimino (later to direct the 1978 Vietnam War epic THE DEER HUNTER), and Steven Bochco. The elaborate nature of the story, dealing with futuristic ecology and conservation, would seem to have been hemmed in by the film's rather low budget and a shooting schedule of just over a month; but Trumbull managed to pull this off by shooting all of SILENT RUNNING on location, both on the real-life, decommissioned aircraft carrier Valley Forge in Long Beach and at a hangar at Van Nuys Municipal Airport in the spring of 1971. Trumbull also had the task, of course, of supervising the special effects, along with good friends Richard Yuricich and John Dykstra (both of whom he would reunite with on STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE), and, given the relative paucity of the budget, they still managed to work. As this is also a character-driven piece, it is up to Dern to largely carry the film as the ambitious botanist; and while his penchant for vituperative acting erupts at times, he does a solid job of playing somebody who is not an over-the-top nut case. The presence of Joan Baez's songs as part of the score by Peter Schickele (alias P.D.Q. Bach) may be the one thing that dates SILENT RUNNING, but it doesn't date it too seriously.Though only a moderate box office success, due to Universal's lackluster advertising campaign, SILENT RUNNING remains a thoroughly interesting film, particularly as it presages certain elements of films like the 2006 ecological documentary AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH and even parts of Disney's 2008 animated sci-fi opus WALL-E. Even with decades of special effects advancement, especially with CGI, the effects in this film still stand up to a lot of scrutiny. But more importantly, the message being told in SILENT RUNNING remains timely to this day, and it is an important one We humans need to preserve our planet, or else there will come a day when there won't be anything left here. "},{"Title":"Silent Running A Complex and Fascinating Character Study","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Billed by critic Mark Kermode as his favourite science-fiction film of all time, Silent Running caught my attention for a number of reasons. Despite my general ambiguity toward sci-fi, I decided to give it a go, its plot an intriguing one to say the least.At an unspecified point in the future, the Valley Forge is one of several large cargo vessels sent out to space with a plethora of plant life forms aboard. Much to the chagrin of resident botanist Lowell, the command centre orders these destroyed and the freighters returned to earth, an order he is resolutely disinclined to obey.One of the things I really like about Silent Running is the opening calm shots of rainforest paradise we are first treated to, and the way in which the camera slowly and deceptively toys with us to eventually reveal this lush environment as synthetic and cosmic. It's quite an impressive effect, allowing us to appreciate the loneliness and sense of abandonment in this other world. The strange beauty of Lowell's nirvana is soon disrupted by his rather less considerate fellow crew members, with whom he shares a clear disaffection. Their complicity in destroying the assorted ecosystems they originally swore to protect is a clear nod to the vast majority of the human population, and the foreshadower of a theme which becomes increasingly relevant as this film ages. Lowell's steps to protect his beloved forest originally seem to him inconsequential, though as the film progresses these appear to take a greater toll on his increasingly fragile mind. Close as this comes, the level of guilt he harbours never quite manages to become significant enough to take the film to a new level a level of real psychological drama which would earn it even greater respect. As it unfolds, Lowell teeters precariously on the brink of antiheroism, his sinister gaze and soft speech encouraging more fear than sympathy. Dern plays this well, the moments where we most support the main character engendered primarily by the subtlest of movements across his face. The mental journey of this character is just slightly too underplayed, its effect falling just short of what it could have been.Offering a complex and fascinating character study, Silent Running bears a strong environmentalist message that seems to maintain a relationship of inverse proportion to its age. Missing out on that little extra to take it to the next level, it trips over itself slightly in its characterisation. Having stood the test of time well, it is clear as an influential and important part of science-fiction history. "},{"Title":"the best sci fi movie ever","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie , the story is ace , the acting is brilliant , the robots are cute, the music is just fantastic , it has everything in it to make a good movie , i cant believe people vote empire strikes back as the number one sci fi movie , that proves that this site is visited by star wars nerds more than movie watchers , have you guys never seen soylent green , or a boy and his dog, and anyway star wars is sci fantasy its up there with conan and hawk the slayer .good sci fi is children of men , or planet of the apes or childs play ( no not the movie with the scary doll that kills people the hammer house movie ) watch this movie on a Sunday with nothing to do and just enjoy it for what it is . a fantastic story . oh and by the way i love star wars , i got a room full of action figures , i just don't understand why people think it is original , it steals ( in a good way ) from loads of movies ,this classic being one of them "},{"Title":"Great movie beyond the dated aspects","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've caught this movie a number of times over the years. Usually on TV when its been on. Ned Beatty I should say a few things first. I've always considered Ned Beatty a very odd actor. I don't get exactly how he had a career beyond the last 1960s biker-hippy movies he was in (although he is fantastic as the old kook -- a role he was born to play -- on HBO's Big Love). ANYWAY...so I wouldn't normally be attracted to a movie with him in the lead role. And certainly not in a movie where he plays the sole role for most of the film (a'la Tom Hanks in Castaway). I DON'T KNOW WHY BUT I ALWAYS FIND MYSELF DRAWN TO THIS FILM!!! I sort of sit there and watch it all the way through.The Message As a few others have commented the ecological message can be a little heavy handed at times, but I still find the film strangely compelling. I don't consider it a Sci-Fi film. The effects aren't that great (even for its time) and the robotics are laughable. But it still has a haunting quality to it. It's a dystopic view of a possible future when humanity flushes its natural resources down the tubes. One man makes a radical choice to save the last forests. It's crazy at times, yes. But still its a character study.The Music/Baez As for people who hate the film, I think this film would've been improved A THOUSAND FOLD if they released it with a new soundtrack. The Joan Baez soundtrack of AWFUL! Treacly message heavy crap. Seriously, this film could use a redub. I'm not sure what would soundtrack would be better but Baez's songs make this little more than a Billy Jack movie with a better known warbling folk songstress. I think if you subtracted the Baez songs all the people who hated this film would find it a hell of a lot more palatable.I have to agree with commentators who've mentioned the charming way that the three robots emote (there's no better word for it) so well. They really are expressive even though they're such simple objects. You find yourself sympathizing with them in a strange way. Part of this is Beatty's relating to them. Sort of hysterically silly at times but still effective in taking them as real characters.The ending is odd and perhaps implausible but this movie still holds up for the questions it brings up for the viewer. We are still dealing with many of these concepts so the film is visionary and ahead of its time in many ways. Its look at a heavily corporatized future (which is really there for people who notice it and not an explicit statement) it pretty visionary too. We're living in that reality.Watch it. You'll enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Massively ahead of its' time masterpiece","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watched this film many years ago and it blew me away. Watching it again now and was slightly disappointed, found myself fast forwarding through the interminable musical sequences. But it's still a heck of a good sci-fi film, the kind of thoughtful and well made post 2001 fantasy that the 70s seemed to produce before Star Wars came along and everything then had to be a blockbuster.Amazing special effects for 1972 and not that unrealistic (I thought the ships looked familiar, they reused them for Battlestar Galactica), the design is actually pretty practical. Bruce Dern who is so often the supporting player for bigger stars here gets a chance to shine. He does a good job in fleshing out a character who you're never really sure you actually like or even agree with but who is fantastically moving. Crude as they are the 3 robots have such anthropomorphic presence you can't help but take to them, in many ways they're the most empathetic of all the characters. It's very much a film which makes you think, at the time it was made environmentalism was still in its' infancy, nowadays it would be far more topical (and indeed you wonder why no one has remade it?)It's not perfect and you ask many questions. The project is called off and the domes will not return to Earth. OK but why destroy them using mini-nukes? Why not just leave them in orbit? Why the hell are the eco-ships orbiting Saturn? Why aren't they closer to the sun? It seems strange that they left it until one of the robots was destroyed before naming them after Donald Duck's 3 nephews. I'm staggered it got a U rating, I mean Bruce Dern's character murders his fellow astronauts, not just by ejecting them and destroying the dome with the mini-nuke but by crushing the windpipe of the one he likes best with a shovel? And then commits suicide at the end? But overall it is a truly great and original film and I'd love to see a remake. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Space and  Nature Flick","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a future where all flora is extinct on Earth, an astronaut (Bruce Dern) is given orders to destroy the last of Earth's plant life being kept in a greenhouse on board a spacecraft.The biggest problem with this film is the music provided by Joan Baez. Maybe in 1972 this was cool, but today (2013) it comes off as obnoxious, and it pushes the film over the boundary from environmentalist to hippie, which may be a serious turn-off for many viewers.Beyond that, great film with Bruce Dern being his wacky self. I love his little robot pals and how he trains them to be (almost) human. The actors inside the robots deserve a lot more credit than they probably get. "},{"Title":"Dated but engaging sci-fi fable","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" SILENT RUNNING is one of those 'lonely' sci-fi films made in the spirit of 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY where it's all about astronauts being isolated and becoming gradually unhinged in deep space. Bruce Dern stars as an interstellar gardener (!) tasked with caring for a greenhouse full of the Earth's last plant life.The film that gradually unfolds (at a slow and stately pace) is both watchable and slightly twee. There's a message about ecological conservation that's being shoved down the viewer's throat all the time which I didn't care much for, but Bruce Dern makes up for that by fully inhabiting his character's role. The best thing about the film? Those quirky robots, which are nothing like robots in real life but which add humour and a touch of pathos in any case.SILENT RUNNING is considered by some to be a masterpiece, but I don't buy it; there just isn't enough substance to go along with all the effects and the heavy-handed message. It is, however, a perfectly watchable movie, albeit one I'm in no hurry to revisit anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Space-opera ecology story well performed by Bruce Dern and glamorously directed by Douglas Trumbull","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a fictional tale with worthwhile message about a botanist named Lowel(Bruce Dern) and his fighting into futuristic space station to keep a giant greenhouse. The large aircraft contains the last surviving forests and remnants of Earth. He receives the order from Earth to destroy the vegetation, then he efforts to preserve those plants and trees . Lowel confront against the remainder crew(Ron Rifkin, Jesse Vint and Cliff Potts). He's only accompanied by three robots drones which help him to preserve the greenhouses.This thoughtful movie packs ecological message, passionate natural conscience, glittering images and is quite entertaining. Outstanding acting by Bruce Dern as the nature-loving and rare member of the Valley Forge space station. Glimmer and colorful cinematography by Charles Wheeler. Sensitive and emotive songs by Joan Baez . Interesting screenplay by Steven Bochco and Michael Cimino. Marked directorial debut of FX whizz Douglas Trumbull who he also lavishly produced along with Michael Gruskoff. Douglas is a legendary visual effects pioneer along with John Dykstra and Richard Yuricich. He achieved several Academy Award nominations and won Award for his extraordinary contribution in this field. Trumbull is currently involved in the evolution of FX utilizing electronic cinematography and digital sets. He was the main crew of the special photographic effects for '2001, Space Odyssey' and supervisor for 'Close encounters in third phase, Andromeda strain and Blade Runner' and director of 'Brainstorm'. The motion picture will like to Sci-Fi buffs and people looking for message about back to nature movement of the 1960s. Rating  Above average, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"back to the mother nature in a big style","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hippy philosophy in space. That could be done only in crazy seventies. The great surprise is that it still works. Basic idea and the approach to the subject are excellent, with the exception of the middle of the movie. It seemed that Trumbull and Co. didnt know what to do with it and it ended up with a lots of empty walk and unimportant scenes. Fortunately, Silent Running is not a long picture, so it wasnt that unbearable. But I still think that the whole premise would work much better on some short film. Still, very good idea (humane and philosophical), the best role of Bruce Dern career, and we even got Hewey and Dewey which are hilarious. Even after so many years I found my self sometimes staring into the space and looking for some lonely space shuttle with the loneliest robot you can imagine. (The last scene is simply unforgettable) "},{"Title":"sophomoric granola tree-hugging  commercial","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What started out looking like a cool sci-fi about man's spiritual need to be connected to nature quickly became a sophomoric granola tree-hugging Give a Hoot commercial. (Complete with an awful Joan Baez soundtrack.) ****Spoiler Ahead**** What kind of botanist doesn't know that plants need sunlight? An eight year old could have written a better plot twist.Very disappointing. Considering the talent involved (co-written by Michael Cimino and Steven Bochco!!), I was expecting better. The story actually is about someone who loves trees and plants more than human life. He is willing to take the lives of human beings to save his forest -- OK, I'm the most least ardent conservationist around, but that's way overboard! --, and he is presented as an otherwise nice guy. Unfortunately, because Bruce Dern plays him, he comes off whacko. About the one thing worth watching this for, is the silly waddling droids, which actually contain real-life double amputee monkeys. Aside from that, this film got sillier and more boring as it journeyed slowly towards its ending.Despite its contemporary message that we have to preserve the world around us, the film shows its 1970's origin rather obviously. Maybe its the orange carpenting in space, or the fluffy hair-dos. Maybe its the racing around in little Go-Karts. Who knows? Having read Rachel Carson's 'Silent Spring' I could see that book's influence all over this pretentious movie. The idea itself is interesting. The Valley Forge, along with several other ships, is transporting pristine natural environments to a new home. This is the last of earth's destroyed ecology. For an unknown reason, a voice over the radio tells the crew (who all but Bruce Dern inexplicably seem to hate their assignment, nature, trees and natural food) to destroy their cargo. Dern's character rather lamely wrestles with the issue before killing the rest of the crew (not as exciting as it sounds) and hijacking the Valley Forge. Like the spaceship, the film really gets nowhere. It's an education in how the times can influence a movie and how we used to have small people/monkeys work tiny robots rather than use CGI. I was glad when this film ended. Perhaps it would have been mildly enjoyable on Mystery Science Theater. It's that type of movie. Probably made a good short Sci-Fi story. Only for those who love Bruce Dern (not I) or have an interest in film and social history.Although it doesn't hold a candle to 2001 (which preceded it). Sappy acting, miserable soundtrack (or is it the other way around?), and a botanist who doesn't understand the very basics of plant maintenance...what's to like? "},{"Title":"A Piece of Sci-Fi Classic","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First time I saw this movie in the early 90's and I loved it. Not the SFX but the story. From the year 2004 the effects are old-fashioned. The story is as actual as in 1972. One of the other voters asked the question if somebody would have decided same way Freeman did. I WOULD. In my opinion it's not the question if somebody has to face this decision, the real question is when.If you're expecting action, this film will bore you to death. If you like Sci-Fi the way Isaac Asimov, Stanislaw Lem or Arkadi & Boris Strugatzki wrote, this film is right for you. If you like both, just watch this film and decide yourself. And...the end of this film is one of the most impressive moments in cinema.  "},{"Title":"Treehugger message lost in horrendous plot","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Abysmal. Not much in the way of intrigue, plot twists, conspiracy theories, or even a plot that makes any kind of rational sense. As another reviewer posted elsewhere, the movie has the pace of 2001 without the quality. I can see how they tried to make a socially conscious movie, but it failed. The Joan Baez music was horrendous however the visual effects were fairly good for being 1971.From the plot outline, Bruce Dern along with several other ships are told to nuke all the forests that are aboard ships in space. American Airlines and Dow chemical must have paid for a large portion of this movie as their logos are everywhere. The movie missed its message though. The message was lost in horrible acting and a storyline that has so many missing pieces that are necessary to the flow of the film. The movie is irrational, Bruce Dern performs a soliloquy for much of the movie (if you omit him talking to robots), Dern is filmed for much of the movie caring for bunnies and hawks that somehow don't kill the bunnies, and much more. Save your time and watch grass grow.***SPOILER ALERT!!*** OK, as someone else posted as well, what botanist doesn't realize that the forest is dying because of a lack of sun? How in the name of the Flying Spaghetti Monster can the earth maintain any life with the entire planet at 75 degrees? Where are the animals on the planet that maintain the food chain if all the fields and forests are gone? There are a slew of others as well. The plot had almost no thought put into it other than conveying the one message Dont kill trees, we need trees! "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look - Just because there is a message in this movie about mankind's inclination toward destroying the Earth, doesn't make this a good movie.  This movie is awful.  I can't stand fiction that tries to pawn itself off as Science Fiction with bad science.  There are limits to suspension of disbelief.  The whole premise of the movie is outrageously ridiculous.  There is little if any plot.  The movie climaxes in the first 20 minutes and there is little conflict, and what conflict there is, is implied.  I love the Earth and the trees and fresh fruit just like everyone else.  I consider myself a tree hugging nature guy.  I thought I would relate to this nature loving main character after his first speech, however, I later found him repulsive.  I cannot understand how this movie ended up on a top 10 list of sci-fi movies.  The fact that the main character has to come to the realization that he did in regard to the forest at the end, proves that science was a second thought in this movie.  (Any dim-witted scientist wanna-be would have seen the problem inside of 30 seconds.)If you are and your buddies are looking for a good laugh to go with your wasted night, you might get a chuckle out of this. Otherwise, stay away from this movie and don't say I didn't warn you.  "},{"Title":"Remarkable film.","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Running is an appealing, unusual sci-fi tale set in deep space. Bruce Dern plays astronaut Freeman Lowell, who's been working on a project for the past eight years maintain the last of the flora and fauna scavenged from a devastated Planet Earth, inside huge geodesic domes. One day he gets the orders from his bosses to terminate the project and head home. Unfortunately, this idea doesn't appeal to Freeman, and he mutinies.The film is not subtle about its love-and-respect-for-Mother-Nature, save the planet mentality, but it's quite an affecting story no matter what. Lowell does some things one can't exactly condone, but you do understand the man. Thanks to a powerhouse performance by Mr. Dern, you can still sympathize with the man and be moved by his loneliness and social awkwardness. True enough that a story like this would seem like a pretty hard sell to studios, even 43 years ago, since there are no female characters and the main person isn't all that noble.Special effects veteran Douglas Trumbull, renowned for his work on 2001 A Space Odyssey, obviously has a real affinity for creating interesting environments and striking visuals. He uses these visuals just as much as any dialogue in telling the story, which is a pretty entertaining one; it was scripted by Deric Washburn, Michael Cimino, and Steven Bochko. The effects are nicely done, and those robot characters - referred to here as drones - do have some personality, and are highly endearing, if not as memorable as, say, R2-D2 from Star Wars.The songs, by Joan Baez, and score, composed and conducted by Peter Schickele, are lovely.Cliff Potts, Ron Rifkin, and Jesse Vint are all fun as Lowells' younger, more carefree associates, but after a while only Dern remains as the sole human presence on screen. His performance has to rank as one of his all time best.Overall, watching this one is a fairly potent experience, and it does stick with you once it's over.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"1970s parable about appreciating nature.","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a young adult, married with children, when this movie came out in 1972, but I only saw it yesterday. I found it on Netflix streaming movies. I found it a very interesting study in human values and the extreme one might go to when choices are limited.I have always liked Bruce Dern, and he was great in last year's 'Nebraska' playing an older man in his twilight years. Here he is young, an astronaut caring for almost extinct forests. But I get ahead. It is some future time and apparently Earth has become, or is becoming, uninhabitable. So a mission with several very large space ships and small crews have been sent into some sort of orbit, perhaps around the sun, intent on preserving life. Specifically, forests and the greenery that goes with it. Each large space craft has several transparent domed areas attached, under each dome is dirt and a forest.Freeman Lowell (Dern) is one of four on this particular ship. From all the patches on his suit (Sierra Club, Mount Rainier, etc) we know he is a conservationist and he takes this job very seriously. In his spare time he grows various crops to supplement the space food they are dispensed. Trouble arises when the crew is told they will jettison each domed forest into space and explode each, they no longer want to save them. As Freeman watches each pod in turn be jettisoned then exploded, each time he winces almost in pain, seeing life destroyed with no hope.So he does the only thing that makes sense to him, taking drastic measures.SPOILERS FOLLOW He decides he will first get rid of the three other crewmen. The first comes easily, in a struggle in Freeman's garden, with a shovel handle across the man's throat. Next he jettisons a forest pod when the other two men are in it, destroying them when it detonates. And finally, he modifies the remaining three drones (robots) to obey him, he teaches one how to take care of the forest, then jettisons them but WITHOUT an explosion. Then he causes his own space ship to explode, with the knowledge that the little robot will take care of the forest for an eternity! "},{"Title":"Moving Ecological Sci-Fi.","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bruce Dern plays Freeman Lowell, a botanist and astronaut assigned to a spaceship that has the last of Earth's forests in enclosed domes attached to its exteriors. When the order comes from Earth to destroy the domes, and return to Earth, Freeman's fellow crewmen are ecstatic, but he is enraged at the order, thinking it wrongheaded and stupid, so he sets out to ignore the order, and save the domes, even if that means he has to take extreme measures with his crew mates...Deeply moving, well acted and directed(by Douglas Trumbull) ecological science fiction tale is really an allegory about humanity's treatment of nature, and what would happen if it was taken to its logical outcome. Though the extreme situation presented here is unlikely(I sincerely hope!) this film works because of its absolute sincerity, with three robots named Huey, Dewey, and Louie, who will play a key role by the film's deeply moving ending, which may bring a tear(s) to the eye. "},{"Title":"Haunting But Very Captivating","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In spite of the meagre cast and not to familiar faces (with the exception of Bruce Dern), Silent Running is filled with brilliant performances, monumental scenes that have great set-ups to follow along and the special effects for a 1972 film were well ahead of its time. In addition to that, the score was excellent and the scenes are both haunting, scintillating and all the while very grim at times to look at. But even if it's paining a negative picture of what remains to come, one thing if for sure, deforestation is running rampantly and if we don't act soon, forest life could be on the brink of total oblivion.One thing that strikes the right cord for me about Silent Running the wonderful performance by Bruce Dern. In past Mr. Dern has built a reputation as playing evil, demented crazy guys and of course pop culture enthusiasts will know the in one of John Wayne's movies, Mr. Dern was that only guy who ever killed off a John Wayne character. After the release of that movie he got a very bad rap for it too. Which is a shame really when you think about it because he's such an under-rated performance. Here, Dern breaks away from type-casting to play a more sensitive person, who is potentially on the brink of going insane. But his restrained persona is very hard to notice, but as this movie progresses, we know his hidden madness is only a motion away. That truly defines what exceptional acting is all about. The cast is also quite effective in their respected roles as well.Cliff Potts, Ron Rifkin and Jesse Vint who show a lucrative level of contempt for Dern's character are all very impressive in their respected roles. It was also a treat to watch the performers who played the robotic drones Huey, Dewey and Louie.This movie was the original ultimate sci-fi long before Star Wars and it stands on its own merits quite well and it's held up compared to today's movie that heavily depend on more fast pace, harder action, more blood and gratuitous violence. The movie's message sticks out to today than compared to when it was first released 40 years ago. Wacth for yourself and enjoy it. I assure you, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal movie","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie in 72 when it came out. The special effects for then were outstanding, almost as good as 2001 I'm sure with 1/10th the budget. Also, the acting and directing was superlative. To me the story was the best part. I think that people really miss the real gravity of what the movie was trying to depict and it is why Freeman Lowell snapped. Those domes contained the complete sum of all the foliage on the earth. The earth was a concrete jungle. Freeman was by profession a lover of the earths ecology. The company decided to absolutely eliminate any hope that mother earth would thrive with plant life ever again, and Freeman couldn't imagine an earth without an lithospheric ecology. I assume that they had devised artificial ways to replenish the atmosphere and all those issues that would occur as a result of having no ecology on earth. Also, I suppose the food was some form of synthesized nutrition type stuff. So, this was a riveting display of human shallowness and grotesque deprivation mixed with a seemingly remote display of humanistic humility in the face of the creation. truly Sublime!! P.S. And Hewey, Dewey and Louie were ironically so human in their manner and appeal. "},{"Title":"A favorite science fiction movie of the early 70's with a definite message","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film perhaps in 1975, on television,although I wish I had seen it in the movies. I was struck first by the soundtrack; the songs of Joan Baez, her crystal voice of the sixties made me cry as I listened and watched the animals and the trees of this forest launched into space because people on Earth couldn't find a way to save them there. Secondly,the character of Freeman Lowell, played by Bruce Dern was very believable to me; I sometimes think I would do the same thing as he did to save the nature he so loved. The little drones were adorable, even though they looked somewhat like bulky trash cans! This is definitely a film of its time coming on the heels of the ecology movement which I became involved with in 1974. It is sensitive and thought-provoking, however in that it continues to remind us that our precious natural resources are just that and more of us need to care if we are to save this planet. "},{"Title":"Intelligent And Plausible Sci-Fi Classic. One Of The First And Few Green Films Of It's Genre","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" i was pretty young when i first saw 'Silent Running', i think i was only about ten or eleven, but i remember being influenced by it's direct and easily comprehensible message of environmentalism. i was also blown away by it's state of the art FX which, back then, were ahead of it's time.very few Sci-fi films at that time looked like this film. with the exception of '2001', there wasn't always a lot of realism or believability in space movies or on TV. this was one of the few that actually had a plausible science vision. it was also way ahead of the 'Star Wars' films or Spielberg in infusing current sci-fi with sentimentality. this film definitely pre-dated characters like R2D2 and E.T., it was also the first sci-fi to be made on a personal level, without a lot of action, long ahead of 'Enemy Mine' in the 80's.'Silent Running' brings to the sci-fi genre two of the hardest characteristics lacking even today. plausibility, believability, vision, and a story told on a intimate, personal level. not only are sci-fi movies and television usually envisioned as epics of sorts, they are also usually far-out and fantasy based with very little real science instilled in them.this film also was one of the first sci-fi movies with a go green message. which is as daring and original today as it was back then. there are still very few actual green sci-fi films in the market today. it is also about conscience at war with itself over the greater good. choosing individuals vs. a cause. and can you live with your choices.this movie was also way ahead of the market as far as attempting to revive sci-fi, which currently was not the most popular genre, as well as bringing sci-fi to a family audience. years later, the sci-fi genre in the 80's would become dominated by family friendly fare.this is a beautifully done movie for any genre and with a vastly profound and affecting message. it's also done simply and with a lot of feeling. most kids will find it's message easy to understand. i'd be surprised if anybody didn't get this. this film is a classic of both science and of topical statement. "},{"Title":"It Grows On You","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yet another guilty pleasure from the Seventies, though when I view it today I am more inclined to recall the feelings I'd had in my in-theater introduction.Even then I'd recognized Doug Trumbull from 2001, so I very much looked forward to his directorial debut. From his caterpillar's-eye view behind the opening credits to the claustrophobic interiors to the closing very long pullback he did not disappoint. (The end credits should remind you of Close Encounters of the Third Kind, on which Trumbull also participated.)Later viewings and readings revealed the production design and FX were a triumph of innovation and plain hard work over accounting principles. They had a whole aircraft carrier to play on!Holes in the premise and ongoing plot were (and remain) plentiful. They did not distract me but inspired me to fill them long after I was taken for the cinematic ride.The setting was further along the optimist's future than popularly inferred, what with artificial gravity without a centrifuge, no visible means of space freighter propulsion, semi-autonomous maintenance drones that I positively marveled at, skintight spacesuits, and a fleeting inference by the lead character of terrestrial climate (or damage?) control. (Then again, perhaps accounting principles DID sometimes prevail.)Shooting the rapids through a quadrant of the outer rings had to involve Saturn's upper atmosphere, for even then we were not quite sure what that planet's rings were truly made of. And I knew Trumbull had set his sights on Saturn because the gas giant was supposed to have been the spaceship Discovery's destination in 2001.The ecological/environmental theme was timely, likely because we were just coming around to realize the only people who would make a difference were us. And, no, for the record, I did not endorse Freeman Lowell's countermeasures though they certainly made me wonder what would happen next...Though the film score's songs were rendered troppo vibrato the sum of the music gently supported the film and enhanced some scenes. This was clearly not space music. Years passed before I recognized the composer.And though the script couldn't have given Bruce Dern much guidance in his characterization of Lowell he gave everything he had, which showed in every frame. Lowell's equally fleeting reference to Everything is the same, all the people are exactly the same on Earth while trying to provoke some response from his shipmates also supplied plenty for me to privately ponder for awhile...This film may not age well but is to be forgiven its faults. "},{"Title":"Unique, Low-Key, Outer-Space Ecology Cult Science-Fiction Classic","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Valley Forge is one of a series of spaceships containing the last remnants of Earth's plant and animal life. When they are given orders to destroy their bio-domes, crewman Freeman Lowell rebels, kills his shipmates and pilots the ship away in a desperate bid to preserve the forests from extinction &#133;Silent Running is a very enjoyable but curious film for several reasons. The premise is pretty unique - plant ecology in outer space ? Dern (who is terrific) has to carry the last hour of the movie by himself - what other commercial film has only one character ? And most intriguingly for me, the film is a contradictory mixture of biological and synthetic, ancient and modern, primal and cerebral. The conservation theme is right-on, and Lowell is clearly a hippy tree hugging flower child, complete with acolyte robe and Joan Baez soundtrack, but Trumbull is a technical genius and his film is deliberately full of amazing hardware, robots, cold steel and industrial mechanics. This contrast of fir trees, bubbling brooks and mulched earth with the gun-metal grey and fluorescent lights of the ship is sensational, as the huge craft glide soundlessly through the cold spaces, courtesy of great visual effects by John Dykstra, Richard Yuricich and Trumbull. Also of note are the excellent physical performances by Sparks, Persons, Brown and Whisenhunt as the little robots; all four actors were multiple amputees who performed their characters in real time, giving them great intimacy and nuance in scenes like the poker game. When Lowell accidentally hits Huey with the buggy, you wince with pain and anguish (or at least you do if you have a soul), despite the fact that he's just a hunk of plastic. Written by Deric Washburn, Michael Cimino and Steven Bochco, and shot in a decommissioned aircraft carrier (the USS Valley Forge) in Long Beach, California; the ship name also comes from a national park in Pennsyvlania. This film is not perfect by any account - for one thing most of the premise makes little sense - but it is a lovely, gentle, nicely paced, highly original, thought-provoking little movie. A flawed gem. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!!!","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie was fantastic! Bruce Dern gives the best performance that he has ever done. It gives us a very important message about environmentalism and about its value to us as humans. I loved this movie and hope to see it again whenever its on t.v. again. anyway I firmly recommend this movie to anyone who is looking for either a great environmental/SiFi movie or just something to watch. But i warn you, this movie will probably be considered boring if you are not really interested in it. But aside from that it is the best science fiction movie that i have ever seen! I firmly give it a 9 1/2 out of ten (only because it can get VERY dramatic at times and left a few questions) but still check it out! "},{"Title":"Touching and Disturbing","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a sad, chilling and impressive movie this is. Judged from the perspective of a 2006 moviegoer, this science fiction film certainly isn't perfect in terms of special effects, although for the time it was made they were actually quite good - especially if one takes the tiny budget into account. But you don't watch this movie for breathtaking action sequences (watch Star Wars instead) or fascinating aesthetics (watch 2001 instead). The wonderful thing about this movie is its very unusual plot A sensitive loner refuses to destroy the last remains of nature left from earth, kills his three colleagues instead, and embarks on an incredibly lonesome trip through space, only accompanied by plants, some animals, three taciturn robots and his own feelings of guilt. Finally, when he's unexpectedly discovered, instead of letting himself be rescued, he blows up his ship, including himself. The only thing that remains is the last existing forest, drifting through space eternally under a geodesic dome, cared for only by a robot, SAVED FROM MANKIND. This movie quite provokingly asks the question if nature wouldn't be better off without us human beings, and it does not provide an easy answer. Its sad and desperate atmosphere is wonderfully emphasized by Bruce Dern's intense acting, and by Joan Baez' haunting songs. Despite all its technical flaws, this movie is still a tremendously touching and impressive piece of art, because the story is just so powerful and disturbing. "}{"Title":"Clearly the performance of Bruce Dern's distinguished career","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All I can say is SEE It.  If you don't see it, you won't see it. Dern as Lowell is completely believable from start to finish.  His acting is wonderful because he manages to show you the sheer depth of Lowell's passion without overacting or overdoing it.Doug Trumbull's story and directing are phenomenal. I am so glad I got to see Silent Running in the theater, because the dramatic visuals truly benefit from the wide screen format. The movie was so good, I didn't want it to end.The musical score is terrific and non-intrusive, and the ending music is breathtaking. Joan Baez singing Rejoice in the Sun. Wow. Just perfect. This one easily makes my list of the 25 MUST SEE movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Take Good Care Of My Baby","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK I admit I have my rose-tinted spectacles handy when watching this brave little science fiction film but I still think that it remains pretty much a unique experience. It's rambling and inconsequential, has worn well but is dated, is corny yet relevant, and is enjoyable if too much isn't expected.Gargantuan spaceship has a lush ecosystem to preserve, until the order comes to blow it all up &#x96; tch, how short sighted Mankind always is! Bruce Dern as resident geeko-eco-warrior kills the remaining examples of Mankind on board and sets up his store with two stumpy robots Huey and Dewey. Sadly Louie didn't make it&#x85; The anthropomorphised robots and their relationship with Dern form the backbone of the movie. It goes off at odd tangents, but the big point is to Take Good Care Of The Forest. The three of them gave the best performances of their lives, only one of them saying anything and most of that comes across as unscripted. Probably the biggest drawback with the film was Joan Baez's dated manic warbling of hippy-drippy axioms always at the wrong moment; it made me cringe the first time I heard it in 1976, and gives the lie to the title. But even her music hasn't dated as badly as Blade Runner. The special effects were good although a lot of the props now remind me of 8-track cartridge players. There's no help for it, you must make allowances for all of that! And maybe it's good to remember that at this time of writing Mankind has not set foot on the Moon since those ancient primitive times either. The climax should be cringe-worthy too but isn't &#x96; the contrived poignancy is overwhelming by then. It's not one of the 1000 essential films to see before you die but it's worth watching because you won't see anything else quite like it; afterwards just try to think of a similar film. "},{"Title":"Silent running; a slow movie, but great fun","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was in fact, my first slow movie and it is pretty well done. The important thing to say is, the trailer for this movie is the worst I have ever seen. It uses every action scene in the movie pretty much, and makes it look like an action adventure, with quotes like 'cataclysm in outer space' and 'every moment bringing its own danger' yeah, right. This is a very different kind of movie.In the far future, the only remaining forests are inside of domes many miles up into space, where nobody seems to care about them anymore. Except for Freeman Lowell, who has been maintaining the forests for over 15 years, most recently alongside three others, and is a flamboyant environmentalist. But orders are given to blow up the domes and return home, he decides to go rouge by disobeying orders, killing his team members, and claiming that this last forest as a detonation problem, not letting it die by explosives. Then he retreats into deep space after jettisoning his cargo in an attempt to signal the others that he has been blown up, hence the name 'silent running.' His only companions are his three robots that would be ripped off by war hammer 40k in their dreadnaught design. I am serious! The design is TOO similar! This movie's strength is it's drama. Freeman Lowell is like a normal human being in the future. This is reflected when he names the three drones Huey, Dewey, and Louie. But in the end, the rest of the ships discover him and are about to close in. Lowell realizes they would be able to find out that he murdered his crew mates and disobeyed, so before the other ships board, he blows up his own space cruiser, Valley forge. If you are not a fan of slow movies, this isn't the one for you. It is atmospheric, with little music, but some of it is sung by Joan Baez. It was the 70's, ladies and gentlemen. Embrace it! And embrace this movie, if you are the kind who loves this style. "},{"Title":"One of the finest endings...","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The planet Earth has a constant temperature of 75f. The last remaining flora and fauna are dispatched off into space (their destination is never actually discussed) and several huge spacecraft wend their merry way as far as Saturn. Much to the delight of the ship's crews, the craft are ordered to return to Earth, and their precious cargo destroyed. While this is cause for celebration for most of the jaded crew members, Bruce Dern's character rebels. What is more important? The last remaining micro-forests or his crew-mates.. This is an intelligent and beautifully filmed near-future drama with a haunting soundtrack and an end scene that I defy ANYONE not to be moved by. You will never look at a robot with a watering can the same way again! "},{"Title":"Tree-hugger turns maniac.","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After getting my Starlost DVD set, I decided to pop this film back in the old player. Kind of neat.I've seen this movie a few times, and have always wanted to like it. And I do, after a fashion. It's sci-fi. Passionate sci-fi. Sci-fi with a message, but it seems to be uneven in the thematic department.You got a guy who's some-kind of naturalist/botanist/biologist on board a vessel carrying what we presume to be the last of Earth's natural habitats in pressurized domes. Things go wrong, he objects, and the events take a turn for the worse.I think what was really missing here was some more grounding for the film. Bruce Dern's character is almost a bit too passionate, suggesting a kind of mental illness. But, did the character need to be crazy to preserve the last of mother nature? Lord knows we have our militant environmentalists. But, could the script have not gone a different direction? Could Dern's character not have been more stable and gone about achieving his goal without all the hoopla? I wonder.The 70s was an awful time for the environment. Industrial pollution and pollution from cars had really done a number on land, sea and air. Something had to be done. The artistic community responded with song, paintings, a few documentaries, and Hollywood's offering was Silent Running.The gist here is that denying oneself of our natural surroundings can drive one crazy. And the appropriate response is an outburst because of the lunacy of losing one's natural environment. At least, that's the idea.I'm not sure I really buy this. It seems a little too pat. A little too simple and easy. But, at the same time, dramatically it works. The film is what it is, and delivers not so much a Green message, but good old fashioned conservationist message. Like your grandfather who used to hunt and fish, and advocated not taking more than you needed.Silent Running is more of worst case scenario for a bleak future. It works, but seems more like a TV episode for what might've been a larger dramatic effort.Not a bad piece of sci-fi. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":" I don't think I could ever explain why I chose the forests over my friends","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are many actors in Hollywood who wear the insignia of heavy so often they end up being typecast every time. One such actor is Bruce Dern. True he began acting in the 1960's in roles so thin he often remained uncredited. However, in this rare opportunity, Bruce Dern plays Freeman Lowell, the hero of the movie Silent Running. The story takes place far off in the future, when Earth's remaining forests, wildlife and vegetation have been preserved in gigantic domed enclosures with the intent on one day 'reforesting' the planet. However after eight long years in deep space, the ordered does come from Earth, but it's not to save the pods, but to destroy their cargo. Though he tries to convince his fellow crewmen Cliff, (John Keenan) Marty, (Ron Rifkin) and Andy (Jesse Vint) that what their doing is unconscionable, they point out it's only a job and not their decision. Lowell realizes he has no choice but to choose between his friends and his mission. In his care are three tiny robots which become an integral part of the movie and add to the final ingredients which propels this film into the annals of Classic cinema. This role will become the epitome of Bruce Dern's career. **** "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time and still relevant","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is unbelievable this movie was made in 1972. The special effects still hold up (in fact the greenhouse ship model is closely imitated in BattleStar Galactica, both the old and the new). The storyline is still relevant in the current context of global warming and the conflict between technology and ecology. One interesting message I think that is lost on many people is that technology is our ultimate hope of preserving the beauty of nature in all its forms; the final image of a robot tending to the forest is a metaphor for the entire film.To top it off, the acting and production design are extremely convincing considering the premise that the story asks the viewer to accept; it requires quite a bit of suspension of disbelief, and the film pulls it off completely. I would have rated this movie slightly higher but the music was a bit too corny for my taste. "},{"Title":"touching story, never mind the putative Hippie links","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know what my esteemed colleague is talking about in claiming that Silent Running espouses a Hippie message. _Why_, pray tell, was Freeman Lowell a Hippie because he liked trees? For heaven's sake, he was a _botanist_, remember? That was the _reason_ he was on the mission (and had been for eight years) he was curator of the greenhouses on the American Airlines cargo vessel Valley Forge. Duh. Now, I don't presume to apologize for Lowell's actions after he kills the first fellow crewman in a fight--accidentally beaning him with a spade in a minor squabble over the jettison-and-detonate orders--there was absolutely no reason to follow through on the particular greenhouse that he knew to contain the last two crewmen. But, Lowell indeed has a conscience that's why we see him degenerate into insanity, talking to the drones as if they were people (The man had a full house and he knew it! Ha ha ha ha ha!) and surrendering his formerly neat habits, gradually letting the ship take on the appearance of a pigsty, with unwashed food trays ditched here and there. (Actually, he doesn't seem to really lose it until the third drone, Louie, is lost during a meteor storm, leaving a solitary mechanical foot embedded in the gridwork for the other two to cogitate over.) But he knew he couldn't face the music (even though his alibi probably would have been bought) when the Berkshire came looking for him after he went into silent running on the far side of Saturn--where he was unreachable by radio until sunrise (he should have known that Saturn rotates in a mere 1016, hardly enough time for the ship to take on such a careless look, but nobody said his orbit was geosynchronous)--and that's why he made his ultimate decision. The ticking clock toward the very end, while quite ominous, is also quite touching. I recall that, when I saw this movie as a nine-year-old, I cried. This gentle man wanted nothing more than to feed his rabbits or let the bittern alight on his arm, but the establishment wouldn't grant him those simple pleasures. His tortured reminiscences of Earth--with its steady 75-degree temperature, entirely mechanized surface, etc.--reminded me of Dr. Sevrin (the immortal Skip Homeier) in Star Trek's The Way to Eden, lamenting over how the synthesized, mechanized, homogenized world was to blame for his contraction of Synthococcus novae. Pauvre petit, he was probably right, even if Tongo Rad and Irina Galiulin misread his message and failed to stop his mass-murder attempt. But Sevrin got his the Tree of Knowledge on his new Eden was, after all, a Tree of Death. "},{"Title":"A great, forgotten film","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I admit, I am a sucker for this flick. As a matter of fact, it makes my Top 10 films I'll stay up until 3AM to watch on TV if I see that it is on List. I cannot think of a higher praise for a film.Though it suffers a bit from 1970's-itis, the core idea behind the film is more controversial (and relevant) than ever. Dern is excellent is the (perhaps?) mad scientist of the spacecraft Valley Forge.One of the most important aspects of this film is the treatment of life in space-- this is one of the first (if not the first) film that treats spaceflight as more like working on a tanker at sea-- stuff leaks, garbage gets left on tables, smudges on windows, etc-- NOT a sterile, lifeless workplace like 2001 A Space Odessy.There are 'droids, or robots, that for the first time are not Human-shaped, but more like you would design for practical use. Overall, the film is excellent in creating a believable world (in the form of the Valley Forge) in a fictional setting.If you get a chance, see it. Ignore the fact it cannot meet the current fetish for special effects. It is a great story. "},{"Title":"Beautiful images","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie on TV in 1980, i as 10 and it scared me because of its pessimistic message. I downloaded it this month. I remembered few things, of course, the message is a bit heavy but we now realize that it wasn't too imaginary. All this may happen, maybe not because of nuclear warfare but because of pollution. The image of the drone alone in its dome is one of the most moving i ever saw on a screen, it almost made me weep. It accomplishes its mission and of course doesn't know what's awaiting it. It really looks at the camera and seems, if not human, at least alive. This is also one of the most beautiful image in movie history.FM "}{"Title":"a good issue film of the future","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Contains Spoiler! First of all I would like to say a thank you to  Jim Manson of St. Paul, MN, for his comments as they sum up how I felt about this film, a lot of comments where made about this film but this is how I see it, this film is only 90 minutes long and in that time it gives you character plots and a story to hold it all together, in this day and age it is not surprising if this film story actually happens in the near future, this is a good tackle at an issue which in 100years will affect us even if we are not bothered about it right now, with out going into detail about the film, I would like to say one thing about the cool ending of this film (as with comments from some of you earlier), the whole reason why this guy kept the damaged robot back and left the other one on the remaining pod was because these robots seems to have feelings and emotions towards each other and if one of them is damaged then that would probably slow the other one down or make it harder work for them, the whole film has morals so try to think about why the last remaining crew member did what he did, put yourself in his shoes if the whole future of the planet you thought resting on you and your work, a lot of moral issues can make you a bit loony.This film could be compared to castaway but yet castaway has other moral situations just like silent running but in other forms, remember that silent running is about preserving the earths resources, and cast away is simply about survival, on a whole I do remember SR from when I was a child, and like The Black Hole science fiction film of the same era it left an imprint on my young mind, I could identify with the character and what he was trying to do, and in the end of the film he runs out of options and takes a path which I don't think we could expect.This is not the best film ever but the moral dilemmas of this film make it stand out from the rest of the pack, it has been 30 years since this film came out, but have films tackled moral issues rather than blind you with special effects instead.I think this film deserves a pat on the back for trying very hard and getting most of the way there.  "},{"Title":"THE MESSAGE uber alles=a mess, but a very pretty mess","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why is it that environmentalist (or any issues-based) entertainment has to be so heavy-handedly didactic? I have no problems with the message of SIlent Running per se, although in retrospect it is a little naive, simplistic (they didn't know about things like global warming, obviously). It has its heart in the righ place, but like most propaganda it's more concerned with beating the viewer over his complacent, hypocritical head with THE MESSAGE. Propagandists are rarely also good dramatists. They don't realize that for a message to be effective, touching, etc., you have to care about the characters and what's happening to them. Here, the real main character is the forest; it's what you end up caring for, crying over when it's being nuked or shot out into deep space for eternity. In a movie that's not a good thing, because it means that the humans who do all the acting are all detestable, as they're all ciphers, pawns in service of THE MESSAGE.Dramatically the movie is on about the level of a high-school writing class project the main human character is essentially a thinly disguised mouth for the author (or authors as it were, including the same Steven Bochco who later created LA Law), the others simplified objects of self-righteous hate or cute sidekicks who serve little function outside of giving said main character something to do for an hour after said objects of hate have been killed off. Bruce Dern as our demented hippie astronaut has absolutely all the personality and charm in this movie, as well as all the carefully written speeches and dialogue, but his shtick gets tiring after a while. He suffers from the Omega Man syndrome one guy talking to himself is rarely interesting outside of the theatre, and his costars barely qualify as people (they're more like cardboard figures that offer repugnantly ignorant wisecracks). Of course the little robots are charming and almost have semblances of personalities, but all they do is waddle around, and if pressed, play cards and stitch up leg wounds.I'm not sure that the movie's logic is all sound. Evil capitalists in enviromental movies tend to do things like push a button to destroy all the forests in one shot, or dump toxic waste into the ocean in plain view of everyone. And so they do here. No reasons given, no rationalizations, no subtlety. One can imagine evil laughter after the radio clicks off (to the radio op's credit, he does lament with a brief  God help us all). As someone else suggested, why not just leave the forest bubbles in orbit? No, dispassionately nuking the forests is just so much more...evil.Pigs! (What if the dumb fatheads had to confront the ecological consequences of defoliation back on Earth? There would have been some dramatic possibilites.) Besides, the movie's full of bad science. Gravity in space? Every place on Earth being 75 degrees?I will say that where the movie does shine is in the production design department. Silent Running definitely does not scream early '70s visually, or any particular time period. It has the kind of austeure fuctional look you find in industry and the military. Doug Trumbull has always had a wonderful eye for timeless visual design and applies it well here, so a movie from 1971 looks as if it could just as easily have been made in 2001 (hehe). Speaking of which, it is too bad he didn't think to include any of his famous simulated computer graphics.Finally music Peter Schickele (the PDQ Bach guy) supplied most of the incidental music, which is not bad, if a little unusual for a movie. At the other end of the spectrum is Joan Baez's cooing the theme song over and over. The insrumental version under the opening credits actually tug at my heart strings; every time Joan sings along with it I start wishing that Trumbull had hired Grand Funk Railroad instead (Mark Farner, after all, was in his messaianic save-the-world phase at the time).All that said, when it all boils down, the movie has a payoff that makes the preceding 90-odd minutes worth it. The shot of the bubble floating off into deep space with the little robot critter watering whats left of Earth's plant life is enormously moving, even with Joan Baez singing under it. One wishes that the whole movie was as quietly and simply dramatic as that final scene.Final assessment a curio from a curious era in both filmmaking and environmentalism. Not a great movie, but an admirable try done in by putting message over meaning. "},{"Title":"One superb movie...","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a VERY strange film. Eerie, funny, sad, tense. The special effects are nothing fantastic but the plot is highly inventive. The buggy races in the hangars are the stuff kids dream of doing and the card playing robots are quite cute. One of those films I MUST try and get on DVD. A forgettable title, but an unforgettable film. "},{"Title":"A Transliterary Piece","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This will always be one of my favorite films;  _Silent Running_ made a very deft attempt to bridge the gap between film, and the more introspective, alienating world of the science-fiction novel.  A worthy contribution from director Douglas Trumbull.  The low water mark for this existential masterpiece would have to be the two, horrific, cornball songs by Joan Baez, which give me a splitting headache every time I hear them.  "},{"Title":"Timeless Classic","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Spoiler Warning)It's been 30 years since this movie came out and time has been very good to this Sci-Fi futuristic tale about Nature and Man. It not only holds up well, it does so eerily so!I have not seen it in many years, but the images, the sounds and the core message have always remained with me. Yes, I know it was only a movie, but it was one of those rare movies that touches you deep inside and sticks forever. I was a young kid, but for some reason, I grasped what it was saying. On later viewings, as I matured, I understood even more.Besides all the wonderful visual treats and powerful messages, Silent Running is an enjoyable movie. The characters are real and quirky and likable. The robots are also precious and this was long before (by 5 years) R2D2 and C3PO taught the American public that we CAN feel some real emotions for mechanical characters. In fact, there is a scene where you just might find yourself getting a little misty eyed for a robot! I admit this while clutching what remains of my Italian-American macho self-image!Bruce Dern was marvelous! He plays the usual borderline psycho, but with the proverbial heart of gold. He means well....and you just might find yourself questioning your own morals and wondering if you would have done what he did in the movie. It will be a disturbing notion, especially once the end credits roll. You will sit there with your mouth open and numb. You will have to let it all soak in, my friend, and perhaps view it again after a few days to truly understand it all.One of the other haunting elements of this picture is the music! The most memorable being by Judy Collins! The song at the end is perfect. It is the purest example of music and film merging into perfection.The Director, Douglas Trumbell, did not go on to do as many great films as I thought he would after seeing this masterpiece, but he has done enough quality work to offset the quantity. For example, besides Silent Running, he was visual effects supervisor for Kubrick's amazing 2001 A Space Odyssey, special photographic effects supervisor for the all-time best sci-fi movie, BladeRunner and Speilberg's Close Encounter of the Third Kind! Some resume, huh?Please experience this movie and let me know what you think. "},{"Title":"A classic of science fiction","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Certainly one of the most memorable films I have seen and by far one of the best science fictions. Lowell may be unstable, but there is something in his character which many can relate to - the total sense of dismay and loss at the vast destruction our society and culture has brought on itself.The soundtrack and Baez' theme songs stayed with me for well over a decade until I was able to find the soundtrack album and later a LaserDisc of Silent Running. The music was very appropriate to the dreamy quality of the film and the supreme idealism of the main character. "},{"Title":"Brave but unsatisfactory indie production experiment","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A worthy movie made with little money and ambitious ideas. It's impossible not to see it as environmental agitprop, especially now that climate change has become such a significant issue. There's also an effort to make a convincing sci-fi movie without great resources and I was pleased to see that the 'drones' were only limited in their anthropomorphism, and could not communicate.Yet, the movie is terribly lumbering. Bruce Dern plays his role with a proselytising sincerity that belongs to the time, i.e. his intense, soft-n-slowly spoken lines are an anachronism. Above all, there's no sense in the movie of him taking a decision in the film, changing from being part of the contracted crew to becoming a maverick. His affiliation is with his radical, environment-at-cost-of-human conviction from the start.I like how the film's chapters are punctuated by Joan Baez's songs, keeping the temperament quite bold without forcing the pace. Nonetheless, I felt cut off from the drama and I don't feel that it's a great film. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Pasted on Science Fiction","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, so I get that this movie really wasn't about being scientific and it was more of a political/philosophical exploration but....What a horrible science fiction film. I really think Armageddon was more scientifically accurate than this nonsense. Gravity is arbitrarily applied, and when it is, the actors make no efforts to look like they're in zero gravity.Their amazing robots take forever to do the most menial tasks. And of course because 'robots are awesome' the filmmaker takes the time to make sure every second of a stupid little robot hand placing pool balls on a table is captured.I got nothing against Joan Baez, but acoustic guitars in a sci fi movie? Seriously, the science part of this junk is absolutely horrible. "},{"Title":"Corn, cheese and fruit","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was AWFUL.  Ignore the positive reviews.  Save yourself the suffering!!  It's loaded with corny dialog, cheesy acting, and a fruit of a main character.I am a patient film viewer and a treehugger (at heart) and even I couldn't stomach this film.  The basic premise of the story is interesting and tugged at my (treehugger) heart but I found it impossible to ignore the awful movie and the similarly awful script.  I can't even begin to describe why this movie failed.  Bruce Dern's acting was awful.  The dialog was awful.  The supporting actors were awful.  The script was awful.  The soundtrack was awful.  The ONLY good acting was found in the robots, squirrels and bunnies.It is an embarrassment to the Sci-Fi genre (except for the exterior shots of the ships and the robots) and it is an embarrassment to the environmental movement.  The children running through the fields soundtrack by Joan Baez almost had me stabbing my remote control into my ears.2001 is a sci-fi classic.  Bladerunner is a sci-fi classic.  Alien is a sci-fi classic.  Silent Running is not. (Ok...  maybe a BAD sci-fi classic) "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possibly the most unsympathetic protagonist in the history of movies.  The laziness, the stupidity, the bad hair, the incessant whining and talking to himself...  The payoff at the end is rather unsatisfactory.  The positive reviews here are a bit shocking, but I suppose even the worst movies have cult followings.  This one is truly bad-- stay away! "}{"Title":"Not silent enough","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Silent Running, Bruce Dern plays an intense (and off-putting) space-hippie/dork who falls in love with a space-forest. The movie is like some sort of dare. As in I dare you Douglas Trumbull to take what you learned on 2001, and with no budget for actors (or talent for writing) make a movie that blends the humorless, preachy ecology fad, with the new sci-fi fad. All with some oh-so-serious Joan Baez corn to push it along (or fail to). Apart from the general concept, none of 3 writers has any idea how to structure 90 minutes with only one actor to contend with. Never has a character who needs to kill time, felt so much like a director needing to kill time. We get dramatically inert scenes of Dern telling the robots what their tasks are, and the most deadly unfunny comedy scene ever filmed in which Dern plays poker with two silent robots. And Dern is not the guy to build your movie around. Has there ever been a more literal, squirrelly actor? Don't miss his bizarre go-cart (time-killing) scene in which, to show enjoyment, he smiles like a pervert/cretin the whole time. The chintzy drones are not interesting, as they have nothing but circuitry to look at, and they manage to convince you, you could wheeze on them and they'd fall over. The dumb design doesn't even allow them to perform the one action the script calls upon them to perform (Sew up a wound). Apparently, they also failed at playing pool, in a scene that was deleted. !!??This is the weak movie you get when you have a director more interested in fx and gadgets than people. It's just terrible. I would rather drink a tub of robot motor oil, than watch a movie this leaden, thick, clumsy and amateurish ever again. wow. so bad. "},{"Title":"Cheesy effects, but good story","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I kind of liked this movie. It is always captivating that mankind has destroyed earth, and more so that they are growing trees in orbit to make earth green again. The main character is a nerdy garden freak, and the other guys at the space station make fun of him and run go carts through his flower beds. But he still beats them in poker, and he has a cool hair do. The best thing about this movie is the unconventional plot, where the gardener kill his mates to save the forest. He then kills himself because he gets lonely. Even though people are imperfect, we need each other. That is a nice theme. Even nicer is the final shot of the robots continuing to tend the trees and water the plants. In wait for an improved mankind? "},{"Title":"somehow it ended up a fun movie","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's acknowledge up front 1. This movie is one long heavy-handed social/political message. It's all about save the Earth, people are destroying the planet, etc, extreme environmentalist propaganda. Namely, in the movie people have destroyed literally all plant life on Earth through pollution and war, the only surviving plants are what is preserved on a space station in orbit. And only two people in the world care. To the extent that they decide to destroy these few remaining plants so they can use the space station for commercial service, i.e. they're going to destroy the last plants in existence because they're in the way of making a few dollars.2. The premise is seriously implausible. Does literally no one, anywhere in the world, have some seeds stashed away in a vault somewhere? Why are the last remaining plants kept in space rather than in some sealed location on the ground? If human beings have survived the wars and pollution, they must have some way to build rooms with breathable air, usable water, etc. Why can't they keep plants in such a room? And if we accept that for some reason these are really the last plants in the known universe, would people really callously destroy them? No explanation is given for doing this beyond one sentence that they want to return the station to commercial service, and apparently only two people in the world think this is a bad idea.The ending is equally implausible. I'm not going to give it away, but the hero is supposed to be an expert on plants, and yet, it takes him weeks? months? to realize that his plan to save these plants was fatally flawed because he hadn't considered one very basic requirement for all plant life.So okay, it's an implausible heavy-handed message movie for a cause that I don't particularly support, with a stupid ending. And yet ... I still thought it was a really good movie.For most of the movie there are just 4 characters the hero and his three robots. But the robots have more personality than most movie characters. They are just ... cute! When one of the robots must go outside the ship to make repairs, you really worry about his safety. And the interaction between the hero and the robots is wonderful.So the plot sucks, but the characters are great. It is definitely a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"A call for reflection","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I have to choose only one movie to let for the next generations to see, I would choose Silent Running. It slaps our faces. How idiot and stupid are mankind... Wake up everybody ! "},{"Title":"Good film with some small flaws.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being the sci-fi fan that I am, after somewhere reading about this movie I thought I'd get a hold of it to see what I was missing. As it turns out, overall it's not a bad film at all.Positives* Great story. Certainly a change from the current popularity of Music Video style movies that are all flash and no depth.* Special Fx. For the MOST part the special effects are pretty good. Especially when you consider when this film was made. Notice the emphasis on most.* Good acting. I don't understand some of the negative reviews of Bruce Dern's acting in this film. I thought he played his role as well as anybody could. Some of the scenes I could genuinely empathize with him.*Score/Music. The score was very good and definitely helped create an atmosphere when required. The 2 songs in the film by Joan Baez? See the negatives on that one.* Non-Hollywood Ending. What can I say. Without crossing over into spoiler territory here I thought the conclusion was extremely well done and didn't ever look like heading down the tacked-on happy ending to please the american public route but rather was handled logically and in the theme of the rest of the movie.Negatives* Special FX. Most of the special fx was well done. Some of them were positively awful.* Ecological Conscience Theme. I love the planet and the forests as much as everyone but I feel this theme would have been a lot more effective if they had exercised a little subtlety at some points. The heavy-handedness with regards to this was more than a tad overbearing at a couple of points.* Music. The score itself was good. The 2 songs in the movie made my ears bleed. On top of that the images in the film they accompanied created perhaps the worst cliched moments i could ever imagine. It wasn't as if you could just pretend you were deaf for a little and watch the scenes without the audio.. Together they were almost unbearable. Definitley a shame as this was almost enough to ruin the movie altogether for me.* Cute robots. This wasn't too bad but at times it was almost getting to that point.OverallI'd definitely recommend this movie to anyone who's prepared to sit down and watch an intelligent movie that requires somewhat more thought than the average teen-audience target movie so popular today. The average person who classifies Fast & the Furious or Mannequin as a GREAT MOVIE will likely walk out in disgust after 5 mins of this movie so be warned. The mute button is also advised for the 2 Joan Baez songs.StarsI'd give this movie 6.5 out of 10. In regards for imdb voting I'm leaning towards a 7 rather than a 6. "},{"Title":"Are people really that narrow minded?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A wonderful film.  Yes, Blade Runner and Alien are good, but just because this movie is very different from them does not make it a bad movie.  You don't have to be an environmental nut to appreciate the message of the movie.  If you really cannot get past the 70's haircuts and music then you're just an idiot -- can't you just treat it as a period piece? (Finding fault with the movie for those reasons is like saying you hated Braveheart 'cos there weren't enough cool cars.)By the way, call me a sentimental old fool, but didn't anyone else feel sort of sorry for old Huey (or was it Duey or Looey) left alone tending the remaining hemisphere?Great movie, memorable scenes, good message.  So there. "},{"Title":"Thanks","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thanks for posting my comments on the board. I think this movie deserves more praise from the public than it's received. My dad went with me to see a current sci-fi film in the theater, and after the film was over, commented on how he had difficulty following the plot because of the non-stop action sequences. I was able to follow the plot, but i'm used to the 'barrage'. "},{"Title":"Bruce Dern classic","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much. There seemed to be a few lackluster moments, but not enough to make the film any less interesting. You were able to see the inner views and feelings of the character more than it would be possible in the typical sci-fi film. It seems like the hordes of people today are so in tune to constant action in a movie, that we lose the bond with the characters themselves. And the scary part about this condition, is that a really 'good' film can be considered boring. Not because it is boring,but because there are less explosions and chaos going on. Silent running,is not only a science fiction film, but also a look into the mind of a troubled, but sane man. "},{"Title":"a poem of solitude and beauty ad self distruction","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this  is probably the bet sci-fi film ever made. The film tackles the issue of how frail the human race is whatever culture or religion we are. It demonstrate the need for human companionship and understanding. The film at a fist glance shows how we need to take care of our enviroment but there is a stronger under-lying issue of materialism. We can fill our live with material objects ,but the need for love is much more stronger.If we are not careful and become too engrossed in the things we want and own ,the people around us could soon go.when we die ,all that is left of us is material objects and not memories us.this is demonstrated by the last garden which is forever to be owned by one of the three robots which was left.It also tackles the issue of consumerism and our obsession for material things which was explained by George A Romeo in the film Dawn Of The Dead.... He did it well.... "},{"Title":" Douglas Trumball's directorial debut.....some spoilers","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SILENT RUNNING is a film that tells the tale of an ecologically devastated earth's last attempts to replenish it's supply of plants, trees, and naturally grown food. Deep in space a fleet of cargo vessels carry the remnants of mankind's plants etc... set aside according to climate and zone. Finally, the order is given to abandon the project and nuclear destruct the remaining greenhouse like storage containers each ship is festooned with. Aboard one ship (the Valley Forge) one crewman decides not to obey the order.....this is where the story begins. SILENT RUNNING has a heavy conservation theme and trys to help us picture a world devoid of plant life due to man's neglect. This film was done on a modest budget yet, had great production values. The interiors of the Valley Forge are believeable, as are the droid robots HUEY, DEWEY, and LOUIE. In fact, many NASA scientists have said, these robots are among the most realistic ones ever in a Hollywood film. The special effects have a rough film school look...which give the project it's overall charm. this is not to say the effects are inferior....it's to say Trumball made due with what he had! (I admire that!) One thing I particularly liked was the sequences in which the crew members drove around in the bowels of the ship on speed buggy type vehicles. I also liked the 1st person POV shots showing their reactions as they cruised around. One more thing.......I liked the realism in having FREEMAN LOWELL (Bruce Dern) strike up a friendship with the droids later in the movie as he reprograms them to play chess, do surgery, etc. This is a great film that was also penned by STEVEN BOCHCO, and MICHEAL CIMINO...two men who went on to bigger and better things. "}{"Title":"Rare, solid SF film","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are so few good sci-fi films around (Forbidden Planet, 2001, maybe Star Wars) that the good ones really stand out - this is one such good one. The movie has its own particular style, superb character acting by Bruce Dern, and, very rare indeed, a solid hard science premise and setting (no swooshing spacecraft in a vacuum here).  Oh, and it also has heart, believability, and a true-to-the-story ending.  Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"About Italian version","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In Italy this movie was distributed as 2002 La seconda odissea (2002 the second odissey) and has been added a very stupid comment in the beginning, trying to relate this movie to the Kubrick's masterpiece. I think this is the best way to destroy a good movie. Joan Baez's song Rejoice in the sun is good and adds a touch of drama. There's no much action, and very few dialogs. This is the only thing that can relate this movie to 2001. My vote 7/10 "},{"Title":"Doctor Rock Essential Viewing","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bruce Dern plays yet another brilliantly typecast role as a dedicated environmentalist with tendencies toward extreme mania blasted out into space with the last remnants of nature from an industrialised earth. You've got a grab-bag of mixed morality issues, shades all the way from total complacency to total active expressions of determnation, alienation due to convictions, atonement and acceptance of fate.Filmed inside an actual decomissioned battleship named Valley Forge, notable castmembers included as The Drones were amputees who walked on their hands inside the little robot costumes giving a baffling lifelike effect for creating these very integral parts of the plot.This film is interesting in so much as it was directed by Douglas Trumbull, so there was clearly an insistence on excellence of special effects.I'm still not fully convinced Joan Baez can be seen to fit in to the soundtrack of a film such as this, and sometimes the sound of her voice can be a little alarming to the contemporary viewer. It only happens about twice though so I don't think there should be too much danger to your sensibilities, especially after this warning.  "},{"Title":"textbook hippy nonsense","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" this review contains spoilers! its 1972 and the summer of love has been followed by the winter of the machine. what can a poor boy do? realising he is powerless in the face of the new world order, he drops out (hard 1970s style, not soft 1960s style) kills the local supporters of the status quo, retreats to his bedroom in the shadow of saturn (astrological reference), neglects the washing up and lets the pot plants wither away. he's been on the job looking after the terrarium for 8 years but he still hasn't learned that plants need sunlight to photosynthesise, duh. he talks to machines that can't talk back and imagines a response. he goes crazy. in the end he lets his dreams go, and commits suicide, in the process taking out the people who have tried to rescue him. his problem is that he's locked into a machine system which has no avenue of escape. he tries to save the plants with artificial life, ends up using the on-board Abomb to do himself in. his whole existence is predicated on the machines and he just can't deal with it. he's a hippy ideologue. read in this way its an OK story, but really, considering kubrick's 2001 was made some years before it, silent running is pretty lame. it has much more in common with the moralistic scifi movies of the 1950s and 60s, despite its groovy environmental themes (also pretty old hat by this time; rachel Carson's silent spring was published in 1962). and joan baez's sentimental quavering on the soundtrack is frankly unbearable. "},{"Title":"A Thoroughly Consumerized America","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Running is based on the very real possibility that there will be no more 'right' to life in the United States because its citizens would not be allowed to grow food. Forty years after the film's release, the the current advance of 'right to farm' laws champions corporate domination over all food sources.Little did the creators of Silent Running know that the majority of Americans forty years later would, indeed, reject real food, favoring processed food instead, just as in their film.Silent Running even covers why Americans would find the situation perfectly acceptable because a thoroughly 'democratized' nation would ideally be able to provide labor opportunities to the entirety of its marginalized proletariat.The film's intelligence is subtle and carried through by an effort of pure-heartedness, hindered only by very poor pacing. If one's patience can last until the development of the lovable Drone's personalities, finishing the film won't be any problem. "},{"Title":"Top-notch visual effects combined with a hokey pro-environment message","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite being a little dated and hokey at times, SILENT RUNNING was an enjoyable sci-fi film with some incredible visual effects. From the effects maestro behind 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY comes a story about future Earth where all of the surviving plants are being cared for in modules far out in space. However, the order comes back that the crew needs to destroy all of the remaining flora and the caretaker, Lowell (Bruce Dern), decides to take matters into his own hands. Aside from the visual effects, which is the biggest thing this film has going for it, I will give credit to Bruce Dern for being a likable and somewhat charismatic lead, although I don't think he was quite up to task of carrying most of the film by himself. He had a certain humanity and earthiness that played well against the wordless drones that he interacts with. The other human cast members also did a good job, but they weren't really in it long enough for them to register too much as characters. As I said before, the visual effects were excellent. There were quite a few exterior space shots of the ships that I thought gave Star Wars a run for its money. There was also some decent production design on the ship interior. However, I do think that the film is a little dated. The songs were a little hokey and I didn't care for them too much. Also, the pro-environment message was laid on a little too broadly and came off as a little silly at times. Still, it is nice to see how far we've come considering that this came out towards the beginning of that movement. Overall, I wasn't particularly bored by this film, but it wasn't exactly riveting either. Bruce Dern is a capable lead, but the real star of the film is the effects. Recommended if you're a fan of old-school sci-fi. "},{"Title":"A soporific film whose message seems to be &#x96; eco-terrorism, it's noble. (Spoilers, sort of.)","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Read a brief synopsis and Silent Running looks interesting. The film imagines the dreadful prospect of a dystopian world that's bereft of wildlife and personality. It's well intentioned, prescient and chimes with contemporary environmental issues. This should be compelling, but it's just a drag.Silent Running takes place aboard a spaceship which has several domes containing an array of plants and wildlife. These are maintained by Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern), a man whose strong views on ecology make him a pariah among the other crewmen. When Lowell's forestry is arranged to be destroyed by the powers that be, he reacts in a way that is, to understate, morally dubious.One of the main reasons why this is all such a drag is because we're given no depth, it isn't explained why Earth is a barren dystopia or why they're going to Saturn. You expect the crew members to imbue the film with substance however the character development is cut fatally short when Lowell blows them up early in the film. This plot development doesn't do many favours for the sole remaining character either, because as much as Lowell's indifferent and stupid colleagues annoyed me, did they really deserve to die? The film seems to justify their hurried dispatching, we're supposed to care for this drab murderer and his forest.One-man shows like 'Cast Away' require a good leading man in an extraordinary situation. The last one I saw was 'All Is Lost' with Robert Redford. It was the most extreme example of the genre I'd seen and was grossly overrated on the 'tomato-meter' at 94%, but the ambitious film just about worked for me.Silent Running gets neither an interesting lead character nor a compelling situation. Outside of an impassioned diatribe against his colleagues' indifference about the environment and the human condition, Lowell is a long faced, shaggy haired non-entity. Once he is the sole remaining homo-sapien, Lowell's only companions are three charisma bereft robots called Huey, Dewey and Louie (this is cute apparently), whose organs of communication are metal flaps that emit a quiet, meaningless sort of whistle.The supposed spectacle of Silent Running is also underwhelming. Director Douglas Trumbull worked on the special effects in '2001 A Space Odyssey', they're very much of their time in parts but nonetheless sensory and epic in scope. In Silent Running, however, the exterior shots of the spacecraft often look decidedly fake and miniature and the explosions are lamentably dated and intangible.I watched this film on Mark Kermode's recommendation, he loves this film, he considers it superior to 2001 and shockingly names it one of the greatest films ever made. He says that it's a human tale, that Dern's relationship with the robots is deeply affecting, I couldn't disagree more. The reason why Kermode likes it so much is because it's nostalgic for him, he saw at just 11- years-old and subsequently grew up loving the film &#x96; I've had similar attachment to films like Jaws, which is of course infinitely better.After a while I was willing for the film to end, I became entirely indifferent towards the narrative's dreary developments and the politics beneath them. I love nature and beautiful landscapes, I empathised with Lowell to a certain degree, however his actions make the film's message all rather muddled. Silent Running may appeal to Green extremists, however I think even they'll grow tired once they realise how little there is beyond its eco-friendly sentiment.50%www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"... but It's Dern that Stands Out","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film Silent Running provided the breakout role for its star, Bruce Dern. He'd been around in Hollywood a long time before doing a little of this and that before 'Running came along, and it would prove to be his delivery once and for all into the realm of A picture-opportunities that would capitalize on the widening of his eyes and the rising of his vocal chords to aptly remind audiences that he was on screen (the same attributes had been on hand in The Cowboys, the picture released four months earlier in which Dern costarred with John Wayne. In it, he was the only actor ever to kill the Duke in cinematic history). The film itself was merely an exercise for director Douglas Trumbull to stretch his limbs after a four-year hiatus that last saw him working with the master Kubrick on the greatest science fiction movie ever filmed. Trumbull was probably gnawing at the bit to instill into 'Running what he'd learned at the feet of Kubrick, but a modest budget was in play, so corners had to be cut to get the film produced (and one of them was casting Dern, a still relatively unknown commodity at the time). What's on screen is an economically streamlined shadow of Kubrick's masterpiece with a twist it's not machinery that's gone haywire but humankind's ability to value the nature it evolved from. Dern rolls through all of it with efficacy, stoically confronting the absolved apathy of shipmates as well as the steely edicts of corporate bosses to destroy what matters most to him. He's eloquently desperate while trying to keep the others on board from carrying out their disastrous orders in one scene and then effortlessly charming while playing poker with his compact shipboard robots in another. Dern certainly offers up a wide measure of emotions in a bravura performance that certainly was a standout among others in 1972. "},{"Title":"It's not too late (or is it?)","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Douglas Trumbull's Silent Running offers an unpleasant look at where our planet might be heading. It depicts that nature is wiped out on earth and all wildlife is kept in geodesic domes on a spaceship. When orders come in to blow up the remaining pieces of nature, the idealistic botanist (Bruce Dern) taking care of the forests and animals rebels.The movie makes an important point about how we define progress. One of the crew members notes that earth no longer has poverty, unemployment or disease, but the botanist notes that the price of that is that there's no more natural world, while the entire planet has the same climate. Children will grow up never knowing what a tree is, while everyone eats - and is practically addicted to - synthetic food.So many of these things seem to have come true, but as the theme song notes, it's not too late (I hope not). That forces us to ask do we care enough to preserve the natural world? Do you? "},{"Title":"A truly lovable film","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern) is a botanist working on the Valley Forge, a spaceship that concentrates on maintaining plant life which has all but vanished on Earth. When he and his three fellow crew mates receive a message to destroy the domes that contain the forests and return to Earth, Lowell murders his crew mates and fakes a technical problem with the ship in order to escape into deep space so he can preserve his beloved forest. The resident 'bots, who Lowell dubs Huey, Louise and Dewey, provide him company. He at first re-programmes them so they can perform surgery on his injured leg, but later he teaches them to play cards and to tend to the forest. As time goes on, Lowell struggles with his loneliness and his guilt over the murder, and must find out why his forest appears to be dying.Silent Running is one of those films that I've seen consistently mocked, homaged and referenced by other movies and programmes, but the film itself has always managed to elude me. Made around the time where people were starting to take notice of the eco-system and the fact that we may be slowly destroying the Earth with our acts, the film still packs a punch in the modern world that is all too aware of the threat of Global Warming. It does deliver a powerful ecological message, but the film is surprisingly more effective on a human level. Although Lowell seems to be on the verge of madness with his love for the beauty of nature, it is later in the film, when we see him lonely and missing humanity, that truly speaks volumes. Nature may be beautiful, but nothing is more comforting than human contact.Despite having a strong message, the film always avoids being preachy. It instead focuses on the mental instability of the protagonist, who spend the majority of the film existentially pondering if this lonely existence he has created for himself was really worth murdering three of his colleagues. The film is also profoundly moving. The three robots prove lovable characters, though they never speak or ever communicate properly on a human level. The threat of their demise also lingers, and when it inevitably happens it's almost appallingly moving, given that they are clearly just robot costumes (controlled by amputees, I must add).The film is no masterpiece by any means, but as a work of science- fiction, it is certainly brilliant. Back in the late 1960's and throughout the 1970's, sci-fi was inspired by ideas rather than special effects. The likes of Star Wars (1977) created a vast new world for it's audience to get lost in, and 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968), combined philosophy and mysticism to create a work of high art. The special effects maestro behind 2001, Douglas Trumbull, directs here, and uses the futuristic setting as a conduit to send a social message of the way our planet is heading, that is more profound than ever given our heightened awareness of our effect upon the planet.Special mention must go to Bruce Dern, who delivers a highly effective, if slightly over-the-top performance, as the angry and bewildered Lowell, who exists in a world where the Earth is scarred and devoid of plant life. This is original, innovative and surprisingly dark science fiction that manages to be both existential and entertaining. It's not perfect - the music is cheesy, the sets are very 1970's, Dern overacts to the extreme - but this is a cult favourite for a reason. It is simply a lovable film.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"An adult environmental film in the vein of Moon","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent running is an achievement in story, character and visuals. If you like adult sci - fi films such as 2001, alien, sunshine and moon then you'll love this.The plot is that Earth has become barren and the last of earths forests are stored in huge ships and will be returned to earth when the planet is ready for them. Meanwhile these forests are maintained by four men and three Wall-E style drones. The forests are aboard frigates and are in huge glass domes (which look incredible by the way) and only one of the four men really cares for the forests and sees it as more than just a job. As the plot progresses only Derns character is left alone with the forests and the drones and a story of loneliness and courage unfolds. Bruce dern plays his character fantastically and has many sides to him, he has a very dedicated side to him which comes out when he is working. He has an aggressive side to him which emerges in various points through the film, and the most prevalent side to his character is the raw human side which his loneliness is channeled through. The other human characters are played as well as they can for the short time that they are in the film for and the sympathetic character is portrayed very well and in the climaxes of these three characters parts the acting and emotion is rather good. the three drones even manage to gain somewhat of a personality all of their own and become a lovable element to the film. The film is directed by Douglass Trumball, a wizard when it comes to models, and as expected this film looks brilliant, far better than most modern cgi. The frigate look clunky and metallic, like the nostromo from alien, on the outside yet on the inside is like the interior of Icarus from sunshine or the base in Moon. The forest may look a little sparse and there isn't much wildlife but that is not a major plot problem as it still looks good. The drones are very similar to Wall E but without the childish Disney element and they always look to a high standard.If you are a fan of serious sci - fi then if you have not seen silent running then you absolutely must as it is a very well made film. "},{"Title":"Hippie in space","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A relatively good film, there is nothing unnecessary about it. For that matter I preferred to, say Event Horizon, although I must say it did have something annoyingly similar. These guys we launch out there ought to be experts on the matter, and not have the likes of our hippie friend here explain everything to them. The space craft would have looked a hell of a lot more realistic had they not put the lights facing the ship right from the front, but have half of it in the dark. I like the prophetic aspect of the film, that Noah/Jesus thingy about it. I mean you gotta consider when it was made, the wavelength, hence the kind of music and all. It ain't no Solaris but still, personally I believe its worth a watch. Its the kind of film I would expect to see on that Bravo channel late at night. "},{"Title":"Better than any other sci-fi movie made. . . and a real piece of work.","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Running&#151;This late seventies film is an incredible bit of movie art, and a chilling commentary on nature falling to human ignorance and mechanics.Bruce Dern is one of four astronauts on a large spaceship which caries large domes containing the last remaining plants and animals in existence. Earth had long ago been entirely industrialized, and these ships carried all that was left of nature. But while they're on their way back to Earth to try and re-naturalize it, they're ordered to self destruct the domes and put the ships back into industrial use. He murders his other three comrades to save the animals and gardens he takes care of.The length he goes to save what he believes in borderlines on insanity. Watching Bruce Dern play his character is chilling, and (in my opinion) should've gotten him an Oscar. "},{"Title":"One Reason Why...Nobody Cares!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The decade between the low-budget genius of Star Trek and the spectacular escapism of Star Wars was the age of earnest, thoughtful outer-space sci-fi with cutting-edge visual effects. The highlights were the surreal wonder of 2001, the fantastic absurdity of Space 1999 and the breathtaking, heartbreaking Silent Running. A world that solved poverty, disease & unemployment by turning itself into bland, synthetic socialism has placed all its national parks in orbit around Saturn in domes aboard chartered space freighters such as the Valley Forge, whose forests are watched over by embittered yet optimistic botanist Lowell (Dern, in the greatest role of his fine career). When inexplicably ordered to abandon & destroy the forests, Lowell commandeers the ship by staging an accident & taking the Valley Forge through Saturn's rings (one of Trumbull's matchless displays of special effects) into deep space with the last surviving forest. He's alone but for his desperate hope & the guilt of his betrayal, as well as a pair of maintenance drones that he nicknames Huey & Dewey & reprograms to become foresters & companions. Like most serious sci-fi films, Silent Running is plagued by some unresolved plot holes (why did Earth go to the trouble of shooting its forests into space if it didn't want them?) & ludicrous assumptions (all but the most clueless watcher will figure out why the forest is ailing long before the botanist does). But the detail flaws are insignificant compared to the unwavering theme of nature threatened by man's sublime arrogance, Dern's intense portrayal of his driven, tormented character & Trumbull's artful mix of story, science, props & effects. The drones are as imaginative as R2-D2, nearly as cute but longer on pathos & sympathy, especially the ever-dependable Dewey. Schickele's score & well-chosen songs from Baez set just the right mood for every scene. The contemporary Soylent Green shares the theme of one man fighting against a society unwittingly maiming itself by destroying nature. But Silent Running is truly unique, less dark & much more personal than Soylent, an unabashed environmental statement made both enjoyable & credible by its artfully told story. It set a standard that Star Trek The Next Generation often tried to match but never did without becoming cloying or preachy. Even if you drive a Hummer & own ten thousand shares of ExxonMobil, you'll wonder why no other film like this Hugo Award-winning masterpiece has ever been made. "},{"Title":"Happy memories of a sad film !","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this film as a child with my brother and I had to hide my tears from him - unknown to me he was crying too. I enjoyed this film despite the sadness and it is a film that has stuck in my mind for years. My partner too recalls this film and remembers how moving it was - along with numerous people that I have mentioned it to.By today's standards it may seem primitive in the special effects department but for me it was very moving. I wonder how kids of today, who are the age I was when I first saw it, would feel about it now. I wonder how it has dated. I intend to see it again and I also intend to show the film to my 13 year old God-daughter to see her reaction. I would like to think that the relationship aspect of it would stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"Could this be the best-ever Sci-Fi production","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably some of the best modeling and photography, long before the computer generated effects that are becoming 'ordinary' due to their extensive use in more recent films. A simple story well told. "},{"Title":"New DVD interviews illuminate lasting power of SILENT RUNNING","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bruce Dern and Douglas Trumbull recount a mostly fascinating background to this film which has lingered in my memory since it was released.  Though not in the same league as Kubrick's 2001, Trumbull has fashioned a highly satisfying emotional story with an environmental message that transcends its hippie-era origins.This is a larger acheivement for Trumbull, who admits that he has been a misfit in Hollywood throughout his career, and laments that no other film projects have resulted with the same public admiration.  Dern also regards the film with the best in his career, and any naysayers might admit that Tom Hanks in CASTAWAY owes a debt to Dern, who pulled off a largely solo acting piece without chewing through the scenery.  The actors portraying the Drones deserve credit for their hard work, as does Peter Schickele for his lovely sparse score (if only the Joan Baez vocals could be removed!) Filmmakers might learn much from this film and the interviews--mostly in making the most of what they have.  The budget, according to Trumbull, was 1.3 million.  It all shows on the screen, making this film is one of the highlights of my favorite era of American cinema, from 1967 to 1975.  May it be seen by many more viewers who take our earth's beauty for granted.  "},{"Title":"A fine environmental sci-fi","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some time in the future; after the Earth has been ravaged by war the only forests remaining are aboard a fleet of spaceships; awaiting the day when the forests of Earth can be replanted again. At least that is the plan; something Freeman Lowell has dedicated the last eight years of his life too. Then one day the fleet receives an order; they are to destroy the domes containing the forests and return to Earth. Lowell is devastated but the other three men in the crew are just glad to be going home. As they start destroying the domes Lowell decides that he will save one of them; even if it means murdering his colleagues! Once they are dead he tells the rest of the fleet that they are having problems before taking the ship out of radio contact behind Saturn. With only three robotic drones for company he must look after the forest and the ship.This ecological sci-fi film may not have great special effects and the sets don't exactly look real but it is easy to over look those faults and enjoy the story. Bruce Dern does a fine job as Lowell; playing him in a way that makes the viewer wonder whether he is a good man doing what it takes to save the last plants or whether the realisation that the last eight years may have been for nothing has driven him insane. The three drones; which he dubs Huey, Dewey and Louie are suitably cute without being anthropomorphised. There is nothing unsuitable in the film but I suspect younger viewers may be put off by the relatively slow pace and lack of action... and by the fact that there is only one human character for much of the film. Douglas Trumbull did a fine job directing this... especially considering the fact that it was his directorial debut and the budget was fairly modest. Overall I'd say this may not be a masterpiece but it is still well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Far below it's predecessor - 2001 - A Space Odyssey","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" My partner had seen Silent Running when she was a child and wanted to watch it again, so she rented it. I sat down expecting early 70s special effects, but hopefully a decent story. I got neither. Bruce Dern plays an environmental astronaut who, with his three astronaut buddies, are caring for the last plants and animals, encased in domes, that used to inhabit the now sterile(?) earth. (I put a question mark after sterile because we're not told what happened to earth, but left to wonder. A nuclear holocaust, perhaps?) After given orders from earth to destroy the domes, because the space craft are needed for commercial purposes again, Dern's character embarks on a somewhat deranged quest to save them. There are many problems with this film. Douglas Trumbull, who was the special effects wizard on 2001 - A Space Odyssey, (and also directed the film) fails miserably in Silent Running. Whereas, in 2001 we gawked at the realism of the sfx, the ones in Silent Running are laughable. The spaceships look like they were constructed from Legos. Their interiors are also poorly done, particularly the main control room which is mostly made up of cheap-looking monitors and oscilloscopes, though granted their budget was a minuscule $1 million. The explosions in space are heard (unlike 2001 where space is rightly silent) and Freeman (Dern's character) walks on the outside of his ship without any tethers. The acting is stiff and the script trite. Though I enjoy Joan Baez's singing, her songs are jarring and destroy what little atmosphere there is in the movie. The best characters, ironically, are the three drone robots who do maintenance on the ship and eventually assist Freeman with his mutiny. Silent Running tries to make a statement about 70s environmentalism, but fails in just about every area. "},{"Title":"The explosion sounds not in the original release . . .","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have always had a soft spot for this movie and will not criticize its shortcomings. It was/is entertaining and thought-provoking, so much unlike most movie fare filled with smash 'em up car chases and bodily mayhem.I would like to specifically address siderite's complaint about the ridiculous explosion sounds in space that accompanied the destruction of The Valley Forge. In the original theatrical release, there were no sound effects with the explosions . . . just a flash and eerie silence. I recall being impressed and thinking they got that right! I was distressed at the explosion sounds when viewing the laser disk release years later. Of course, this edit hatchet job persists with the DVD version as well.Silent explosions in space is apparently considered just too cerebral by the powers in Hollywood who decide these things. It had to be changed! Pity! Sure there are other deficiencies in the science of Silent Running. Most egregious in my estimation is the failure to account for the presence of gravity in the domes and, for that matter, throughout the ship.I still love the film and think it deserves to be better known. "}{"Title":"Questions, questions.","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lots of questions! Few answers.First question - why were these spacecraft containing Earth last forests on spacecraft out near Saturn?  Would it not make more sense to have them in the same orbit as Earth where the sunlight would be the same as on Earth? Near Saturn space probes have to be nuclear powered because the sunlight is so weak out that far out to power even low voltage systems let alone keep a forest alive. The last forest dome was dying half way thru the movie for lack of sunlight. Logic would dictate that they should have started dying long before that, in fact, they should have started dying as soon as they got out past Mars.Second - (many people mention this) why blow up the forests at all? So, the budget for the program was cut? Why not link the domes together, release them in the same orbit as Earth in case they change their minds?Third - How in the world could they allow an econut psycho into the space program to begin with? Any nut case who would murder his fellow man to save trees is one can short of a six pack, one fry short of a happy meal, one whose elevator does not go all the way to the top, ect. His attitude is Gee, sorry I killed you there, dude, but I had to save the trees so they could float around in deep space for a thousand years like an ecological Flying Dutchman.Fourth - in the end a second rate R2D2 ancestor is in charge of keeping the last forest alive for as long as the supplies and power in the dome last? How long would that be? A few months or years? No one else knew the thing was out there in deep space! I guess when you are a psycho econut, things like that do not cross your mind.The most interesting part was the arming, launch and detonation sequence and the part at the end where Bruce went kaboom!  As I recall they later used these 3 ships in Battlestar Galactica as farming ships. (they are actually doing a new miniseries on December 2003 which made me think of it)  I believe the dome concept was also used for the series The Starlost a year later (great concept, horrible execution).I am all for keeping forests in decent shape but this was a ham handed way of making the point about keeping our forests and planet in decent shape. It makes environmentalists look like nutcases- like groups such as Earth First (I think Bruces character would have been elected President of the group for his killing off his fellow crewmen).Still, for some strange reason, I still watch this movie every so often. And I am just not sure why!I rate this a 5 out of 10 just because I liked the design of the spaceships! "},{"Title":"Psychotic TreeHuggers from Outer Space! is the title I would have chosen","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The conservation oath was a suicide pact..who knew? Visually and appealing movie and that was about it for me. Soundtrack was as out of place as a polka band at a funeral. 45 minutes too long and it ground down to a study in intergalactic botany. Joy! Decent actors and a lousy script. You want to protect something so whats your solution? Blow it up with your coworkers in it! I like my ferns to but thats a stretch. I did like the environments and some of the themes were compelling. For its time a good step for SF in keeping the space theme moving forward and away from giant insects. I will watch it again just for the corduroy jumpsuits, beats polyester on any planet. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Riiiiiiiiight","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess, given anyone who's likely to see the movie will doubtless know the premise and what not, that the spoiler warning isn't really necessary, but I thought I'd chuck it in anyway. Okay, so, the film... You know, I really wanted to like this a lot, honestly I did, and I gave it the full 90 minutes, but something really didn't quite work for me. If I was considering it as a children's film, I would likely go a bit easier on it (not because I see children's films as being inferior, but aiming for a younger audience naturally entails not making quite so many demands in the structure and the explanations) but there was much about the film that really didn't work for me. As has been mentioned in other reviews, the premise seems somewhat flawed - why put the forests in orbit around Saturn? And doesn't Freman mention at one point there are domes on Earth anyway? Any why blow up the forests once they're in space - illogical? How come there's plenty of gravity for everything? That these questions cropped up did dilute the movie for me, and I couldn't simply overlook them because, I imagine, my expectations were fairly high. I suppose the reason I'm being fairly harsh is because I'm making obvious but unfair comparisons to 2001, which I was hoping this would be similar to, but instead this is a slightly twee, hippy era message of tolerance for the environment which I didn't find was explored particularly convincingly. That said, I did enjoy Bruce Dern's performance quite a lot and I liked the font they used in the credits, but overall it was no better than average. It does have to be considered in the context of it's era, I recognise that, but even with that I can't give it more than a 5.HJ "},{"Title":"My # 2 favorite science fiction film","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't remember when I first saw this wonderful,under rated film.It is second only to The the earth stood still in my book. Did anyone beside me notice the resemblance between the three drones,Huey Louie and Dewey, and R2D2 in Star wars?? Bruce Dern is excellent as the keeper of the biosphere, very subtle and quiet. The film is a little scary in its environmental message,which may, 30 years later indeed come to pass. The film score is wonderful too,especially main theme sung by Joan Baez... As in The day the earth stood still, simple is definitely better. I's been a long time since I saw this, but it seems to me that there was at least one more human in it(Cliff Potts, maybe,who wasn't a ver nice guy. And i am not ashamed to admit that I have never seen Star wars! "},{"Title":"Great memories","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was real young I went to a kids movie club every weekend, and this movie was one that I watched there.  Although there were so many movies watched, this is the one and only movie that I have always remembered.For years I had the memory, but couldn't remember the name, but recently I have found out all about it again.SPOILERThe main scene I remember was when the last robot drifts away, that made me cry when I first saw it (Anyway watching this again it may seem dated, but I can't wait for it and would recommend it to anyone )Nuke "},{"Title":"A Transliterary Piece","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This will always be one of my favorite films;  _Silent Running_ made a very deft attempt to bridge the gap between film, and the more introspective, alienating world of the science-fiction novel.  A worthy contribution from director Douglas Trumbull.  The low water mark for this existential masterpiece would have to be the two, horrific, cornball songs by Joan Baez, which give me a splitting headache every time I hear them.  "},{"Title":"There are other people who still like Joan Baez","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Her early soprano was a clear bell, and Peter Schickele, aka PDQ Bach, knew exactly how to make that bell ring.If you haven't heard their Christmas collaboration, called Noel, you are in for a rare treat. Baez was a rare soprano, and Schickele knew how to make it work exquisitely. It is a holiday tradition in our house.The movie itself is an incredible coming together of focused people working on a tight budget and schedule who weren't afraid to close their nose, shut their eyes, and jump in with both feet. I highly recommend the DVD with all the extras. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Hopefully it never comes true....","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it predated Star Wars by a few years it's clear to see it's influence on the much more popular science fiction film...notice the little bots Huey, Duey and Louie? Also the special effects were certainly a precursor to more recent Science Fiction films and mainly the Star Wars saga. The film was clearly a product of the 70's and reflected the times in which it was made. Being an environmentalist myself I have such a soft spot in my heart for this film and perhaps I'm biased but it's quite a shame that it never received it's full due. It's a beautiful film with just the right touching, sad but sweet ending and it breaks my heart every time I watch it...  "},{"Title":"Probably the Best Ecological Disaster Movie","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Silent Running' is not a great movie, but it is a good movie with a chilling message, humankind may not destroy the environment by accident, but with conscious intent.  Bruce Dern plays  the last environmentalist, tending plants and wildlife on one of several `ecoships' in deep space. The earth has become denuded of all natural habitat and humans now consume chemically produced food. Dern's crewmates even find the smell of natural fruit offensive. So when the order comes to jettison the precious cargo and destroy what remains of humankind's natural environment, Dern mutinys, killing his fellow crewmembers and commandeering the one ecoship still carrying its ecodome. Under cover of storm and with the assistance of his three droids, `Hughey, Dewey and Louie,' Dern escape the fleet of ecoships. SPOILERS Unless I am hallucinating, the ending of the movie has been changed since it first premiered in LA over 30 years ago. In both versions, Dern is overtaken by the other ecoships, and blows up his ship after first releasing the precious cargo to be tended by one of the droids. However, in the original version, Dern takes the rest of the fleet with him, thus ensuring there would be no one around to destroy the last remaining ecodome. The new ending is a copout, Dern's death a sign of cowardice rather than the self-sacrifice (albeit a homicidal one) . If this is the way it was nationally released, no wonder the film tanked at the box office. I'm basing my review on a laser disc version. Hopefully, the recent dvd version with commentaries restores the original ending. Production values are quite good. Filmed aboard a moth-balled aircraft carrier `Silent Running' has the genuine feel of a cramped space environment. Special effects are nearly on par with `200l,' not surprising, since producer-director Doug Trumball created the special effects for both films. Dern at first seems an odd choice, but he acquits himself well in one turns out to be, essentially, a one man show. He is ably assisted by the handicapped actors inside the droids. As portrayed by these actors, the droids are incredibly charming and are, undoubtedly, the inspiration for R2D2. In a world where we are using radioactive waste (DU) to make antitank shells and firing them into cities, `Silent Running' seems even more  timely AND MORE NEEDED than in 1972. See it.  "},{"Title":"realistic cinematic robots on a lonely trek.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SILENT RUNNING is a film set in a eco devastated future. A fleet of cargo ships carrying great greenhouses are out in space tending earths last flora and fauna in a effort to raise plants to refoliate the earth. One man and his robot crew goes renegade when the order is given to destroy the forsests and return home. SILENT RUNNING is 2001 gone greenpeace. Douglas Trumball who was responsible for effects in 2001 directs this film. The film relays a earth day message and still tells a science fiction story that is entertaining to watch. With excellent production values and the most realisitic robots on film this film is no bore. "}{"Title":"Like it or not Sci Fi is Sci Fi !!","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Call me sad, but I saw this film when first released, and to this day I still like it !! It is Science FICTION, and therefore your imagination allows you to perceive it in any manner that YOU wish. For me it was an interesting basic plot,and depicted a disaster that could befall the Earth in reality. The decimation of our rain forests in present times enforces this concept. The main character, Lowell Freeman, with the aid of some interesting droids he affectionately names Huey, Duey and Louey, seems to be the only person left who cares about the fate of what remains of Earths natural foliage. This precious cargo has been kept safe inside giant domes mounted on board three specially constructed space vessels.Because of the worlds population, which seems to have become too complacent with it's way of life, an order is sent to the crews to jettison all the pods and then destroy them with nuclear detonations. It is left to Lowell Freeman to stand alone and attempt to salvage as much as he is able. In doing so he is forced to cause the deaths of his three colleagues, and it enters him into an even greater dilemma, because to him all life is precious.The respite he gains for the cargo is only short-lived however as he is pursued by a rescue ship, so he decides to program two of the droids to maintain the last remaining pod, which he launches it into space. Guilt ridden with what he has done to his fellow shipmates and the futility of the situation he sets the ship to self destruct, ending his own life, his only comfort is the remaining and damaged droid that he kept with him. Interesting to note that the droids were actually manned by acrobats contorted into position, inside the shells of Huey Duey & Louey, and walking on their hands. Finally the musical score was very atmospheric especially interwoven with the voice of Joan Baez, who was well known for her protesting and quest for world peace and harmony. "},{"Title":"Murder in space!","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ecoterrorist Bruce Dern kills his three shipmates in a fit of rage when they try to follow orders and return to Earth, described as a utopia with no unemployment, no hunger and no social problems. After completing his murderous task, he steals his spaceship and anthropomorphizes three robots, believing that they make better companions than the fun loving humans he's killed. This is an important film for the early 1970's, showing that even when humanity creates a utopia there will still be one lone lunatic wanting to kill for a piece of dirt and some rabbits. The folk-music score only serves to underline the terror of this film which predates the sci- fi/horror genre by nearly 10-years.The most frightening moment of this picture takes place when Dern plays a game of poker with his robot minions in a scene eerily foreshadowed early on in the picture. "},{"Title":"Seems simple, but the effects are lasting","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Up until Sam Rockwell's performance in Moon, Silent Running had to be the de facto movie about isolation in deep space. Bruce Dern is a man on the raggedy edge, moving from disbelief to utter deflation, with melancholy and borderline madness in between. He runs the gamut, and the whole thing sits on his capable shoulders. And the film's message - one that's thankfully not delivered with a sledgehammer - is less a sermon than a plea for action. Earth is dried out and overpopulated, but it's not too late. We can still preserve our future. We can't just plug in and give up. And even though the ending's a bleak one, that message is so earnestly conveyed that the movie still retains its power even 40 years later. It's such a simple tale, but hits home in a profound way. Dern believed in the material, and it shows.7/10 "},{"Title":"'2001' for the environmentally friendly","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This SF thumb-twiddler stars Bruce Dern as an ecologist on board a very modelly spacecraft, tending forests housed in huge domes intended to bring vegetation back to a barren Earth. But when the authorities order the project's destruction, Dern takes control of the ship himself and tries to preserve what he believes to be Earth's last hope. Certainly the plot is intelligent and not without interest, but there's not enough of it to fill even the 86-minute running time; cute robots can only take you so far. The dated music doesn't help much, since every time it started up I expected to see Dern with a flower behind his ear, strumming a guitar as he floats through space in a psychedelic VW van. "},{"Title":"better as an Outer Limits Episode","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The key thing to understand about this movie is that it was made in 1971. The second thing is that the budget was only $1 million. You can then forgive the cheesy computer panels that look like 50s TV sets with a faulty vertical hold. You can forgive the WWII-style radio dialogue. They did some very clever things three robots that baffled me how they worked. I had to watch the how we made the film piece to learn the trick. They had super-fast electric vehicles. The basic plot was about mass habitat destruction and preservation of the biosphere which was decades ahead of its time. They tackled the problem of McFood, again decades ahead of its time.The botanist has a brilliant insight &#x97; his plants need light. My incredulity barfed up on the carpet. Then he tried to rectify the matter of lighting his forest with a few bulbs mounted near the ground.It has a very interesting theme, but you need some details to flesh it out. There it was weak. The movie might have done better pruned down as an episode on The Outer Limits. "},{"Title":"A Classic that Could Really Use a Modern Remake","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Running is a somewhat mixed bag. It has a lot of redeeming qualities and a generally good story that are hampered by several major hiccups.First, the soundtrack is jarring as hell. If they had went with something more traditional, rather than using JB and her hippy vibe, I think this film might still be watched by a larger portion of people today like 2001 still is (rather than just having a cult following). As it stands, the music is a little too out of place and really highlights the environmentalism in the film. While being an environmentalist myself, I don't consider this a bad thing, but I hate films that are in the audience's face with their moral judgments and hidden agendas. I don't need X director's or Y writer's values shoved down my throat (even if I happen to agree with them) to enjoy a film&#x97;it's quite the opposite. If you've got a message, then find a smart and subtle way to get it across. I don't watch movies to be preached to, I watch them to be entertained, and sometimes, even moved. In SR's case, the agenda is far from hidden, and because of that I think it may turn off a portion of the public who watches it. If a remake is ever done of this film, the soundtrack needs better attention.Second, the script. There are a lot of problems here. Why so far out from the sun? Why would you want plants that far away from what gives them life? And why were they ordered to proceed with the nuclear detonations? I'm sorry, but, blow 'em up and come home, and we've got no explanation why is just extremely lazy writing. And the crew&#x85;why are they so dismissive and bitter towards nature? I know lots of people on both sides of the environmental fence, but NONE of them have such disdain for the natural beauty and importance of nature as these three do. Also, once reworked to make the characters more believable, I think this dynamic should have been explored more. I think all the characters should have been developed better, and maybe even working a little sympathy into the three crewmen that want to go home. That way, we could really feel Freeman Lowell's insanity as he goes into his homicidal meltdown. Also, I would have liked to have seen a more methodical killing of his three shipmates, as well as a great deal of remorse from Lowell after they were gone (play off of the double-standard that Lowell respects life, yet he had to take life to preserve it). As it stands, the script is workable, it would just need some major rewrites for a remake.Overall, I think SR is a film that is more than the sum of it's parts, and that's why I gave it a seven rather than a six or even a five. The ship models are realistic in design, the ship interiors are serviceable (although not nearly as convincing as the Nostromo's or Discovery's), the little robots are cute without going overboard, and the idea of removing the last elements of nature from earth to save them is believable more than ever. I just think this film could be so, so much more, and that's why I am in favor of a remake. "},{"Title":"Treehugger is one twig short of a limb","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Earth has no more greenery so a idealistic outer space landscaper becomes convinced he can keep the various species alive under a space bubble. His insanity proves more than he can handle and in a deranged state he commits a terrible crime which his conscience refuses to allow him to live with. One of Dern's better films. "},{"Title":"Possible spoiler","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favourite sci fi films.There is a sequence where Bruce Dern reprograms the three drones that do maintenance on the space station to play poker - watch for the scene where they cheat - it's just fabulous! "},{"Title":"This was a great movie...","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't listen to the nay-sayers below.  This was a well made, touching, poignant film.  They're just upset that it didn't have human actors with a little dab of makeup crap stuck to the top of their noses and foreheads which convinces them that, Wow, they look soooo alien! Gee, how'd they do that?, or that it wasn't divided into 10 different parts made over 50 years where part 7 comes first, then part 2, then, etc. in order to intrigue us with its supposed timelessness.True science fiction is an odyssey of the mind, and is a way of forcing us to question the human condition in a unique way.  Unfortunately, it's become light sabers, outrageous special effects makeup, and computer-generated special effects which always look like...computer-generated special effects. Another thing that makes some of the reviewers uncomfortable about this film is that there is no clear division between good and evil.  Most seem the need to have this explained to them so that there is no mistake as to who the bad guys really are (I give you Star Bores and the new Star Trek).In Silent Running, you have no clue as to what is going to happen, even after the rest of the crew is dispatched.  You always know the good guys are going to win in the more modern blockbusters (read trash), and thrilled by special effects wizadry (read it's such expensive stuff, you gotta like it, no matter how bad it really is, or what little it does for the story).  Bruce Dern was fantastic in this movie, and he is excellent in conveying the feelings being felt by the hero (antihero?) of the story. The robots in this film were much better than the R2D2 and C3PO given to us by Lucas (I know, I speak great heresy).   "},{"Title":"An unmatched drama about ecological disaster","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Was it the early Seventies when the world was first made aware of the potentially devastating environmental disaster that civilisation was spiralling towards? Certainly, when you place this 1972 movie alongside the lyrics of Joni Mitchell's 'Big Yellow Taxi,' there is a case to be made for it being the time when They paved paradise and put up a parking lot. The movie has a lot going for it. To begin with, there's a performance from Bruce Dern that is worthy of comparison with Gene Hackman's Oscar-winning performance that year in a way the other nominees simply were not. He provides a passionate and intelligent performance in which he is hardly ever off-screen and makes the viewer share his anger at the treatment of his mission. Then, too, there is the rarity of a science-fiction film which does not attempt to overwhelm the viewer with unnecessary special effects &#x96; one in which the drama is driven by the character and the scarily believable story. If you are looking for a film about environmental concern that works on every level, then forget about Al Gore's worthy but dull contribution and watch this beautifully-realised film. Then watch it again... and again. It really is that good! "}{"Title":"Its OK not great, but it isn't a complete failure","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was really just a cute little piece. It has heart and some nice modeling. The music and sets help add to a proper atmosphere for the title.But even with this this film falls short on a lot of things the acting is very mediocre, Dern as done things with other movies, but in this he really didn't try or the script was just too restricting. On that the script is very poor, having a few good parts lines and social/political commentary there really is no substance to the movie. Not much really happens through the movie, the inly way it doesn't kill the movie altogether is that the movie keeps a decent pacing and 2001 like musical scenes.really the movie is just good fodder for references and some good jokes, there are a lot of things to be made fun of like the pool machine. The commentary in nature is nice, but really doesn't go any where so that can't be a bonus. Its not a waste of time it really just is another scifi movie.I do have to say the director managed to keep it alive a lot of the time, really the pacing aspect. "},{"Title":"One of greatest SF classics","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its message now in 2007 is more relevant than then, the impact this movie has over the people who watched it is strong and mind blowing. Those who criticizes it are ignorants who are reflected pretty well in those crew members who has not any respect for Lowell and his convictions but mainly any respect for life, the beauty of natural world or God's creation. People who loves make idolatry of car racing and stupid competence in detriment of justice and of the destruction of the only true valuable thing we have. Natural life. Is a wonderful movie that not only remember us the egoism and vanity of human society but also how the lost values on people get so higher levels than even robots seems to be more human and conscious. "},{"Title":"Perhaps a film with an obvious message, but a good piece nonetheless","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was Douglas Trumbull's first film as director. Rather impressive. Not just with that in mind, either. I will definitely have to look for other films by this man. Two of the actors featured, I knew beforehand; Dern and Rifkin. Both I have seen in recent productions, filmed beyond the beginning of the new millennium, and both clearly had talent way back when. The environmentalism is fairly obvious in this film, but I would not classify this as a film that demands or even asks us to take better care of forests and nature, in particular; it promotes life, warmth, vitality. I found it interesting to note who were the more humane and caring creatures on the ship in this film, apart from, of course, the lead. The story is quite good, and well told. The pacing is magnificent, I was not bored for a single second. The imagery is very appealing, that of nature as well as the spacecrafts. The acting is very good. The special effects look great, and hold up well. The length of the picture is just about perfect... it neither overstays its welcome nor ends too soon or too abruptly. The editing and cinematography are both nice, I can't think of a single visual in the film that should have been done differently. The two songs by Baez aren't bad, and they fit fairly well where they are used. I recommend this to any fan of science fiction, especially as far as predicting what the future may hold and provoking thought and debate go. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Last ecologist on Earth ... err... and beyond","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is by no means a very good movie. It has a 6 actor cast, 3 of them dressed in mute droids, the science in it is ridiculous (like explosion sounds in space, people that don't know that sunlight is good for plants, technology worse than Basemoon Alpha, etc) and the acting itself is average.But of course, one cannot ignore the powerful message. The Earth has lost all its wild life and forests. The last vestiges of plant life are (somehow) in a few space ships. A weird order comes to return home, but before that, nuke all the forests (Bush probably declared war on eco terrorism). So the caretaker for the forests kills everyone and runs off with the woods.All the premises of the movie are silly, but it must be taken as a metaphor. The hippie atmosphere and music is so typical of the time.Bottom line it's not that important to watch it. The pace is slow, the movie is caught up in its time and feels anachronic, but the message is nice enough. I prefer Japanese animes for ecological messages, though. "},{"Title":"Average and almost a failure","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Average sci-fi movie that surprisingly had very good special effects/props for a 1971 sci-fi effort.Learned a lot from 2001 and carried on using above average attention to detail.The story is a nature lovers deight and has a great idea really.The performance by Bruce Dern was very good,and the robots shown here was such quality work,it paved the way most likely for the later R2D2 of Star Wars.So why average?The screenplay was too slow,the Hippie music was very irritating (I had to mute the songs out) and the special effects equipment monitor screens were too unrealitic which also irritated me because they did such a good job with the rest of the special effects/props,they should have had bigger/color equipment special effects monitors.Those black and white 2inch by 2inch monitors just were not cutting it for an illusion of technology capable of creating space stations sustaining numerous forests.Things like that matter to me when one of the main attractions of a sci-fi movie is special effects.Only for tree huggers who love space sc-fi suspence and for big fans of Bruce Dern......  "},{"Title":"without it, R2D2 would have looked very different","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the only good sci-fi movie between 2001 and star wars. clockwork orange was more story-fi than sci-fi. it's a movie that's only becoming more relevant as it ages as the earth becomes a giant greenhouse with fewer and fewer trees. by todays standards the SFX are terrible, but it's still a great original ESSENTIAL milestone for the genre. ok... the andromeda strain was great too.  "},{"Title":"a classic!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i wanted to see this movie, when i realized, its directed by effects - god douglas trumbull. i expected a movie full of special effects, and i was surprised....first, you can call this film naive. it certainly is, but this naivity is used as a tool to help you see this movie in its meant perspective the beauty of nature and the need to save it. this movie is from 1971, a time when the preservation of nature wasnt nations top topic. so it had to explain the need with arguments we know and accept today. But people at that time werent used to that. so it may seem today sometimes a little bit silly. the joan baez singing may help that.but second there is a beautiful story told, about a man who has to make a shakesperian decision. at the end of the movie i was hard - struggling holding back the tears (despite of me seeing lots of horror and action movies). Derns acting is very touching the robots loveable and there is lots of heart and brain in this movie. something thats very rare in hollywood today. the effects are top notch for 71(and look still better than f.e. the wing-commander-pc-play-grapics of babylon 5), the acting bruce derns is fantastic (f.e. the scene where he speaks to his dead comrade is stunningly acted), the scenery looks more expensive than it probably was. and this gorgeous little flick dosent need space battles, alien invaders, gore etc. to tell one of the best sci-fi stories ever.This movie is certainly not the right for you, if you like braindead movies such as x-men, but if you want to see a movie that touches your heart and that may be getting real, when we have destroyed all forests, a movie that will stay for your life, beautiful music and featuring one of the best characters in sci-fi, then check out silent running.What a pity, movies like that arent made any more in assembly-line-hollywood. X-men, watch and learn! "},{"Title":"Real emotional kick from a grown-up Sci-Fi movie","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw Silent Running when in my teens. Years later I would quote it as my favourite film of all time without being able to recall the names of the director or actors. A couple of years ago I saw it on TV again and all the reasons for its' intitial impact were reinforced.It is intelligent- it treats the viewer as an adult.It is serious- it makes a point. It is sentimental- there are many 'touchy-feely' moments.It has a flawed hero- who has to make a monumental decision.It has great special effects (ahead of its' time)Another reviewer has mentioned having to stop for a while after viewing it to let the themes and ideas 'sink in' (sic.) This is so right! Watch this film- it will stay with you for many years. "},{"Title":"sci-fi, yet deep and moving, and a great performance by Dern","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film bosses were likely convinced that early environmentalists would be the target market for this film when this was made back in the early 70s, and it could therefore make money, and for that we should be grateful This is a wonderful film that made me a Bruce Dern fan. Even the title, Silent Running, seems derivative from Silent Spring by Rachael Carson.It's almost a one-man play by Dern, who gives a layered performance as an isolated, futuristic space greenhouse keeper faced with a fundamental challenge to his principles. Dern seemed to wind up playing a lot of crazy or scary characters in his long career, but here he's just deep, quiet, and heroic (though conflicted). It's a great showcase for the subtleties of the expressions that he's capable of communicating through (the movie is lean on dialogue in places).I've often wondered if the droids in this film were an inspiration for R2D2  watch them work on the outside of the ship, then watch R2D2 repairing the Royal cruiser in The Phantom Menace. Or watch Dern's favorite droid moving around and interacting with him with a distinct personality. I used to watch this movie every time it came on, but haven't seen it in years, sad to say. It's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Looney, loopy, creepy and slow","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, this is a decent movie, but it is essentially a meditation on the consequences of a decision made very early in the film.  I thought it dragged in places. Dern's performance is intense but ultimately not really true to life.  That may be due more to the repetitive script than to any limitation of his.  I wanted to see him changing more, reacting to more situations. I think I enjoyed it as a curiosity, as showing another facet of the Easy Rider/Billy Jack sort of sensibility, but not purely as science fiction. There were episodes of Doctor Who that made me think harder. And it comes nowhere close to the brilliance of Blade Runner. I would say neither does it belong in the same class as 2001, Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back, or Brazil (if that's sci-fi). 5 out of 10.  I hope my dad doesn't read this.  He loves this movie, and he didn't even mind the Joan Baez songs. The DVD transfer is good, with no additional features.  There was a making of which they could have thrown into the bargain. "}{"Title":"The best example of Protagonist.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this story, I came to a better understanding of what it means to be a protagonist.  It is with Freeman Lowell that I totally empathize.  I wouldn't call him a good guy.  If fact, I truly sympathize with those he killed.  But I felt his pain, not only for the life he protects, but for the scorn he suffers regarding his truths that differ from those others accept.  I found it to be a simple story, yet moving.  I thought the soundtrack was excellent; by far the best work Joan Baez ever did.  "},{"Title":"certainly dated and not without its flaws, but at its best it's truly amazing science fiction","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Running, had I seen it in 1972, probably would have been totally engrossing and astounding as a piece of science fiction film-making that pushed the special effects limits just a nudge further from 2001, and gave a positive (if rather, ultimately, bittersweet) message about taking care of the planet. Today, however, is when I saw the movie, and it's sad for me to see how much of the film hasn't aged very well. Not so much all of the special and visual effects; most of the exterior space shots and the repetitive (sometime too repetitive) shots of the Valley Forge ship drifting along, as well as that quick and trippy thrill-ride through the Saturn rings, are very well done for its time and work for the sake of the movie's own reality of sorts. Just little things, like, say, all of the Joan Baez songs, which screeches the mood to a halt with its hippy-dippy flavor (unless, of course, you're into that sort of thing).That, and the fact that it being Douglas Trumbull's first film as a director (he's a well-deserved Oscar nominee for Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and has his name proudly stamped forever on 2001 and Blade Runner as a special effects man), and whether it was his call or that of the director of photography, Charles F. Wheeler, to shoot a lot of the interiors like it was for television (sometimes they're creative with it, but for the most part it's almost too basic for its own good). So, there are things like that, and a few little scenes (mostly early on with character actors Cliff Potts, Ron Rifkin and Jesse Vint) that fall flat. And yet... this is definitely, when it's at its best, one of the most unusual and curious pieces in the genre from the period, or maybe any. Taking aside the pro-environment message of the film, it's a really excellent story about a man going over that certain edge, and being possessive of the very thing that should be shared with the world.It's a complex character that the writers, Cimino, Bochco and Washburn have created here with Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern), so much so that he's both very complex and too simple-minded to figure on. He loves his forest and his trees, worked on it for 8 years, and is told at the drop of a dime to let it all go and the plans for repopulating the Earth with actual greenery is done with, and it's back to a pat return to 75-degree all-the-time normalcy. He snaps, kills his co-pilots, and tries his best to break off contact with his boss ships. And yet there's a level of loneliness seen as the film develops, a struggle with himself not being a bad person but one who's torn up from what he's done. All he has, apparently, are three strange, almost kinda cute robots he names Huey, Dewey and (after the fact of losing him around Saturn's rings) Louie, who do tasks all over the ship.What the film lacks in directorial polish, therefore, is made-up in spades by the wonderful story and this character who, for 2/3 of the movie, is the only human we see on screen. It's so crucial then that the one consistently brilliant aspect is Bruce Dern's performance. He's an actor of incredible depth when called upon to action in the right part, and here he gives one of the best he had to offer in his prime period. He is so precise at going between subtlety, rage, bewilderment, amusement (i.e. poker game w/robots), sadness and shame, that he commands the screen every time he's on; even when he's put into a ridiculous bit walking outside of the ship in his blue suit walking normally- maybe the lamest moment of the movie- he does interesting stuff. In fact, I'd go as far as to say it was one of the best performances of that year, which had the likes of Brando and Pacino and Olivier to contend with. Now if only the rest of Silent Running, a very good but spotty film of and for its time, held up so well. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the very great Sci-Fi films.","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many Directors have been quick to label their own genius with works such as 2001 A Space Odyssey and Blade Runner when, in fact, the genius belongs to their Special Effects Art Director Douglas Trumbull. It can be argued, and many have, that Trumbull is probably the most important figure in modern Sci-Fi, creating the dark world of Blade Runner, the impressive but ultimately sterile Universe in 2001 and the awe-inspiring UFO scenes in Close Encounters of the Third Kind. But what many don't know is that Trumbull directed his own Sci-Fi film in 1972 named Silent Running. Given a relatively low budget, in comparison to 2001 and his later work Blade Runner, Trumbull would prove that the best work comes from people who have to make do with what little they have.Silent Running bequeaths the tale of a future Earth extinct of any plant life, with only a very few specimens having been saved in gargantuan space-bound greenhouses attached to a fleet of Space Freighters (the 'American Airline' of its day). These ships stay residing just outside the orbit of Saturn until Earth needs them back to reforest the planet. Bruce Dern, who plays Freeman Lowell, the appointed Head Gardner of the greenhouse-in-space, would rather spend time feeding his bunnies than hang out with his knucklehead crew. Well, unless there is a chance of embarrassing them at a game of Poker. However, when orders come in to nuke the remaining greenhouses and become a commercial airline once again, Lowell decides he would rather see his crew dead than watch the last remaining pieces of nature go into the light.What's truly amazing about Silent Running is how anti-sci-fi it is. Yes, there are some stunning visuals and it certainly looks to be a sci-fi movie, but ultimately this is a story about human beings. This is not the logic based evolutionary wanderings of 2001, neither does it have the philosophical vitality of Blade Runner or The Matrix. Silent Running is not concerned if the reality we are waking up to is in fact another form of illusion, or pondering about what makes us truly human. No, Silent Running is about a relatively simple person in an unremarkable situation. Lowell's basic choice is &#150; do I want human beings to survive, or my garden? He opts for the latter. There are too many human beings, anyway. But as the movie goes on Lowell finds that, although he can only find alienation with his own kind, he can't help but miss them.In fact, he misses them so much that his robot workers now go by the human names of Huey, Dewey and Louie. Notice I use the term 'robot' very loosely there. Due to Trumbull's budget what we in fact have are brightly coloured microwaves with rubber-gloved feet. But, my God, are they the most humanised robots ever depicted on screen. On first glance gentle snickering maybe heard from the back of your mind, but as time passes you grow so attached and loving towards these boxes that, when Lowell accidentally runs one over, it's as if your own son has been named road kill. This is such an amazing feature of Directing from Trumbull. Let's face it, anyone can make a robot seem more human when you cast humans as the robots. (Though, I did wonder whether Harrison Ford was in fact the Tin Man in Blade Runner). Trumbull intelligently creates a robot where the audience, as well as Lowell, have to project their own feelings, desires & hopes onto it, refraining from producing a fully formed and packaged robot for the viewer to consume blindly.But if you want to know why Silent Running truly works, then I'll tell you. It's the first and only sci-fi film that you will make you weep. No, not in the sense of Star Wars where you cry for the dim-witted romanticism, but where you actually break down in tears for the emotion shown on screen. This is not a dry, academic, logical maze that you have to weave yourself through, but a journey which you experience and learn from. Notice, I could have highlighted how Silent Running was ahead of its time due to it's forward-thinking ideas about nature and how we must always try to preserve it, if really only for it's unparallelled beauty. But I didn't. At the end of the day Silent Running is a treatise on the evil that we humans do to the planet. But, ironically, what makes this one of the greatest sci-fi films of all time is that it's not about spectacular visuals or interesting, dry technology, but about being so uniquely human.The end scene shows Lowell releasing his Garden from the space ship so the incoming Mother Ship cannot find the bodies of the people he has killed, and Lowell says to his friendly robot, in an almost Shakespearian tone, When I was a kid, I put a note into a bottle, and it had my name and address on it. I threw the bottle into the ocean. I never knew if anyone ever found it. With that Lowell triggers a bomb, sending himself in to the light, whilst the one remaining robot tends the love of his life, his garden, which floats quietly into the netherworlds of space. Will anyone out there ever find it? "},{"Title":"What a movie to teach middle school students about moral dilemmas and plant growth!","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Consider the impact this movie made on me 30 years ago. I remembered the main point at the height of the movie's climax like remembering a somber moment in my life. Thats cool! I highly recommended this movie as a teaching aid for students ( especially special needs ). The special effects are excellent for the robots. They have characterization and become an integral part in endearing the viewer to the movie plot. The movie does force you to ask the question, Have I done enough in my life to make the planet Earth a cleaner and sustainable home for ever and ever? I have ordered the DVD of this movie and can't wait to show it to my students. "},{"Title":"Stands up well over 30 years on","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While the plot could have been stronger, the film makes good use of contrasts between robots and humans, forests and spaceflight to raise some important points about what it is to be human and what qualities make life worthwhile.  A convincing performance by Bruce Dern is supported by good special effects (considering the date) and an effective musical score by Peter Schickele (of PDQ Bach fame).  Folk songs performed by Joan Baez contrast with Schickele's more classical score, but are much less cheesy than one might expect after over 30 years. "},{"Title":"Grumpiest hippie ever.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Something, somewhere in the writing process of this movie went wrong. When the first red flag of Something Not Making Sense happens in the first 10 minutes of a film, you just know that it's going to go downhill from there.This is going to contain spoilers left and right, so consider yourself warned.Freeman Lowell (Dern) is... a groundskeeper?  A conservation agent? Either way, he's on a spaceship called Valley Forge, along with three other... astronauts?  Janitors?  No one's job is made clear.  There are also three Drones.  Anyway, they're all on this ship.  There are other ships, too, and biodomes on each ship.  For some reason, there aren't any forests or anything on Earth, but that's never explained.  An Executive Order to jettison the biodomes and destroy them is issued.  Why the people had to nuke the domes isn't issued, but it pushes Lowell over the edge, and he turns into HAL 9000, except, you know, crappy.There were no bad parts in the movie except the story and Joan Baez.  The story is just stupid.  No explanations are given for, say, destroying the biodomes on ships that were apparently designed to house biodomes because there aren't any forests left on Earth, for example.  When that's your main character's primary motivation, it's kind of important to understand why. Maybe it's just me, though.The special effects clearly lead the way to Star Wars, and the acting is decent.  The cinematography, however, just SCREAMS I saw a French New Wave movie once.  They like hand-held cameras, so I'll use them, too.Just skip this one.  It has camp value, but, the bad kind.  Not the charming kind. "},{"Title":"A Definite Period Film","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made at the tail end of the Hippy movement, this mildly entertaining little Sci-Fi piece had all the elements of that culture evironmental paranoia, a quirky lead character( Bruce Dern), social relevance, and a message of extremism. I liked it more when it first came out, but on a recent TV  viewing I thought this would be a perfect movie for MST 3000. It's just lame enough. "},{"Title":"Straight to the point, with an interesting twist.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SILENT RUNNING completely caught me off guard. With the exception of some completely annoying and dated songs by Joan Baez, SILENT RUNNING has a very interesting story and moral attached to it, something that some people do not notice, mainly because most people think the movie 's moral has to do with Freeman Lowell 's belief that the forests are important toward saving Earth. It is not avoiding the fact that the maintenance robots are what sold the movie in the first place. They were cute, funny, they interacted with emotion, what else is there not to like about them? SILENT RUNNING is as close to original science fiction you can get. I would not recommend it to a novice, since its decent acting takes the genre away from what people usually see in such films as this bad acting with plenty of fun.In the future; forests, vegetation, rabbits, birds, etc. are now raised or grown in domes on ships in outer space. Earth simply is too overpopulated to have room for them. The order is given to destroy all the forest domes. On one ship, a crew member, Freeman Lowell becomes psychotic learning that the precious forests would be destroyed. He kills his fellow crew members, takes the ship into hiding and tries to raise the vegetation himself with the maintenance droids.Once Freeman realizes how lonely 'out there' really is by himself is where SILENT RUNNING really shines. The film takes steps to make sure we know what he is feeling. And with every realization Freeman gets, we know exactly what he is feeling and understand the moral all the better. That type of science fiction acting is hard to find these days, especially with modern science fiction scripts pumping out garbage such as INDEPENDENCE DAY and EVENT HORIZON. SILENT RUNNING will remain a forgotten classic science fiction film, with a good reputation. "},{"Title":"A very versatile film","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As I said, there's so much to this great film. A sci-fi film with a folk soundtrack and pro-environment point of view? In 1972? Awesome.Bruce Dern is just great in this film. My favorite part is the poker-episode with the drones. He had full house and he knew it! Great screenplay(practically with Bruce Dern by himself, with his drones and the radio dispatcher). It all comes together with the great Joan Baez's soundtrack.Of course one could complain about the roaring sounds of exploding cones in deep space, but who cares.Just plain excellence, see it if you haven't yet. "},{"Title":"Looks and sounds beautiful, but makes no sense at all.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Silent Running features wonderful spaceship effects, some of the most interesting robots ever featured in an sf movie, a heartbreaking performance by Bruce Dern, and a fine soundtrack featuring some beautiful songs by Joan Baez...  but unfortunately, it falls apart if you know anything about science physics, biology, or even economics. Why put the last forests in orbits around Saturn? (Because Trumbull wanted to do the special effects for the rings, that's why.) Why blow up domes, whose orbits can easily be tracked, turning them into randomly expanding clouds of debris? Why does Lowell have to look through a stack of books just to find out that plants need sunlight? Does the artificial lighting rig he's set up generate heat that would slowly cook the whole thing, vacuum being a great insulator? Does the dome have enough power to maintain the artificial gravity inside? And if the forest and everything in it CAN survive in a dome drifting through space with lights and a robot to tend it, WHY WASN'T THIS DONE IN THE FIRST PLACE? "}{"Title":"Good premise, bad movie.","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, I am not someone who wandered out of his genre and happened to see this movie by accident. I love science fiction -- old, new, I think most of it has something to offer.This film would be the exception. Some films are fun because they're cheesy (Event Horizon), and some are great because they're thought-provoking (The Day the Earth Stood Still). Silent Running is an obnoxious portrayal of a hippie who should never have been allowed on a space ship to begin with.The premise here has a lot of promise; had the characters been more believable or the film itself less... well, there are a lot of statements that fit here. Politically skewed, weakly written, off-balance, utterly implausible (even for a sci-fi flick)... the list goes on.I had heard of this movie as some kind of milestone for science fiction. It is not, and should not be considered such; it's hard to even take this movie seriously, as it is obviously meant to be. It also fails as a campy popcorn flick, which it was definitely NOT meant to be, because the message is so overbearing that most of it is just painful to watch, regardless of whether you agree with it.I absolutely do not recommend this movie; it has no redeeming value -- not for ecologists, not for pacifists, not for anyone short of Greenpeace supporters on downers. Avoid this, for your own sake. "},{"Title":"Bressonian, satirical, anti-Stalinist?","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an intelligent and unusual film, in many ways Trumbull's appalled riposte to '2001 A Space Odyssey' on which he provided the effects.  Like many science fiction fantasies, 'Silent Running' is actually an allegory - Bruce Dern represents the intellectual, the benevolent idea that will save humanity; his colleagues are the masses the idea is intended to benefit.  As in Stalinist Russia, the idea is of such vital importance that it doesn't matter if you destroy the people it's supposed to help.'Silent Running' seems to by as hippy-dippy as its hero, but Trumbull constantly undermines him, by revealing the extent of his solitary madness, by showing the artifice of his so-called natural project.  This portrait of a man alone in an imprisoned space touched by a highter ideal suggests Bresson, an allusion strengthened by Dern's monkish apparel, although the very Hollywood technique militates against Bressonian rigour.  Curiously tedious. "},{"Title":"If you're used to fast paced films then this one'll disappoint you.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I used to quite like this movie, but each time I've seen it my regard for it has slipped another notch or two until now I can't bear to watch it. Why this is, I cannot say. Perhaps because I was 9 when I first saw it and anything sci-fi was good and now I'm older and wiser. I don't know.For a start it has Bruce Dern as the main character, Lowell. A slightly weird individual, Lowell is in charge of managing the last forests on (or rather, off) Earth. Quite why they couldn't build the biodomes ON the Earth and not go to the expense of boosting them into space is beyond me. Anyway, Lowell is slightly nuts, and Dern plays that aspect very well. However, Dern's acting sucks for the most part.Then there are the droids...basically cyclopean bread bins with legs. I never understood how they could build these things with legs, but couldn't, apparently, give them arms. Instead they have some sort of appendage that wouldn't look out of place on a deep sea recovery submersible. And why legs? Lowell and his buddy's hurtle through the starship in little buggies, whilst the droids totter along at 1 mph in their wake. Surely wheels or tracks would be more useful?Anyway, the whole Save the Plants project gets axed by Earth and Lowell goes nuts and offs his companions to save the trees. Then he's alone, with Earth demanding an answer to what's happened.There are some genuinely funny moments, like Dern teaching the droids to play cards. But on the whole the film has too many holes. Another well made point here is why shoot the domes off and then nuke them. Why destroy them at all? Just space the contents and keep the domes.And why, when he sends one of the droids off in the last dome, to keep the plants safe forever, does he not allow the remaining, damaged droid, to go with it? Instead he keeps the battered droid with him to share his nuclear death.All-in-all a post flower power era movie that tries to point out our folly in neglecting the planet (but never shows the planet let alone just how bad things are supposed to be) and what one dedicated man tries to do to save it.In the end, all it makes me think about now is how being alone for too long in space can drive someone nuts. If you're used to fast paced films then this one'll disappoint you.  "},{"Title":"Tree hugger propaganda","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not going to be a happy, touchy-feely Joan Baez inspired set of comments. How much contrast of horrid over acting and flat supporting acting can one take? What about the sappy memory montage sequences?? Why do they have to destroy the forest domes... with nukes? What was Lowell trying to do by veering off course? Why aren't any trees left on Earth? What happened to cause that? What took Lowell so long to realize that, duh, forests need light?? This movie could have been  just two minutes... 1. Trees are wonderful. 2. Little girls holding leaves represent beauty. 3. Brave New World society structures suck. 1 again. Trees are wonderful.  4 and 1 again. Droids are your special friends and trees are wonderful. Suspense? Feeling a connection with Lowell? Feeling good inside because Dewey has survived with the forest dome? None of that. Oh...I just can't get that funeral scene out of my head... Nice tears, Lowell. Really.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing and incredibly pointless","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched Silent Running with hopes of being as wowed with Saturn as I was with Jupiter in 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968). Much to my dismay, I discovered Saturn was only ever barely visible in the film, and for no more than five minutes (that is being generous). This, however, is not the film's main failing. The story can't decide whether it wants to be a commentary on environmentalism, a cautionary tale, or just a sci-fi adventure. The two original Joan Baez songs are incredibly corny even for Baez, and Bruce Dern's botanist is not nearly as interesting or human as he should be, crying over his misdeeds while applauding himself for his ingenuity-- all to save one little piece of forest from Earth. This movie was terrible, and the fact that it is considered a classic really makes one wonder. "},{"Title":"Somewhere between ridiculous and boring","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I managed to watch the first half of this movie (app. 45 minutes or so). After that I was practically shifting between falling a sleep and being annoyed. So in other words, I gave up and watched a Simpsons episode to get away from this garbage.I don't even know where I should begin complaining on this one..Let's start with the actors. The acting performances in this movie are BEYOND goddamn laughable. My 82-old grandmother would be better suited. All four astronauts (or whatever they are called in future) are cheesy and ridiculous in a godlike way. It's a parody of acting. It's almost like watching Rowan Atkinson's Pink tights & plenty of props gig, only that this time this isn't a comedy.The dialog between the main characters is even worse. The contents of the dialog could be summarized in 4-5 lines. Furthermore, it's amazingly slow with a lot of unnecessary face close-ups. The best example of this is probably the poker game. This one brings another dimension to the word meaningless.The story is practically non-existent so there's actually not that much to comment..I recommend this one only to people with severe sleeping disorder or serious sadistical tendencies.. All other will be deeply disappointed.And yes, I'm deeply worried that this movie is rated 6+ on this site. It is what partially tricked me to see and my only explanation is that people are giving a good rating due to sentimental reasons.1 of 10 Molotov cocktails (unfortunately there's no 0) "},{"Title":"A brown rice trip into space","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" (60%) An offbeat ecological space movie staring the great Bruce Dern on fine form playing a somewhat deranged character which is truly something you don't see that often in family friendly movies such as this; although his actions are at least understandable given the circumstances. This, despite it being not being a widely known about film, does have a quality feel to it. The model spaceship effects featured hasn't dated about half as much as computer based effects less than half as old. While robots Huey, Dewey, and Louie are very cute, despite the fact that it would take them about two years to get from one end of the ship to the other with those little legs. If you can put up with the 70's folk music soundtrack, a slowish place, and a very unsubtle message, then this is something worth tracking down, and it's a refreshing change to something such as Star wars. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, but not very well thought out...","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though there are some thought-provoking ideas put forth in SILENT RUNNING, the overall lack of logic of much of the film keeps it from being a must-see film. Why, for instance, are the biospheres orbiting so far from the sun? Photosynthesis, anyone...? And I've always had a hard time watching the amputees- the forerunners of R2-D2, no doubt, crossed with the Daleks- waddling awkwardly around the ship. Bruce Dern is the sole saving grace of this one Freeman Lowell is one of his finest performances (which is saying quite a bit). Given today's dire straits, the basic idea of jettisoning the world's remaining flora and fauna into space may not be that far-fetched, after all. "},{"Title":"Philosophical oddness and pure stupidity","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film started out well with a common theme. There was a lone scientist against the evil corporation who didn't mind destroying all of the forests in the world. Then later in an argument, one of his co-workers mentions that the entire planet is 75 degrees and there is no unemployment. What is the point of telling the viewer that society may be better without trees?! It is a weird conflict.Then came utter stupidity. The hero steals one of the spaceships and the forest. This guy is a scientist, an environmentalist and kills 3 people in order to save a forest. He then travels away from sunlight and is so stupid it takes him until the end of the movie to figure out that the lack of sunlight is killing the forest! He only figures it out after a talking with somebody on earth who mentions the word sun. I find it hard to believe that the filmmakers consider me so stupid and expect me to believe the hero didn't realize that taking plants away from light was a bad thing!! "},{"Title":"Disappointed!","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite not being someone who regularly gets to watch too many films, I make a point of listening to Mark Kermode and Simon Mayo's weekly film review programme on Radio 5 Live in the UK. Mark has been referencing Silent Running for a while now, so I eventually tracked down a copy to watch to see what all the fuss was about.I have to say, I was immensely disappointed. I've seen other reviews and comments which appear to suggest that Bruce Dern's acting was overlooked for an Oscar nod. My lord, 1972 must have been a bad year if that performance needed overlooking. At its best, it was wooden and stilted, and at its worst it looked like Will Ferrell's visual inspiration for Ricky Bobby in Talledega Nights.I was completely disengaged with the film; perhaps my green credentials aren't strong enough, or perhaps the fundamental basis for the plot setup wasn't sufficiently well explained, but I agreed with the rest of the crew on the Valley Forge - Lowell was just barking mad! Once Lowell's violent actions had taken place, that was just reinforced - instead of sacrificing just the forest, he'd set himself on a path where he lost his humanity too.Of course, 40 year old films such as this can't be judged in terms of the special effects by today's standards. The sets looked fine, and the space sequences were well enough done. But overall, sorry Mark - this just didn't do it for me! "}{"Title":"Poignant & Slightly Mad","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's hard to look back now and remember that in 1971, a lot of people really did think it might all be gone in 30 years. So it would probably be difficult for people born after about 1966 or so to understand the poignancy of the scenario What if you were the last park ranger on earth, and you were told to destroy the park and come home?The most successful part of this picture is probably Dern's performance, as he carefully modulates the obsessive madness of his character -- going over the top only as needed, and then turning around to reveal that even a mad loner is human. Not great science fiction, but a good story with good characterization -- better in most regards than most of what either Trumbull or Bochco have produced in the years since. "},{"Title":"Quirky, uneven, but scores points for serious theme","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie revolves around the importance of saving the earth's flora and fauna in the face of widespread environmental destruction. How you feel about this will likely determine whether you feel anything for this movie.There are lots of plot and physics holes here. Some have been mentioned by another reviewer (though heat buildup from the lights is certainly not a problem--heat is constantly radiated away into space). Any physics-savvy viewers will need to suspend a lot of disbelief here. Lowell's taking so long to figure out that his forest is dying for lack of sunlight is pathetic and laughable.On the positive side  there are some amusing scenes in which Lowell seeks companionship from the robots, and Dern's performance is quite good overall. Most importantly, although many of the plot developments are hard to swallow, the decision by the Powers That Be to abandon the space-greenhouses, reasoning that they are an unnecessary extravagance, rings true. Unfortunately.To sum up  quirky, certainly not without faults, and very slow in places, but takes an honest stab at some important issues.   "},{"Title":"Touching and Moving","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen this movie a number of times, because 1) I love anything science fiction; and 2)I like Mr. Dern.  Everything in this movie was great, right down to the three robots.  One thing that puzzles me and which I did not notice until I saw the movie for the third time.  If Mr. Dern was a Botanist and was suppose to be the expert and authority on plants.  How come he never thought about the Sun's light being the reason everything was dying.  I mean, come on, they were out by the 5 planet in the solar system (Jupiter).  Hardly any Sun reaches out that far.  Watch it, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I loved AND love this movie.. THIS is how it should be done!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No great battles.. No blood.. No aliens...Gore...Ultra effects.. and NO complicated plot! Just SI-FI at it's best!   I saw this movie in it's original release, and I left the theater with tears in my eyes! Now that I have a 10 year old daughter, we shared the wonder all over again! I could not find this movie to rent so I purchased a copy.. Not available locally I turned to the Inner net.. and BOY was I glad I did!!This is early 1970, people! The special effects are very good for that era of stone knives and bear skins.. No high powered computer animation here.. so THE PLOT had to carry the picture. We feel real concern for the remaining forest (with it's bunnies and toads et al).We feel sorry for Freeman as he is forced to  destroy life to save life.  Did anyone notice the year the mission was suppose to  have been launched? early in the year 2000.. OH-OH. Did I miss something? we haven't killed all the forests...YET.. but mankind is working on it.  The songs made me weepy, and the final solution to the Forest problem mad me very angry.. Freeman's crew mates are only quasi-human! I am glad this prediction of mankind was wrong at least!   It is all a movie can be But very very underrated! See it for the first time or see it again.. but see it! You won't be disappointed! You might find yourself with a hankerin' for cantaloupe when you're done!       "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When the movie first came out, I didn't see it because the title song was by Joan Biaz (AKA 'Joannie Phonnie' of the 'Lil Abner' cartoons) so I figured it was a protest movie.  A friend talked me into seeing it.I enjoyed the movie, the special effects were exceptional for it's day. But I wasn't thrilled with the 'environmental wacko' message.After Star Wars came Battlestar Galattica.  In one episode, I saw the destruction of the forest sequence and I remembered the movie.  It appeared on TV and I found that it had changed.  It was a good movie.Several of the reviewers have made some inaccurate statements.  First, the special effects predate Star Wars and Douglas Turnbul was one of the special effects gerus for 2001.  He also did many of the models and special effects for both Star Wars and Close Encounters of the Third Kind.  He also did Battlestar Galattica.Second, the interior sequences were filled on a decommissioned AIRCRAFT CARRIER and not a battleship.  The ship was being scrapped and provided an ideal location to film.Third, the soundtrack, although it featured the song by Joan Biaz, was actually by a classical comploser, Peter Schickile (sp?) who is also known for his P.D.Q. Bach compositions.Fourth, as a result of his work with Battlestar Galattica, Douglas Turnbul was not brought back for The Empire Strikes Back and The Return of the Jedi. "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of the best science fiction movies ever","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike so many movies marketed as science fiction today which are actually science fantasy this is true science fiction. Thought provoking and realistic. It's not hard to see many influences on later science fiction/fantasy ranging from Star Wars to Alien. Go see. "},{"Title":"Gentle, worthy and wise.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a breath of fresh air after the laser-blasting, monster-slaying, rocket-racing adrenaline fixes that masquerade as modern Sci-Fi films. It is great to see that an idea can be given space to grow and be delivered at a pace that encourages the viewers imagination to be ignited. I'm fed up with watching some techno-nerd's imagination being put on the screen (Mr.Lucus!) and delighted at the chance to have my mind asked a few questions and for there to be some time to get some answers! Twenty million computer generated images or a couple of my own thoughts...I know which one I'm most keen to have. But I guess I'm biased! This is a classic amongst Sci-Fi films and can stand proudly on the same stage as 2001 and Blade Runner. Star Wars, please watch and learn! "},{"Title":"Classic!...","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you remember that this film was made with no CGI then you might just appreciate just what a technical achievement it was. There are an awful lot of shots from outside the various spaceships and they all look quite believable. As far as the narrative goes, well yes, it's all a bit 'tree hugging' in places, but still, for its time, a pretty well thought out piece. Bruce Dern does a great job as Lowell; the whole thing lives or dies on his performance and I thought he did an excellent job! I know it may not be to everyone's taste, but I for one enjoyed it.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 8.2/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"A fevered dream from the mind of Eric Cartman","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Running is Eric Cartman's worst nightmare - a film where the hero is a crazed, murdering hippie. It tells the story of Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern), scientist and environmentalist aboard the American Airlines space ship Valley Forge in a future where the only remaining examples of Earth's natural ecosystems now exist in numerous domes on the Valley Forge and two other ships. They were shot off into space to preserve them as Earth became entirely technology covered and climate controlled.Lowell has been with the ship since the project began 8 years ago, while his three crewmates are in the midst of their one year tour of duty, and he's convinced they're going to receive an order to return the forests, deserts and other plant and animal life to Earth. The order they actually receive is to destroy the habitats and return the three ships to commercial service. That's an order that Lowell can't obey and can't let the others carry out.I don't know if I've ever seen another film where the hero is portrayed as an arrogant, self-righteous scold while the villains are portrayed as ordinary guys who just want ordinary things. Lowell is a character right out of Rush Limbaugh's most fevered dreams - an environmentalist who cares more about plants and animals than people, who cares more about humanity in abstract than he does other human beings. The movie never sugarcoats the misanthropic aspects of Lowell's personality or the drastic nature of his actions, but there's no moral judgment made of them. When, later on in the story, Lowell comes to regret what he did, it's shown as a result of personal guilt and loneliness, not out of some sense of objective wrongness.Silent Running touches on Lowell still needing other human beings, even though he feels betrayed by and alienated from them. He turns the ships robot drones into his friends, talking to them and reacting to them like they were people. It's even intimated that the robots are more than just mindless machines, but it's never made clear what that is supposed to mean.Silent Running stands out as a message move made before its message became too caught up in political and cultural warfare. It's strongly pro-conservation and anti-development in a philosophical, rather than a utilitarian way. Lowell loathes the antiseptic, artificial world of the future, even though it's a future without war, poverty or disease. The movie really makes no effort to argue for the preservation of the wilderness. It's just assumed that such preservation is an unquestioned good. This movie predates the decades of environmental arguments that have pitted conservatives against liberals. There's no political or partisan tinge to Silent Running, and the people who are going to destroy the habitat domes are never anything but folks who just want to do a job and get back home. It's Lowell that is portrayed as being angry and selfish.It's a little odd to think of a pro-environment sci-fi movie that has two full blown, Joan Baez hippie music montages as being carefully thoughtful about the issue. But Silent Running never falls into the trap of propaganda and allows noble ends to obscure dirty, human means. Maybe that's because the environmental movement of its day hadn't faced much organized, ideological opposition. Perhaps the film is best understood as a remnant from an era when an awakening concern for the Earth was still something that was considered normal for anyone and not a fetish for tree huggers or eco-terrorists.I also have to remark on this film being G-rated, even though it has three murders and a suicide in it. What has happened to the film rating standards from the days when Silent Running and the even more violent Battle for the Planet of the Apes could be considered G-rated family entertainment, while today they'd only be a few cuss words away from PG-13? Is it because sci-fi movies used to be considered so unrealistic that nothing in them could be taken seriously? Or did we at some point decide that death was something children needed to be almost completely sheltered from? When's the last time anyone made a G-rated movie, live action or cartoon, where multiple people get killed? "},{"Title":"the other side of sci-fi","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't think there are many sci-fi movies made like this today.  Other then the remake of Solaris, sci-fi films are more about action then they are about ideas.  That wasn't so when Silent Running was made back in 1972.Silent Running isn't a mind-blowing film but it does have it's moments.  The point it is trying to make is very obvious, the environment needs to be saved.  It pretty much shouts that point at you making one believe that that is the films only message but I think Silent Running plays it's other hand far more subtly.Silent Running's other message is that man needs companionship from other humans.  Due to circumstances that occur early on in the movie Freeman Lowell is alone on his ship, he has his 3 drone buddies but he isn't able to relate to them, he cares for them as his only companions but still can't relate.  Believing he is lost from his fleet Lowell goes a little stir crazy.  It is when contact is regained with his fleet that Freeman Lowell realizes what he has done and has become.Silent Running has some interesting moments, my favourite being a card game with 2 of the drones, but for the most part just tells its simple story.  There's not much adventure involved in the movie and little time is spent on it's main plot point, that being Lowell saving the last dome containing the remains of Earth's forests.  Perhaps what the film makers wanted to get across is that one man alone cannot save the world...who can say for sure.Overall Silent Running is a interesting enough movie.  It's more enjoyable to figure out the movies other non-environmental messages then it is to dwell too much on it.  Silent Running is dated but it's not too bad to watch.  Joan Baez's songs are very dated, sound horrible and are pretty much laughable.  Also, it's effects, if you keep in mind Silent Running was made over 30 years ago, are passable.Silent Running rates a 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Somebody give this film a break!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Silent Running has a unique atmosphere which was years ahead of it's time. The opening credits seem to have been made in the late 80's rather than early 70's as was the case. The style of the set design and costumes are clearly the model for space opera set design for years afterward. Douglas Trumbull and crew were the best at the time and had they only tried as hard on the plot as they did on the ambience of the film they would have had a classic.So give them a break already. Though there seem to be inconsistencies in the storyline many of the film's plot quirks can be explained by remembering that this was an alternate twist on reality, or as I like to say, it's just a movie. This was not the world we all expected to live in, but where it may have been headed. This is the quintessential 70's Sci-fi theme. Sometimes this leads to absurd points of view. Omega Man, Soylent Green, Logan's Run are all completely absurd, but no one pokes holes in them because they are clearly fantasy. 1984 is rediculous in some places, but no one would ever dare to strike down the whole of it. Silent Running should be treated no differently. The point is made and made well, that mankind values comfort above all else and that the natural environment which he sees as hostile, and dangerous is most probably doomed. The domes which house the last of earth's delicate ecosystems are kept far from earth tethered to freighters which the company is anxious to see put back into regular service. The crew of the freight ships is miserable at having to babysit the forests and yearns to return to an Earth where everywhere you go it is 70 degrees. Lowell is not the last conservationist, not the last gardener, but the last MAN. His humane treatment of the forests makes him the only human aboard, for the others have lost their humanity. Note that Lowell eats real food. The others eat synthetic biscuits. The others play mindless games to while away the hours while Lowell plants more flowers. And if that wasn't enough Joan Baez sings of Children running wild in the forests to hammer home the point.Yes , the thing with the dying forest is totally a plot killer, and it's unnecessary. Blowing up the domes, why wouldn't they, they're destroying the forests cause they don't want to spend another dime on them, and otherwise they would be so much space junk to run into later, why not blow them up and give the people of Earth a thrill. How do you know they weren't filming for a reality TV show. And the robot who Lowell leaves in charge, how long could he last? He can repair himself, fix anything and perhaps build little friends to keep the line going, but I hope they had a mulcher of some kind. "},{"Title":"The thinking person's 70s sci-fi","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in a theater at the tender age of eleven in its original release. I've seen it a number of times on TV since (I even own a copy of the video), but it's just not the same . . . it's a shame it can't really be appreciated on the small screen.Anyway, the story is plausible (especially given when it was made), Bruce Dern is terrific as his usual Character on the Edge of a Nervous Breakdown (  Patent Pending), and the special effects don't get in the way of the story as they do in some films made contemporaneously with this one. Instead, we get a real performance from Dern, not just a collection of tics, and a thought-provoking, emotion-tugging plot with a beautiful payoff and final scene.I like this film better than _Star Wars_, not because it's fashionable lately to trash SW and SW-mania, but because _Silent Running_, like _Close Encounters_, is a more intellectually and emotionally involving movie experience.By the way--fuhgedaboudit, Joan Baez was great on the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"all time greatest","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  my favourite film of all time. enough said. many sci-fi films look dated after only a few years - i've seen 'silent running' many, many times and it still fascinates me. we seem to get in on TV every christmas in the UK - it's the first film i scan the schedules for. "},{"Title":"Good idea, very poor execution....","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, this is another of the many early sci-fi movies from the 1970s that actually has a novel idea, but is executed so poorly that the movie is almost unbearable to watch. Not only is the pacing of this movie painfully slow, there are a few montages were I actually had to mute the volume because the music was so sickeningly bad and cheesy. The thing is, this film is about a few remaining forests that are left in existence in several greenhouses maintained in outer-space on large space ships, and one man's struggle to save the last one. Sounds interesting, right? It is actually a cool idea about a serious subject (preservation of our forests here on earth) which I am all for, but after watching this movie, I couldn't help but quote Eric Cartman What a bunch of tree-hugging hippie crap! Aside from all of this, I guess the film has some decent visuals and the acting is OK, although I prefer Dern as the crazy, gun-nut neighbor in the Burbs as opposed to a crazy, but sappy outer-space hippie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Great Film, Important Message, Poor Sound Track","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Silent Running was a great flick. It didn't push the envelope on the special effects of the day but, it sent out an important message about conserving our natural resources. Great comic relief is generated by the three Robots (Huey, Duey and Louie). The soundtrack however, did not stand the test of time. At the time of Silent Running's release; the soundtrack was poignant and meaningful. Today it sounds whiney, sappy and very dated. -(  "},{"Title":"I wasn't impressed...","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a huge sci-fi fan, and until a couple of days ago, Silent Running was on the short list of major sci-fi movies that I haven't seen yet. I had put off seeing it for a long time, but now I'd finally found both the time and the mood.Unfortunately I wasn't very impressed with it. For a 1972 movie it is very well produced, and has an environmental message at a time when this sort of thing may have been prevalent in science fiction books, but hadn't really reached the general population. So it was progressive for its time, and the effects and spaceship models are not bad at all.As for the story; apparently these three spaceships (which for no apparent reason are out in the vicinity of Saturn) contain the very last Terran trees at all, and nobody except our somewhat over-zealous protagonist cares? In fact, a message comes from Earth to just destroy these last bits of original nature? That seems extremely silly at first. But okay, I guess this was to show that Earth and its people had become far removed from nature, esp. in a moral sense. Alienated from their true natural selves. They had lost the beauty. Exiled it. And would now destroy the last remaining bit of it. Yes, all right, it does make sense on a non-literal level. Our hero ends up sacrificing himself to preserve the last bit of beauty that exists, keeping alive the hope that it could one day be rediscovered. In this way, the movie is an apocalyptic or even post-modern tale, describing how we are losing our deepest and most important values. I guess it works. As an attempt at an art movie.Unfortunately the execution leaves a lot of credibility to be desired. The situations often seem ludicrous, and Bruce Dern's acting is as ham-fisted as the overt ecological message is heavy-handed. The storytelling in and of itself doesn't ring true, and a hundred little details just don't work. Like, when the ships have gone through the Saturnian rings and the plants inexplicably start dying. Any botanist tending arboretums far out in the solar system could scarcely fail to be aware, before he even left Earth, that plants need a certain amount of sunlight, which isn't going to be there if you move the ships too far out into the solar system. That Lowell hadn't thought of this demonstrates a serious failing on the part of the movie's writer - and there's still no reason the ships would be out by Saturn (where light is scarce) in the first place.So a few rather important shortcomings certainly mar this movie. Generally, I can't regard it as much of a sci-fi classic, although a bunch of the effects and models are very nice indeed.6 out of 10. I would like to award it a higher grade, but I can't. "},{"Title":"A beautiful TALE with religious background","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm surprised that nobody noticed the religious background. Anyway, that explains why everybody discuss of the scientific values of the movie. Let be clear  There is no scientific plots in this movie ! It's a TALE ! Like Alice in Wonderland, where nobody thinks to tell us A rabbit can't talk ! This is a scientific nonsense !Who cares the evil capitalistics didn't need to nuke the forrest ? This is just a conventional point of view to build a story, not the center of the story. For me the story talks about a man who becomes mad because of his loneliness, and think he is God.First, Lowell is alone in a psychologic matter. As someone said  he's the last man alive, even when his team mates are alive. And I add my own precision  The last forrest dome, is the last world !. So, Lowell feels very big responsibilities toward this world. He works on it. This forrest becomes his creation (Lowell lets the other domes being destroyed, but refuses to let the evils touching his own world).Second, Lowell is so lonely when his team mates are dead, that he creates new friends ! That explains another scientific question frequently asked  Why the drones have no wheels, no real arms and don't talk ? This is because originally, these drones are not robots for protocol ! They are specialized tools to mend the spaceship, that's all. They are things, not beeings. But Lowell modifys them. As he says  Now, you'll work for me guys !. He teached them to become surgeons, poker players, gardeners, and so on... and he gave them a personality and human names. These drones are HIS creation, like the last forrest.Do you begin to understand where I want to go ? Eden's gardens, two creatures.... Mmmm.... A bible genesis alike, no ? (Too bad he didn't name Adam and Eve his last two drones). And like God, he gave his creation to his creature and disappeared.So the environementalist theme is not very important, this is the psychological draft of a lonely man who becomes crazy and think (unconsciousnessly) he's God. The best similar reference to recommend is DARK STAR by John Carpenter with a similar ending  SPOILER ALERT the lonely computer-bomb finished to think he was God and said Let there be light ! (hopping to create a world by exploding).In SILENT RUNNING, the lack of action scenes is a good thing, because that gives us time to think. MATRIX, for example, had religious background too, but who cares ? We are flooded with action scenes, no time to think ! (particulary in sequel 2 and 3). So the slow action gives to this movie his beauty. And, after all, 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, have no jumping action scenes either. It's still a masterpiece.SILENT RUNNING is also a masterpiece. A movie like we'll never see again one.  "},{"Title":"Excruciating","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the opening sequence of 'Silent Running' the camera, in close focus, slowly pans over a woodland ground-scape featuring rocks, plants, frogs, and a turtle. Unfortunately this is possibly the highlight of the movie.I mean no disrespect to fans of this film - and to prove that I am not some 14 year-old who can only name the latest Hollywood SFX blockbuster, let me say there are plenty of SF movies from the early 70's or even late 60's which I find very worthy and quite watchable today. The original 'Planet of the Apes' still works. '2001', needless to say, but more forgotten movies, too. 'Soylent Green' still actually packs a punch today, and even 'The Andromeda Strain', despite being incredibly dry and quite slow, is tension filled. And of course I love 'Dark Star', which in retrospect almost seems like a parody of this movie at certain times - but for the life of me I cannot understand how so many people can be so fond of 'Silent Running', which to me is almost completely awful.I don't even know where to start listing its problems. The lead character, who I suspect is supposed to come across as some sort messianic environmentalist hero, is clearly unhinged even in the earliest scenes, and coupled with Dern's excruciating over-acting, it's hard to feel any sympathy for him as he rants and raves at his crewmates who race over his garden in a scene that looks like it was heavily influenced by The Banana Splits Show. Later he rants and raves whenever anyone basically mentions the word 'tree' or nature' or 'the', and you end up feeling sorry for his crewmates for having to put up with someone who is clearly a dangerous maniac.Other than this, the movie proceeds at a terrible crawl - thank God it's less than 90 minutes long. There are silly waddling droids, which I gather actually contain real-life double amputees. The scenes involving them which are supposed to be touching and pathetic are - I'm sorry - borderline funny. Meanwhile Dern's character, apparently the world's foremost expert on botany, displays his expertise in the field by not realising that plants need sunlight to photosynthesize. In the meantime Joan Baez sings a couple of embarrassing nature ballads that might have worked on Sesame Street. Oh yes, and they have this futuristic 8-ball game where a gigantic, unwieldy robotic arm picks the balls up and racks them up in the frame. It takes about 30 seconds to do each ball. Why someone doesn't just knock it out of the way and do it themselves is anyone's guess.Meanwhile the central character goes slowly madder, while he continues to do a series of completely uninteresting things.I decided to watch this film partly because of h4 good reviews here. I want to do my part to try to make sure somebody else doesn't suffer the same fate as me. "},{"Title":"Silent Running","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was called ahead of it's time, I was interested to read that director Douglas Trumbull previously worked on the special effects of the brilliant 2001 A Space Odyssey, and I was told it was a great film for the leading actor, so I was looking forward to it. Basically in the distant future planet plant life on Earth has become extinct, now all flora and fauna from the planet's ecosystem exists and is preserved in space freighters with giant greenhouse like domes, the Valley Forge is one of those American Airline controlled space stations. On the Valley Forge, botanist and ecologist Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern, Laura's father) loves all the forest plants and creatures that inhabit in, he is one of a four men crew, he cares for the life before it will eventually return to Earth for reforestation, but the crew receive news that the pods will all be jettisoned and destroyed in space, while the rest of the crew rejoice going back home Lowell is devastated. Lowell is forced to follow orders, and he allows the crew to jettison four of the six domes, but he cannot bring himself to allow any more to be destroyed, so he rebels to save the plants and animals on the ship, he kills one crew member who was due to plant explosives, and he traps the other two crew members in another dome to be jettisoned and blown up. Lowell is alone with the plants and animals to care for by himself, but he does have the aid of three service droid robots, or drones, who he calls Huey (Drone 2), Dewey (Drone 1) and Louie (Drone 3), and to make sure that his superiors are fooled into thinking that the orders have been carried out he stages a fake jettison, and hijacks the ship and the last remaining forest dome. As time goes by Lowell not only cares for the plants and animals he loves so much, he becomes more acquainted with the robots who are his only activating friends, teaching them to also to maintain the forest, as well as play cards and other small human like activities to pass the time, but after two accidents, Louie is lost in space, and Huey he accidentally collides with in a buggy, so just he and Dewey remain. Lowell is horrified to find that the dome is not functioning properly, and due to this the plant life on the ship is dying out, despite watering, but he realises it is the lack of sunlight, so he uses high beams to solve this, but he knows the ship Berkshire will eventually find him, so he jettisons the dome from the Valley Forge, and he sets charges to destroy the ship, with him still on board, the enormous greenhouse drifts peacefully into space, with Dewey continuing to care for the forest. Also starring Cliff Potts as John Keenan, Ron Rifkin as Marty Barker, Jesse Vint as Andy Wolf, Mark Persons as Drone 1 (Dewey), Cheryl Sparks as Drone 2 (Huey) and Steven Brown as Drone 3 (Louie). Dern gives a great sensitive performance as the man willing to protect the life of plants and animals that he cares about, it definitely makes you question whether we take these elements on Earth for granted, they are part of life and are most certainly part of what makes the planet continue to exist, so the story keeps you engaged, especially with fantastic and imaginative special effects imagery, and occasional threat and explosions, an admirable and interesting science-fiction drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"sci-fi it's not","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film opened up to the world as a major blockbuster with Razzie potential from some critics. However, some movie-goer's, like myself, happened to enjoy this film, and as a shooting star of a moneymaker, Silent Running soars high in the universe. A giant, global-killing asteroid, like the one that killed off the dinosaurs 65 million years ago is 14 days away from hitting the Earth. NASA's been caught with their pants down and needs a new plan to keep some plants alive. They enlist the help of Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern), an expert deep core driller, to train their astronauts and help them drill into the asteroid and plant a wheat crop. But Freeman figures the astronauts can't be trained in time and opts to go with his own imaginary drilling crew. To get the flaws over and done with, Silent Running is sometimes too far-fetched that it becomes a little bit laughable, and Bruce Derns' character, Freeman, is the hero. He isn't likable one bit, unlike Derns' former heroic gun-aimer's and space travelling characters. But those things are quite minor, and great performances from Ron Rifkin and Cheryl Sparks &#x96; especially Sparks, as the beautiful and Earthly young droid who sends her two most important men into sport &#x96; make up for Derns' half-effort. Also, a star-studded cast supports the three drones, including the never bad Dewey, giant Michael Clarke Duncan, the calm Huey and the weirdly watchable Luey. All these actors play their roles well, and each have more faith in the story than some of the other main stars alone. Douglas Trumbull controls his crew well, and he works excellently with the special effects team to create a stunning view of space, and some awesome blasting sounds that will unnerve you. Silent Running is not as bad as you may of heard, and even though it isn't Best Picture material, it is still an excellent form of entertainment, a film that is able to mix romance, thrills and full-on adventure nicely and without struggle. "}{"Title":"A childhood memory that lands with a dull thud.","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was a very vague remembrance from my childhood,one of those that you remember seeing,but you were so young that it is more like an instant photograph than a film.About all I can remember of my childhood experience with the film was Bruce Dern being friendly and playing cards with two miniature robots.That being said,I decided it was high time to give the film a fresh viewing.I did so tonight and here's the verdictWhile it is another strong performance by Dern and teaches a strong lesson about conservation and how we must take care of this wondrous place that God provided us called Earth,it comes up short of the mark,I'm sorry to say,of being among my favorites.Perhaps it was unfair to have such high expectations based solely on a vague childhood memory,but nonetheless,it's disappointing.While Silent Running may not crash land,it certainly lands slowly with an unexciting dull thud. "},{"Title":"Don't watch it unless you watched it in 70s","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my first ever IMDb review. I'm writing it as a warning, because I don't want unsuspecting viewers to waste time on it like I did. This movie is bad on so many level, that I don't know where to start. The script doesn't make any sense and is simply boring, acting is amateur, directing is awful. Special effects are okay... for 1972.Don't watch this film, you will be bored to death. The majority of those who like it watched it while being a kid many years ago. Just look at positive reviews. I have nothing against it, but you simply won't enjoy the movie unless you've seen it in 70s.If you looking for a movie with environmental message, watch Nausica of the Valley of the Wind (1984), Princess Mononoke (1997) or Avatar (2009). Avatar, while having too much action for my taste, is still million times better than Silent Running. Some great movies about nuclear danger Dr. Strangelove (1964), Threads (1984). And if you are looking for blue-collar worker in sci-fi setting movie, watch Moon (2009), you won't be disappointed.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A boring Cast Away in space","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't think I've watched a sci-fi movie with songs on the soundtrack before. Generally they don't need songs to create a mood, but I guess since this movie is primarily a one-man show, they didn't want the guy talking all the time, especially when the actor (Bruce Dern) is nowhere nearly as charismatic as Tom Hanks, and he plays a murderous loony bird. I rented this movie thinking it was about this guy protecting remnants of Earth's plant life in a botanical spaceship, but what I got was a Cast Away in space in which two drones that make you wonder if they're actually two bowlegged little people in metallic boxes, take the place of Wilson. Unfortunately, the similarities end there. While Cast Away shows Hank's dramatic transformation, Silent Running has Dern doing his routine business, which is essentially tending his plants... (cue cheesy 70's song). Zzzzzzzz...  2/10  "},{"Title":"Weak. Slow, prodding G-rated-ness.","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a penny budget old clunker. I was prodded to watch it by some of the reviews here speaking of its lovey-dovey profundity, but found it emotionally empty. To begin with, the whole setup of this space greenhouse (with a few bunnies) and a plantless earth (never shown) seemed absurd, especially when you got the feeling that they filmed the plants on a Christmas tree lot stage. Plus, if there was supposed to be some save the environment type message, it was of a simplistic and uncerebral sort that could have been spoken by a kindergrtner.And unlike enduring movies like 2001 A Space Odyssey, efforts to portray futuristic technology were worse than laughable (such as the wobbly boxy robots, and B & W CRT 1960s quality monitors). Special effects were akin to a 1930s Buck Rogers show. To top it off, Dern's acting seemed over-anguished, and less than real. I'd think 1972 could have done better. See this movie only to confirm what I've said here. "},{"Title":"Flash Gordon meets Mr. Robert's Neighborhood","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had only modest expectations for this film, but was still shocked by how bad it was.  It seemingly was inspired by 2001 A Space Odyssey with a human rebel instead of a computer which then takes over the all-important mission.  It's embarrassing however to compare that great film with this insipid piece - comparatively it lacks much of the production value, most of the scientific plausibility, and all of the intelligence.  Here, replace HAL with a well-meaning but borderline-psychotic, St. Francis-like environmentalist and build the plot on sloppy melodrama, with a supposedly positive message which is as shallow as after-school drama.  "},{"Title":"All rather dull and boring","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here we have a movie about a guy who likes to break things(accidentally), not only that but he fancies himself as a bit of a gardener, the only problem is he's not a very good gardener, if he was a gardener he would have got the sack.Back to the main character, everything this poor chap touches it breaks, his not very good at anything, he has a very drab and dull personality. He wants to look after a forest, but he lets it die, he tries to look after some robots but he breaks them, he even breaks his leg, on top of that he also kills his mates, all rather charming.Now the film is trying to get over a message which is fantastic, but sadly it all gets lost in the boredom, we have to suffer this poor blokes dull personality. After suffering his dull personality we see this poor chap who hasn't got a clue about plant life and trees,(come on, the guy abandons his forest,)I came to the conclusion someone else before him had been looking after the forest, and this dull chap is giving the job as his is pretty useless at any thing else apart from playing cards. Why is he so useless? He doesn't even comprehend that plants need light, doh!! Even Homer Simpson is more on the ball than this poor chap.Finally he realizes he is such a bad gardener as he hands the task of looking over the forest to a robot. (One he hadn't managed to break)This film is not a classic in my opinion, it tries to get a message over, to me it fails miserably. "},{"Title":"SF Garbage","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has GOT to be the stupidest SF movie I have ever seen...and I've seen just about all of them!!!! When Bruce Dern killed of the crewmates in the first 20 or so minutes...I could only think what in the world is going to happen now...well that was easy...Nothing Worth Watching..That is for Sure!!! "},{"Title":"I think I saw this wayyyyyyyyy back","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Am remembering it from over 34 years ago. I would have been about 6 or so when we saw it in some afternoon matine. My memory of it is dim, wasn't there a scene where a dead astronaut is shown floating outside of the spaceship towards the milkyway or whatever? (No NOT 2001. Don't worry I have seen that many times. This scene I'm thinking of ain't in that.) This one doesn't seem to get replayed much on Sci-Fi or AMC or whatever, and I'm not sure why. I did catch a bit of it within the past few years--Dern, plants and those drones--but didn't sit thru much of it. It's not that unlike Space 1999 which looked great at the time to a 9 year old and looks Awful now.I will give it a nostalgic **1/2 but am sure it needs a fuller recent viewing for that rating to be worth anything. "},{"Title":"Stale 70s Cheese","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie for the first time . It was in the late 1970s and I was a mere child . What a sad film SILENT RUNNING was . It touched my very soul and I went to bed with tears in my eyes . I saw it again today and I have to say it's incredibly cheesy . Talk about mouldy cheese !SILENT RUNNING feels like a substandard Disney film mixed up with a Steven Seagall environmental thriller . It's also very strange watching Bruce Dern play an eco-warrior . Throughout the late 70s Dern found himself being type cast as OTT psychotic villains , every time some Hollywood producer wanted to make a movie about a nutter who was a Vietnam vet Dern would always be at the top of the list and it's impossible to think of him as anything but a bad guy , though having said that Dern's character Freeman ( What a deep name - YAWN ) isn't the archetypal tree hugging yogurt knitting environmentalist , he's more of a  greeniac  who also likes to dress up as Jesus . Oh and seems unaware that lack of sunlight causes leaves on trees to fall off . Typical environmentalist - He thinks he knows about nature but is totally ignorant about simple stuff like seasons It's also a very manipulative film where the audience's sympathy is made to lie with three robots rather than - Freeman aside - the other human characters , the idea being that machines with human qualities are somehow better than real people . I've met lots of real people and the one sub culture I dislike intensely are environmentalists . The script also talks down to the audience . Freeman presses a computer keyboard and a tray of processed food comes out . He turns to the sweet little robots and says  I know . I've been eating this for too long . Let's go into the forest for some real food  where he hopefully kills some animals to make a big mac , and when you consider the content of this movie there's a life time of cheese burgers here "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst sci-fi film in cinematic history","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen many a sci-fi film and gone through 4 years of film school and I would have to say that this is the worst movie I've ever seen. And although every year there's a new one (for the past two years it was Hollow Man) this one tops them all. I will give it props for special effects but the story message is so convoluted I wanted to shoot my TV. It seems to me that the basic message here is to do whatever it takes to save plant-life, even if it means killing the only people around you and destroying yourself as well. The worst is that the hero is quite possibly the most unlikeable character in the history of film. He's psychotic, zealous, and antisocial. If you wish to keep your sanity, I suggest you skip this film. See Bambi instead. You'll come out appreciating flora and fauna far more.  "}{"Title":"OMFG... Star Wars Holiday Special has a cousin!","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is hilariously heinous and will incite incredulous rage - the plot, the dialog, the acting, the wobbly robots, the list of infuriating elements goes on. Watch with irritable and articulate co-watchers for best experience.Enjoy the flood of relief that washes over you when you realize the movie is over, it can't hurt you anymore. You will feel equally gladdened to know that the 1970s are past too - what a terrible time that must have been!What to take away from this movie 1. Despise all humans. Deeply. 2. Love all robots. Moderately. 3. Either whisper or shout, there is no in-between. "},{"Title":"Space age botany.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  F/X whiz Douglas Turnbull makes his debut as a director with this futuristic story of the earth's final vegetation being kept in pods of a space station. Botanist Bruce Dern gets a little warped when he is told the mission is over and to destroy the space greenhouses before heading back home. He kills his two man crew in hopes of protecting his forest and hiding from humanity. He has a trio of maintenance robots that practically steal the show. The only real downside is enduring some out of date whining by Joan Baez. Of course Turnbull leads the F/X staff. When you really think about it...fantasy is not that far away from reality. "},{"Title":"A highly enjoyable sci-fi drama, in spite of the hippie elements.","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, the movie is very much a product of the hippie era, hence the in-your-face hallmarks of that deluded political/social movement, especially evident in the early parts of the movie. SR's opening scene has us looking at flowers and bunnies, while that moron Joan Baez belts out an unmistakably 60-ish tune, with lyrics that are probably about love and understanding and some such crap. (Don't get me wrong, though the movie has a great soundtrack. Morons often produce good music; it's just like with movies.) A little later, SR reveals its back-to-nature theme, which - apart from Marxism - was essentially what hippie dogma was always all about. (Of course, only in theory, never in practice; hippies were, are, and always will be hypocrites.)In spite of all this, SR is a fun and very well-made movie. The PC environmental message comes from a distant-enough future setting, so it comes off as common-sense-based, rather than hysterically over-dramatic - which is usually the case with green films. (Boorman's silly jungle movie, Emerald Forrest, for example, but also Medicine Man, The Day After Tomorrow, and many others.) Even though Dern kills his shipmates, he does not come off as a foam-at-the-mouth rabid environMentalist, but his actions are totally justified, hence the viewer sympathizes with him. (Especially Al Gore, who might have posters of Dern's Lowell plastered all over his villa walls.) The special effects and the sets in particular were ahead of their time; the influence of 2001 is quite obvious. (Trumbull worked on that movie, as well, so it's no surprise.) SR has a very good visual quality and the film-makers succeeded in creating a unique feel.The story may be slow for some MTV-generation jokers, but that's exactly how this movie had to be written/paced in order to be effective. "},{"Title":"Alone in space with Joan Baez?  Scarier than ALIEN....","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS I will warn you of spoilers ahead in compliance with IMDb rules, but the chances of spoiling anything in this goofball movie are extremely slim. Trust me when I say that there are no surprises in this movie.SILENT RUNNING fits into that humanity-has-broken-the-Earth sci-fi genre. Instead of the nuclear apocalypse or disease that has devastated the planet in movies like MAD MAX or PLANET OF THE APES or THE OMEGA MAN, the planet has been rendered devoid of plants and trees by rampant overconsumption of resources.  For some reason, the powers that be have sent several ships into space with biospheres containing deserts, forests, etc. to protect them. Our protagonist is a gardener of sorts on one of these space ships.  He has been placed with a crew of three other reckless louts who seem to delight in wrecking his beloved plants and can't understand his love of fresh fruit, especially cantaloupe.  (I swear!  I'm not making any of this up!)  The hero is pushed over the edge when the government on Earth orders the biospheres to be destroyed.  The solution?  Kill the humans and run away with the trees.  That results in over 60 minutes of nothing but Bruce Dern sharing screen time with the least cute androids ever created and the sounds of Joan Baez singing.  There is absolutely nothing interesting or edifying about this movie.  It is illogical, silly, strained, awkward and, most of all, dull.  Absolutely nothing happens once the shipmates are dead.  It makes no sense even as a warning tale.  It's hippie-dippy nonsense that seems to be saying that humans need to be careful of our resources and then plasters shipping containers in the ship with the logos of multi-national corporations like Coke and Dow Chemical as though these corporations are somehow contributing to saving the trees in space.  (There are even acknowledgments at the end of the movie thanking the companies that loaned their corporate brands to the filmmakers.)  And why would anyone send the trees into space?  Would someone really say, Hey, we're almost out of trees.  Let's send the last of them into space so we'll be completely out of them!  The murdered shipmates even point out that the treeless Earth has reached a point where there is no poverty, sickness or hunger, and yet our hero seems to want a return to earlier times because people could eat fresh fruit.  This is the same kind of logic that allowed people in the late 60's and early 70's to eat health food while taking heroin.  Top it off with some of Joan Baez's least interesting, preachiest songs and you have a movie that is so bad it doesn't even have camp value.Just horrible.... "},{"Title":"Surely one of the most boring sci-fi movie ever made !!!","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and that is saying something, since its seems that producers tend to (falsely) believe that sci-fi is a genre where you can go along with a stinky plot because the audience will be thrilled by the special FX. The first twenty minutes you almost believe you are watching a movie (even though the one dimensional characters and cheesy script rapidly fill you with a sense of foreboding).But once the Bruce Dern character makes his choice, he has literally nowhere to go (and so does the movie). So we are stuck watching a man spiraling into depression and failure, spending his time in mostly futile endeavors i.e, lecturing or playing with pieces of equipment (robots... That theme might have been interesting (a certainly original, if a little bit somber) the story of a man that is willing to sever ties with the rest of humanity (including the murder of other human beings) for what he considers a good cause..... And finds out that, alone as no human being has ever been, you just can't live at all.Had it been the filmmakers real intent, and if someone of the caliber of Ingmar Bergman had been directing, this movie might have been ambitious and meaningful.But it is clearly not what this movie is about and the only emotion conveyed by this film is a sense of pointlessness and massive boredom. The Bruce Dern character just fails to reach whatever were his goals and when reality catches him, he just commits suicide leaving a machine doing his works in his stead  obviously an illusory solution, as we well imagine that, at some point in the future, the ark he lets adrift in space will experience mechanical failure, and his sacrifice will have been in vain. The sad story of a complete looser in space... Defitinely not a film that people suffering of depression should watch.As why some people seem to have loved this movie, it remains a mystery to me. My guess is that, at the time of its release the environment theme was a novelty. And the fact that a man could choose the side of nature against the side of humankind, was probably perceived as daring and groundbreaking. For the sake of the message the people were probably willing to suspend any sense of disbelief, and willed themselves to see a happy ending.But what remains today, are the fatal flaws in the plot, the implausible behavior of its hero and the inescapable fact that nothing of substance happens during at least two-third of the movie..On a personal note  Some friends and I organized a night of the worst movie each of us had to come with one movie (we restricted the field to the Horror/Fantastic/sci-fi genre. Well Silent Running (my candidate) won, hands down, in spite of a very stiff competition ) ! (I was personally very much impressed by Starcrash ), but the complete sense of pointlessness of silent running ultimately won the day ! "},{"Title":"Lack of Scientific Coherence","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are many reasons why I'm giving this low score to the film. Although it brings us a nice message about our natural environment and its preservation, many points in this movie annoyed me deeply. In my opinion, the biggest problem of the movie is the lack of scientific coherence. For example, in the movie, the crew lives inside that ship just as if they were in Earth's gravity, but there is no explanation or device that could create such gravity. Explosions in the space make loud sounds, although sound waves do not propagate in vacuum. OK, you can argue this is a fiction movie and in a fiction unimaginable things happen; but these things are more than unimaginable, they are scientifically incoherent. Also the reason why the ships with those forests were in the orbit of Saturn is not explained and seems a complete nonsense to me.Other reason for the low score is that some scenes are boring, stupid and add nothing to the movie. Seems they were filmed only to occupy time. The robots seems to be homemade, just like some scenes. In my view, the positive points of the film are only two the special effects are good for a movie made in 1972, and the message the it brings is nice. I watched this movie because Arthur C. Clarke mentioned it the epilogue of the book 2001 Space Odissey, but I'm really disappointed. I expected more from a movie cited by one of the more incredible science fiction books ever written. "},{"Title":"I feel so betrayed","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I feel so betrayed by IMDb! I only gave this movie a chance because so many reviewers claimed this it was a brilliant classic that stands the test of time. Instead I found it to be a trite, poorly executed film that took important topics and packaged them into one of the most drawn out movies ever made.The acting was the worst I've seen in a long time (and keep in mind this is after I saw Justin Timberlake in another film, so that's a real insult for Silent Running). Despite me agreeing with the points of the lead character he still came off as a complete nutjob in the delivery. While the director attempted to make him sympathetic I found the opposite to be true; I grew to dislike him more and more as the movie went on.I know this might be a trivial observation but Bruce Dern's hair was so frizzy and poorly cut that it drove me to distraction (all the human characters were like this but the lead was the worst). I know this was the early 70's but come on. I hope the stylist was laughed out of LA when this hit the box office. Even though I don't require that a lead character be overly attractive, I do ask that he at least be tolerable to look at, especially if he's the only human left after 20 minutes of the film's beginning. I think I winced for a solid hour having to look at Bruce Dern's frumpy features and undefined&#133; everything. Could anyone relate to this guy even back then? Everything else about this movie was probably as bad as the choice of lead character. The special effects were really under funded (every spaceship shot was glaringly a cardboard/foam model, the point of embarrassment). The robot characters were supposed to come off as either cute or at least multi-dimensional; I found them to be neither (maybe this was back when giving robots a personality in movies was the cool thing to do and thus the audience ate it up). Finally, the music score is gut-wrenching.I honestly cannot think of one thing I liked about this movie. "},{"Title":"Utter, utter crap","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is absolutely nothing in this b-movie that makes it worth your while watching! Nothing! Absolutely nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing! Nothing in this movie is good! The set, the scenery, the script, the actors! Everything in this movie is bad and a waste of the time it takes to watch! So, if you like to see bad movie and to become bored out of your mind, then go ahead. This is the movie for you. It is unbelievable that a movie like this have been made at all! It is incomprehensible that the script writer and the actors actually have been paid to do this, as it should be you that should be paid for enduring the torment of watching. It is utter garbage, crap. Feel free to pick any descriptive noun as long as it refers to something negative. Unbelievable, just unbelievable! "}]