[{"Title":"Conquest of the Planet of the Apes (1972) ***","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" *** out of ****Taking place some 18 years after ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES, this fourth chapter in the consistently entertaining series is another good one that benefits from an extra strong performance in the chimp makeup by Roddy McDowall. The actor now assumes the challenging role of his own son, Caesar; or rather, the now-grown, angry but clever offspring of Zira and Cornelius, who survived his own assassination attempt at the climax of the previous movie.It's now the year 1991 (no, not the same '91 that we all experienced, but actually an altered version for the next time it comes 'round, having been changed by the arrival of Zira and Cornelius and their events of ESCAPE). The world has become different due to a mysterious virus brought back to Earth from the astronauts (maybe Zira & Cornelius themselves from their future?); as a result, dogs and cats have become extinct while apes increase in stature and rate of intelligence and ability to learn. To replace their lost pets, a business called APE MANAGEMENT (which I presume to be a franchise throughout the world) has been established to train gorillas, chimpanzees and orangutans to serve humans in their homes, as waiters, sweepers, bed-makers, and general servants.Ricardo Montalban is good as a kindly circus owner who brings Caesar into this new environment, but the young chimp must be careful not to reveal that he is actually the notorious talking ape who threatened humanity two decades earlier. Yet, as Caesar becomes increasingly angrier by the acts of bondage he witnesses among his fellow primates, he launches a full-scale riot to overthrow the community and bring humans to their knees. He is motivated by an all-consuming hatred and wages bloody war as the first step, possibly, to world domination on other continents. And that's just the point - some viewers say that the battle in CONQUEST is on such a relatively small scale that they can't see how the apes would, or could, take over the world. But if you pay close attention, the vengeful Caesar only considers this encounter a beginning, not an all-out apocalyptic defeat of all of mankind in one night! It's easy to gradually come down on this series as it goes along, pointing to the obvious lower budgets and so forth, but director J. Lee Thompson does a great job utilizing the futuristic look of the real-life Century City Complex to pull off a feeling of a city out of tomorrow.I won't deny that more money could have made this film even better (God knows the pull-over ape masks for the extras are certainly obvious), but I feel it's McDowall's energetic and intense performance that elevates this to a higher level than its budget alone would allow. Don Murray as the evil governor is perhaps a little too theatrical, but Severn Darden is quietly contemptible as his more reserved assistant, Kolp (who would return in the next and final chapter of the saga). Reportedly, preview audiences found the original ending too violent, so McDowall was called in to loop more humane lines of dialogue over some non-matching closeups for the movie's official release. It would be great to see a restored version with the actual ending one day**. But even as it stands, CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES has more than enough action, humor and drama to make it a winner considering it's a fourth sequel.**EDITED UPDATE -- In 2008, a Blu-ray Special Edition was released which featured, for the very first time, the original version of the movie. It features several gruesome, bloody, and violent moments which were cut out of the Theatrical Version. Also restored was the more downbeat ending. My review stands for either version of CONQUEST, but die-hard fans of the series really owe it to themselves to check out the Unrated Cut! "},{"Title":"Roddy's great in next terrific sequel (but people still don't seem to get it)","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ***  out of  ****Roddy McDowall gives maybe his best APES performance as Caesar, an intelligent chimpanzee stuck in a time he was never meant to live in.Nearly twenty years after ESCAPE..., Caesar has learned that apes have become household servants for humans to use. Their stature has increased, and their learning abilities too. Though no reason is given in the film (a typical criticism by some viewers) one may presume that the mysterious plague which killed all dogs and cats somehow had an effect on primates. Even Ricardo Montalban's character says  the pets became larger...and larger...until now......Soon, Caesar sees himself as a savior who can lead the apes out of their bondage and assert their independence. He leads the charge as the apes revolt and take over, apparently planting a seed that could eventually grow into the world we saw in the original PLANET OF THE APES classic.The film again is intelligent, and action-packed. It's true that by today's over-blown standards, the ape revolt can't look as awesome as it did in 1972...but the focus here is on the character of Caesar, an ape from another time who is not responsible for what he is, and who has to stifle his anger over the state of his fellow simians and cope with his situation.CONQUEST is good, solid science fiction.  "},{"Title":"Conquest of the Planet of the Apes - The best of the Best!","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is by far the best ape film of the series.The powerful performance by Roddy McDowall is riveting, I have never been so touched by a performance. This picture has a similar feeling to Romero's Dawn of the Dead. Roddy is by far a superior performer than Heston. It is A grade low budget cinema at it's best.The timing of the picture is also on par. I really thought I was watching an apocalyptic thriller set in the 90's (the vision of the future). This movie is way ahead of it's time. Much respect to the writers and directors for making such a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"One of the few perfect tens I've ever given.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On a scale of one to ten, this is one of the few perfect tens I've ever given. Roddy McDowell returns to the Planet of the Apes franchise as Caesar, known in the previous film, albeit briefly, as Milo, newborn son of Zira and Cornelius. This is the apocalyptic tale of the slavery that eventually leads to man's final end. The cruelty in this film is so harsh, so harshly real. This film was returned again and again from the censors. They refused to release it without cuts. The cuts were made and yet still this film feels to me to be one of the most harshly realistic films I've ever seen. I pride myself on my inability to be shocked. Yet this film struck right through all the layers of protection my life has wrapped me in.The riot scenes were so stunningly authentic. One needs not change much to find oneself staring at our own violent past. Let us hope that it will not be, as some have feared, our future as well.It inspired me. In a very Shakespearean way. The reconditioning camps... the men dressed like soldiers of the Reich... the cruelty... the electrocutions... the conspiracies of men in power...Conquest of the Planet of the Apes was made with a very limited budget. Caesar's prosthetics works were the only high grade appliances in the film. But it works very much with what it had. And it has a finely crafted story. Several steps removed from the rampant idealism of Escape from the Planet of the Apes, Conquest deals with the rage that was bound to result from those events. This is a most important metaphor. A most important film.If all films were made with such unrestrained passion, with such verve, we would all be better off. Also it was interesting to me to watch this film because I as able to see inspiration and how it works between peers. Recently I had the oppurtunity to read George Romero's first draft to Day of the Dead -DRASTICLY different from the project that culminated. There were many scenes of the undead legions separated into units, red overalls and green overalls, learning different skills. Being taught. Very similar in every respect to the ape conditioning sequences in this film. In the end, Romero's film works better WITHOUT those sequences, but still it is quite interesting to be able to see from whence some ideas spring.Digression aside, this is a very potent film. One that teaches us, if allowed, much about our humanity. Excellent reprisal performance by Ricardo Montalban. Performance by Roddy McDowell of such a high calibre that it makes up for his relative absence in the previous feature.Wonderfully adept script by Paul Dehn. Visionary direction by J. Lee Thompson, known for his excellence in his field. Thompson has also been responsible for such highly regarded films as the original Cape Fear and The Guns of the Navarone.I wish there were more films like this, more films that just go balls to the wall and are so unabashedly free. This movie is not afraid to be what it is. It makes no apologies for the violence it's heroes are forced to resort to. Nor should it. Sometimes bad things happen. And sometimes good men must take to arms to stop the bad men from taking over.I fear, knowing the result. Knowing the new regime is no better than it's predecessor. The true fear of any freedom fighter.This will be a film that I watch over and over and over again. "},{"Title":"Bleh!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was okay but severely marred by unbelievable human behavior and concepts.   Rating 4/10As a science fiction fan, I can easily suspend disbelief about various scientific concepts (ie intelligently evolved apes travel back in time and conceive a child(chimp), force-field doors, etc...)  However, when various common sense concepts and human behavior are flawed it usually ruins the movie for me.  Just a 'few' examples from this film*spoilers** Concept How did apes change so drastically in such a short period of time, to become bigger and more intelligent in a mere 20 years?  This is not even alluded to in any way.  Had they made reference to or alluded to Bio-engineering, or the virus having killed all cats and dogs causing this, perhaps I would have found it acceptable, however they did not explain this even in the slightest.   Mere selective breeding would not permit such rapid change in 20 years.  Since we already have some understanding of evolution, such rapid development should have been explained (if only in a single sentence).   Note since we have no understanding of backward time-travel, it does not need to be explained.* Human Behavior  Why, knowing what Corneilus and Zira told them about the future, would mankind and human government permit the keeping of apes as pets and eventual slaves, while increasing their intelligence and capabilities?    I could see if this happened a hundred or more years down the road, but 20 years after the intelligent apes arrive from the future and tell how apes rule the planet and subjagate humans, mankind is purposely making apes more intelligent and capable.  It's absurd.* Concept/Behavior With such an oppressive and militaristic 1984'esque government, how are they so easily overrun by apes, which seem to have their every move watched except for their collection of an arsenal of weapons.   In a similar vein, how is it that such a society has a system in which apes take simple notes of paper to businesses to retrieve things for their owners (including a firearm and amunition?)A science fiction film does not need to explain every single concept, but for those things which are not explained they need to make some degree of sense to our understanding of the way things work and human beings behave. "},{"Title":"Dramatic and intense followup  in which simians undergo a rebellion  at a climatic final","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 4th movie in the series initiated by ¨Planet of Apes¨ that at time of its release regarded as the most extraordinary Scifi in years, in which he simians turn the tables when they carry out a riot in this acceptable but lackluster sequel in which humans battle the apes led by Caesar . Again the Apes along with a modern civilization of human beings living in future , a distant year 1990 and occurs twenty years after the deaths of Cornelius and Zira, the chimpanzees couple who fled the future destruction of Earth by traveling a spacecraft . Passable and stirring science-fiction movie with a first rate Roddy McDowall who plays here the son of the character he first created and special intervention of Ricardo Montalban as kindly circus owner who's hidden him from the humans for long time . This known story is the fourth of the primates sequels, saga that had begun little years before ; it starts on a culture where humans rule over simians and they are divided in three lineage  gorilla , chimpanzee and orangutan . A plague has murdered cats and dogs and people adopted apes as pets , began using them as workers, waiters and hard employments . Militaristic governor (Don Murray) wishes apes to be treated as animal of burden and regarded as scum , slaves and torturing them into submission. The chimpanzee leader named Caesar( Roddy McDowall) meets Lisa (Natalie Trundy replacing the usual Kim Hunter) and falls in love with her . Caesar itching a coup de état but at the ending he thinks otherwise and even agree a peaceful existence with humans . Caesar is son of Cornelius and Zira from ¨Escape from the planet of apes¨ and turns into leader in this ¨Conquest of the Planet of the apes¨ , attempting to ease disputes between apes and men . Meantime , mean gorillas murder violently every human in sight . At the ending happens a spectacular , fierce confrontation between a human army ruled by governor and the simians commanded by Caesar .This is an average , lackluster sci-fi flick plenty of metaphysical significance with thoughtful reflexion about origin of human being , racism , political pursuit, apartheid, though also packs action, intrigue and entertainment . Although several elements of the screenplay strain credibility to the limit the story turns out to be pretty interesting and amusing . It happens a parallelism between US racial tension ( Kent State slaughter, revolts in York ,Pennsylvania, 1969, and Camden, New Jersey , 1971) and the events described on the flick . Roddy McDowall's distinctive features prove to be recognisable even under John Chambers' wonderful ape make-up . The performers , particularly Roddy McDowall who provides the sturdy central pivot the tale surely needs , Natalie Trundy and Don Murray are pretty good , the characters are well drawn and in spite of makeup they are still oddly convincing . In spite of time and being mostly a regular follow-up of the former stories , some moments of energy remain and results to be a B movie full of action, battles and suspense . Writing credits by habitual Paul Dehn based on the characters from Pierre Boulle novel , however his screenplay is not just clever and was cut , eliminating some violent revolt scenes and obligated to pacific ending . Nice production design with interior sets taken from ¨Voyage to the bottom of the sea¨ and ¨Time tunnel ¨ produced by Irwin Allen and with great visual effects . One of the important attributes of this work, is the magnificent and luminous cinematography by Bruce Surtees who previously did such a good job for Clint Eastwood . Phenomenal creative make-up design by John Chambers, a first-rate expert . Fine musical score though imitating sounds from the great Jerry Goldsmith .The picture is lack budgeted by usual Arthur P. Jacobs , producer of whole saga, along with 2oth Century Fox . It's full of fury and sound , being professionally directed by J. Lee Thompson during four weeks in Los Angeles , at University and a lavish commercial development , using sometimes a nice visual sense. It's followed by ¨Battle for the planet of Apes¨ and a short-lived TV series, in with Roddy McDowall is again on hand as simian to sustain our interest and feeling . "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel, with some sharp writing.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"       Conquest Of The Planet Of The Apes is actually a good movie.  One could argue that it's a case of good writing in the face of a pathetically low budget, ala Star Trek.  The future city in the film was actually a then-new business complex in L.A., on the verge of completion.  The producers lucked out and got permission to shoot there.  This was good, because the studio had alloted said producers a ridiculously low budget, something like 1.7 million dollars, to make the movie.  The tiny budget especially shows through in the special effects and the props check out the authenticator, used to make Ricardo Montalban's character tell the truth to the goverment heavies, which looks like a dining room hanging lamp with a blue bulb inside.  Money problems aside, Conquest Of The Planet Of The Apes is still entertaining, and makes some pointed observations about real-life society in the process.  Just overlook the only-in-'72 turtlenecks, afros and push-button phones with the cords removed.  -). "},{"Title":"My sister was 5 years old when we saw Conquest.","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My dad doesn't recall her going, but I remember she did. Our family didn't always attend Disney flicks. The opening credits sequence had to have scared her, even I was little unnerved. Back in 1972, this was the must see film of the summer. I have always been impressed with the opening credits. The way J. Lee Thompson choreographed the emergence of the apes from around a corner of the Century City Plaza, never ceases to amaze me. Tom Scott's underrated jazz/avant-garde score is perfect for this sequence. A dissonant chord is heard on the soundtrack North America, 1991. First we see one gorilla, then another, and then another, until finally we see an enormous band of them. I think this is one of the best openings in screen history. Later on, Scott's music wonderfully captures the sheer violence of the ape rebellion. I can never forget the musical cue for the guard with the flame thrower. I like Caesar's speech at the end--even if the tone was changed. And that crazy matte painting of the skyscraper engulfed in fire even startled my girl friend. A job well done. "},{"Title":"The most gore-filled action packed 'Apes' films of all!!","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" By 1972 Planet of the Apes was one of the most successful film series in the world. The franchise was huge and 20th Century Fox kept making on newer adventures. I tend not to call them sequels unless they copy the first film in a certain way. It is no doubt that Conquest is the most violent of the 'Apes' films and is the only one to bear a PG rating..... CUT! Yes, that is right the chances are that you yourself have viewed the US cut version which contains less violence and gore. When the film was released the previous 'Apes' films were all rated G, so in order not to pull away too much of the family audience for the series it was cut to avoid getting an R rating (there was no PG-13 in 1972). However, in Japan it was released uncut. The uncut first made its debut in the US on the 20th Century Fox movie channel when the ran an 'Apes' marathon in tribute to the 40th anniversary to the first film. This was right when the films were released on Blu-Ray discs. You can only find the uncut version of 'Conquest' on the Blu-Ray disc where it also gives you the cut version as well. Any DVD release of this is cut. But, looking back at all the 'Apes' films and their ratings, I'd say that they would all be rated PG today (excluding 'Conquest' even cut would likely get a PG-13). Back then the MPAA was either real 'loose' at rating films or real strict.'Conquest' follows the story of Corneilius and Zira's son, Caesear who is the only ape on earth with ability of speech and high intelligence. Cats and Dogs have been wiped out by a previous plague and the apes replace them as household pets which they later turn into slaves. After Caesear's owner from the circus, Armando (Richardo Montalban) commits suicide in fear of the powerful government finding him being responsible for Caesear (a talking ape for the governors stands a threat to civilization). Caesear then goes on a rampage of gathering fellow apes and weapons to organize a revolution or riot to overthrow the humans responsible for their slavery. This leads to tons of entertaining action that keeps on the edge of your seat for the remainder of the film. This one is probably the more mature 'Apes' films next to Escape From The Planet of the Apes (1971).A lot of people really don't get this films and consider it to be just a bombardment of mindless violence and a meaningless story line. It's not. This is a real good introduction to the character of Caesear and shows how he develops into the apes future leader. It really is a powerful story in which it echoes to the past of our country's slavery, except here it takes place in the future. It's also interesting to see how much the future of humanity has changed from the previous film's adventure. In a special way the Planet of the Apes films are like time travel films, in where the future and past is changed. The first 'Apes' films I ever saw was this one, while looking back it probably wasn't a good idea because I didn't understand anything and the only I liked was the violence (I was a kid when I saw it). So I encourage you to see this incredible series of films and think to yourself could this really ever happen....... "},{"Title":"Aiming to imitate the first movie...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  These movies are a mixed bag to say the least and it doesn't pay to scrutinise several incongruities...but they are enjoyable none the less.Conquest for the Planet of the Apes, the fourth in the series, covers the 'pre-history' of the first movie, where the apes first start to gain some ascendancy in the world of humans. And like the first movie (and to a lesser degree the second) it actually strives to make a social statement AND does a decent job.  Parallels are drawn between the apes struggle against slavery to humans and the struggle for civil rights of black people in America with the ape riot scene intended to imitate a famous riot in the sixties.  The point is well made considering the censorship restrictions on violence and the touchy nature of the underlying subject matter - a topic well discussed today but not overtly talked about in 1972.  The result is daring, well-made (the riot is stunning) and well-meaning, but sometimes a little clumsy.Some fairly elementary things are overlooked, as well, such as the fact that in the first movie the apes were evolved by 2000 years thus excusing their very human bearing, but here, in the 'future' of 1991, they are just supposed to be apes with clothes on...doesn't quite work.All in all, though, an entertaining film and a good showcase for Roddy McDowall's real acting abilities.  7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"It tries, but not well enough","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film's low budget really does it in.  The make-up that had worked so well in the first film looks cheap and phony here.  The script is half-baked and if you think about it, kind of tasteless.  They should have been more subtle with that equating blacks with apes thing.  The film is well-directed and its fast pace helps, but it really needed to be better mounted and given a longer running time to develop its story.  As it is it's just not very convincing and even more than a little silly.  And when I look at a good actor like Roddy McDowall all hunched-over in that make-up, I have to wonder, Did he really need the gig that much? "},{"Title":"Forget the politics! Enjoy the movie!","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forget the social commentary and the comparisons to real life struggles and enjoy Conquest for what it is. A film about apes with machine guns! Conquest is the violent one of the sequels and is all the better for it. Roddy Mcdowall gives his strongest performance as the simmering Caesar, on a personal mission to lead his comrades to freedom. The means to achieve this? Revolution! We see apes gathering hatchets (disturbing), apes gathering knives and apes gathering guns for what will lead to a bloody confrontation with those nasty humans. Ricardo Montalban returns and his performance is definitely a high point. He also exits the film from a high point... This one was not filmed in the usual Panavision(R), but filmed in TODD AO 35, which gives the film a slightly different look. Gorillas in boiler suits! Gotta love this movie. "},{"Title":"The birth of the planet of the apes.","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" We may think that from what we see Damn the continuity all to Hell and most truthfully.in the famous words of the zpota website Also & why not @ the same time that we see that both the apes Cornelius & Zira may've sped up the history of which they told happened centuries later via traveling through time it still doesn't make sense because it would be recalled later in time that Cornelius & Zira's son had caused the takeover? The zpota website also starts off as you'll see with the Quote Monkeying around with the timeline.My family & I were in hysterics as the apes got to revolt against their master's due to Caeser's evil eye like when the ape turned the shoe polish brush from the shoe to the sock.Later on we see when the ape in the restaurant took the knifes away.Caeser finishes out the film with his speech in conclusion saying for tonight you've seen the birth of the Planet of the apes.But the best is yet to come on the Battle sect of which is why as you'll see I couldn't even wait to get there first.Check out Planet of the apes #19 by Malibu Graphics with the follow-up to this of which was presented as a missing link to the original Movie. Including a follow-up from this movie of the TV commentator saying ....This Chimpanzee is believed to be the child of the two talking chimpanzees; Corneilius and Zira-who came to us from outer space 20 years ago. Thus proving they were trying to conceal the fact that through the same time warp that Taylor went into the future,Corneilus and Zira came from the future & despite the knowledge of their killer who had also got killed.Truthfully, Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste. "},{"Title":"The best of the original Ape sequels","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1961, writer Rod Sterling was asked what he'd most like to write about next? He responded I'd like to do a definitive study of segregation, from the Negro's point of view. Several years later Sterling would write Planet of the Apes, soon turned into a 1968 film by Franklin Schaffner. A giant what if the shoe were on the other foot? parable, the film finds a chauvinistic American astronaut (Charlton Heston) stranded on a planet ruled by apes. Here he's forced to experience racial discrimination of a type once reserved for blacks.Much of Planet of the Apes consisted of a hierarchical society of monkeys, apes and gorillas enslaving and persecuting white humans, actions which they justify along bio-genetic lines. Ironically, though it was intended to show support for African Americans, Planet came under attack from activists and black leaders. The film, some argued, re-inscribed racial conflict as species conflict (black/monkey vs white/human), and hinged on physical difference as the point of struggle. The film also played into issues of skin-colour hierarchy, making lighter apes more intelligent than their darker, more uncivilised counterparts. Others would argue that the film endorsed various racist interpretations of biological evolution; the belief that Africans are closer to animal than man, and that primates occupy the border zones between mythic poles. In this view, apes and Africans are liminal creatures, simultaneously like and unlike human beings, located between nature and civilisation, origin and destination. These contradictions have led to the film being labelled either well-meaning or reactionary, pandering to white fears of black uprisings and loss of racial dominance. This, after all, was a period of time in which some believed that black liberation struggles would threaten the security of white racial hegemony.Regardless, Charlton Heston is fittingly cast as our white hero. Heston made a career starring in epics in which Western and non-Western interests collide. In Gunfighter Nation The myth of the frontier in 20th century America, for example, cultural historian Richard Slotkin states that the typical Heston character was a hard and self-willed White male hero, an ultra conservative who stands for the highest values of civilisation and progress but who is typically besieged from without by non-white savages who greatly outnumber him and beset from within by the decadence, corruption and softness of his own society. Indeed, in the sixties Heston seemed to be perpetually fighting to defend an outpost on the margins of Western civilisation from barbaric onslaughts (The Naked Jungle, El City, 55 Days at Peking, Khartoum etc).Planet of the Apes was brilliantly directed by Franklin J. Schaffner, who treats us to some wonderful widescreen photography and a couple fine action sequences. Its sequel was Beneath the Planet of the Apes, directed by Ted Post. Filled with apocalyptic imagery (lots of radiation, nuclear war, disease), the film portrayed its society of apes, the winners in a war between monkey and man, as having become as classist, racist, warmongering and destructive as white humans. Rod Sterling's metaphors are henceforth complicated; both the white man and ape at different points of the franchise's time-line represent both white hegemony and persecuted blacks. Apes, we then learn, were once slaves to humans, just as humans are now slaves to apes. The first two films in the franchise also hinge on a big secret the ape society is covering up the fact that human civilisation existed before ape civilisations and that apes are descended from humans. The implication, depending how literally you regard the film's dubious ape/minority metaphors and reversals, is that whites shamefully regard themselves as having evolved from blacks.The next film in the franchise, Escape from the Planet of the Apes sees a group of intellectual apes travelling back in time. They arrive on Earth, where they are abused by a paranoid military industrial complex which kills them all, except for one ape child, Caesar.J. Lee Thompson's Conquest of the Planet of the Apes followed. The best sequel in the franchise, the film sees a now adult Caesar leading a revolution (based on the Watts race riots) against a humanity which is attempting to turn apes into slaves. Significantly, Caesar's army of apes learns to talk. Their first word is no, a command which refers to the apes' abhorrence of weapons and violence. Next came Battle for the Planet of the Apes, again directed by Thompson. Here, within a post-nuclear society, an ageing Caesar struggles to combat ape factions which want to wipe out all of humanity. Caesar, in contrast, fights for peaceful coexistence. Caesar wins, leading to a long period of peace between man and monkey.So each ape film film is built around the conflict between a racially dominant oppressive group and a racially subordinate oppressed group seeking survival, harmony or reversal of domination. Each film also presents mediating figures &#x96; typically marginalised and at odds with the oppressing group - who intervene in the conflict, challenge systems and act as advocates of harmony. The advocates of peace rarely prevail and hostility always results in apocalyptic violence.The ape franchise would be rebooted in 2011 with Rise of the Planet of the Apes. A post-racial film, Rise's cast is filled with a cocktail of African Americans, whites and Indo-Americans. For the first time in the franchise, metaphor is replaced by literalism. Here, literal apes are literally rebelling against the literal animal cruelty (chemical testing) directed against them by literal scientists. Typically (mis?)read in light of post-financial crisis protests, the film ends with apes, led by Caesar, escaping their cages for the trees of local forests. Here, segregation is in everyone's best interest and Caesar concludes that separation is natural. The apes, now free, have returned to their correct, natural and separate place. For now.8/10 - Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"The apes are taking over!","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Third sequel to the original Planet of the Apes film from 1968. After the overall lighter tone from its predecessor Escape from the Planet of the Apes (1971), the franchise takes a much darker turn in this film, as we finally witness the origin of the apes and their hatred towards mankind. In the not too distant future (1991, so don't worry, it didn't happen), a mysterious disease has wiped out all cats and dogs, so apes are kept as replacements pets, but are soon found to be more suitable for slave labour and as such are ruthlessly exploited by their human overlords in a gritty dystopian setting. The son of former 'future apes' Zira and Cornelius, dubbed Caesar (played by Roddy McDowall, who previously performed Cornelius as well) by his human surrogate father (all too small part for Ricardo 'Khan' Montalban), finds himself without his protector who is viciously brutalized and killed by the human regime &#x96; it's not an all too happy future for humans either &#x96; after which he finds himself amongst his fellow simians and becomes their Messiah. Under Caesar's command, the apes rise in revolt and violence sweeps the nation as they fight for their freedom and start a conflict that will change the fate of the world. Easily the most controversial and most violent entry into the franchise, as the provocative display of abused and chained apes evokes haunting imagery of human slavery based on racial segregation, which is of course a parallel that has driven the continuing overall plot since the first film, but is most effectively fleshed out here. It is also painfully reminiscent of the race riots of the late sixties and early seventies, something the writers sure were aware of. Despite its convincing and intriguing social parallels, the fairly limited budget and resulting small scale look of the film hinder the impact of the story on a visual level for looking so cheap. Plus, the clear delineation between good apes and bad humans makes for pretty two-dimensional, oversimplified characterization. The plot was partially appropriated to great acclaim by the latest Planet of the Apes reboot, Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011), thankfully resulting in grander imagery. "},{"Title":"Conquest Surpasses Bad Reputation of POTA Sequels","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" With most movie franchises, the sequels are often inferior to the originals. While this may also be true for the 'Planet of The Apes' series, the fourth entry in the franchise surpasses the rest. While it may not have been as much of a ground-breaking success as 'Planet of the Apes', 'Conquest' had a social commentary that still resonates today, much like the original. This movie has two different endings, but the best of the two is the Unrated version. 'Conquest' has wonderful special effects, the best of the series. With a wonderful performance by Roddy McDowell as Caesar, this movie is fantastic. Don't ignore the sequels simply because of their bad reputation, give these films a chance. "},{"Title":"Ape slavery!","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Set in 1991 when apes have been domesticated; first as pets then as slaves one ape will rise up and lead the others in revolt. That ape is the chimpanzee Caesar born of Zera and Cornelius; the two apes that returned from the future in 'Escape from the Planet of the Apes'. Caesar escaped detection for years in a circus; the only man who knew he could talk was Armando the circus owner&#x85; that is until he sees the way that apes are treated in the city and shouts out against it. Armando claims that it was he who spoke and tells Caesar to hide amongst other apes while he sorts things out with the police. Caesar hides amongst a new consignment of apes and is purchased by the governor; it is while working in his control room that he learns that Armando has died in custody. He know knows what he must do to end the mistreatment of apes; he must start a revolution! Initially with small acts of defiance but soon after with full scale armed insurrection. The question is; when he has won will he and his fellow apes be any better than the humans they have overthrown.This film packs plenty of action into its short run time without skimping on plot. The film makes no attempt to disguise the fact that it is an allegory for the evils of slavery nor does it leave us in any doubt that the apes are the good guys in this story&#x85; the creators even dressed the police in Nazi-like uniforms. Roddy McDowall, who played Cornelius in the original film, returns as his son Caesar in this film and does a good job under the heavy ape make up. Talking of make up it seems less effective than it did in the first two films as then it was possible to believe that somehow the apes had evolved to look how they do; here we are expected to accept that these are real apes as they are today&#x85; and nobody could be fooled for a second that these weren't people in costume. Once one has suspended ones disbelief about that however the story is gripping in a way that leads one to care about the characters. If you enjoyed previous films in the series I'm sure you will enjoy this one too. "},{"Title":"It would have been better if I were 8.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was a kid back in the 70's, Planet of the Apes movies were a big deal.  I even had the toy action figures.  I threw 'em away long ago.  I wonder how much they would be worth now. -(  However, I never caught this film; it's the one that describes how the apes came to begin their domination of the world.  It plays out like a mediocre 1970's sci-fi tv show. The performances are simplistic; the ape makeup, though still impressive, is a bit lazy.  (Some of the foreground, not just background, extras seem to be simply wearing masks.)  The action scenes are more confusing than exciting.  However, as a piece in the puzzle of the Apes saga it is a must-see.  It answers some questions leftover from earlier movies and sets up the next film in the series.  However, if you only have the chance to see one Apes film, see the original with Charlton Heston, not this one. "},{"Title":"If it is man's destiny to be dominated, it is God's will that they be dominated with compassion!","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is not only the best Apes sequel, it is also one of the best films i have ever seen. The story takes place in 1991, 8 years after a plague mysteriously killed all cats and dogs thus the humans resulted in using the apes as their pets. As time goes on, they realize that the apes can adapt to perform tasks so humanity enslaves the apes. Milo(later on Caeser, played by Roddy McDowall) is the son of Cornelius and Zira,two intelligent apes that came from the future but were brutally murdered. He later on calls for revolution and it goes on from there. This film by far is the most violent in the series. Watch the unrated cut but the theatrical cut is good too. This is one of the most underrated movies ever. This film also gives social commentary but I won't reveal anymore, but believe me, this is the best Apes sequel. "},{"Title":"Talk about a nightmarish future!","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the future looks bleak, it's very bleak! In Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, it's like the 18th century only more primal. The slaves are not humans, but apes(Gorillas, chimpanzees and orangutans) not only they are made into slaves, they are also taken over society's workforce by a tyrannical governor. The last surviving talking Caesar(Roddy McDowell) would be the chose one to rise above tyranny. Unknown o most of the crew Caesar is the only chimp who speaks. The reason for this kind of treatment to the apes, they are pets! They replaced the dog and cat, because of a strange plague that claimed the regular domesticated animals. Another reason for such actions is when the circus owner (Ricardo Montalban) sees the horror of everything, and he sacrifices himself to avoid further interrogations. Since Caesar is the hope for all apes, they rise up and gain the upper hand on Man. It's like when the slaves revolt against their masters, the pet revolt against the master who abuse it. We all hate slavery, but when it's not humans owning one another, ti doesn't seem to matter. This scifi movie isn't all stereotypical, it's just have their way of showing the evils of slavery, that's all! 2.5 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"A must see movie!!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a must see movie! Conquest for the Planet of the Apes, is such a great movie, and one can never get tired of watching it.Roddy McDowall stars as Cornelius' and Zira's son, Caesar, the young future ape.It shows has cruel humans can really be to animals, and it's so nice to watch the animals get back at the humans, for how inhumane they are to apes.Before you see this one, you should see, Planet of the Apes, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, and Escape from the Planet of the Apes.I rate this movie, (like all the Planet of the Apes movies) a perfect 10!You've gotta see it! "},{"Title":"A must see movie!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a must see movie! Conquest for the Planet of the Apes, is such a great movie, and one can never get tired of watching it.Roddy McDowall stars as Cornelius' and Zira's such, Caesar, the young future ape.It shows has cruel humans can really be to animals, and it's so nice to watch the animals get back at the humans, for how inhumane they are to apes.Before you see this one, you should see, Planet of the Apes, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, and Escape from the Planet of the Apes.I rate this movie, (like all the Planet of the Apes movies) a perfect 10!You've gotta see it! "},{"Title":"D+ A Disturbing Exercise in Table-Turning and Irony Squared","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The irony of the first legendary POTA movie was that everyone had to object to the way the humans were treated, when we did just as bad or far worse to our captive animals. Conquest, the brutal fourth installment of one of sci-fi's greatest franchises, finds irony in bringing us back to square one.Unfortunately, COTPOTA is the weakest chapter of all. One reason is probably the irony x irony mentioned above. However, that isn't the only reason. This film is populated with ew-don't-touch-me, chauvinistic humans and See, do apes. On the plus side, the actors in ape makeup did raise the bar in terms of simian arm-swinging. And Roddy McDowall, as Caesar, the one ape on Earth who can talk, is sort of like the angry Communist leader-pig in Orwell's Animal Farm, appalled by the wretched treatment of his fellows by their human captors but willing to do some dark, sadistic things to gain the upper hand. Ricardo Montalban is terrific as Armando, Caesar's only human friend, but his scenes are few and (generally) far between. Natalie Trundy (the POTA staple) strives for a genuine performance underneath her thick, mute chimpanzee character, but it doesn't come through. And Don Murray plays Governor Breck, Caesar's villainous foil, whose human superiority complex leads to much torture and violence.The climax of the film is the one key that unlocks the entire jumbled five-film story, but it's heavy on brutality and skimpy on any real substance. Director J. Lee Thompson makes the film darker than obsidian, often shortchanging real emotion for the sake of keeping us biting our nails in terror. Of course, we don't. And Tom Scott's bizarre musical score is not the critical final piece of the puzzle-- it's the corner piece you had no idea even existed.I wouldn't say stay away from this movie, especially if you want to see the entire story. Just be ready for the darkest, most boring POTA movie ever. And about boring-- it's only 88 minutes long. So that is saying something. "},{"Title":"Once again they reached too far","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem with these Planet of the Apes sequels seems to be that they get too ambitious or hasty with their stories. In the third film it worked because of great actors and because it actually flowed well with the original film. In this case the story flows well with the original, but not at all with the previous two.What do I mean by that? Well, the events of the second film paved the way for the third film which was supposed to work as a prequel to the original, in its own way. And thus this film is trying to bridge the gap between the third and the original. Explain how the planet of the apes came to be. The only problem is that it insists on using the characters from the third film, and that simply doesn't work timeline-wise. The world has changed a lot between the two movies and not in a realistic manner. It like a magician snapped his fingers and suddenly the world was abruptly changed in the blink of an eye.Not helping the matters is that the film doesn't quite have the scope, the talent or the budget to pull of the story it wants to tell. It has a big climax, but you don't buy it as well as you should.Still, the characters are nice, especially Caesar, played by Roddy McDowall, who also played Caesar's father Cornelius in two of the previous films. It's shame that they couldn't work Kim Hunter back in some way, but McDowall is nice as well.Still, if you've liked the films so far, I don't think you should stop at this point. It's nowhere near as good as the original, or even the third one, but it's worth watching in order to get the full experience. "},{"Title":"Do","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Franchises that are in their 4th film or more usually end up feeling dull or repetitive. Conquest of the Planet of the Apes felt as fresh as the original film and gave us another reason as to why the Apes series is one of the original sci-fi classic franchises. A few years back when Rise of the Planet of the Apes came out, many pointed out it's similarities to Conquest. Now seeing both I would say it's basically a remake. But I really enjoy both films. Not only does it have most of the same story points as Rise, but it's also similar to the original Apes film but just the opposite.I was initially worried about where the franchise would go after the death of Cornelius and Zira, who had been the heart of the films thus far. But Caesar, also played by Roddy McDowall, was a revelation. While not exactly being the leader that we have come to love in the new films, this Caesar showed a darker side than what we have seen from any ape to date. The finale was extremely dark and I have heard the original cut of the film was intended to be even darker. Besides the fact that we don't get a sense of what the rest of the country or world is like at this point in the franchise, I enjoyed the rise of the apes through Caesar. I still would have liked to see more of the apes initial reaction to Caesar talking, because I feel like they rushed through that story point.It puzzles to me as to why they still use real chimpanzees and apes in certain scenes. To me, you don't bring in real apes in the same film that you're supposed to make us believe that the humans dressed as apes are real. The villains this time around were fine but nothing too special. The real fascinating thing here is how the apes came to be the leaders of the planet. And as Caesar says Tonight, we have seen the birth of the Planet of the Apes! +Birth of Caesar +Rise of the Planet of the Apes +Human characters -Use of real apes -No global sense 7.7/10 "},{"Title":"Third in the series, Caesar comes out of 20-years' hiding.","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember the original Planet of the Apes in 1968, it was a landmark fictional story and will likely always remain the best. Who could forget the scene of the astronauts finding remnants of the Staue of Liberty broken and on the beach?In the second movie two apes arrive on Earth from a spaceship. Are they from the future or just from another world? They are intelligent and speak, and eventually humans become afraid that unchecked this race of apes could eventually take over the world. So their one offspring, named Caesar, is presumably destroyed.However in this third movie, filmed in 1971 but set in the future of 1991, we find that Roddy McDowall as Caesar has not only survived but has been in hiding for 20 years. He is part of a circus and when he and his master arrive in the city witness large numbers of ordinary apes being trained and used as slaves to the humans.Caesar gives himself away by shouting out at the men, and the hunt begins to find him and presumably destroy him. The story mirrors the plight of African slaves in that Caesar says, to a black character, We can never be happy until we are free, stating that he of all people should understand that.But humans being the stubborn species we are wanted to stay in control and the movie ends with a fiery rebellion in progress.Interesting entertainment, but ultimately forgettable. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this for the first time in the 1980's I was really excited by the style of the film. The art direction gave a really good feel for a totalitarian regime in the future and it had a very clinically sterile look about it which emphasizes the authoritarian '1984' environment the film attempts to depict.The storyline is simple enough. The apes are being used as slaves in a fascist culture which is allegory for Orwell's warning in the novel 1984, also a film. The ape central to the story is educated and can speak. He emerges as the great hope for his species to emerge from slavery. Revolution ensues as the slaves attempt to overthrow their masters.There's nothing complicated about this movie and was the second best of the five films with the original starring Charlton Heston obviously the best. "},{"Title":"It Entertains But The Lack Of Logic Is A Problem","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After getting burned that the reboot franchise of the Apes films are something special ( They're not ) I thought I'd revisit the original franchise . What that series did expand upon a circular storyline of a film that must surely have been conceived as a one off movie with a twist ending . By the third film of the franchise the producers had moved in to themes of time travel and self fulfilling prophecies that resemble cerebral time paradox that you'd later see in the likes of THE TERMINATOR . The problem with doing this is that you're in danger tying yourself up in knots and painting yourself in to a corner . Certainly I thought CONQUEST a much more entertaining and enjoyable film than RISE which mirrors this film to a large extent but the lack of internal logic is very problematic CONQUEST is set in 1991 , almost 20 years after the film was produced and is a future where cats and dogs have died out and apes have replaced canines and felines as pets initially but have now effectively become slaves . The scenario quickly falls apart when given much thought . Is a gorilla a type of pet you'd want ? I'm guessing it's very difficult to keep even if it's toilet trained and a fruit bill alone would make keeping one prohibitive . One fact is that a chimpanzee is the most vile , violent and vicious of primate . An adult male chimp can literally tear a human being from limb to limb so there's no way anyone would want to have one in the same household . It's pointed out to the humans in the previous film that humanity will be replaced by the apes as the dominant species so what does the human race do ?  I know let's breeds millions upon millions of apes , keep them in every city on Earth where they outnumber us because they're cheap labour  I understand both greed and short termism but if anyone had any common sense this problem would be easily averted . I'm certain it'd also be impossible to condition apes in to doing relatively complex tasks but I guess you have to suspend disbelief or otherwise there would be no story This is a shame because Paul Dehn's screenplay does contain rich food for thought . I found this America of the future absolutely fascinating along with the locations that have austere functionalism and are entirely credible . Bad enough about apes but there's a very large elephant in the room where bad things happen to  troublemakers  no questions asked . The fact this type of fascism is specieist rather than racist doesn't make it anymore commendable and the first half of the film is much more compelling than the second as we're shown glimpses of this scenario and allows the actors to give incisive and economical performances with their roles , especially Severn Darden who resists the temptation to do any goose stepping and underplays everything . The second half of the movie concentrates on the Ape revolution and probably isn't violent enough for my liking but I'm guessing I've only seen PG version where much of the violence is excised . It is very noticeable that the fascist militia seem to suffer from tunnel vision and can't see apes creeping up on them from the flanks Despite all the numerous flaws CONQUEST is a fairly enjoyable film and I liked this much better than the remake / reboot / reimagining from 2011 . It does however require turning off your brain in order for the narrative to work and sometimes this is a bit too difficult especially if you remember the internal continuity of the previous and following film "},{"Title":"When we hate you, we're hating the dark side of ourselves.","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth Planet of the Apes movie takes place many years after the events of Escape. Apes are now the enslaved pets of man. Caesar (Roddy McDowall), the son of Cornelius and Zira, is an intelligent ape who can speak. He's been raised by circus owner Armando (Ricardo Montalban). The government has never given up the search for the child of the future apes so Caesar must keep his intelligence a secret. This becomes increasingly difficult for him when Armando takes him to the city, where he witnesses human cruelty to apes firsthand.The series takes a slight step down with this entry but it's still a smart, thought-provoking film. The humor is scaled back and the social commentary magnified. Roddy McDowall, playing the son of his previous character, does an amazing job. It's a good movie, despite some plot hiccups. The ending was notoriously altered after test audiences reacted poorly to the original darker end. "},{"Title":"Lousy Human Bastards!!!","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is the fourth of the Apes series. It is my third favorite of the films and a pretty dark and entertaining film.Armando takes Caesar to the city where Caesar witnesses how humans mistreat apes. Caesar curses at a few humans who torture a chimpanzee and Armando takes the blame for it since any ape who can talk would be known to be the offspring of Zira and Cornelius. Eventually Caesar starts to lead a ape rebellion.I like the story and tone of this film. It is set in a cold dark setting so that makes you want to root for Caesar. It is definitely the darkest of the first five ape films and has a lot of parts that might disturb younger audiences. I kind of like how dark it is, I always was a fan of darker films sometimes.Another thing this film has going for it is that Roddy McDowall returns to play Caesar this time. Its cool that he plays Caesar as he also played Cornelius so he is playing his own son. He gives one of his best performances in this film, maybe his best from the apes series. Roddy is always great in these films.Supporting characters are OK. I liked Mcdonalds character as he sympathizes with the apes. Also Ricardo Montalbon is great again as Armando. The rest of the characters are OK. Nothing too special.Towards the end this film has some good action packed scenes. But they really lead up to it and build suspense as you see the apes start rebelling and smuggling weapons.A few complaints. Some of the apes in the background clearly are just wearing masks. Caesar and the main apes look great, but not all of them do. That was probably due to budget restraints though. Also like I said before there are some pretty dark parts that show apes being tortured so I don't think this is the most kid friendly ape film. Its not the worst thing out there, but from the first five it definitely has the most disturbing scenes with torture.Overall I really liked this film. It is dark and that makes it stand out. Roddy McDowall is also great. I recommend it. "}{"Title":"No, We Don't Torture Human Beings","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is really FOX making the film on the cheap. Special Effects not needed and it relies on script. Sets are plain and a lot of night shooting means no cost for location shooting or back drops.The script of this is in some ways much better than I expected though there are some time wasting sequences of ape mobs and humans running around with pointless shooting and some humans wringing their hands about the Apes taking over.The progressive Liberal Slant is in big evidence as the film is set in 1991 and according to the humans in the film, humans only torture apes, not humans. Considering the sad reality we have seen since 9/11, this is idealistic to say the least. We have had humans beheaded, water boarded, and beyond by humans in the 21st Century already. What is more bothersome is the final nuke war this series predicts still could happen as these children in Israel and Palestine, Iraq and Iran throwing missiles at each other prove in abundance - yes the future could be destruction. Especially with the children who are trying to claim man can fix the earth's environment without really knowing if their cure might so more harm than what they are trying to fix.We have humans who have decided money and their beliefs are more valuable than human lives. Isn't that amazing?I am glad Roddy McDowell got to do some acting and script and this movie does play better than I expected. Ricardo Montoban is another plus. One thing makes perfect sense in this script. Because Zira, the peace loving chimp was killed in the last film, the Apes decide the only way to escape being human slaves is by power.Another Irony of the Sci-Fi here is the virus killing off all the dogs and cats and human pets. In real life, humans have decided by preserving wet land areas and deer whose ticks cause Lyme Disease, the humans are getting closer to killing of themselves instead of the pets dying. The wet lands are spreading more human disease than ever.Then there is human madness, which is booming for a reason. As these companies have decided to save energy by using Mercury in light bulbs, has brought back the kind of human madness that existed in past history. It is Mecury Poisoning that created the term mad as a hatter. Considering the way Corporations are after profits, and from the way human behavior has changed since these light bulbs came out, maybe we are all mad.A world where Apes evolve from man and humans do not torture humans? There has got to be an answer. "},{"Title":"Stonewall for Simians","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back when I first saw Conquest Of The Planet Of The Apes I thought that the filmmakers had been influenced by the Stonewall Rebellion of three years earlier. Seeing it once again reinforced that opinion and the havoc and destruction wrought by the apes reminded me so much of Greenwich Village after the riots brought on by that legendary bar raid.It's been a generation since Roddy McDowall and Kim Hunter were killed by the forces of fear and in the interim their son also played by Roddy McDowall has grown up under the kind care of Ricardo Montalban, a circus owner. In the interim a plague came to earth and wiped out all the dogs and cats in the world, so people starting to take apes as pets. It wasn't long before the more avaricious of human kind saw the possibility in exploiting the apes as a new slave class.Those avaricious ones are symbolized by Don Murray who is the governor of I presume California. Note how he and all the folks like him and who work for him are dressed in black to symbolize both villainy and fascism. No subtleties in this film. Not all feel like Murray and one who doesn't is an aide played by Hari Rhodes. Why he feels that way about exploiting anyone is rather obvious when you see the movie.Conquest Of The Planet Of The Apes may not be subtle, but it is very effective in putting its point of view across. It holds up very well for today's audience because its message is very relevant. "},{"Title":"Another terrific sequel","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The darkest and certainly the most underrated of the series, 'Conquest' is a stunning, biting continuation of the saga. Eschewing the (mostly) light-hearted tone of 'Escape', this bares its teeth and plunges into a depressing vision of a future in which Roddy McDowall's Caesar leads the enslaved apes' rebellion against humanity. The idea of apes evolving to this stage condenses the timeline somewhat, but there's a lot of impact in their fight for freedom the riots are violent and disturbing, pushing you right into the fray with plenty of in-your-face shots. In contrast to the bland treatment of the city early on in the movie, all this is an orgy of colour, the reds and greens of the apes' boiler suits contrasting with really black blacks. Director J. Lee Thompson turns in one of the the best directing jobs of the series and makes impressive use of his widescreen camera. The bolted-on, pacifying sop to the studio aside, 'Conquest' is a powerful film. "},{"Title":"The darkest entry in the 'Apes' series is pretty good","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is considered the most down-beat and violent episode in the famous 'Apes' franchise. So much so that cuts were made as a result of preview audiences finding the film too grim. But when you consider the themes of the movie it's no surprise that this one had to be a little darker than normal. Set eighteen years after Escape from the Planet of the Apes, the world seems to be governed by a totalitarian police state. Apes have now been domesticated and are used as slaves. Into this scenario enters the offspring of Zira and Cornelius &#x96; Caesar &#x96; who is wanted by the authorities who consider him a deadly threat to the future of mankind.The idea of an ape rebellion is good enough but the story is a little awkward getting there. The exposition we are given to explain the situation where the apes have become slaves is very briefly given and it's not especially good. Namely, a space virus exterminated the cat and dog population leaving humans wanting new pets. All primates were immune from the plague so apes were chosen as new replacement pets and were subsequently used for more skilled tasks, leading them to become slaves. It's a little silly and you can't help think a better plot-line could have been devised. But it ultimately doesn't matter very much as the story quickly passes over this and focuses on a story about repression. The social commentary is a lot more obvious in this entry in the series. The plight of the apes is an allegory of slavery, made more pointed with the governor's assistant &#x96; a black man &#x96; being the only human character sympathetic to the ape's situation.Every entry in the 'Apes' series had a lower budget than the one before. This never helped the later films very much but overall, I think this instalment makes the most of what it's got. Perhaps best of all is the location. The film-makers used the Century City complex, which was a new building scheme in Los Angeles. It looks pretty good and its concrete structures have a cool 70's retro futuristic look. The colour co-ordinated chimpanzees and gorillas and the black clad fascistic police all look quite striking too. The action scenes towards the end are well enough controlled and overall director J. Lee Thompson does a good enough job holding things together. He was a fairly uncompromising director who had directed the original confrontational Cape Fear a decade earlier. With 'Conquest' he does ensure that the film has more grit than the earlier movies and it's certainly no weaker for that. It's never going to be considered the best in the series but what fourth instalment in a franchise ever is? Overall, it's really quite decent and worth checking out, especially if you like 70's sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Violence prolongs hate, hate prolongs violence. By what right are you spilling blood?","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the 4th in the Planet of the Apes series.Caesar (Roddy McDowall), the child of Cornelius and Zira, has been hiding in a circus for 18 years.He visits the city with his protector Armando (Ricardo Montalban) and sees how humans treat apes. It causes him to yell our, putting him in jeopardy. He escapes to unite the apes against the humans.McDowall was excellent in this otherwise vanilla tale of ape revolt. It was a good story, but just didn't have any spark.The final battle between the defense forces and the apes was very good. The police captain yelling, go home, just as he knew they had been taught like good little monkeys. This time they refused. "},{"Title":"The Unrated Version! A Major Conquest !","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 36 years Later Fox Studio FINALLY unveils the long awaited preview version on Blu-Ray. Was it worth it? Absolutely!Just be patient! The final 30 minutes restores enough gore that should satisfy many hard core Ape fans. It's a dark, apocalyptic doom for mankind that negates the entire final entry of 'BATTLE FOR THE POTA'.The ALWAYS reliable Roddy McDowall turns in another commanding and brilliant performance; along with Severn Darden's evil, slimy Inspector; and Ricardo Montalban's limited reprisal of Armando. Unfortunately, Don Murray chews enough scenery to require 10 trips to the dentist; and the speaking extras are pretty lame. McDowall's Caesar now represents how hate begets hate causes one's fall from innocence. Taylor's arrival in 3978 is all but certain. Director J. Lee Thompson's challenge to the film's low budget is slightly redeemed for ending with its darker, more thought-provoking & disturbing images that somehow stay with you a little longer after the credits roll. This version is a bit shorter, but don't be discouraged. The amended music score, along with the film's quick shots of carnage, brutality and blood-splattered images against the cold white city-scape of mankind's supposed supremacy creates a haunting aftermath. At 15 yrs old, I loved this movie. As an adult, the budget made it pretty tacky & sloppy; that doesn't hold up to the quality of the original POTA.Which film is better? You decide!Almost a 6 out of 10.With RISE OF THE PLANET OF THE APES; this hopelessly dated, but still entertaining movie may fall further down the monkey chain.But who cares! This still remains nostalgia-ape-addict-pleasure! "},{"Title":"Should be the best - shame about the budget.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fourth in the ''Incredible Apes saga'', this outing starts well, suffers from a lull in the middle, then rises to its memorable and frightening conclusion.Locations are inspiring, if somewhat limited in scope (are we to believe such a large city has such a small mall and central area?), the action set pieces are well orchestrated but suffer from the confines of the set.  The script shows promise, but one can't help but feel more could have been done with this film with MORE MONEY!  J Lee Thomson's direction is more involved than that of his predecessor in the 3rd Apes film, but this film should be the climax and grand finalle of the series.This film should answer all the questions of man's fall from grace that people had wondered since Charlton Heston & Linda Harrison confronted the Statue of Liberty in the original.  Instead it falls just short of the mark - it's trying to be an epic, but the budget restrictions hold it back, along with a ludicrously optimistic ending designed to pacify Fox's family oriented executives (and allow for another sequel?).  I find this film very entertaining, but find myself wondering what might have been.  In fairness, it must be recognised that close on 10 minutes of the film was cut to satisfy the censors, severely hindering the more graphic sequences, and the film's social commentary is not far off the power of the original. Couldn't they have combined the budget for Conquest and Battle?  Just a thought.Either way, the first time I watched this film I was young and did so in terror, watching this nightmare unfold as these monkeys smashed human civilization and the world as we knew it turned into a Planet of Apes.  Now that's what I call a movie.   "},{"Title":"Allegorical tale.....needs better dialouge...still good SPOILERS","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES should have been the last film. The sequel which followed was so lackluster, I burst into tears upon watching it (having come to the realization I had just wasted a hour and a half of my life). This film is a allegorical tale of the supression the apes race and the rise of their son who was orphaned following APES 3. Ceasar leads the subservient ape hordes to freedom, in a effort to topple a quasi-futuristic city state. J. Lee Thompson manages to pull a rabbit out of his hat with this one....the budget was paltry, but he manages to get epic scale! The entire film was shot in CENTURY CITY, a recent development in Los Angeles (at that time). There are several riot sequences that have hundreds of extras...all this was afforded by the Century City shoot. This film is also a commentary on racial tensions, the plight of african americans, and the WATTS RIOTS, of the early 1970's. The film's one flaw is the dialouge given to the extra's in the film. Also, the end was edited due to a outcry at test showings. Ceaser's dialouge had to be re-edited, so the ending could have a more uplifting tone than previously planned. This is why there are so many closeups of Ceaser's eyes in the end....this covered for the edit job and the new dialouge. (the process used helped to eliminate lipsinc problems). This film does have a cool looking ending with the ram's horn sound from the original soundtrack strategically placed. Had the studio not been willing to do the last film right, (and they didn't) Arthur Jacobs should have let this one be the last film...better to go out on a good note, than a bad. Alas, it was not meant to be. "},{"Title":"Better than 2 or 3","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As I rewatch the series I find myself intrigued all over again by the original, revulsed by the 2nd, content with the 3rd, and quite interested with the 4th.  I will give a final ordering after I watch Battle.Conquest does raise big issues for a scifi movie.  They clearly were making social commentary that they could not have made outside of a such a story (and had a major studio support it).  It is by far the most violent.  But the writers place the blame of having a planet of the apes squarely on human shoulders which is quite in line with the original.  The first of the sequels to take continuity seriously.For what it was.....I give it a thumbs up.TP "},{"Title":"The most interesting in a series of awful sequels","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Conquest...' is not a good movie, but it has some points of interest. Of course, it goes along with the awful contradictions with part one that started in 'Escape from...', but we can appreciate some positive things.First of all, Roddy MacDowall´s performance, maybe one of his best even under that make up. His portrayal of Caesar is very different from his previous role in the series. On the other hand, there are some very good scenes, and the revolt of the apes is well crafted even though they had a tight budget. "}{"Title":"The fourth film in the Planet of the Apes saga has been overlooked as the best of the rest in the series.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Conquest for the Planet of the Apes, the fourth of the five film series, is the best of the four sequels to Planet of the Apes.  Conquest tells of how Caesar, the son of Cornelius and Zira, leads the enslaved apes of Earth in a revolt which eventually leads to the apes' dominance over man. What makes this film great is its appropriately grim mood and its pivotal role in the Planet of the Apes saga.Conquest deals with the oppression of one group of society, in the case the apes.  Apes are raised and trained to be slaves for mankind.  To guarantee the apes' subservience the humans condition them through shock therapy to fear the word no.  The humans are shown, for the most part, as intolerant of the apes and any mistake made by an ape is met with beatings or reconditioning.  Rather than re-evaluating their training methods the humans are content to beat and shock the apes into submission.  Like many of plantation owners of the 1800's, the humans in Conquest care nothing for their slaves as long as the work gets done.  This intolerance pushes Caesar over the edge and he decides the time is ripe for a revolution.  The apes take advantage of their positions as messengers and errand boys to accumulate all the materials necessary for their revolution, while charging the materials to their human masters.Caesar and the apes launch their attack on mankind when the humans learn that Caesar has the power of speech.  Starting at the bureau of ape management and leaving a path of destruction through the city leading straight to city hall where the governor is on the verge of being executed before Lisa, Caesar's future wife, utters the first word ever spoken by an not born of the future, the word no.Conquest of the Planet of the Apes plays a pivotal role in the series as it shows the horrors which the apes had to endure prior to their revolution which explains why, in the future, humans are hunted for sport.  While this is not a perfect movie it is very good and has been underrated because of its fourth in a series status.  It also suffers from a considerably smaller budget than its predecessors which is painfully obvious in the costumes of the apes. Despite its few shortcomings Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is the best of the four Apes sequels.            "},{"Title":"Planet of America","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As 20th Century Fox rolled out the POTA sequels, each successive entry in the series got progressively cheaper. Any competent film buff can spot the ways in which the producers saved money in this film's production, with scifi and FX fans eager to point out that all the supporting apes had to wear cheaper ape masks than star and master thespian Roddy McDowell.Conversely, I see all the ways the producers scrimped and am therefore impressed by the effectiveness of this film. It is a provocative, fast-moving, often well-made, and thoroughly interesting piece of cinema, at the center of which stands Roddy McDowell, a very good actor who never really got the career he deserved. About the only moment that seemed really hokey to me was the pseudo-depiction of an ape getting electrocuted, and at that moment I did indeed have to will my disbelief to suspend itself.Speaking of electrocution, this film has many scenes depicting the captivity, enslavement, repression, physical abuse, and torture of people dressed in ape suits. The film, made in the early 1970's, depicts late 20th century America as a blandly totalitarian empire where the government allows protests only in certain confined spaces and times, and where the rights of labor are whittled away daily.Of course, the idea of importing apes for slave labor is ludicrous, the great apes being in such scarce supply makes the idea laughable from the outset.Yet, as I, a resident of early 21st Century America, write this, there exist numerous pipelines, legal and illegal, by which cheap and quasi-slave labor enter my country to be exploited and abused.Moreover, if I contemplate my government's willingness to imprison and torture both Americans and foreigners, and the fact that protest is now allowed only in certain times and places, I think this film is not so far off the mark.The writers erred in their predictions only by thinking that man would brutalize apes and stop there. The truth is that man enslaves and brutalizes his brothers. "},{"Title":"Violence prolongs hate, hate prolongs violence. By what right are you spilling blood?","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the 4th in the Planet of the Apes series.Caesar (Roddy McDowall), the child of Cornelius and Zira, has been hiding in a circus for 18 years.He visits the city with his protector Armando (Ricardo Montalban) and sees how humans treat apes. It causes him to yell our, putting him in jeopardy. He escapes to unite the apes against the humans.McDowall was excellent in this otherwise vanilla tale of ape revolt. It was a good story, but just didn't have any spark.The final battle between the defence forces and the apes was very good. The police captain yelling, go home, just as he knew they had been taught like good little monkeys. This time they refused. "},{"Title":"surprisingly dark, and not without some interest in (obvious) political overtones","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Conquest of the Planet of the Apes shares a linkage with the fifth film in the series in that it brings us a new ape, only not quite new. The offspring of Cornelius and Zira, who names himself Caesar after going randomly through a book, is the centerpiece here, as he is taken away from his former master (Ricardo Montabon, fine little part he hams up as usual), and is meant to be used as a 'smart' ape in the midst of a time when the apes are now, as prophesied, made into servants and pets following the dissemination of dogs and cats. They're taught how to do chores and services, and are also tortured from time to time. But, of course, there is an uprising, and Caesar finally takes it upon himself to lead his apes into a new time and era, as he says and that day is upon you... NOW! It has the least amount of (unintentional) humor of the series, which marks it as something of an anomaly. It does work better when thinking about it after watching it than during it; it might get preachy at times, and doesn't leave much doubt there will be a part 5 to the saga. But J. Lee Thompson makes it darker for a purpose, and attempts to make it work almost on its own terms as a piece of smart, incendiary science fiction as opposed to an obligatory blip in an otherwise continuous chain of ape-vs-man pictures. But McDowell is brilliant, as always, and there the imagery is hard to disconnect from the reality of the periods with riots about race and class and war always on the horizon (they might've been a little late but cut em some slack, it's a kids movie, or sort of a kids movie). It's grainy, action-packed, and actually not that bad. "},{"Title":"The Ape Revolution is Upon You Now!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In some ways, this 4th film in the Apes series (after Escape...) is the most ambitious of the lot. During the course of the film, we are presented with an alternate version of modern North America (circa 1991), a totalitarian version, and then the planning and execution to overthrow this regime - a full-fledged revolution. Of course, events such as these should take years, sometimes many years, and everything is compressed into what seems a matter of weeks. We may infer that the story is a parable, perhaps not to be taken completely literally. Taking place about 20 years after the events of the previous film, we learn quite a bit in the first few scenes, courtesy of Montalban's character, who explains to the son (McDowall) of the 2 apes from the far future quite a lot has happened in those past few years, including the death of all cats & dogs due to a plague (back in '83). Apes have already evolved within this very short time into mankind's latest slave class (perhaps the plague affected them - this is conjecture to help the filmmakers, who didn't bother explaining why the apes here already look like the futuristic ones of 2000 years later - see Planet of the Apes of '68). Also, with this oppressive, cruel atmosphere, it's no accident that some of the police resemble Nazi stormtroopers.This film makes a statement, a powerful one all too rare in most science fiction films (especially nowadays); whether you agree or not, well, that's what promotes debate. What it proposes is that mankind will always fill the need to possess a slave class - is it out of plain laziness? The advances in a society in which most free citizens outgrow all menial jobs? Or is it just some need to dominate another class? As said, there's room for debate - societies seem doomed to a cycle, as the new lower class eventually rises up and forms the new society. The scenes of those multitudes of apes, dressed in basic colors, undergoing mass training, stay in the mind because they really are disturbing. The cinematography is strangely different from the previous films, stressing deep blacks and a coarse palette. Filmed in an area with very modern architecture (even by today's standards), this achieves a nice futuristic feel. Much of the later scenes take place at night, in the dark, including all the climactic battle action sequences during the swift revolution, and this future city forms an eerie backdrop. I don't pretend to understand how even taking over this one entire city results in eventual global control by the apes but, speaking of battle, the next and final film was Battle For the Planet of the Apes. Maybe that one would explain some of these issues, but do approach it with an open mind. "},{"Title":"The Wrath of Caesar!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Escape From the Planet of the Apes, Cornelius and Zira arrived from the future and had a child, one who was destined to destroy the future of human civilization. To protect her child from human treachery, the baby chimpanzee was switched with a normal zoo chimp by his mother, and grew up under the protection of his benevolent human master Armando, the extravagant sideshow circus entertainer ironically played by Ricardo Montalban from Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan. Having been given a taste of freedom by the compassionate Armando, the talking simian chimpanzee Caesar (played by Roddy MacDowall who had the unique opportunity to play the son of his character Cornelius) becomes disillusioned when Armando brings him into the city only to learn that his ape brothers and sisters have become domesticated after a plague brought back from space in the year 1983 wiped out every dog and cat on the planet. Because of their adept intelligence and human-like faculties, the apes quickly became trained to serve their superior human masters. In 1991, human civilization is controlled by an oppressive authoritarian government fearful that a race of talking apes will inevitably rise up and destroy human civilization as foretold by the arrival of Cornelius and Zira.Now the apes have supplanted humans as working class slaves distinguished by the two dominant ape species... the smarter chimpanzees wearing green worker overalls and the stronger and more aggressive gorillas in red, not unlike the delineation between white and blue collar human laborers. When Armando and the son of Cornelius witness a cruel public display of torture against a helpless ape worker, the emotionally enraged talking simian lets loose his tongue and makes the fatal mistake of publicly shouting out an obscenity against the human oppressors. Armando, accepting the responsibility for the outcry, is taken into custody for questioning after he helps Caesar flee capture. The fugitive ape conceals himself by infiltrating a cage of immigrant ape orangutangs imported from Indonesia and is taken to a worker conditioning center where apes are harshly trained to become subservient to human domination. He is soon sold at a slave auction to the Governor's assistant MacDonald, who ironically is an Afro-American. MacDonald brings him before the Governor, played by the melodramatically camp Don Murray, who suspects that he is indeed the talking ape that they are searching for and is given the opportunity to name himself by choosing a name randomly from a book. The intelligent ape points to a name which not only surprises but confirms the Governor's suspicion and thus, Caesar is born.Caesar is put to work in an operations center where he can be closely monitored. When Caesar overhears that his master Armando was killed trying to flee interrogation, he becomes outraged and communicates non-verbally with his ape brethren to be defiant against their masters and the seeds of discontent are sown. Caesar organizes the apes into an uprising against their human captors that erupts into a full-blown ape revolt akin to Che Gorilla --- a sly reference to the Cuban revolutionary guerrilla leader Che Guevara for which Caesar emblematically bares an uncanny symbolic resemblance to and has even been parodied as such in pop-culture. Roddy MacDowall gives a rousing and unforgettable dramatic performance that surpasses his characterization of Cornelius in the three previous Ape films. Conquest of the Planet of the Apes explodes into a riotous and violent action packed climax that inevitably sets the stage for the entire Apes Saga and the birth of The Planet of the Apes.Conquest is the fourth film in the series and it is my second favorite. It is brutally violent and was the first Apes film to earn a PG rating after explicit scenes of graphic violence were cut. I would love to see an uncut version released on DVD. It is filled with so many socio-political themes that are just as relevant (if not more so) today as they were back in 1972. While the ape revolt was patterned directly after the 1965 Los Angeles Watts Riots, it could easily parallel the racial Alabama and Chicago civil protest riots of the 50's and 60's or the L.A. riots of the 90's. It's themes of working class oppression not dissimilar to the current issue of Immigration Reform which saw demonstrations of protest in major cities across the country by tens of thousands of immigrant workers who perform low-paying laborious and menial jobs that middle-class American workers think are socially beneath themselves by right of entitlement, as exemplified by the scene where Caesar witnesses the temperament of a snobbish blonde woman having her hair done in a salon by a chimp named Zelda and throws a tantrum when she messes it up which just nails the self-centered materialistic attitudes of our upper and middle social classes perfectly. The Government is portrayed as oppressive and paranoid and is an interesting examination of how the need for social constructs like Ape Management (i.e. Homeland Security) can easily deteriorate into an oppressive state of authoritarian control. Conquest is a political-charged cautionary allegory of how society breeds contempt. Viva la Revolution! "},{"Title":"Very good sequel (most of the social comment really works)","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the first Ape movie I ever saw (when it came out). To me, it was, if anything, even more of an animal rights story than one with racial meanings, though it was impossible to miss those. One very small negative thing happens early, and that's perhaps one of the clumsiest backstory kind of lines ever. Ricardo Montalban says something like this to Roddy McDowall  No one must know that you are the child of Cornelius and Zira, the talking apes who came from the future, when apes ruled humans. (It might have been even longer than that, and of course it was something McDowall had presumable already heard, all his life, but it was for the audience, of course.) And McDowall was as great in this one as any Ape movie, like the scene where Montalban has to abandon him temporarily (he hopes), and it becomes a genuine lump in the throat scene. One of the best people in it was Don Murray. He could have made Breck a completely over-the top dictator (which would have been entertaining too), but made him pretty believable, trying to keep the apes AND the humans under control. Instead of blowing up at all objections to what he did, he even had casual lines, like, Oh, don't be so touchy, McDonald. It took me forever to notice, but there was a good foreshadowing moment. One of Breck's people was walking with someone, telling them how big a future Breck had. The other person said, You really think he's going all the way? The first person said, I can't see anyone stopping him. Just then, McDowall passed by them. And Hari Rhodes was very believable as McDonald. He also goes against that supposed rule, that sympathetic black characters in violent films ALWAYS get killed. And Severn Darden, even though he had a lot less to do in this one than the next one, was very good as Kolp. The same voice he always used to be funny was pretty sinister-sounding here. One of the best lines, though (at least, as far as I know it was written for this movie) was on a SIGN. Human workers were protesting about the ape slaves, and one sign said, Slaves Are Scabs. Which was pretty funny logic. "},{"Title":"Chilling....!!! WARNING SPOILERS!!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The recent concerns over asylum seekers and the state of immigration in the UK is considerable and recent television programmes have heightened the worries. Science-fiction is an effective genre that comments at it's best on modern day issues and in it's most classical sense can actually become a very powerful voice in modern-day cinema.It was with interest that I watched CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES, initially more as a fan of the classic 1968 original (which still proves to be far superior than the recent Tim Burton 'reimagining')and the fact that it is one of the remaining APES films I haven't seen before.The racial parable which was skillfully turned on it's head in the original film became more pronounced by the time of the fourth film, which follows some years after the events of ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES, but carries logically into this superior sequel, directed by Ted Post (MAGNUM FORCE)My earlier remark about asylum seekers is quite valid bearing in mind that the UK in light of European rulings, which have overruled some of the UK ones. As a UK citizen, born and raised here, it hurts to see some people who abuse the political system for gratis and don't earn the right and watching some of the events of CONQUEST did scare me a bit, certainly the climactic scenes in which the apes finally rebel and Cornelius final speech against the humans and did raise similar worries in that the UK could well, if it is not careful, be on it's way to a slow ruin. With the state of play of hospitals, transport, personal finances (the other day there was a comment in newspapers about the extent of debt and borrowing in the UK!!) I hope that a positive line can be sought soon.Still, if a movie provides that kind of power, it must be good - and CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES is a worthy sequel in a classic film series. "},{"Title":"Gritty","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is perhaps the most adult entry into a fantastic series of movies. It is gritty and violent, and at times dark. More than ever before the Racial issues the series has covered are brought to the fore. The central theme is again one of an outsider stuggling against a society with racial beleifs. Roddy McDowell gives perhaps his best performance in the series as Ceasar the main Ape of the story. Ricardo Montalban returns for his second Ape feature, and J Lee Thompson takes over the reins as director. The film is a good notch down from the previous Ape movies, but still manages, like all good Science Fiction to raise questions and shock. The riotous ape scenes at the movies climax were inspired by America's Watts Riots in the 60's, and are well directed. And Roddy McDowells final speech is well handled. A satisfying entry. "},{"Title":"Cast out your vengeance.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Conquest is the least remembered Apes film, and the one that receives the least amount of TV screenings. There's the original, of course, followed by the one with the mutants, the one on present-day Earth and Battle, the rubbish one. To this end a subtler, low-key picture set in a future Earth 1990s doesn't seem as instantly memorable.Yet in a period where disease has caused the widespread slaughter of farm livestock, Conquest has taken on a fresh relevancy. Escape details dog bonfires that purged the land, and Conquest takes up this strand.It's superb science fiction. Making a virtue out of its low budget, Conquest is carved as a grimy, low-key thriller, minimal sets being used to their optimum advantage. Apes only have menial jobs in this time period &#150; painters, cleaners, shoeshines &#150; and face regular police brutality, often for just sitting on the wrong seat, or walking on the wrong patch of grass. The parallels are clear to see. Holding up a mirror to the Watts riots of 1965, it comments on the racial situation in a way that a Hollywood movie doing so directly would not have been allowed. This is exactly what science fiction is for, using its fantasy trappings to make political statement.Items like the authenticator lean slightly towards pulp SF, though generally this is the most mature, bleak and realistically coded Apes film. Long has the myth that the sequels are worthless reigned, a rumour clearly untrue by the fact that the series lasted for five films. If all the sequels were terrible then they wouldn't have kept on getting made. I put this belief down largely to the awful concluding movie and the lacking TV series, because artistically and conceptually Conquest is arguably the greatest Apes film ever made.Definitely the greatest of the sequels, any quibbles are minor ones. There's some clunky, yet necessary exposition from Ricardo Montalban in the first five minutes, and some of the speech making towards the climax is a little trite. When we hate you, we're hating the dark side of ourselves, Caesar is told. Yet even with a studio-enforced overdub of McDowall's final lines to carve a more hopeful ending, this is still unsettling, powerful and unashamedly violent. It's often difficult to watch, which is praise, and one can only wonder how much more disturbing it would have been with the intact dialogue and the full riot unedited. Playing the embittered son of Cornelius, McDowall really comes into his own, with Hari Rhodes's Martin Luther-King persona acting as a counterpoint to Caesar's Malcolm X.Conquest of the Planet of the Apes was set in 1991. In the real world, 1991 saw the police beating of Rodney King. Two decades had passed, yet little or nothing had changed. "}{"Title":"Thought provoking ending makes up for large story gap...","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie ends provocatively enough with the foundation laid for the future that we see in the first film.  Like the others in the series there is no shortage of philosophy and ideology here.The main problem with the film is that there is a large gap in the story. After Ricardo Montalban's character leaves, Caesar makes a decision to rally the other apes for a revolution. Immediately there is ape unity, and a common, understood cause.  I was rather curious just how he accomplished that.  It hints at the ability of the others to communicate and understand his speech beyond the conditioning given them, but the story never explains that; as though the genesis of the apes revolution was edited from the movie.  It all happens too quickly...or maybe that's the point.None of the sequels to the original approach its greatness, but this is possibly the closest.  As mentioned, the ending strikes a perfect note. "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Or, The Flogging Of The Horse Of The Dead; this dragged. 1991 really was a crap year apes started their revolution to take over the planet, something we all remember so well. Apart from the laughably short time span allocated to the prediction made by this Apes entry (#4/5) it unfortunately flatlined from the start think of a shorter hairier noisier Birth Of A Nation in colour, and - honest - not as deep.Caesar, clever talking son of the apes from the future Zira and Cornelius loses his only human friend in Ricardo Montalban and bitterly embarks on encouraging and ultimately leading a long drawn out campaign of civil disobedience by slave apes, leading to the overthrow of the tinpot human US police state in power in 1991. The revolution when it came was almost Keystonesque in its apparent aimlessness and slapstick dramatics. Unpleasant, depressingly intentional yet asinine references continue throughout with slave auctions, boot polishing, street sweeping, Hari Rhodes' self-conscious empathy through enforced ancestral servility, and to cap it all his polemical row with Caesar at the climax. I don't think someone like Malcolm X would've softened up if he'd got to that position! My pulse only quickened with expectation of the end of the picture looming.There must be millions of films worse than this &#x96; but there must be billions better. I sat through this courtesy Nostalgia because I saw it at the pictures with my Mum in 1972 - I think the remaining audience was restless and smoking, and maybe all thinking Never Again. If you're interested in the premise of this film or are a completist I recommend this course of action watch it once, you shouldn't have any trouble completely forgetting it. "},{"Title":"The Planet Of The Apes Is Born","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Ape movies all had at their basis some sort of critique or at least parody of human society. This one's no exception to that rule, although this is a harsher movie than the preceding three with little sense of the fun that was involved at least from time to time in its predecessors. In that sense, it perhaps resembles most the second instalment (Beneath ...) Roddy McDowell is back once again as the star, although this time playing a different character. Having been Cornelius in the first and third movies, he's now Caesar - the son of Cornelius and Zira, born during the third movie and hidden away in a circus. It's somewhat interesting to watch Caesar develop in this movie from the docile and uncertain chimpanzee at the beginning of the movie who's been taken care of all his life by circus owner Armando (Ricardo Montalban) to the leader of an ape revolution by movie's end. And that's basically the story.To the extent that there's a reflection on human society seen in this, it's to the institution of black slavery and the later Civil Rights movement of the very recent (to this movie) past. Apes, originally taken in as pets after a plague wiped out dogs and cats, were found to be much more intelligent and easily trainable to be servants, with their treatment becoming less and less humane. They become a seething mob of discontent, needing only a leader to organize them - and in steps Caesar to fill that role. I get the reflection. It's pretty in your face, and it makes its point in a fresh way. It also seems much too easy, mind you. The revolution begins and seems to end (at least in this little corner of planet Earth) on a single night. As a result, a movie that's already pretty short at less than 90 minutes seems to move at an even more frenetic pace than that at times. It's an extremely one dimensional movie. In all honesty, had I paid to go to the theatre in 1972 to see this, I think I'd have left feeling that I didn't really get my money's worth. The best scenes in the movie are the riot scenes, which take up the bulk of the last half hour or so. The riot is very realistic, but that so much of the movie is taken up with such scenes also means very limited performances for the most part by the cast.McDowell was - as always in the Ape series - excellent in the role of Caesar. His closing speech (as he vented his rage in front of the assembled apes and their now human captives) was certainly passionate, albeit perhaps a bit over the top. The human characters were less developed and the performances not as convincing. Don Murray as Governor Breck (I wasn't entirely clear on what he was the Governor of - did the United States still exist in this timeline?) and Severn Darden as Kolp - the head of security - weren't entirely convincing in their roles. Hari Rhodes was somewhat more effective as the Governor's assistant MacDonald, who's sympathetic to the plight of the apes, largely because as a black man he understands the evils of the slavery the apes have been placed in. But even MacDonald isn't front and centre enough to be a truly sympathetic character.Conquest is, I would say, weaker than its three predecessors. It tries to fill in (not entirely convincingly) the details of how the Planet of the Apes began. In that sense, it has a worthy enough place in the Apes canon, I suppose. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmm - quite a disapointment","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review may contain spoilers on this film and its predecessor.Well - after watching this film (in some disbelief) it can only be described as very disapointing. The reason for its rather lacklustre rating is due to the very positive parts of the original film. As a sequel its performance is poor, obvious and very un-original.Forming the historic reference of the Planet of the Apes is the intention of this film. However even from the start it lets itself down. The original film leaves you wondering how apes emerged as the rulers of the world - and that is based somewhat on humanities stupidity. However instead of allowing your imagination to flesh out this history - the film provides it brutally. Its a real reflection of the blacks struggle for equality in America in the mid-60's. However it treats the apes as rather less humane than the dignified struggle than actually appeared in our own history as black people fought off the in-equalities pressed upon them. They behave as animals - but whenever they how a modicum of intelligence the film rathers treats it as an opportunity for a cliche to arise. And this happens all the way through. The plot is extremely weak - how would Xera and Cornelius pilot a crashed spaceship back in time? Why would thier offsrping automatically adopt a revolutionary attitude? Why not accept the precedent of the past?All in all the plot is paper thin - the acting appalling (you can really see why Ricardo Montalbahns character threw himself out of a window!), and the timeline is just distorted by this feeble attempt at making more films out of a good film than is necessary. Hooray for Hollywood - NOT! "},{"Title":"Racist subtext","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" By the time of this, the fourth instalment of the series, they were obviously running out of money. And ideas. The set is a strange concrete jungle, chosen no doubt because it was cheap to film there.Even leaving aside the ludicrous notion of apes as docile slaves (even chimps can easily rip a man apart as seen in recent news stories), the story does not make a great deal of sense and there are many plot holes. We are led to believe, for example, that this is some sort of police state with the police walking round in jet black uniforms (Although this may just be part of the cops as 'fascist pigs' lazy subtext, see below) yet these same police show huge levels of slowness of action (why do they wait so long before interrogating Riccardo?), incompetence (why do they not check to see if a certain character is dead?) etc. It just is not plausible even within the premise of the film, a cardinal sin. But the worst offence in this film is that it is downright racist. There is only one black character in the whole movie and, apart from the Mexican Riccardo Montalbal who appears early on, he is the only one shown with any humanity. All the white characters, without exception, are cruel, sadistic and brutal, prepared to beat and torture apes at the drop of a hat. No doubt many of the inadequacies of the plot are due to this Apes-as-oppressed-blacks narrative which is hammered in again and again. The lead chimp, Caesar, even confides to the virtuous black man that justice can only be achieved when they obtain power, a remark straight out of every revolutionary's handbook.This film is probably the low water mark of the POTA franchise. "},{"Title":"The nadir of the series","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" You watch this movie, with its depiction of humans (with a single exception) as either mindless order-following automata or mustache-twirling stock villains, and you have to ask yourself Is this what the filmmakers think people are like? Well, no, of course not. This is what the filmmakers think *other* people are like.And that, far more than decreasing budgets or continuity errors, explains the inferiority of the APES sequels to the original.Great satire--indeed, great art--is always an examination of *us*, of what *we* are like. This is what the original film did so well and why it is still remembered so fondly. By this point in the series, however, the filmmakers were simply sneering at them, defined as all those people who didn't attend film school or vote for McGovern. It's a nasty, bigoted little piece of hackwork which tries to pass itself off as clever satire. "},{"Title":"Spectacular, but confusing","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the strong positive response to Escape from the Planet of the Apes, Fox ordered Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, though it provided a comparatively low budget of $1.7 million. Paul Dehn returned as the scriptwriters and the producers hired J. Lee Thompson to direct.Thompson had worked with Jacobs during the planning stages of the first film, but scheduling conflicts had made him unavailable to participate in the series. For this film, Thompson and Dehn focused heavily on the racial associated the apes with African-Americans and modeled the plot after the 1966 Watts Riots and other episodes from the Civil Rights Movement.Following the events of the third film, this film is set in a near future where humans have turned apes into slaves, Caesar rises from bondage to lead an ape rebellion.The story is amazing and confusing as well, but I like it because it is like that. The action is over-the-top, but it works and is really fantastic. The music is really good as well and the other films musical scores' were amazing, well, with exception of Beneath the Planet of the Apes.The acting is just amazing and dreadful at the same time. Roddy McDowall plays Caesar again, the son of his previous character Cornelieus.The late Ricardo Montalban returned as Armando and he does a good job as well. The new members including Don Murray, Severn Darden and Hari Rhodes playing new roles and they are really amazing in this film and the acting could have never been better.The music in the film is just stupid, but a few themes are amazingly well done and the make-up / visuals are really good and fantastic.Overall, CONQUEST OF THE PLANET of the APES is a little confusing, but spectacular in a few areas and I give this film a 6/10. "},{"Title":"silly unrealistic B-movie","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 20 years after the apes from the future landed. Apes are now trained to do all the menial jobs. Every cat and dog died 8 years ago in 1983. The world is a semi-fascist state where apes are no more than slaves. Senor Armando (Ricardo Montalban) is hiding the fact that Caesar (Roddy McDowall) is the intelligent offspring of Cornelius and Zira. An unguarded outburst leaves Caesar hiding among the regular ape population while Armando is interrogated by the authorities. MacDonald is Governor Breck's assistant and they buy Caesar only to discover his intelligence later on.The setup is pretty stupid. It's too much to turn on the ape revolution so quickly. The whole thing is rather silly and lacks any believable whatsoever. I do have sympathy for the difficulties of closing out this circular story loop. Honestly, some of the apes seem highly inefficient and some of their work seem comical. The use of slavery images is good but the apes should do tougher jobs like mining. The battle for the city is pretty silly where guns are always overwhelmed and the guards never look behind them. The governor's speech is nonsense. Much of this movie is nonsense too. "},{"Title":"Spectacular, but confusing","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the strong positive response to Escape from the Planet of the Apes, Fox ordered Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, though it provided a comparatively low budget of $1.7 million. Paul Dehn returned as the scriptwriters and the producers hired J. Lee Thompson to direct.Thompson had worked with Jacobs during the planning stages of the first film, but scheduling conflicts had made him unavailable to participate in the series. For this film, Thompson and Dehn focused heavily on the racial associated the apes with African-Americans and modeled the plot after the 1966 Watts Riots and other episodes from the Civil Rights Movement.Following the events of the third film, this film is set in a near future where humans have turned apes into slaves, Caesar rises from bondage to lead an ape rebellion.The story is amazing and confusing as well, but I like it because it is like that. The action is over-the-top, but it works and is really fantastic. The music is really good as well and the other films musical scores' were amazing, well, with exception of Beneath the Planet of the Apes.The acting is just amazing and dreadful at the same time. Roddy McDowall plays Caesar again, the son of his previous character Cornelieus.The late Ricardo Montalban returned as Armando and he does a good job as well. The new members including Don Murray, Severn Darden and Hari Rhodes playing new roles and they are really amazing in this film and the acting could have never been better.The music in the film is just stupid, but a few themes are amazingly well done and the make-up / visuals are really good and fantastic.Overall, CONQUEST OF THE PLANET of the APES is a little confusing, but spectacular in a few areas and I give this film a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most Ape films are way too highly rated, and this is a perfect example of it. People, just cause the title says Planet of the Apes, doesn't mean that it has to be great. The original movie was great - we all know that - but this movie is trash. Even for the 70s, this movie is sloppy, INCREDIBLY unrealistic (even for an Apes film), and downright stupid. The action scenes are OKAY and the acting is pretty good (props to Roddy on this one), but the storyline is ridiculous and has several continuity errors. This movie, similar to Escape from the Planet of the Apes, hasn't aged well at all. I hate to say it, but the director of this film was going bananas. "}{"Title":"Solid science fiction","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth of the series, Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is the 2nd best of the entire run, after the original entry. It is also the basis for the recent re-boot Rise of the Planet of the Apes. I saw this movie in the theater when I was a kid and the ending scared the wits out of me.The movie had a very small budget but more than made up for it with the very solid writing and some excellent acting by the principal cast, Roddy McDowell, Don Murray, Ricardo Montalban, Severn Darden and Hari Rhodes.Montalban sets up the story very well as Armando, the kindly circus master who has hidden the intelligent ape, Caesar, for a couple of decades. But when Caesar blurts out his anger at the humans who are mistreating an ape, he has to go into hiding while Montalban tries to cover for him, at the cost of his life. The speciest gov't is now determined to find the intelligent ape that they feel certain now exists. Caesar goes native by becoming a mute simian servant of the humans but fomenting revolution all the while behind the scenes.Hari Rhodes' character is particularly interesting. An aide to the bigoted governor played by Don Murray, as a black man and descendant of slaves his heart is more with the apes than it is with his own people. He provides Caesar some crucial support at key moments in the show and then has to make an appeal to the ape's humanity at the end when the apes are about to massacre their human prisoners. But as Caesar points out, he's not a human and simian ideas of justice may not jibe with human concepts.The Ape movies were well-known for their downbeat endings. Now nearly every story you see, no matter how grim, has to have some sort of hopeful ending but not the Ape series. In episode 1 Taylor discovers that he's on Earth all along in one of the most stunning endings in movie history; in part 2 the world is utterly destroyed in a final war between the humans and apes; part 3 has Caesar's parents being murdered; part 4 the apes have overthrown the human race. Only in part 5 do we finally have a happy ending of centuries in the future when men and apes have finally learned to live in peace. "},{"Title":"Powerful But Unconvincing.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fourth Apes film carries on from Escape, twenty years later, where Milo has been renamed Caesar(again played by Roddy McDowall,who is excellent.) Here, the future is shown to have apes being enslaved as servants to the ruling elite, after a mysterious plague virus wipes out the animal population. Caesar must now fight for his freedom, not only for himself, but all his kind.Rarely does a film put the viewer so firmly against its own species, so utterly corrupt and debased are these people that you root for the apes to win their revolution! Again though, credibility is low, since the government had been warned about the eventual ape overthrow of man, it seems astonishing that the governments learned nothing from this, and did the exact opposite thing to prevent that from happening! What morons; pity this couldn't have been portrayed in a less obvious, and heavy-handed way. Still, it does have an effective ending... "},{"Title":"Monkey Boiler Suit Attack","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is about a monkey who likes to wear a boiler suit.He visits the city with his good friend Armadillo (Richard Montalbohn). They are enjoying themselves nicely until one of the apes goes slightly nutzoid. Caesar is not happy with this. He organises a lot of his friends to wear boiler suits and decides to run amok.Circus bloke Armadillo is arrested for wearing silly knee high boots and is put into custody. It goes nicely with his cake-ody. He jumps out of a window and is dead on arrival.Caesar hears of this and is not too happy about this. He gets even more gorillas and such into orange and red boiler suits and sets the city on fire.The local police decide to shoot the lunatic monkeys.Lots of fighting and boiler suit action later everyone is happy .The End. "},{"Title":"Apes of the Planet of the Conquest !","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, after the success of (Planet of the Apes &#x96; 1968) the studio wanted to utilize it anyway as long as at this very phase every ordinary formula seemed unreliable, uncommon movies became huge phenomenon, some genres (Western, Musical, ..) were close to dead, and the executives knew nothing about new kind of audience and taste. So 2 years later they gave us the first, quite usual afterwards, hackneying !, (Beneath the Planet of the Apes - 1970) was like many subsequent first sequels such as (Rocky 2), (Home Alone 2) that were nothing but repeating the first one, yet at (Beneath..) it was kind of foolish, poor, and maybe nothing serious of its original.Then, we came to the matter of what's known officially as parts 3, 4, 5. Well.. Sorry guys, those were 3 prequels after volume 1, and the idiot volume 2. Actually nobody brings that up as maybe that was early to understand, or that really brings it down. As those 3 movies are dealing with issues we already knew, so what's here to watch indeed ?!Honestly  nothing !, the whole chain of movies that came yearly after the first one got nothing to add, nothing to entertain, even nothing to live longer in your brain unless that Hollywood is commerce in the first place, and that the 1970s were hideous !Obviously this last trilogy (Escape, Conquest, Battle) didn't reach to the classic Sci-Fi original one. They iterate the same meanings yet insignificantly  the humanity is falling, the mankind became more animalistic than the animal whom would be more sane, the doom is near (the end of the civilization, then the end of mankind, the apes, the whole world !), I love to compare it to James Bond movies at the sixties, they're their perfect opposite where, for instance, the nuclear power is always ended with the right hands (or so they tell us !).OK, so if the whole production of the Apes series got nothing deep to present, what about what's left of them  the adventure ?. Well, it's average or bad, like a TV production, and some low elements that, with the case of knowing the ultimate end, managed to make it laughable or silly.After (Escape from the Planet of the Apes) which was one strangely silly movie. Here the silliness continues. Actually, except the performance of (Roddy McDowall) which was stunning in the wrong place somehow, and the wonderful (Ricardo Montalban) you'd feel sorry for the first big hit, the way Hollywood treats its audience sometimes, and definitely for the loss of your time !The sense of oddity is all over it, and I do mean it in a bad way. (Don Murray) is in perfect wooden shape, makes you feel sorry for the frenetically crazy cowboy, as well as the actor, he was in (Bus Stop) 16 years ago. (Hari Rhodes) was totally frigid ! Maybe someone told them that the bad guys and the good guys would be robotically inhuman in the future?, or maybe the frigid performance comes naturally with the low budget ?!. The female ape ran into the hero like 200 times, not to mention how they designed her image in unbearable ugliness to be that spooky creature that will hunt you successfully in numerous nightmares. The idea of having apes for general jobs is absolute corny, how about the human unemployment especially in age with computers that may replace the humans also !. The revolution was done so quickly, maybe there was no enough money or thoughts !. (J. Lee Thompson) who was one of my favorites (Once !) had been brought to direct, in fact this man even in his worst movies (so many by the way) must leave a preferential technique's dexterity, you can notice it here through some detached scenes and for sure at the big climax which was big because of his efforts, maybe they called him for this in specific since the movie's title exposed it all !It's simple to understand that this movie has nearly nothingness to present, just another sequel, prequel, spin off, rip off that gives us some thing to watch and forget, despite the strong performance of (McDowall) particularly at the finale speech. And how it confirms, with awful cheap masks for the apes this time, that those apes as a good example of the whole failing deal are belonging to the plant of the everlasting conquest Hollywood, which is closely like Vegas where the house is always winning whether we won or we lost. So here.. The humans lost.. In the movie and out of it too ! "},{"Title":"The Best Planet of the Apes Sequel But That's Not Sayin' Much...","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Conquest of the Planet seems to work really well, it works with the absence of Charlton Heston (something that Escape From the Planet of the Apes failed to do.) The film starts twenty years after Escape (YAY!) in where the intelligent ape couple child, named Caeser (played beautifully by Roddy MacDowell) is struggling with ape slavery after a deadly disease kills off all cats and dogs so humans want new house pets, noticing apes quick intelligence. It's not long before the apes become outright slaves. Then the humanity has to deal with outright rebellion.The first plus of the film is Roddy MacDowwels awesome performance, the director lets him go free letting Roddy make the character, instead of nameless, uncredited screenwriters. And the breathtaking 'future' production design should also be noted. But what's left out of this one is the sense of hope as in the original. Another con is how could Caesar teach the apes how to killif they knew was how to there certain slave. And luckily the director doesn't really focus on the dystopian government that much which would ruin the whole point of the film. But no matter, what it's age, even if 1994 is now considered the past, it will still put audiences on a wild 100-minute ride. "},{"Title":"The seams is worked out.","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike the precedent sequel,which takes a lot of elements in Pierre Boulle's novel (although it was an original' script based upon Boulle's characters),the writers had to rely on their own imagination herewhich is not much.The end of the third part could have been looked upon as the birth of a messiah ,so to speak,and it makes sense that now that he's grown up -thanks to Armando/Joseph-his time has come.There are a lot of scenes -mainly in the first part- which parody our own society(ot the late sixties/early seventies liberal zeitgeist),but such was already the case of Franklin J Shaffner's classic movie in 1967.The second part is very disappointing,consisting of violence and an endless speech from Ceasar.He should have called it quits afterward. "},{"Title":"Wonderful (yet extreme) sequel","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fourth installment to the APES saga finds Ceasar all grown up, and Ricardo Montalban's character gets in doo-doo. The make-up affects are wonderful with a capital W. The last time I saw an orangutan suit was in the documentary, BIGFOOT MAN OR BEAST (1975). When I saw the orang costume in this film, it gave me memories to that documentary. The knifes and guns were pretty extreme! But the apes have to show defiancy to man, who was mean to them. Ceasar was like Napoleon. The coolest scene was when the apes were doing there jobs, and when they see Ceasar, the rebel. Famous scene. The lecture at the end of the movie is awesome. Elements of this film was in Tim Burton's 2001 remake. Rated PG for violence, language, and thematic elements. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a fourth installment...","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this movie the audience is meant to sympathize with the plight of the apes but looking at the film as a parable I hoped (even though as we know, the outcome is already known) that the humans would prevail. I say this because the plot can be seen as a parallel of when a host society brings in newcomers whom it abuses unjustly but then acquiesces until it destroys itself. The only universally just solution for both sides would be separation so that each group can pursue its own destiny. The acting, directing, special effects, and action choreography were more than competent. These films just aren't as riveting for me anyway when the protagonists are not human. 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Darkest of the Ape Films","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely the darkest of all the ape films.  This film is basically a take on totalitarianism by showing how the humans subjugate the apes and treat them as slaves.  Also, you get to see Roddy McDowell, who generally played likeable characters, play one with a very dark side.  Sure the ape films became cliche' after the first one, but they still manage to provide a strong message and this one is no exception. "},{"Title":"Decent 3rd sequel","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warningpotential spoilers!Some twenty years after the death of Cornelius & Zira,their son Caesar,who under the care of Circus man Armando (Ricardo Montalban), decides to lead a revolt against the humans enslaving apes.Roddy McDowall gives a good performance as Caesar,the rebel chimp.There are a number of flawssome bad acting,cheesy make-up,the film is a worthy sequel.Followed by Battle for the Planet of the Apes.Rating***1/2 (out of five) "}{"Title":"Well........Don Murray as the baddie? Okay...","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is okay, has some good points, some bad....Spoilers too I am sure are below*I like the Watts Riot/late '60s racial stuff thrown in. Yup. It's a part of its era. They score some points here.*They establish that humans are basically Nazis. Yeah they probably had it coming.*Don Murray plays a baddie. He usually was a good guy ala 'Bus Stop' and what not. You gotta like seeing him playing against type.*It's fun to see Rowdy Roddy here being an insurrectionist, kinda like seeing Casey Kasem or Klinger as Lawrence of Arabia. You don't quite expect it but hey why not?*I don't buy that a few million intelligent apes, who essentially were a race of BusBoys and janitors, could take over the whole planet via Watts riots activities. That just doesn't wash. Yes I buy into seeing it cause some chaos, but let's at least try to be semi-logical here.*They do make mention of a nukeout that was somehow or other caused by the ape riots. Sure guys. They don't have a snowball's chance in Florida of getting in otherwise ya know?*They really were slipshod on the F/X, the acting and costumes on this one. Yes it's lower budget. That doesn't mean it has to be shoddy.*Shoddy McDowell? Sorry. Anyways, it's worth yer time if yer dutybound to see how thing went down between #3(the Sal Mineo entry) and #5(the Claude Akins entry). ** or so. It's okay. "},{"Title":"Missing Scene??","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just rented and viewed the DVD. I seem to remember a scene where MacDonald is confronted by Kolp and Gov. Breck as to helping Caesar, due to cameras in the hall(tunnel) where he talked to Caesar. This was not on here. Does anyone else remember this scene or am I imagining it?  "},{"Title":"How it all started...","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Conquest of the Planet of the Apes would actually be considered the middle part of the ape series timeline as Cornelius' and Zira's son, Caesar, rises to power by leading a revolt against the human population. It's actually the darkest one in the series, with an ending that is excellent!Conquest begins 18 years after Escape. Cornelius' and Zira's son, Caesar (Roddy McDowell), has been kept hidden by friendly circus trainer, Armando (Ricardo Montalban). Dogs and cats have been wiped out by some sort of strange virus leaving people to acquire apes as household pets. This soon develops into training them to be slaves. Caesar sees the way the ape population is being treated, and, knowing he is the son of two extraordinary speaking apes, leads a revolt against the humans. This is how the planet of the apes comes about. I really liked the dark tones this movie had. The riots at the end against man and ape was very well done and reminded me of the Watts Riots and others that I have seen. Lots of gunfire, flames, yelling, and a great speech at the end from Caesar. I would suggest, if you want to see how the ape civilization actually started, view Escape then this one, and then Battle, because in the timeline these actually come BEFORE the original and Beneath. "},{"Title":"One of the series best!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen Conquest of the Planet of the Apes at least 20 times.  It has to be the one of the most entertaining science fiction movies from the 70s. Although it doesn't live up to the first mainly because of budget cuts, which is another reason i find this movie funny.  The scene where the guards beat up the ape in the chains Aldo is absolutely hilarious!  The way he screams he sounds nothing like an ape.  You can also tell there is a lot of dub overs, cheesy costumes, and goofs throughout the movie - but that doesn't make it a bad movie.  If you are a fan of the apes series you will enjoy this one along with spectacular performances by Roddy McDowwal and Ricardo Montalbon. 9/10 "},{"Title":"People just don't get it!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is the best of the sequels because of it's darkness and great science fiction & historical story line, some people might say that the apes shouldn't have evolved so quickly, but that is not true because Caeser has already evolved and that is because he is the son of Cornelius and Zira who were from the future and had the power of speech!.So it seems to like any of the Apes films is to actually be a fan, I say that you can't criticize this kind of movie unless your'e a true fan, in which I'am!.+ Battle for the Planet of the Apes was the worst of the sequels!. "},{"Title":"one of three best in series","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very entertaining and worthwhile movie.  It follows the life of Ceasar the talking future Ape as he deals with the loss of his friend/trainer, social injustice, and the need to hide in the minority/ape part of society.  There are lots of parallels or at least similarities between this human/ape world and the U.S. during slave time.  Other aspects/ethical issues raised in the movie are the killing of one person/ape to improve future existence (dealt more with in Apes 5) & mind control/a truth machine.  There are some down part sin this movie though. Mainly the very end where Caesar says one thing and then says another kind-of contradictory thing.  While the wording gets across its message, there may have been an easier way.  Also, for the Ape series, this movie has lots of violence and guns.  (Hence its higher rating than usual).  All in all though this is probably one of the three best in the series (which is all good) (viewed video rating 7/10) "},{"Title":"A response to The Birth of a Nation","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The year was 1972. The Vietnam War was slowly coming to an end, the civil rights moment had been a success, and black power was taking over the U.S.A. Conquest of the Planet of the Apes was directed by J. Lee Thompson, and stars Roddy McDowall, Ricardo Montalban, Don Murray, Natalie Trundy, Hari Rhodes, Severn Darden, and Lou Wagner. It is part IV of the Ape Series. This is a sequel that I think requires the viewer to at least see part III to fully understand what's going on in part IV. You won't be completely confused if you're a first time Ape viewer since part of the history of the Apes films is covered in this film. The story takes place in 1991. We the audience learn that eight years earlier in the year 1983, a disease killed all the cats and dogs, leaving human beings with no pets. To replace them, people took in Apes as their pets. Because the Apes have so much intelligence, humans train them to perform chores and run errands. By 1991, the very foundation of the United States of America is based on the backbone of Ape slave labor, proving that those who forget history are doomed to repeat it. However, in the minds of most of the humans, this is different. Yes, the U.S. Constitution says All Men are Created Equal, but it says no such things about Apes. Clearly the majority of Americans in this film just cannot let go of the concept of slavery. Since they lost their human slaves over a hundred years earlier, things can now get back to normal for American society by coercing Apes to replace their human slaves. While Apes are smart, they are still just animals, and are not entitled to the same rights as humans. At least this is how many of the humans in the film think. The state is run with a strict hand by a man named Governor Breck who has no mercy on the Apes. Circus owner Armando and a young circus chimpanzee named Caesar go to a local city to promote Armando's circus. Caesar is highly intelligent, and knows how to talk. He has spent his entire life sheltered, and living in safety with Armando. When he goes to the city, and see's how Apes are treated, he finds this to be highly upsetting. Armando warns Caesar not to speak, or otherwise, Caesar could be enslaved. Can Caesar hold in his anger? MY THOUGHTS - The film presents a clear case against animal cruelty, and it has so many parables that I could ramble for hours discussing them, and dissecting them, so I'll only discuss the White/Black issue that is clearly present in Conquest. I've had the displeasure of having conversations with White Supremacists and Black Supremacists before. It's interesting how both groups have two things in common - They are both racist, and plenty of them are fans of the Planet of the Apes films. For the Black Supremacists, the films serve as a Black Man's fantasy of getting revenge against White men. For the White Supremacists, the films serve as a warning to White people that if they do not control Black people, they could rise up against them. I mentioned The Birth of a Nation in my title - For the unaware, The Birth of a Nation was a black and white silent film from 1915. The second half of that film is about White men forming the KKK and rising up against the former slaves who had taken over the South. I believe this film is in a sense a response to it - It shows the audience exactly why any group of slaves would be angry, and would have no mercy on their former masters, but also presents the question - Is it still morally right to react with so much violence and hate? Conquest completely mirrors the original Planet of the Apes, only the roles between Apes and humans are reversed. Conquest is by far the most darkest and most disturbing of the Apes films. Some may argue that this film is anti-white, and stereotypes white men as all being dominating, heartless, power-hungry monsters. On that note, one of the reasons I think that Conquest is so much emotionally darker then the other Ape films is because we the audience are so use to seeing White men in charge, in both films, and in real life, that perhaps it's less-disturbing seeing them in a slave role like we saw in the first two Apes films, but in Conquest, we are treated to a subconscious *disturbing* reminder of how the U.S.A. use to be when it had human slaves. I also could not help but think of Nazi-Germany when watching this film. That's another thing about Conquest - It's not dated, and can still easily spark controversial discussions about human rights. "},{"Title":"An extremely strong and effective sequel","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth and penultimate film in the series, Conquest represents a major change in tone from its relatively light-hearted predecessor, Escape from the Planet of the Apes. This is notable as being the first film not to feature either any characters from the original film or characters created by Pierre Boulle. This time around, the focus is on Caesar, the now fully grown son of the talking chimpanzees from the future, Cornelius and Zira, who appeared in the previous three films. Like his father, Caesar is played by the good luck charm of the Apes franchise, the frequently underrated Roddy McDowall.Taking place in the then near future of 1991, Caesar is brought into the city - which city is never specified - by his human foster father Armando, played extremely well by Richardo Montalban. Now about 18 years old, Caesar has seemingly lead a relatively sheltered life under the watchful and caring hand of Armando and has spent much of that time as a performer in Armando's circus, now an outdated form of entertainment. Caesar is told by Armando that in 1983, an astronaut brought a virus back with him from space and, as a result, every dog and cat in the world died within months. It was soon discovered that apes, like their human cousins, were immune to the virus and were consequently taken as pets in the years that followed. Over time, it became clear that apes could be taught to perform household chores and manual labour, meaning that they turned from pets into slaves. Outraged by his kind's plight, Caesar begins to plot a revolution to teach humanity a lesson.In terms of the effectiveness of its social commentary, Conquest is probably second only to the original film. It has very interesting things to say about humanity and the way in which we treat our kind. The apes are essentially a stand in for each and every race of people who have been oppressed or enslaved throughout history, most obviously African-American slaves in the United States and, before that, British North America. The mistreatment, to put it mildly, of the apes at the hands of the humans is deliberately intended to bring to mind that of the slaves in the Antebellum United States. This is exemplified by the presence of Mr. McDonald, played by Hari Rhodes, the one sympathetic human character other than Armando. Unlike many of his fellow humans, he sympathises with the apes' plight which is perhaps unsurprising given that he himself is African-American.As with the previous three films, Conquest has a strong villain in the form of Governor Breck, as played by Don Murray. Like Escape's Dr. Hasslein, Breck has shades of Dr. Zaius about him and is as determined to eliminate the threat posed to the future of his civilisation as Dr. Zaius was in the first film. Murray turns in an excellent performance, with the exception of one or two hammy line deliveries towards the end of the film but that's a minor quibble. Watching Murray's performance, I couldn't help but be reminded of Hitler, which was no doubt screen writer Paul Dehn's intention. The fact that the security forces dress in black uniforms similar to those of the SS certainly reinforced the Nazi analogy. Incidentally, the political system of the United States in this fictional version of 1991 is never explained but it certainly appears to be a controlled society though perhaps not a dictatorship in the true sense of the word. With the exception of Murray, Rhodes and Montalban, the supporting cast of Conquest is not as strong as in previous entries but McDowall more than makes up for this with a fantastic performance as Caesar, the young, passionate and some might say idealistic ape embittered by the fate of his parents and the plight of his people at the hands of the U.S. government. McDowall reportedly preferred playing Caesar over his father Cornelius and I can see why. Cornelius was considerably more dovish and was hen-pecked by his wife, Zira (Kim Hunter). You don't really get too many dovish revolutionaries, it has to be said.At the time of its release and subsequently, Conquest was criticised for its level of violence. While I wouldn't go as far as to call it mild by today's standards, it is nevertheless less extreme to modern audiences than it would have appeared in 1972. That said, I don't think that it's suitable for children under the age of, say, 12. In spite of all of the violence, I think I'm right in saying that we see only a few people or apes bleeding throughout the entire film. The climax of the second film, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, was considerably more violent yet it received a G rating on its initial release in 1970! This has been rectified and it now carries a 15 rating, which is probably the most appropriate rating available as the classification system as it stands today. The original dark and pessimistic ending of Conquest was altered following a negative response from a test audience. In the altered ending, McDowall's voice is, rather badly, dubbed in post production. He makes a speech which I imagine is supposed to be impassioned on the future peaceful co-existence of apes and humans but, while I liked the contents of the speech as the idea is of course admirable, it comes out of nowhere when compared to the rest of the scene, let alone the rest of the film. The original ending in which the apes brutally beat Breck to death with their rifles is far stronger. McDowall was too good an actor to deliver the speech so badly except on purpose so I wouldn't be surprised if he was doing his bit to sabotage the sloppy re-edit. effective. "},{"Title":"Devolution...","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES came as something of a shock to those of us who'd spent entire days hunkered down in our seats watching the first three films over and over. (There had been releases and re-releases and double features and nights spent at the drive-in watching in awe as some of the most imaginative tales ever told unfolded before our wide-open, staring eyes.) CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES proved lacking in so many ways gone were the outstanding writing and cinematic craftsmanship that had been hallmarks of the series; missing were the plethora of memorable characters; nowhere to be found were the plot twists that had so distinguished each of the first three features. Clearly, we were witnessing Devolution in action. It didn't bode well for the future. Our worst fears were fully realized when the fifth and (then) final chapter of the amazing Apes saga was released with so little fanfare that I don't recall even seeing it advertised on television (and with good reason). I rate CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES a seven only because it's effectively the end of the series and, as such, rates a look (and because the remarkable makeup is once again on display to great effect). When a recent DVD release of BATTLE FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES boasted never before seen footage, I fell for it and watched it from beginning to end- but I'll be d***ed if I saw anything I haven't seen before. "},{"Title":"I rather liked it.","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Conquest of the Planet of the Apes starts in 'North America 1991' where mankind have turned evolved apes into slaves, it is explained that a plague killed all the cat's & dog's on Earth & to replace their loved pets humans started keeping apes which quickly evolved into humanoid form & learned very quickly as we enslaved them for our own purposes. Caesar (Roddy McDowall) the offspring from the talking apes Cornelius & Zira which landed in America 20 years ago & were killed has been hidden by circus owner Armando (Ricardo Montalban) ever since, however on a trip to a big city Armando is captured by the local police & Caesar has to hide amongst his own kind to avoid capture. There Caesar witnesses the brutality with which humans treat the apes & begins to organise a revolt as the apes start to turn on their owners & the authorities...Directed J. Lee Thompson I have to say I rather enjoyed this silly yet entertaining sci-fi flick. The third & penultimate sequel to the original Planet of the Apes (1968) following Beneath the Planet of the Apes (1970) & Escape from the Planet of the Apes (1971) I am fairly impressed with this series of films as each one tries to be markedly different from it's predecessor & tries to tell a story rather than being a straight rehash of what has gone before. The script by Paul Dehn chronicles the events which lead up to an ape ruled future & moves along at a reasonable pace, it's parallels the events of the real life civil rights movement from the 60's. It's a Planet of the Apes style take on social & political conflict & I found it an interesting film to watch with some nice moral points although one has to remember it's a sci-fi film so I won't read too much into it. The character's are good & it tries to make the audience understand the arguments from both sides which it effectively achieves, both the human & ape character's have valid points & I wasn't sure at the end who I should be rooting for. A much better film than I was expecting which makes some interesting social points amongst it's sillier moments.Director Thompson does a decent job, the budgets on the Planet of the Apes films were being cut with each subsequent effort & it's starting to show here with some cheap looking monkey masks & recycled studios & props, for instance the ape jumpsuits were left-overs from the Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea (1964 - 1968) TV series, most of the computer equipment came from The Time Tunnel (1966 - 1967) TV series while the ape management centre is a redressed set from City Beneath the Sea (1971). Apparently a lot of violent footage was cut from the film to keep the rating down including a pre-credit scene & adding a more pessimistic ending, don't you just hate it when studios do that? It's well made & the action scenes at the end showing the apes rebelling are quietly effective.With a supposed budget of about $1,700,000 this has decent enough production values & is well made. Most of it was shot at Irvine Campus at the University of California because of it's futuristic design by architect William L. Pereira, the film hasn't dated too badly actually considering it's over 35 years old. The acting is alright but not spectacular.Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is a good entry in the classic sci-fi series, I liked it & it's as simple & straight forward as that. Followed by Battle for the Planet of the Apes (1973) a year later. "}{"Title":"The Best of the Series","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this one, because it gave the meat and potatoes of why the Apes came to power.I know, we lived through 1991, and it looked quite different than the '70's portrayal of that year.  That is where suspension of disbelief comes into play.Here we see Milo (later to become Caesar) become an angry young ape after his adoptive father viciously is interrogated and subsequently loses his life to protect him, as well as seeing how viciously his kind is treated by humankind.I hated to see Ricardo Montalban's character die early in this film.  It seems in all of his roles he portrays a certain suaveness, even as Khan (Star Trek), where his character is too good to kill off.I have found this to be the most gripping of the POTA series.  Especially the portrayal of humankind being so cold to the apes.  I watched this movie just a couple weeks ago, and I was aghast that humankind would be so cold during that time.  This movie does a good job in creating the mindset that says the humans deserved it.McDonald's character definitely complemented this film appropriately. Like they say, those who don't know their own history is doomed to repeat it. The apes' plight mirrors that of the Afro-Americans during the reconstruction time, and having this link makes the ending more sensible.Definitely a chilling move, more so than the rest.  It hits home. "},{"Title":"rebellion and the series starts to end a a symetrical note.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film picks up several decades after the last and focuses on the rise of a fifth column lead by the son of the long since dead ZIRA and CORNELIUS. The setting is a police state future and the battle is similar to the warsaw ghetto uprising of 1943 and the watts riots etc. The cinematic conflict in the film is against slavery, tyranny, and oppression in a united states gone wrong.  The film strikes a note. Several story pieces from the last are explored. Instead of a contemporary setting which would have been interesting the setting is the not too distant future. The urban king story is also elevated along with a realization of societies cinematic fears in the last film. A great story done on a tight budget and on few shooting locations a epic on a meager budget which does not scrimp on thrills and suspense. The film also has a quality when the character of MACDONALD a descendant of slaves is compared to Ceaser a slave ape. A great cinematic and literary script metaphor. "},{"Title":"a big improvement over the last ape film","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this movie lacked the same coolness factor of the second ape movie (BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES), it was every bit as good and was a big improvement over the last film (ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES).This was a very strange movie, because while it was the fourth movie in the series, technically speaking #3 and 4 both occurred BEFORE #1 and 2, BUT #1 and 2 needed to occur first sequentially because,...well, never mind,...it's all too confusing to try to explain in only 1000 words! But trust me on this, #4 occurred 2nd---or did movie #5?!? I dunno--it's all a giant time loop thing.Cornelius and Zira's baby, thought to have been killed in movie #3 was secreted away by the well-meaning Ricardo Montalban and raised to adulthood by the time the movie starts. Since movie #3, a lotta bad stuff has occurred on Earth. Apparently, some people saw a loophole in the 13th Amendment (to those who failed Civics, that's the one that freed the slaves)--the Amendment did not apply to apes!! So now we have chimps, orangutans and gorillas doing slave labor all across the globe. How these three types of apes came to look NOTHING like chimps, orangutans or gorillas, we don't know--maybe there was some sort of cloning or cool potion used to enhance them and make them look like people inside ape suits! Cornelius' nice life in the traveling circus is brought to an end when a zealous dude begins to wonder if MAYBE Cornelius' and Zira's baby had NOT been killed, so he goes on a personal Jihad looking for the baby. When questioned, Montalban chose death over betraying the offspring--thus confirming the baby MUST have survived. But finding him is a problem since by now the now-adult offspring has blended into the mass of slave apes.This offspring soon is allowed to choose his name from a book. The people who let him do this think that maybe he'll pick a word like apple or the or maybe even dookie, but he finds the word Caesar and so he is christened with this cool name. Now, at this point, you think someone would have realized that something was amiss--picking a name like this! But, the humans in this film are either totally stupid or bloodthirsty (much like real life, I guess).Caesar lives up to his name and leads a slave rebellion--after all, he's appalled by the way humans treat these poor animals. And so the movie ends--finishing the series, right?! Well, no. The fifth movie and a spin off TV series were to follow--along with a crappy remake of the original that recently was dumped on the public.I've got to say that this movie was really good--mostly due to the excellent character played by Roddy McDowell. Yes, we know he had played Cornelius but this time he plays his own son and does an excellent job--combining great humanity with his character. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"Let's kill everybody just for fun","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **CAUTION SOME SPOILERS** The fourth film, Conquest... was brutal and violent. The apes are so brutalized in this film that when I went into the theater near the end of this film, the audience was cheering when the apes were killing humans!! I was shocked at how people could root for humans being killed by apes who are trying to destroy humanity. I think this is a statement on how people personally loathe themselves and their existence. This film also ends on negative note with humanity getting taken over by the apes and then an off-screen nuclear war destroys what's left of the rest of the earth.Yeah, a real family treat. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but marred by low budget, unintentional parody of Shakespeare during last ten minutes","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like most of the Apes films, this one had a lot of potential, but unfortunately, it just doesn't realize it.  The black-white racial themes are brought out in a thoughtful manner and the acting is not all that bad.  Roddy McDowall is great as Caesar and Ricardo Monteblan calmed himself down from Escape to reprise his role as the keeper of Zira and Cornelius' son.  But the problem with Conquest is that it has that rushed, incredibly low budget feel that detracts from all of the Apes films (except the first).  For example, the set on Conquest is basically a downtown plaza, which must have saved a lot of money as it was probably free to film there.  There are also a few other rooms that characters move in and out of.  How much did this cost?  Like $50?  And because the set is so cheap, it feels like the characters never really move anywhere.  It's a bit disconcerting.  Also, the plot rushes forward so quickly that we are always having characters explain everything to the us, as Monteblan's character does to at the beginning of the film (filling in the gaps from Escape).  A shame the makers of these films didn't have more money so they could do more showing and less telling.  In addition, the last ten minutes of this film are just awful.  It's really, really bad Shakespeare.  What's with the Caesar's speech?  And what's with that weird exchange between Caesar and MacDonald?  It's sooooo bad, so overexplained.  I really love all the themes that these films bring out, the political/social satire, but it is all so brought down by the way these films were made.  In my opinion, this film is more interesting than Escape from Planet of the Apes, maybe the second best in the series.  And I find Conquest to be more interesting than Burton's waste.  Worth a watch.   "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Planet Of The Apes an awesome, classic movie... Beneath The Planet Of The Apes a little slower paced.. but some of the scenes with the mind controlling bomb worshipers are very interesting. Escape From The Planet Of The Apes In my opinion the best of the 5, cute, funny, tragic.. excellence.Then this came along, a mindless, boring movie. I understand the nessecity of this movie to continue the storyline, but this one gets real boring real fast. The Apes revolt from their masters in an elaborate war scene that seems to last forever in a 60's future town. This one can be skipped. (Coincidently, The next and last installment Battle For The Planet Of The Apes is well worth watching, and I'd recommend it and all the other apes movies over this one) "},{"Title":"Save yourself some time and skip this one.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was a victim of bean-counters!  The cast that carried the previous three films just seemed to die off, without becoming replaced by other good performers.  Roddy McDowel did ok, but was not allowed to live up to his potential because of bad writing.  This film really stinks.  There is little to no entertainment value in watching militant underdogs take over a city. Nothing was even believable.  The plot lost something through the translation of budget cuts.    "},{"Title":"They Conquered by Winning a Riot?","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved 'Conquest of the Planet of the Apes' because I am into' the series.It is an interesting concept that the Apes Conquered the humans, but the way the movie handles it, this concept looks unlikely.I mean, .....come on.  I can see 2,000 Apes beating 200 Riot police by surprise essentially.  But in addition we are supposed to believe that the Apes won the whole World by taking over a residential shopping mall?So what happens when, subsequently, the F-16's from the carrier battle groups waste away the rioting Apes who still just learned how to say 'no' like my three year old son.  I really don't know why that TV news commentator who gasped This could mean the end of the human race! couldn't also get hold of himself and reassure his audiance that if we could beat the Nazi's, we could certainly beat these Apes who are just plainly angry, albiet, smart than we had thought.I think that the film-makers could have made this movie more believable if it did not end with Ceasar holding Governor Breck hostage.  I think that the movie should have gone on for another 15 minutes with Ceasar sweating bricks over the next few days over the prospects that the human jet fighters, UDT-SEALs, Abram tanks and so on are about to wipe out his motley band who haven't even proven that they can break down an M-16 in a minute for cleaning.  I guess they'll learn in a day or two.Then, somehow, the humans get into a World War III which essentially saves Ceasar's neck.  It could be something like the Soviet Union mistook our arms build up for an attack on them.  Did the commies have Ape slaves, too?!That also begs the question how America becomes a Fascist dictatorship in the 20 years after Cornelious and Zira died.We can even see the beginning of human regression right after the War in an 'onset of Altsheimer's' way and the Apes start learning to put sentences together.That would re-assure me that at least we humans shot ourselves instead of getting 'conquered' by a bunch of busboys.Thank you.  "},{"Title":"No bananas for the writer.","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A plague has wiped out cats and dogs, so instead of turning to turtles and hamsters as pets, mankind obviously chooses apes.The apes are unhappy from the start. As if it weren't bad enough that they are not being allowed to pleasure themselves as they constantly do in the wild, they were given dog and cat food which - it turns out - gave them non-stop diarrhoea. Add to that the fact many Belgian perverts switched from pedophilia to monkey-sex and you can certainly appreciate why the chimps started a revolution against the humans.The revolution is started by none other than Ceasar, Sean Penn's son (a striking resemblance those eyes), who one day finds Das Kapital in the library of its owner, Tim Robbins.The rest is history. Ape history.Please someone lobotomize me so I can finally forget this dumb movie I can't stop laughing! "},{"Title":"NO!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's politics are coarse & obvious (what did you expect??) yet the spectacle CONQUEST achieves on a tight budget is remarkable. The final 20-or-so minutes of sustained brutality (the recipient of post-prod cuts) as riot troops (clad in imposing authoritarian outfits) take on the ape uprising must rank as the most violent sequence ever attempted within the restrictions of a family audience feature. In fact, while witnessing CONQUEST's conclusion, you can't help but ponder what a hoot it must have been participating in the making of this movie. The knives, assault weapons, flame-throwers, meat cleavers, broken glass, riot shields, tribal/psychedelic soundtrack & (above all) those nifty orange Ape Management uniforms, leave an overall impression of invention, risk & (believe it or not) FEAR. The bloodbath (without much blood...) betwixt (haha!!) Ape & Man staged against the pristine backdrop of a night-sky cityscape IS the icing on the cake, making CONQUEST The Best Of Five & one of THE most curious SF films of the '70s. "}{"Title":"The conquest is not that peaceful","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" That one was supposed to come and we waited twenty years for it to come, but it came of age and here we have it at the tips of our fingers on the DVD console. This tale is so simple that it is in a way emotionally overwhelming. How can we accept to see some humans mistreating their servants and home pets that they have turned into slavery. Let's revisit America and the auction block and the electric shocks and the torture and the humiliation and the sex on command and the procreation for a profit. Dirty old town indeed, if it is Los Angeles, well the angels are having nightmares right now. It is amazing how romanticism may still inspire our rather weak minds. The point is that we feel sorry for these poor souls that are mistreated and victimized but at the same time we do not see and don't want to see what may and will and shall happen if that goes on too long. Sooner or later there will be a big bang somewhere in our social constellation. And the film tries to be factual about a revolution of unarmed apes taking over the city against machine guns with just a little bit of wit, massive participation and determination. The flaw of our romanticism confronted to that blunt violence and the words of it can only make us afraid. Let's fear what we cannot control and let us kill ahead of time all those who may possess the words of that revolution. How sad because this film could have been a lot more powerful in drama and tragedy. No death on any one side of a revolutionary battle is acceptable, even if it is the tyrant that has just been ousted, even if some kind of a trial has been organized in the urgency and emergency of the moment so that there will be no discussion when the steam has come down. My time be long, my time be short tomorrow or today unjust causes always come to an end, and all causes that do not respect everyone, including one's opponents, not to speak of one's enemies, is doomed to come to a sad and cruel end and the defeat is at the end of the road, even if you get out of it without any remorse. Without any remorse, my foot. This film is remorse building for you humans who are not even able to accept what god has decided to do. We are nothing, we are nothing, we are nothing, nothing but a smite of dust in the sunshine of the Lord.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Conquest of the Planet of the Apes","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just like Escape from... before it, this sequel has nothing relevant to previous events, only a little explanation, but I kept watching anyway, from J. Lee Thompson (Ice Cold in Alex). Basically the future for the human race has loomed closer, with a disease killing all household pets, e.g. cats and dogs, and apes replaced them. Then the domesticated apes started evolving and learning menial household tasks, so they have now become work slaves to all humans, replacing personal assistants. Armando (Ricardo Montalban) has arrived in the city filled with hundreds of the ape slaves, with his ape Caesar (Roddy McDowall) to advertise his circus coming to town. Armando is the only one that knows Caesar is the son of speaking apes Cornelius and Zira (surely his name should be Milo), so he has to keep quiet, or face death to stop the future to come, with humans becoming slaves to the humans. When Armando is interrogated by Insp. Kolp (Severn Darden) about Caesar, suspected of speaking, he escapes to a slavery training facility full of orangutans, put to work for the aide of Gov. Breck (Don Murray), MacDonald (Hari Rhodes). It is after finding out that Armando has committed suicide (jumping out a window), and losing faith in human kindness, Caesar begins rebellion, giving all other apes in the facility weapons to fight for freedom. MacDonald finds that Caesar is indeed the son of the talking apes, and when it all comes to a head he tries to reason the goodness in most humans, Caesar's future wife Lisa (Natalie Trundy) also speaks. But in the end, Caesar gives his raging speech about what he thinks of the humans, and how the apes will become superior, as he announces the birth of the Planet of the Apes. Also starring Lou Wagner as Busboy and John Randolph as Commission Chairman. I will admit towards the end this is possibly the most gritty of the films (being a 15 certificate), but obviously the original will always be the best, and this sequel is only good for some fight scenes, and the reliably great performance by make-up covered McDowall. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"Second best in the Planet of the Apes movie , but still a damn good movie )","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" How often do films or movies get away with talking about issues before the censorship get hold of them , the direction , the special effects and even the customs that people wore in Conquest of the Planet of the Apes were the best of it's time and era , and having Roddy McDowell as the mighty Caeser was excellent , I have enjoyed Roddy's acting for long time now , even during Fright Night and Legend of the Hell House , the original version . And Conquest had a sensitive issue to tackle ; slavery and it did it well , Don Murray was perfect in this movie as was Hari Rhodes , even seeing future WKRP star , Gordon Jump as the one that auctioned off the apes as slaves was great . But as like most movies go as far as movie series are concerned , the Planet of the Apes should not have to take a back seat to anyone ; even the Star Trek or Star Wars own movie series , Planet of the Apes was one of a kind , unique and very different for what it was and Conquest was one of the better ones , next to the original starring Charlton Heston , who can ever beat something that is perfection anyway ) Rkallao@aol.com "},{"Title":"The 4th and worst ape film","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth installment in the ape saga was a let down it stars Roddy McDowell, Don Murray & Ricardo Montalban. The film is set in the future people have substituted cats & dogs with apes as their household pets and apes are also used as slaves or personal assistants this carry's on until one advanced ape (McDowell) to lead a revolt that marks the beginning of the ape revolution. In my opinion this is the WORST one in the ape series if you have read my other reviews you will know that the 1968 Planet of the apes is my favourite in the series. The fourth installment was directed by J.Lee Thompson.**/***** "},{"Title":"Extremely dated and downright bad.","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought it was a good idea at the time to buy the Box Set of The Planet of The Apes but after watching the penultimate movie in the series , I'm starting to wonder if there has ever been a worse movie franchise than this one. Talk about look back at movies with rose tinted glasses, i used to love these films as a kid but now i see them for what they are - terrible.This film is a depressing look at how in the future ( 1991 ! ) the humans treated the apes at first like pets and then like slaves. It looks extremely dated as do most 1970's films that are trying to look futuristic. It has many tired slavery connotations in it and it looks like it's set in the newly built Central Milton Keynes. There is one interesting scene near the end when the apes confront the police in the street and it's the spitting image of the Zombie scene in Michael Jackson's Thriller. Why Roddy McDowell continued making these movies is beyond me but all i have got to say is I'm please i have only one more to watch! "}]