[{"Title":"How far have we progressed in 30 years?","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"56 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I came across the recently released DVD of this film in, of all places, the children's video section of Virgin Megastore. Whether or not this poorly miscategorized placement was of simple ignorance or whether the intent weas subversive and it was intentionally and deliberately placed in the children's section, I found myself grinning and reluctant inform anyone of the error. After all, nobody gave me any forewarnings when I was a kid either, as some things you just have to discover on your own, and the thought of some poor innocent parents popping this film on for their kid only to look on in horror at the visions that would soon unfold sounded dastardly and funny indeed. I was 7 years old when Fritz the Cat first hit the screen, and while I didn't see the film for the first time until I was well into my twenties, the film nevertheless had a lasting impact on my childhood. This film had taken on a reputation of mythical proportions in my Brooklyn hometown neighborhood, partly due to the older teens on my street who were all too eager to share shocking details contained therein, as only the best subversive intentions can do, and further securing the film's status as every parent's nightmare. To a child about to undergo serious growing pains and a naturally growing curiosity towards all things adult-related, Fritz the Cat was very much my earliest childhood memory of the themes of sex, drugs, rock-n-roll, racism, you name it, and it was a symbol for naughtiness that all coming of age kids couldn't wait to catch a sneak peak of, or at least couldn't wait to reach the age when we could view such subject matter freely. As a movie, it hasn't lost any of it's impact in 30 years, and fewer films truly capture the grittiness and raw edge of New York city in the 70's (French Connection is another good example). I dare say that it could be considered more offensive now than ever, as I fear that today many just might not get it, despite our self-proclamation that we've come a long way in maturity and tolerance of such sensitive issues. Modern society has become so politically correct and desensitized to controversial issues that we're less tolerant and understanding of the original intent of a film such as this, especially when it's messages are not consistent with our modern value system. Thus, some of the obvious stereotypes presented in this film (such as the pigs portraying cops and the crows portraying blacks, for example), could never be presented in a film today. Granted, these images were meant to be offensive in the 70's as well, but they were obviously taken in a different light back then, as they were indicative of a specific brand of biting satire found in the 70's and hippie culture and a reflection of how that particular generation could openly address such social issues. These issues, such as racism, are clearly still relevant today, we just address them in a different manner, which is why Fritz the Cat still has potency yet is more or less looked upon as a curious time capsule of a bygone era today. "},{"Title":"Like it's main character, crass but very smart","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"34 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" From what I had heard of this film and the other user comments posted, I was expecting a simple little shock cartoon. What I got was good kick in the pants. And I mean that in a good way. Fritz the Cat in many ways exposes the 1960's more than the live action films of its own decade.The movie starts with 3 construction workers talking on top of an unfinished building. The dialogue is very spontaneous and almost seems ad-libbed. These types of conversations are sprinkled throughout the 80 minute film.It then transitions to Fritz the cat, a college student who, like many of that era I'm sure, is not sure what it's all for. He decides to do something real and ventures into Harlem. From here he meets a wide assortment of people, incites a riot, and has sex with many a woman. It may not always have a point, but the movie has one fun segment after another with little breathing room. Sometimes unnecessarily shocking, sometimes surprisingly inspired, but always quick on its feet.So please give it a chance. It's a lot more than the notorious cartoon porn it's been labeled as. It's a fun romp through the deprived New York of the 60's, except this time with cartoon characters! What's not to like? 7/10 "},{"Title":"A shocking but very entertaining film&#133;","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story concerns a classic 60's hero, Fritz, and his adventures through the urban underground&#133; He loves sex and constantly claims and declares the glories of revolution&#133; At first he is happy with just sex, but as the story moves through exotic adventures he discovers that the only way he can truly be a revolutionary is to join up with one of the militant groups&#133; There, he's over his head&#133; In sharp contrast to Walt Disney's soft characters, Fritz is seen providing a bunch of screaming female cats, placing drugs, and having lots of fun&#133; We are taken through Harlem where, in this case, the blacks are portrayed as jive-talking crows&#133; Fritz is not a fantasy, but an animation venture into super-reality, at least as Bakshi sees it&#133; The animation is unpolished, graceless, but very effective&#133; It has an unrefined or unfinished, renewable energy that brings out some of the social results of the confused sixties&#133; "},{"Title":"Existentialism","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who didn't like Fritz the Cat is not looking at the film in the right way.  A lot of the reviews I've read basically said that it is nothing more than a bad film that strives only on shock value to get an audience.  I also read that it doesn't have much of a storyline and only revolves around sex and drugs......so what else did you expect a movie about the slackers of the 60s to have?  Did the stoners of that decade NOT behave the way Fritz does in the movie?  In order to understand the point of the movie you have to put yourself into Fritz's shoes and let him guide you through his life as a college drop-out trying to find his purpose (Existentialism for those who are not familiar with philosophy) in life and still have a good time.  Of course his journey leads you to animal orgies and a crow that hides pot in awkward places, but that is the beauty of this movie--it's about freedom! I also do not believe it is outdated because Fritz's trippy surroundings and his pseudo-intellectual thoughts were enough to make me melt!  It's all about the mood.  The animation and music put the viewer in a hypnotic state where nothing else matters except pleasure and happiness.  If you can't identify with Fritz then you have lost the feel of what it's like being young.And just for some peoples' info. the movie is not X-rated because it has explicit sex scenes (any viewer of pornography, also X-rated in some form, knows that we have seen much more of the human body then is depicted in this film), it is X-rated because there are CARTOON ANIMALS HAVING SEX.  Anyone who would give this film an R-rating because there are no close-ups should not plan on an MPAA career in the near future   "},{"Title":"I love this film for what it is. Puerile, satirical and Ground breaking!","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a film not for everyone. Pure and simple it is offensive, and at times intentionally gross. Besides this fact, it holds the honor of the first X rated cartoon, huge box office sales and inspired by the comic book genius Robert Crumb. Unfortunately this film was made without his permission and it probably would have been better had he put in his own brand of humor in it. This is not to dishonor the writers and animators who spent two years making this. This holds a place in our culture for many reasons, especially since it represented the college kids who just had to get out and rebel. That with the drug abuse, and graphic sex scenes makes the viewing of it one that should probably be engaged in alone. Overall, a hoot and a holler 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I came of age in New York City during the 1960s and shared many of the same trials and tribulations of Fritz the Cat. It's hard to find your kicks when everyone around you is spaced out and hung up on aggression. All us long-hairs got a bad rap, like Fritz, because we were confused about what it is we wanted. For those of us who lived, we began to age to the point of getting knowledge and understanding. Of course by the time we understood that it was too late to do anything about it. The scene was too weird and we were too confused.  Fritz the Cat is like a lot of the guys I hung around with; full of ideas and short on ambition. This film is a perfect view of what some people saw in the 1960s. 3 1/2 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Happy Times - Heavy Times","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" That is how the 1960s were described by the narrator in the beginning of this film. Fritz the Cat is a famous movie for a number of reasons, most stemming from it being the first feature-length adult cartoon and having an X rating. There were controversies surrounding its creation with director Ralph Bakshi and character creator Robert Crumb. The film is like nothing I have ever seen before. It has a unique animation process that makes everything reek seediness, despair, and cry for social change. Bakshi wrote the script which really is nothing more than the knife that cuts through all the 60's BS - from existentialism to the drug culture to the love generation to African-American perspectives to militancy. Nothing is spared as the counterculture is laid bared and examined through the eyes, ears, fears, and desires of Fritz the Cat. Along the way, Fritz experiments with just about anything - including lots of sex, drugs, and sex. While the film definitely is quite vulgar in many ways with some of the most odious characterizations of otherwise cute and cuddly animals and depicting lots of strong sexual situations(though in no way deserving the X by today's standards), Fritz the Cat is also an intelligent look at one character's drive to find himself and meaning in his life - perhaps a symbol for the whole decade the film is examining. The end result is nothing conclusive - also perhaps a symbol. Bakshi's script is in some ways profound and thought-provoking and in some ways infantile and vile - his obvious dislike of police just one example. But what had my attention more than anything else was the animation - particularly in exterior shots not containing characters. There is one scene where the slums of Harlem are integral to the story. Bakshi uses his camera to zoom in on quite an impressive animated background shot of a field lost amongst the slums of Harlem. It is the very essence of seedy existence in an uncaring world. There are many other shots too that have that same power, but let's not forget that even with the intelligent at times script and the animation, much of Fritz the Cat is used solely to arouse - either arouse some primal feelings or arouse offense. A landmark film at any rate whether for good or for bad. "},{"Title":"Fantastic animation and hilarious dialogue","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Technically speaking, this movie should not have been made. Robert Crumb did not approve of it. But frankly, this movie took the Fritz character far beyond anything in ZAP magazine (IMHO). Firstly, the animation is superb and diverse. A variety of styles was used, each appropriate to the mood of the scene. Secondly, the characterization was great. Fritz's travels bring him in contact with every woodpecker and lunatic imaginable. And the ensuing conversations are...well...let's leave it at unique. Fans of movies like Roadside Prophets, Slacker, and Highway 61 should definitely appreciate this film.Not a film for kids. Contains nudity, drugs, and about everything else you can think of. "},{"Title":"Excellent Social Satire","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ralph Bakshi's first film, is flawed but enjoyable. It is about Cat in a romp through the 1960's in New York through sex drugs and Rock and Roll. The film starts off funny then ends up depressing. What the movie essentially is, is a satire on the counter culture of the 1960's.  It is one of Ralph Bakshi's best, and definitely worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Fritz The Cat","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" SYNOPSIS It is New York City in the 1960's,and Fritz is a horny hippie New York City(by way of Manhattan) cat who plays guitar in the park with his buddies. Chatting up to three women he invites them round to his apartment for an orgy. There are various other friends join in a feast of sex and drugs which is interrupted by two pig cops. Then,Fritz is chased through a synagogue before hanging out in Harlem with some black crows. He gets very stoned,has some more sex and preaches about revolution before his friend gets killed in a vicious and violent street riot. Fritz flees with his girlfriend Winston for a journey out west,but the two fall out on the road and Fritz hooks up with some revolutionary,sexually abusive types. They encourage Fritz to blow up a refinery and set him up to be killed. Finally,fully recovered in a hospital he enjoys some more group sex with his girlfriends.THE FILM Released in 1972 and also marked the directorial feature-film debut of Ralph Bakshi,the film Fritz The Cat,was a massive surprise box office hit despite some negative reviews from critics who deplored its content of sexually explicit material. This was in fact,made motion picture history as being the first ever animated cartoon feature to received an X rating from the Motion Picture Association Of America. The reason why it received an X rating for one thing and one thing that shocked audiences when they went to see it...SEEING CARTOON ANIMALS HAVING SEX,and also seeing cartoon animals doing raunchy and out of this world things that were never before seen,not even in an animated cartoon has this been done before,including scenes of raw language,racial content,explicit violence and not to mention full-frontal nudity of cartoon animals doing explicit sexual acts and doing outrageous stuff beyond the form of normality that was never before seen and for the first time was very daring for a cartoon that was STRICTLY FOR ADULTS ONLY....At the time this was released in theatres, Fritz The Cat,at the time was never meant to be shown to pre-teenagers nor children in fact you had to be under 18 years of age or older to see this film. I remember this vividly since I saw it for the first time during a special midnight screening once at a local university under tight security. Based on the characters created by Robert Crumb,this was a grand look of sex,drugs,and freedom at the height of the late 1960's America,which at the time was at a crossroads with itself.The animated itself is a wonder to behold and it is done by some of the best in the business who contributed to this project....one of them is legendary animator Virgil Ross and legendary animator Manuel Perez. Virgil Ross was a master animator who worked beside legends like Friz Freleng and Chuck Jones,not to mention Bill Weiss(the man behind the Terrytoons division of cartoons-the company behind Mighty Mouse,Heckle and Jeckle and Deputy Dawg),while Manuel Perez was worked along side Freleng and Jones too and has done extensive work for several animation companies including Hanna-Barbera,Filmation,and Warner Bors. to name a few. It also features excellent voice-work from Skip Hinnant,Judy Engles,Phil Seuling,and also John McCurry and Rosetta LeNoire(fondly remembered of Family Matters fame). Produced by Steve Krantz,with the screenplay by Ralph Bakski,based on Robert Crumb's character.Fritz The Cat came out at the height of the sexual revolution and sexual freedom and liberation that came during that period of the 1970's and with some films that were released that year that were strictly adult oriented,or pornographic,for example the released of 1972 adult classic,Deep Throat,and the Marlon Brando adult feature Last Tango In Paris,hit theatres during this time when this adult animated cartoon was released. It was also one of the first to be released by an independent film company-Criterion Industries/Aurica Films. It was a cartoon that paved the way for future animated material that was adult oriented as well,and without the box office success of Fritz The Cat,it would have never been possible.It also set the stage for a sequel in 1974 titled The Nine Lives Of Fritz The Cat,that was more raunchy and explicit then its first successor with Steve Kranitz returning as producer and Skip Hinnant returning as the voice of Fritz The Cat. This one would be released by an independent film company as well-the notorious AIP(American International Pictures). "}{"Title":"Turn on and tune out with one cool cat!","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think unless you're willing to suspend your work-a-day life for a couple hours and get into the mindset of a 60's stoner/revolutionary/intellectual, you should NOT bother watching this movie. You'll just find it at best boring, and at worst, offensive.Now, I wasn't born in the 60's but I WAS a dedicated stoner, and thus first viewed this film amid a purple haze with some college buddies. And while many of the 60's references were completely lost on me and just left me going...whoah...bizarre... the stoner comedy and psychedelic adventures of horny feline Fritz spoke to me well enough to ensure this was one heck of an enjoyable trip of a movie. I loved the crows as black dudes and pigs as cops - that would NEVER make it through these days. In fact, I draw a lot of enjoyment from this film and others like it, simply because they are shocking to my generation, who are supposedly so sexually enlightened and all that, when in fact most people my age are conservative in the extreme and the worst part is they don't even know it! Ah, whatever, I'll dispense with the politics.Fritz begins with our feline hero hangin in Central Park with his stoner buds playing guitar to impress the chicks and the phonies. When they fail to impress some cool chicks (a cat, a bunny, one appears to be a dog...) who prefer the jive-talkin negro crow nearby, Fritz ditches the guys and persuades the girls to accompany him to a party, with the promise of finding truth and enlightenment, but all Fritz wants to do is bang the pretty little things, and who could blame him? They go to this green guy's house (I can never figure out what he is - at first he looks like a lizard, but he's got a fluffy tail and a snout...so i have no idea...the fact that he's green doesn't help) but he explains that they are in the middle of a session (a pot-smoking term meaning a round of smoking sort of) so Fritz must use the bathroom for his truth seeking with the girls. Well, kudos to Fritz he gets the girls naked and giggly in about 3 seconds and proceeds to have his wicked way, before he's rudely interrupted by the other guys in the apartment who want in on this truth and elightenment as well! My fave line in this bit is the blue dude You ever make it with a aardvark? We're endangered y'know... The second act sees Fritz encounter Duke, a Harlem crow, in a bar, who quite rightly tells Fritz understanding the racial crisis from the black perspective is impossible for a cat like him, because he is NOT black (or in this case, he is NOT a crow).Anyway, in a particularly bizarre sequence Fritz trips out after having about 8 joints stuffed into his mouth at once, then has sex with a big crow chick, during which he suddenly exclaims that everything is clear to him now and he must tell people about the revolution. O...kay. His ravings on top of a parked car start a riot (not a difficult thing to do apparently if you lived in Harlem in the late 60's, according to some sources) during which his friend Duke is killed, and he is forced to go into hiding coz the fuzz are now looking for him. Duke's death scene is hypnotic and one of the more effective bits in the movie, with the pool-balls bouncing to the sound of a beating heart...really inspired little bit of animation, I thought.Fritz is found by his girlfriend Winston, who persuades him to go with her out into the desert and head for Frisco. Fritz digs the idea and they hit the road.No sooner have they run out of gas, Fritz ditches Winston to head off into the desert on his own, hooking up with my favourite character - the heroin-addled, psychotic, harley-riding blue bunny revolutionary, who ends almost every sentence with a deadpan ha ha and his horse-girlfriend, who takes a liking to Fritz. These are crazy fundamentalist hippies who want to blow stuff up fighting the establishment etc, and they quickly rope Fritz into a scheme to blow up a power station. Suffice it to say Fritz reaches an epiphany (albeit at a pretty late stage) and, well, I wont give away the ending...but it's pretty cool, weird and funny.I don't know how successful as satire Fritz the Cat is, because I didn't live through the decade it is set in, but I can say it is a great little snapshot of New York, circa late 60's early 70's, especially the slideshow of pictures over the end credits. It is also a reminder that although we have come far in things like IT technology and medicine, etc, our morals and values have, if anything, gone BACKWARDS since 1972. So roll a big fat one, get some of your hippie friends over, and seek some truth. 79 minutes well spent. "},{"Title":"The teenage informative movie of the century!! why the hell not the whole millennial D","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this awesome movie back in '90 I think. And it blew my mind back then. The drugs. The 60's. Robert Crumb comics. Comics in general. Everything. I was 13 something when I saw the movie and it was the only one which provided the un-propagandized version of the hippie life, that had emerged to my attention at the time.Take a note of this. If you don't know anything about having for example cannabis affecting your actions, this could be the tape to look for advice.This was the hippie life before AIDS and 70's and everything. They even had Woodstock. There is no way I coulnd't be jealous. No way.Watch this flick and feel your mind going to the life you had in the 60's, even if you weren't born then D Don't bother on the sequel though.. That's in a whole lot of other category and I mean it's crap.This could be the best movie Ralph Bakshi made.. If not for the lord of the rings "},{"Title":"How did they ever make a movie of 'Fritz the Cat'?...","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cult-cartoonist Robert Crumb was a pioneer of the counterculture movement, with Fritz the Cat as the mascot (among many) of his psychedelic period. And Ralph Bakchi was an animator who thought that adults could do better than drawing cute creatures behind cubicles.The combination of both talents lead to the first X-rated animated feature, also the most successful independent animated feature to date. Bakchi contested the rating saying that pornography was supposed to involve humans; actually, I think the rating was right when you consider the same was given to Midnight Cowboy.The problem is that the film isn't pornographic in the way we all picture pornography (at least now that Internet exists), the American Rating System just didn't have an intermediary category that could allow non-graphic films to target a wider audience. How do you make the difference? A porn film is only meant to arouse you, there's no other point, it has no story and works on the lowest emotional level.The same can't be said about Fritz the Cat whose sexual scenes are handled with a lot of humor and almost innocent fun by today's standards, sex is always funny, never arousing (they're animals for God's sake!) and the real defining aspect of the story is its raw, commentary on American society in the late 60's. And talk of a promising start! Three construction workers (average Joes) discuss during their break, seated on a girder. They complain about the collapse of American ideals no family, no moral, no religion, it's not much what they say, but the way they say it that feels real and authentic. Just before shining the spotlight on the outcasts, the makers give the silent majority a shot.And does Ralph Bakchi stand for, exactly? Well, you almost get an answer when one of the worker pees and the yellow liquid form the opening credits before landing on a hippie's hair. In a way, it's kind of reassuring. We know the American Dream failed but the best movies of the New Hollywood period showed that the alternatives were no better.And these movies generally followed the same pattern a misfit character trying to fit within a urban society full of contradictions and disillusions, where the American Dream shown its limitations after the racial riots, the Vietnam War and/or Richard Nixon, like Easy Rider, Midnight Cowboy, The Last Detail, Scarecrow or Taxi Driver.And with the opening discussion, the tone is set and we expect a film that will raise relevant social questions just like the others. And boy, did I set my expectations high, I must admit it, I'm a sucker for New Hollywood movies and the concept of Fritz the Cat had everything to please me, but while the film delivers a sharp critic of society, all made of conflicted interracial relationships or authority issues (the police officers are portrayed as pigs), as far as storytelling goes, this is another story.And this is a pity because the first part was so full of premises. Indeed, Fritz, a misfit student attracts three pretty suburban 'white' girls to a sordid apartment, just by pretending to be in a sort of existential quest, and this leads to a memorable orgy in a bathtub. This was a brilliant way to denounce the intellectual bullshit (mostly a bourgeois thing) where sex was the end of the fight for freedom, not the means. This is the line that separates between rebellion and decadence.It's also a denunciation in the same vein than the South Park episode when Stone and Parker settle their differences with hippies, portraying them as lazy parasites who betrayed their ideals and only thought of smoking pot and getting high while collecting acid trips, even Crumb admitted that he never got into that hippie movement.A similar scene occurs halfway through the film when Fritz, after having left the University, in quest of a 'real meaning', visits a black neighborhood. I don't know if it's a nod to Dumbo but blacks are portrayed as crows, is it shocking? No more, no less than having a Jewish cop being a pig&#x85; every group is equally assaulted in the film.Fritz starts a riot in Harlem, but then it goes out of control and the area is bombed with napalm and while he's leaving, he shouts a hypocritical we shall overcome. Here again, violence is supposed to be the mean, but it becomes the end. Sex and violence are the two poles around which Fritz journey gravitates, the problem is that the film doesn't find its way and gets too episodic to let us digest the well-meant points it makes.A shame because the drawing (rather than the animation) was top notch, it encapsulates the spirit of the late 60's and never had the Big Apple felt so realistically rotten. There were many great characters, especially Duke, the crow, who could have made a great pair with Fritz, instead of the nagging feminist girlfriend who pops up in the third act, out of nowhere. Was Bakchi carried away by this project or in a rush to finish it? I don't know, but the last twenty minutes were too dark, even by the film's standards.It's even more frustrating because the first half is really enjoyable, but then I found myself waiting for something to happen and well, quoting one of the students, I wasn't there anymore.Of course, I could just love the film on the simple basis of its revolutionary aspect, that it broke new grounds in animation, was a gritty slice of American life in its most tormented era, but then I'd feel like the three students who were complimenting the black crow for nothing else but the fact that he was black.I didn't dislike the film, but I guess I'd be more fascinated by a film about its making, something worth a tag-line à la Lolita. "},{"Title":"A Great Animated Classic/","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When it comes to animated films, there are plenty of iconic names in the industry Walt Disney, Dreamworks, Hayao Miyazaki, Don Bluth, and Warner Bros. to name a few. But, no animation director stands out more then Ralph Bakshi. From the seedy world of Coonskin to the far off future of Wizards. From the war torn world of Fire & Ice to the legendary world of The Lord Of The Rings, Ralph Bakshi has a varied library of films under his belt. But, no film stands out more then his most famous, and controversial, animated classic 'FRITZ THE CAT'. Released in 1972, it was the first animated film to received the infamous X rating at the time of release and was based on the comic strip of the same name. It was released to a somewhat mixed reception but went on to become a cult favorite and received a sequel by the name of 'THE NINE LIVES OF FRITZ THE CAT'. But we are here to talk about the first film, and with this being my first time viewing it, I have to ask Does it hold up to this day or should it be tossed away like cat turds from a kitty litter?The film's plot is, well, kinda non-existent. It's basically Fritz The Cat and his life....which is pretty much it. OK, so there are SOME plot lines involving Fritz getting involved with some crows and later a Revolutionary Group, but mostly it just follows Fritz as he interacts with everyday people. But, hang on! you say If there is no plot, then why is it rated 'X' and not 'R'? Well...the film makes up for no plot with....how should I say this...over the top sex scenes and some very violent moments. Lets talk about the violence first. Most of the violence is cartoony, but there are three instances where the violence achieves a dark status. The first of which is when the one crow character is shot and killed and you can see the insides ALONG with some, well-done mind you, bleeding onto the hood of the car. The second is a full-scale riot scene that attributes nothing to the movie. BUT then...there is THAT SCENE near the end. I rather not go into full detail, but it involves a hippo character getting whipped with a chain gratuitously. That scene in particular ALMOST killed the movie for me. Now with the sex scenes...yeah they are there alright! Over the top and kinda messed up at times. There is a lot of sex throughout the film, with one scene in particular I had to look away from and play Bejeweled on my phone (It was after a Weed Smoking Scene...that's all I'll say).With the characters, it's kinda a mix bag. Fritz, being the main character, is a bit tricky to label. At times, he's over the top, other times he's quiet and surprisingly deep with his monologues, and at other times he's a sex addict. Then you got the three girls he meets in the beginning of the film and their only trait is that...well they like black people. That's it. Now, we got the crows, who are the black people of the film (Don't worry, it's not racist in anyway, from what I can tell. They do remind me of the crows from the Disney film Dumbo). They are just there for one scene and they really don't attribute much to the story. The rest of the characters ranging from just there to completely pointless....OH WAIT! There are also to two pig cops (Get it? Cause LOL Cops are pigs...bit of a cliché right there). These guys are probably the funniest characters and I do like how the one with the goofy voice is the straight cop and the veteran while the cop with the normal voice is the head-strong rookie. Nice change from the usual fare we usually see.Now, the animation, this is where the film shines. Sure, it's a bit over the top, but this is animation at its finest. Ralph Bakshi knows how to animate characters believably. All the characters move like they are real people (when it's not calling for a over-the-top moment) and the backgrounds are a beaut to look at. Granted, most of the background is rotoscoped (a favorite technique of Ralph Bakshi), but it's still amazing to look at. The only place where the animation fall flat is actually the character designs, specially the males, OK, so this is kinda a nit-pick, but it's still worth bringing up While I get it that they are anthropomorphic and you wouldn't see their private parts, but that does raise one question Why do some male characters go around pant-less, while others have pants? I understand with the females (although if you REALLY look at a female animal, you'll notice that you don't see ANY private bits on them cause they are covered with fur/hair), but it's still something odd I noticed.All and all, Fritz The Cat is a great film and one I would highly recommend to anyone to watch. Just go in knowing that you will see sex and nudity throughout the film , so if you have issues with that, then I would avoid this film. Truthfully, if you remove the sex and nudity and keep everything else in the film, it's still would be a great film with a somewhat decent message. "},{"Title":"By making 'Fritz the Cat', director Ralph Bakshi has created one of the naughtiest animals on screen !!!!","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" American animation film 'Fritz the Cat' is special as it breaks a lot of taboos associated with animation films especially cartoons. It is considered to be one of the most popular X rated cartoon as it holds the record of being one of the first cartoons to depict physical intimacy among animated characters. If it is the depiction of sex scenes which gave it an X rating then there are other elements too which make 'Fritz the cat' a meaningful film. One has to just watch how Fritz the Cat talks animatedly about black people, war, peace, Arab- Israel conflict, riots and Jewish religion. The depiction of animals in animation cinema is something which needs to be closely observed in order to understand how their portrayal exerts tremendous influence on human beings. This is one reason why we have Mickey Mouse and other cartoon characters who continue to influence the way children look at animation especially cartoons. It is no secret that cartoons are also considered to be healthy entertainment as they convey a lot of innocence with notions of something sacred which needs to be respected. "},{"Title":"An important piece of cartoon history that hasn't aged too well","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When watching this film it is very important to consider the time it was made in. If you aren't willing to consider the youth revolution and the hippie movement of the 60s then this film isn't for you. You will just be confused and offended. This film is simply a commentary and criticism of the 'flower power' movement of the 1960s. This film compares humans to the animal kingdom. White people are cats, dogs and rabbits; the police are pigs; and the black people are depicted as crows, oppressed by everyone over years. To me the most prominent theme of the film is criticising white middle class students and the flower power movement. The young people who are anti-establishment, but when they get 30+ years old will become the establishment they are rebelling against.First off, I love how New York City is depicted in this. It depicts it as a grimy metropolis full of drugs, murder, racism, robbery, segregation, sex and police brutality. Regardless of the characters being animals and some of the violence being animated It is all so in your face that sometimes it can get too much. It is a depiction which many can argue is realistic to this date. Fritz himself is a character who is simply confused about what he actually stands for, but is disillusioned with academia and believes that real life experience is more valuable and rewarding. This quote from the film really sums up his character and the young people being criticisedYou think learning is a really big thing an' you become this big *** intellectual and sit around trying to out-intellectual all the other big ***intellectuals&#x85;One thing Fritz definitely knows he wants is as much sex and drugs as possible. Fritz indeed does live a really hedonistic lifestyle. The film is full of animated sex. The film opens with Fritz trying to get girls by playing his guitar, but then managing to 'pull' a group of them by pretending to be an intellectual. What then proceeds is an orgy in the bathtub. This definitely isn't a movie to watch with kids. Fritz really does also believe that he understands the black (crow) struggle and problems in the black (crow) community, but when his adventures take him to a black (crow) neighbourhood, Duke (a crow who befriends him) rightfully tells him that he will never fully understand the problem of racism from a black (crow) perspective as he himself is not black (a crow). Indeed Fritz is himself a criticism of white young people of the flower power movement as in the film he also starts a riot screaming 'we shall overcome' but at the end runs away when things get heated and doesn't even get involved, while his crow buddies get all the violence from police. What a douche. I reckon after this the film kinda looses its impact and gets less interesting and exciting. It's a pity they killed off Duke so quick as well, as the character had so much potential. There are also so many ideas in this film, that as a result the end product is messy and unorganised, like an overstuffed sandwich. They should have stuck to one theme and explored this in detail, though I read this film was like this due to budgetary restraints. This film as said can be argued to be as offencive as ever, especially as many who watch this probably won't 'get it'. Issues of sexuality and race are still relevant issues today, but Fritz the Cat, like many in its era explains these in a different way. I think this movie is good and historically significant, but cartoons like South Park and The Boondocks really have outdone this film now. I say this film is an important watch for anyone who is really interested and passionate about cartoons, anime, etc and wants to see a piece of history, but for regular members of the Joe public, I can't say the same. "},{"Title":"Not bad, fun at moments until last 20 minutes","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just re watched this movie after reading the complete Robert Crump's Fritz the Cat comic book. At first I was skeptical &#x96; It's never a good way to start the movie with showing a character pee an a person even in a raunchy one but I guess it was the creators way of saying No, this is not for kids, since an animated movie NOT for children was something new back then&#x85; Actually I must give the movie some credit for being the first one to do it. I guess it's easy to criticize this movie today since we all scene stuff like this in South Par, Family Guy or Drawn Together so there is nothing shocking about this kind of stuff anymore. Any way after first five minutes I was actually starting to like the movie. While all the raunchy humor was done much better in the books (more tasteful in a way) the movie had still some good, unique atmosphere to it and I like the way it mixed different Fritz the Cat stories. Yhe, the sex stuff was over the top, I didn't care much for the two pig police man who try way to hard to be funny and I would prefer if some of the action scenes where more like in the book - simple. Still the movie had some great mod and abstract atmosphere, some of the new humor made me chuckle (for example the scene of three student girls talking with the African-American crow and trying to impress him how much liberal they are while he just stand their silent) and while not the best of Ralph Bakshi films I was still growing to like it&#x85;Then we got to the last third and the Fuzz Bunny character was re- introduce. Here I will start with the SPOILERS for both the book and the movie. Well, in the book the whole point was &#x96; students are idiots! They do nothing but smoke path, drink, have sex all the time and talk pseudo- philosophical stuff that have no impact on the world whatsoever&#x85; In the book there is a point where Fritz meet his friend Fuzz who join some sort of a liberal anarchist movement who is planning to blowup the bridge. It's not some scary, sinister organization. It's just four idiots sitting in a room and talk how their hate rich people and want to rebel. Fritz and Fuzz attempt to blow-up the bridge but they screw it up acting completely clues about the situation. This was one of my favorite part of the book and comedy came out from the way those guys where nonchalant abut their whole terrorist plot. While Craps book satires liberal students it didn't picture them as evil, simply as misguided and full of ambitions that lead nowhere. But sadly, while the first 3/4 of the movie is pretty faithful to events in the book, when it get to this part if becomes the flip side of the coin. Fuzz is no longer an streetwise guy, now he's some psychotic, sadistic drug user named Blue. The group of pseudo-philosophical students lead by some insane hippy guy turns into a dark religious cult located on a cemetery with sinister looking members and even use some Fascist symbolism. Fritz is no longer suppose to blow-up the bridge with his buddy but instead is meant to blow-up the nuclear power plant with an female lizard character who turn out to be truly evil and In the end Fritz changes his mind about the whole thing. Not only it takes a very comedic story and turn it into something scary and violent, but it demonize the radical left wing students. Maybe Bakshis point was to make the whole thing more dramatic to provide an exiting climax but for me not only it's completely ruins the spirit of the book but it feels to be out-of character for the movie as well.Overall I enjoy parts of it and I still find this movie to be an interesting , unique and artistic interesting experience but if you're fan of the book you maybe strongly disappointed by the ending. It was just way off-character for Fritz universe... "},{"Title":"This ain't Saturday Morning...","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've been wanting to see the notorious Fritz the Cat for years but only recently got the chance. Its reputation is legendary, as it was the first animated film to receive an X rating for its depictions of cartoon animals having sex, using drugs, and generally participating in unsavory behavior. I'm sure that in 1972, this was pretty far out stuff, man (I wouldn't know since I was only 2 years old at the time), but I think Fritz's edge has been dulled with the passage of time.You'd think that the combination of outlaw cartoonist Robert Crumb and outlaw animator Ralph Bakshi would be a match made in Film Heaven (or perhaps Hell) but Bakshi's adaptation of Crumb's Fritz the Cat comic book was plagued with behind-the-scenes drama, some of which has apparently ended up on screen. The film has a very loose, on-the-fly feel to it, as if it were being made up as it went along and never properly finished. Much of the dialogue appears ad libbed, and the story really isn't much of a story, as it is a series of vignettes cobbled together. At times it seems confused about whether it wants to be a wild and wacky comedy, or a Bold Statement about the state of America as the 1960s became the '70s.Our hero, Fritz, is a bored college student who decides he's had enough of doing what's expected of him and goes on to explore the wide world around him. He leaves New York City, bound for San Francisco, and along the way he participates in an orgy, inadvertently causes a race riot, and winds up mixed up with a gang of Nazi bikers, among other adventures. And oh yes, he smokes a LOT of dope and has a LOT of sex. The animation is decent (in that gritty, early '70s style) and captures the look of Crumb's comics nicely. There are some occasional laughs (mostly involving a pair of bumbling police officers in pursuit of Fritz, who are, of course, anthropomorphized as -- what else? -- pigs) but overall I guess I was expecting something a lot nastier/sleazier based on the film's reputation.I get the feeling that Fritz the Cat was made by stoned people, for stoned people. I haven't done that stuff in nearly 20 years now so I guess I may not have been in the right, ahem, frame of mind to view the film properly.Interesting as a historical piece but not an all time classic by any means. Heavy times, man. "},{"Title":"Crude, shocking and naughty but somewhat smart and funny animated 1960s social satire from Ralph Bakshi","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fritz the Cat mayn't be to everybody's tastes, and before I watched it I wasn't sure whether I was going to like it. I did. The story structure does get loose and episodic, the film does drag in the middle and the sexual conquest scene between Fritz and a giant crow was so bizarre I didn't know what to make of it. However, it does work on the whole as a 1960s social satire, it is crude, shocking and naughty but I got the impression it was meant to be. Thanks to the film's themes of sex, rock 'n' roll, drugs and racism and a sharp script in general it was funny and smart. And I did like the title character, he did have flaws being hypocritical, but he was funny and I think likable too. The animation is done in a unique style, and the music is pretty groovy. Plus the voice cast do a good job. Overall, it isn't something I absolutely adore but it is definitely not a bad film at all. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A perfect metaphor for life in the swingin' 60s","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" How does one describe Fritz the Cat? Some would call it artistic, deeply metaphorical, a testament to a time when social problems tore America apart. Some would call it dirty, unnecessarily explicit, overly controversial.Its hard to put this movie into words, because I'm sure it will mean something different to every person who watches it. Im sure that at the time of its release, it was way more shocking than it could ever be today, what with the sexuality and violence depicted in modern cinema. I don't think that this movie was intended to shock or disgust the viewer, i think rather that it was made to show what life was like back then, sexual promiscuity, recreational drug use, the demonization of authority figures, racial segregation, the gritty realism of a society making a chaotic transition into the modern era. The protagonist, Fritz, is a joy to watch. Rarely have i missed a character when they were off-screen. He is lovable, funny, and yet realistic. The characters he meets on his journey are unique, and interesting in their own ways, they didn't conform to any archetypes. The voice acting was spot on, i don't think i have ever heard such suitable voices for their on-screen parts. The animation style is unique, and works pretty well as a medium, although its age and obviously limited budget show, that doesn't compromise its ability to tell the story. I very much enjoyed this movie, and i think anyone who enjoys cinema should give it a try.7/10 "}{"Title":"Fritz the Cat","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was curious as to whether or not this adult animated film would live up to it's notoriety..it's a resounding yes. Although, perhaps this particular period of time doesn't exactly resonate with me since I didn't live through this turbulent era in America, it certainly left an impression. Fritz the Cat gets involved with revolutionaries who wish to blow up a power plant to send a message, drugs(..you see a lot of grass smoking by Fritz and others), sex(..he's known as a ladies' man), while also causing a riot between black crows and police pigs, and questioning the idea of devoting so much time and effort to studying for college exams instead of living life to the fullest. As is often mentioned when the film is discussed, there's a ton of animated nudity and sexual situations, where we see tits, ass, and penis, despite being prepared for this, it was still pretty eye-popping. Also, director Ralph Bakshi features some potent shocking violence, as the riot erupts(..caused by none other than Fritz who motivates the blacks to revolt again the police, proclaiming the pigs as soldiers for the man). There's also some poking fun at Jews, along with a lot of political satire thrown in for good measure. Bakshi's Fritz the Cat is quite unrestrained and provocative, dealing with a wide range of topics, and evokes a New York City with animals in place of various lampooned stereotypes, with everyone fair game. Very profane dialogue throughout. The sexual conquest sequence between Fritz and a giant black crow who toys with him as he pursues her in a junk yard is simply bizarre as is a giant orgy in a bathroom as all involved are caught in a major high from some seriously strong weed while rolling around in a frenzy inside the bathtub(..ruining Fritz' foursome). "},{"Title":"Twenty five years on for me thirty five for the film!","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I guess I first saw this film about 1982 and at college myself and not worldly wise then as I am now. The number of references to all the history in the US and the world is included in the film. Everything from the us student riots, the Israel conflicts etc. Now I could not feel references to other stuff too. There is a scene with a horse with syringe not looking too different from the Acid Queen in The Who's Tommy as the graveyard scene not so unlike a black sabbath LP cover with easy rider overtones. This film I think offers a snap shot view of that late 60's early 70's life that still has meaning today. Sure someone must have done an academic thesis on it already. All i saw was the comedy of drugged up animals being sexual but there is more if you want to see it. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaker","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This did for animation what Lenny Bruce did for stand-up comedy. It kicked it into the future.This is basically a counter culture flick for animation fans. Its like the hippie shorts of the sixties. It's no accident that the cops were made pigs.I liked the black man 'crows.' Talking in jive but sounding like Malcolm X. There was no racism here. That's how blacks usually talked during the hippie days.The voice of Fritz was Skip Hinnant. Did you say 'Who?' Well, he was a major cast member of the old 'Electric Company' CTW show that used to come on after Sesame Street. He was the white guy that played Fargo North decoder. (Fargo North Dakota. It took me 15 years to get that joke.) The sex scenes weren't that graphic, but it definitely is an 'X.' If kids saw this, they'd freak out too. "},{"Title":"It's my favorite cartoon-movie.  Here I'll tell you why ","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"   I'm not particularly a cartoon-fan. I saw  Fritz the cat in an obscure movie theatre in Ghent (Belgium)in the early seventies. There were about 5 people in the theatre and 2 left after half an hour.I enjoyed the story it's about a young guy who discovers the real world with all his odd aspects, as the situation was in the late sixties.The music in this film is super I discovered the great Charles Earland (Black talk), Duke's Theme from Ray Shanklin, Mamblues (Cal Tjader), Bertha's theme (Ray Shanklin) and even Billy Holiday 's wonderful yesterdays.Those who believe there are racist tendencies in the movie don't dig anything about Jewish humour.After having watched this movie, I left the cinema with the conviction Hey, in fact I am Fritz the cat , and believe me, at that time, I was!  "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but it's easy to see why R.Crumb hated it.","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have mixed feelings about Bakshi and Krantz's 1972 film adaptation of the Fritz the Cat books. Robert Crumb is one of my favourite underground cartoonists and satirists, and it's more than a little frustrating to see the liberties the director and producer take with his priceless characters. When the screenplay sticks closely to Crumb's original comic strips, it's fine, but every time it deviates from the source material, it falls as flat as a pancake. Bakshi, who constructed the screenplay from various Fritz stories written and drawn by Crumb between 1964 and 1968, proves himself to be rather incompetent, piecing and patching together the diverse elements with tiresome experimental sequences, dull musical interludes and downright crude sex and violence - Crumb certainly never steered clear of putting down his darkest fears and fantasies on paper, but Bakshi's scenes of a horse-woman being whipped with a motorcycle chain and Fritz chasing after a buxom female crow are embarrassingly wide of the mark. For all his excesses, Crumb knew when to exercise restraint, and Bakshi's refusal to do so is what ultimately sinks this film. There are, however, some very good scenes and the animation is occasionally brilliant, which is why the chapter select button on your DVD remote control will certainly come in useful should you decide to check this one out. The film is also remarkably truthful in its depiction of the New York City of the late sixties as it really was, with bad vibes, segregation, drugs, rape, murder and squalor as far as the eye could see. Sharp-eyed Crumb enthusiasts will also spot Av 'n' Gar (or is it the Simp and the Gimp?) and Angelfood McSpade in a couple of scenes. "},{"Title":"This Adult Cartoon is Very Funny and has a Brain","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'll take back every negative thing I said about Ralph Bakshi. I gave Wizards a second chance and now, instead of saying it was An Animated Mess, it is a cult classic that works as comedy. It took me a while to warm up to Bakshi, but the more I got used to him, I am now declaring him not only as The Bad Boy of Animation, because that's what he always intended to be, but also as what I really want to think of him as - The Mel Brooks of animation - because his style is really hilarious, whether he intended on this or not. Take this as a compliment, Ralph, you are a very funny guy. Your work seems angry, but you make me laugh.As for his movies, many of them are not for children, especially young ones. Fritz the Cat is his first, his foremost, and one of his best. But it is rated X, and the first theatrical cartoon to be rated X with all the cartoon nudity, graphic violence, and foul language. Here's a piece of trivia Would anyone guess that the man doing the voice of Fritz the cat is actually Skip Hinnant, the same guy from the children's PBS educational show The Electric Company who played Fargo North, Decoder, and Hinnant worked on Fritz and The Electric Company in the same year? It's true, two vastly different worlds, but Hinnant has pleased both children and adults, and not necessarily at the same time.Now let's cut to the movie. It may seem like a dumb adult cartoon, but it does make a statement about the hedonistic lifestyles of the 1960's and there is a lot of allegorical symbolism. Fritz and his fellow felines (looks at his three females in the bathtub scene) represents the sexual revolution, the crows represent low-life Negroes who engage in crime, rioting in Harlem, and pot-smoking, the pigs represent cops who chase Fritz everywhere and are out to bust Fritz, and there's a sadistic witch-like lizard who represents radical culture of the hippies and enjoys watching her rabbit friend beat up Fritz and his donkey girlfriend Harriet with a chain in a sanctuary.There's something to offend everyone in Fritz, right down to the bathtub orgy in the beginning of the film, heavy dosages of full frontal nudity, hallucinations of bare breasts, Big Bertha, the floozy black crow who seduces Fritz by stuffing marijuana into his mouth, rabbis who get interrupted by Fritz fleeing from the police, a typical 1960's riot in Harlem started by big-mouthed Fritz, pigs as rogue cops (Notice that Ralph Bakshi does the voice of one of the cops who says Duh. In fact, he mentioned he does all the Duh voices in his movies as part of his commentary track from Wizards. In Fritz, Bakshi calls his fellow partner, Ralph, so no one will think that Bakshi is doing the voice of Ralph, so to speak.), lizards as evil witches, and the list goes on.The best thing about Fritz is that Bakshi seemed to have a lot of fun doing this, and everything worked. He really added the fun to Heavy Traffic and Wizards. When Bakshi really wanted to do an adult animated film, it can work. It only got deadening with latter overproduced efforts such as Lord of the Rings and Cool World, and one can easily see that Bakshi labored everything, rather than the naturalism in Fritz, Heavy Traffic and Wizards.Today, adult animation is popular now on TV. In the 1970's, adult animation was used for the theater. Younger animators such as Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the creators of South Park, and Seth McFarlane, the creator of Family Guy, appear to be working under the influence of Bakshi, incorporating every bit of lewdness they could think of for their shows and characters. But it is really Bakshi who fathered adult animation, and Parker, Stone, and McFarlane are like his sons, and father knew best. "},{"Title":"Overrated Animated Affair","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I bought FRITZ THE CAT on DVD because I have read so much about how influential this movie has been, being an animated feature intended for mature audiences, plus, I've always had a weak spot for Bakshi's subsequent animated features like American POP. I'm sorry to say that the only redeeming value I found in FRITZ THE CAT was the fact that I was watching animated cats, pigs and crows getting it on with each other and then killing each other off. I actually found it rather cool! But the movie is devoid of any plot or logical story. Sure it satirizes late 60's youth culture and stereotypes, but what could have been a landmark in animation was rendered incomprehensible. For starters, the animation isn't that happening. I much prefer Bakshi's rotoscoping style that so many people find annoying over this primitive cartoon. Yeah, it's fun to watch cartoons doing obscene stuff! Had it been a short feature FRITZ THE CAT would have been a more memorable affair. I'm sorry to say this is just a bloated, overrated (and dated!) adult cartoon! "},{"Title":"Bad Trip","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The bad thing about the past is that it is designed to fool you.The idea is supposed to be that the past stays fixed, as a sort of truth. And we change. But viewed from ourselves, often the illusion or even the truth is the reverse. We know who we are. We think we recall who we were -- which we envision is some state on the way to who we are. Something relatively static, which means that the past changes. Radically.Or at least artifacts from the past change, artifacts like movies. All this is complicated by the fact that movies are a key tool we use to define ourselves.So it is a strange trip indeed to encounter something that DID define us, that we allowed to tell us who we were. And to find it so vacuous, so superficial it shocks. If you were not a hippie in that era you may need to know the great schisms at work. (I mean the era depicted here -- 1969 -- not the actual date of the movie.)You had the east coast hippies who were the sons and daughters of the beat generation. We were interested in ideas and art, and life as both. You had the political hippies, who were motivated by unhappiness and determined to change what they didn't like in the name of the values of more genuine hippies. And then you had the west coast hippies. These were the ones captured by drugs, free sex and dropping out. To differentiate themselves, they adopted the icons of death.At the time, there was as much confusion among these three as between any one of them and the Nixonites. (This was in the days of the moral majority and before the rise of the religious right which evolved from it.)And where there is is identity confusion, art rushes in. The Beatles of course, and central. Eastern religions.And R Crumb.Crumb was a magnet, pulling many from the other camps into the west coast sphere. He made it seem less radical than it was -- more about cruising (which he called truckin) and simply enjoying the cornucopia of round women God places there only for pleasure.We bought it, all of us. It was a sort of commercial identity, sort of like what you see today that surrounds Valentine's day. A vague notion of self and others and satisfied living.Now, we look at this and it seems the past has moved away from us, away from truth. Was this ever good, or did we only pretend it so because we were so hungry to be defined?I recently saw a Mickey Rooney movie where he introduces himself to Judy Garland as white, free and available. I recoiled. I rejected that past. I had nearly the same feeling when watching this, even though it is/was my past.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"A Side of the Sixties One Seldom Sees.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       The place is New York and the time is in the 1960's. NYU student Fritz the cat and his buddies are playing music in the park when Fritz sees three attractive young women. He coaxes them into coming with him to a party in a pad across town. People there were making love, drinking and doing drugs. Fritz and the girls climb into the bath tub and proceed to make love simultaneously. Just then, two bumbling pig cops break in. By then, everybody from the party had joined in the bath tub, leaving Fritz bored. The cops burst in and busted everybody. Luckily Fritz escaped but the cops chased him to a sinnegog. (Is that how you spell it?). After that he went back to NYU and had had his fill of the way things were in the world so he set his text books as well as the whole school on fire and raced off to Harlem.        The town was full of black crows. He befriended one playing pool. The two leave together and borrow a car that had its keys in it. Fritz took the wheel and they drove like crazy all over town. They go to the crows' friends' house where they shove a number of joints into his mouth and he begins to trip out and go at one of the big female crows. The same two cops from before arrive and by then, Fritz had them rally at a revolution. A huge riot breaks out. Much blood is shed. Fritz's crow friend is killed. Fritz rushes off to the docks to meet with one of his old lady friends and together they drive out of town. Just to let you know it's not old lady friend as in senior citizen, but old as in one of his old friends. Anyway, en route they're nearly run over by big rigs and soon the car runs out of gas. Fritz goes to find more when he meets a psychotic neo-Nazi rabbit and his horse girlfriend. He joins them to a party in the woods run by a slug in a cloak and a deranged lizard. The rabbit proceeded to beat his girlfriend with a chain while the lizard aimed to ride that horse.         The lizard planned to blow up the power plant and talked Fritz into helping. It was then, seconds before the power plant exploded, that Fritz realized that the love you make is equal to the love you take so in the end, he cast out violence and hate, but still embraced sex.       Well, what can I say? This has to be the most bizarre movie I have ever seen. A little too weird for my taste. I just saw it because I was always curious about it. But this is NO Saturday morning cartoon! It's an X-rated romp about the twisted side of life in the 1960s with animals playing people parts. It seemed as though Fritz was the only character to have a name. When this movie was over, I wondered, What in the **** did I just see? So honestly, I don't recommend Fritz the Cat, but if you like the work of Ralph Bakshi then you should see it or you like X-rated films then to you I would recommend this film, though I must warn you it's got strong language, heavy violence, heavy sex and shots of genitalia and urination and strange, psychedelic images. But if that floats your boat, it's for you!- "},{"Title":"Time Warp","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just seen Mr. Enter review Fraidy Cat. Here is another cat cartoon, and it's a movie about Fritz the Cat. Fritz are looking back on the lives in the 1960's. The movie contains lots of violence, drugs and naughtiness. Also a lot of strange humor. So, don't go for any Oscar nomination here. Just enjoy the weirdness. These who were old enough to watch X rated movies back then might get the jokes better. The animation and music is really early 1970s back when I was a kid. If you love old school animation, the different styles of art cinema or obscure 1960s and 1970s movies I can recommend this. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Kitty Kitty!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fritz the Cat (1972) Dir Ralph Bakshi / Voices Skip Hinnant, Rosetta LeNoire, John McCurry, Judy Engles, Ralph Bakshi Based on the Robert Crumb underground comic of the 1960's and becoming the first feature animation to receive an X rating. It contains many animated pornographic images but it is the human characteristics of the animals that viewers will likely relate too or understand. Oversexed Fritz is fed up with college but eventually gets plagued as a fugitive after a doped up drunken orgy is raided by police. He wishes to start a revolution and befriended by a black crow. Many of the characters are ignited through stereotypes. Other characters include pigs as cops, a stoned rabbit whose careening is only diverted through the gleam of a needle, and a slick lady lizard out for destruction. Director Ralph Bakshi captures the era that may have done better without the concluding sexual romp. Bakshi is also uncredited providing a voice, with Skip Hinnant famously voicing the sexual feline himself. Creative animation particularly during a sequence involving blood and pool balls. Great comic animated appeal that takes refuge in an era of racial struggle, sexual freedom, the carefree attitude of youth, and the eventual destruction caused through drugs and alcohol. There are graphic pornographic images but it showcases a freedom that would come to an abrupt end. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Nasty Mood & Ugly Situations. And Those Are The High Points!","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" IN KEEPING WITH the times, being the mid 1960's to the early 1970's, we have this Ralph Bakshi adaptation of Robert Crumb's hip, cool, underground Comic Strip. The film was a parade of sex, drugs and bad language. It was also a great purveyor of laughs; albeit, those of a distinctly sophomoric, cheap and dirty variety. It's humour was about on the level of adolescent boys telling dirty jokes during breaks in school.WE MUST CONFESS that we did find a great deal of amusement in the ground breaking X Rated Animated feature; but once one gets past hearing Crow characters shouting in fake American Negro dialect phrases like Get the f*ck off my car!, or having Pig characters showing wallet photos of his piglet-little leaguers and endless on screen animated pot usage, the joke gets just a trifle stale.IT WOULD APPEAR that the main object here would be to be as nasty and offensive as possible to the existing mores of the time. If this is so, the production team succeeded with flying colours.WHEN VIEWED TODAY, 40+ years later, it looks a little silly and definitely dated. "},{"Title":"Pretty rough and ready cartoon but with some good things about it","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Early 70's cynicism with the way of the world is captured in Fritz the Cat. It's a cartoon based on an underground comic created by Robert Crumb (although against his wishes apparently). It's probably most famous now for being the first X-rated animated movie. Up to that point in time, cartoons had more or less all been kiddy-friendly family films; Fritz the Cat was to challenge this and show that there was another way to go with this kind of thing. It was the first feature length animated movie from director Ralph Bakshi, who would go on to make several cult cartoons throughout the 70's, including the fantasy films Wizards (1977) and The Lord of the Rings (1978).Set in New York City, Fritz is a counter-cultural cat that lives a life of sexual and drug-taking excess. Police aggression results in him fleeing the city and going on a road trip. To be honest, the story-line is pretty minimal and not ultimately very important. Where this one scores is in its combination of irreverence and psychedelic visuals mixed in with anti-establishment social commentary. The animation is pretty crude, although the painted backdrops are nice, but there are some scenes that display an original approach. My favourite being the extended sequence that features the Bo Diddley tune. It does overall have a definite feel that works to its advantage though. The mean back-streets of NYC are depicted quite effectively and its denizens all have a certain undeniable character &#x96; we have the crows from Harlem (black people), the pig cops and, latterly, a spaced out, oddly threatening, heroin addicted biker rabbit. The soundtrack seems to continually churn out urban funk to set the scene. So, on the one hand this doesn't have the most engaging story and it has pretty rough animation, but on the other hand it's so of its time and sufficiently daring to ensure that it remains a very interesting watch all the same. "},{"Title":"Combine All in the Family with Hair and the Aristocats","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Unfortunately for this movie, people today view it and assume it's some kind of twisted and disturbing pornography film. Yes, it has animals with nude-human-like bodies. Yes, it has racial stereotypes. Yes, it's got Nazi-fetishists and Anarchists and drugs and booze... well, disturbing as these things all might be, it is a homage to one of the most revolutionary yet hypocritical eras, the 1960's. When I first heard of it, I was afraid it would have environmentalism in it (I'm openly pro-pollution and an Eco-Sinner). Of course, when I watched the first few minutes of it, I just fell in love with this funny, doped-up, hypocrite hippie cat in this satire film, as he tries to make a difference in the world but ends up often causing more harm than good. THIS IS NOT A FILM FOR CHILDREN. that being said, it's certainly not a porn movie either, if it were I wouldn't be caught dead watching it, porn is perverted and disgusting. Watch Fritz the Cat with an open mind, you'll be surprised. The racial stereotypes are there not to create a racist movie, but to show various stereotypes common at the time that were wrong and the movie was trying to point them out as being wrong. There's some nostalgic 1960's soundtrack that adds to the comedic moments, and great voice acting. Don't pass this movie up, it's an interesting outlook on the Free Love movement, war, racism, politics, sex, drugs and education. "},{"Title":"the cat of a generation","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having spent the 70s in Romania and missed much of the cultural fresh air, I am in a continuous process of recovering some of my lost time. Music was the only form of art which crossed the Iron Curtain thanks to Radio Free Europe and to the vinyl records smuggled through customs, but otherwise I am still catching up with much of the books, films, and arts of the times of my first youth. The animated feature Fritz the Cat realized in 1972 by Ralph Bakshi was one of the sensations of these years, the first animated movie to be X-rated and break the taboos of the children and family oriented cartoons industry. Bakshi himself - born in Haifa in 1938, and brought by his family in the US in 1939 - seems to be an interesting character and creator, refusing to compromise and to follow beaten paths. He rather seems the kind of artist who breaks his path through.With 'Fritz the Cat' Bakshi takes a popular comics character created by Robert Crumb and throws him in the decadent New York of the beginning of the 70s, as kind of a fall-out student whose only purpose in life is having sex with as many and as different girlie animals as possible, smoking pot, and participating a revolution or two on the way. I liked the way Bakshi positioned his character catching the big features of the hippie generation, and placing it in relation with the other anti-establishment movements of the era - the anarchistic revolutionaries, and the Black Panthers. We recognize the landscape from the metropolis and universities of the 'Undergraduate' to the desert crossed by the trucks and motorcycles of 'Easy Rider'. We laugh at the characters (an anthology scene has three NY chicks trying to draw the attention of a black - well, crow with texts about how beautiful is the color, another one features the cat followed by pig policemen in a synagogue, with one pig being .. hum, Jewish), we recognize the music - original score, sounds authentic because it is authentic. It's irreverent and daring.'Fritz the Cat' may not be a masterpiece and was never meant to be one. Animation is maybe not mother of innovation, and the pace of the story does not match the masterpieces of the genre it departs from, but the same happens when a road movie is compared to a thriller which happens on the roads. It is an important film in my opinion because it broke the conventions and showed the power of the genre. Many other creators followed, not in the same genre, not in the same mood, but using the techniques and daring to dare, because after Fritz using animation for any subject was possible. Fritz was unique. "},{"Title":"somebody was smoking catnip when they made this movie","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a weird hairball of a movie! Animator/ director Ralph Bakshi vomits this film based on the character from Robert Crumb comic strip call Fritz the Cat. Skip Hinnant voice Fritz the Cat, an anthropomorphic cat in 1960s New York City. The film loosing follows a satire plot about hedonism, sociopolitical consciousness, revolution, race relations, the free love movement, and left- and right-wing politics. By the word loosing, the plot is little or none, characters come and disappears, there is a ton of music filler scenes that lead nowhere, and no sense of morality change. It has a lot of crude dry humor that purrs its way throughout the film. There is a lot of sex, drug, and violence in most of the film. The violence in the film can be disgusting and downright wrong at times, most likely in shock value scenes dealing with street gang, violent against women, and rape. The sex unleashed one of the influenced to the furry fandom through sexualized anthropomorphic animals. A lot of nudity&#x97;for a cartoon movie, that gather a cult following. The use of drug use is kinda disturbing too, as Fritz is too stone to care about others&#x97;mostly in what happen to Duke (Fritz's friend) mid movie. Fritz the Cat is mostly on the run from the law, and this is where the movie gets most of its meat and cheese. Bug out. Bug out. The semi-characters are interesting. Duke is a lot of fun when he's on screen. Winston plays Fritz on and off girlfriend whom personality changes from the start of the movie till mid-thru without giving us reasons why. Blue the Rabbit is a heroin junkie biker who literally steals the scene and nearly the movie from him bringing the film to its darkest point as Fritz is forced to become more and more anarchism in the film. The animation in the film really does follows very close to Robert Crumb's semi-controversy artwork of the comic strip. Robert Crumb did not enjoy the film, hated this movie so much, he killed off the character Fritz in his comics. The voice over of the animals by both actors/non actors follow by sounds of city life, sound like real people in the street talking because it's technically recorded in the streets and bars. Still sometimes, the animation on film doesn't follow the word, or body language or scene. In the end the film became the first animated film to be given an X-rating due its harsh subject matter. It's not really that good, as Fritz doesn't change one bit, and it's really doesn't lead you anywhere, but feeling you went on an acid-trip watching 1960's cartoons. It's just that&#x97;a shock value satire animation film. "},{"Title":"Not As Shocking As It Once Was","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fritz the Cat (1972) ** (out of 4)Ralph Bakshi's first feature is a X-rated adaptation of the Robert Crumb comic strip but with a 70's touch to it. Fritz the Cat starts off as a pretty mild-mannered guy but soon he's introduced to pot and free sex and soon he sees the world in a whole new light. It's easy to see why this film would have been a good money maker back in the day but at the same time it's easy to see why it doesn't hold up as well today. This satire of the 70's was probably very funny back in the day but when viewed today the majority of the jokes simply don't work as well as I'm sure they once did. Fritz trying to find himself is something that reminded me of EASY RIDER and I'm curious rather that film was any sort of influence on this or a target of this film's abuse. The movie contains some very funny moments that's for certain but they're usually spread out and very far apart. Some of the best moments happen early on during scene where three white girls try to let a black man know that they feel his pain. This here is followed by another funny scene where Fritz tries to outsmart the girls into having sex with him. The majority of the other jokes might have been offensive back in the day but I think most of them are quite tame by today's standards. The animation is certainly the highlight as I really liked the look of everything from the characters to the locations. FRITZ THE CAT certainly isn't a bad movie but I really don't think it's aged too well and there are actually much better adult cartoons from this period. "},{"Title":"Fast and stirring, mean and ugly","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes it is REWARDING to dive into your past just to check if back then you had the right perceptions. This evaluation of the cartoon picture Fritz the Cat is such a moment. When the film was first released I was still a student. I remember seeing a trailer of it in the picture theater. It was clear, that Fritz the Cat is not just entertainment. No Flintstones here (Wilmaaaaa!). In fact it thrives with sadistic violence and soft pornography. It transcended the range of what I then was willing to accept. I never watched it, even though it beamed excitement. For even back then its cultural and intellectual aspirations were plain to see. Many decades later, when the amazing sixties had sunk in, the time had come to make a mature judgment. I wondered how the makers had portrayed the moral questions of the time. It always pays to engage in a debate about artistic quality, doesn't it? So I bought and watched the film (its sequel The nine lives came free with the pack). Actually the plot is indeed interesting. Fritz gets bored with his study at the University of New York. Following the naive spirit of the sixties he suspects that experiences in real life may be more valuable than studying books. As a first step he pays his respects to the black community. However, he soon discovers that the great rewards do not emerge in the black slums and ghettos. So his next step is a career as a political activist and agitator. It is pay back time. And he is indeed gifted. When the riots become life-threatening, he goes into hiding. Together with a girl friend, Winston, he travels to the east coast, first of all to San Francisco. Alas, no flowers between his ears. Instead he gets acquainted with motor devils, Nazis and terrorists. Meanies wanting to pay out liberalism. During an effort to sabotage a chemical plant, Fritz is critically injured. Amazing, there must be some symbolism in this. In his hospital bed he repents. Fortunately, Winston and some other girl friends visit him, which more or less revives him - that is to say, the material parts. This slot scene is peaceful with yet another orgy. So, how should we value the thing? Let is not be niggardly it surely is cult. The makers tried to grasp the essence of what they probably read in the head lines of the media. And undoubtedly hippies and flower power were at times accompanied by excessive and even dangerous phenomena and symptoms. But unfortunately the film and the plot degenerate into a bizarre caricature. The innocent attempts of young people and idealists to probe new boundaries are rudely ridiculed. As such its message is essentially hostile and reactionary. So was I right, many decades ago? Yes - the film IS mean and ugly, an ensemble of violence and instrumental intercourse. Amazing, my gut feeling paid off. Even today, frankly, I prefer Garfield. Should you avoid it? I did not say so. For the drawings are creative and the plot is fast and stirring. Judge for yourself. Just don't count on a moral or even intellectual re-compensation. That won't work. "},{"Title":"Fritz the Cat - Summary","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fritz the CatThis film is an underrated animated film that was very popular during the 1970s but went unnoticed after the release of Cool World, when Bakshi stopped making animated films. Some kids may think this a kids' film because it involves cats and is animated. No, that's Felix the Cat. Fritz the Cat is an animated film reserved for adults. In fact, this film is the first animated film to ever receive an X rating. By today's standards, this film would definitely receive an R rating. But this film was released in the 1970s, and this is before the MPAA introduced the NC-17 rating. Despite this film being an X-rated film, Fritz the Cat is not a porn. However, this film has a lot of sex scenes, violence and drugs.Fritz the Cat is based on the R. Crumb comics of the same name. Bakshi spent many days mimicking Crumb's style and their drawing style is quite similar. Bakshi made the characters animated, with the background being water colored photographs. What I could infer from this is that Bakshi wasn't intending this animated film to be cartoony, but rather go for a more realistic approach.The voice acting is also good. Rather than recording the dialogue in a studio, Bakshi recorded the dialogue on the street; making the voices of the characters sound more natural. In fact, Bakshi voices one of the pigs and does a terrific job at it. Bakshi also went to a bar in Harlem and interviewed African Americans and used their responses as the dialogue of the crows. And the voice of Fritz is surprisingly Skip Hinnant from the Electric Company. This means that Skip Hinnant is doing the voice for a children's show AND an animated film for adults!The film doesn't really have much of a story, it just revolves around the main character Fritz. A bunch of different events occur and Fritz experiences a bunch of them in order to find a cause for himself. This film is pretty much a political satire that pokes fun of the 60s culture; where Fritz explores the hippie movement, race relations and the free love movement.There are things I like about this film but also things I dislike about this film.I really like how Fritz seems like he's an intellectual but is also very stupid at the same time. Fritz seems to be interested in sophisticated subjects such as existentialism; but starts complaining about how his friends prefer studying over living life to the fullest. I also love the scene featuring the two pig cops. This by far is my favorite scene in the film. When the pigs hear a lot of noise in the apartment, they try and stop Fritz's shenanigans. The pigs constantly quarrel with each other and eventually catch Fritz; but end up in a synagogue. They get distracted by a bunch of rabbis dancing after being informed about weapons being deployed to the US from Israel. I also love the character Duke. Duke is a crow who represents an African American. Most of the characters in the film are jerks, but Duke is the only one who has a bit of sanity. Duke serves as Fritz's guardian; saving his life and protecting him after he starts a riot. Unfortunately, Duke gets killed during the riot. It's a pretty dramatic scene, but the death scene of Duke and his final heartbeats coordinate perfectly with pool balls bouncing into their pockets. This summarizes Duke's debut in the film, where we first see him playing billiards in a Harlem bar.There are also things I dislike about the film. There are a bunch of violent scenes in the film. Some scenes can be too violent, such as the scene where Blue, the heroin-addicted Nazi rabbit beats his cow girlfriend Harriet. There are also a bunch of filler scenes that serve as vignettes and don't pertain to the story of the film. The most obvious example is after Fritz's fussing in his dorm, where we cut to an establishing shot of Harlem being zoomed in, with a crow snapping his finger and Bo Diddley being played in the background. I also dislike how some of the characters are introduced during the strangest times. Winston Schwarz, Fritz's girlfriend who takes him to San Francisco, wasn't introduced, but just shows up unexpectedly. At the start of the picture, when Fritz has lured three girls into a bathtub, we hear Fritz mention the name Winston, even though there is little similarity in voice, personality or even appearance to tie the two Winstons together. To make matters worse, the bathtub Winston reappears at the end of the film, when the orgy is replayed in a hospital bed.Crumb strongly hated the film, thinking Skip Hinnant was the wrong voice for Fritz. Crumb also found the film to be racy, but the Crumb comics were originally racy. This film inspired animators to draw influence from Fritz the Cat to create adult cartoon sitcoms, such as The Simpsons, Family Guy and South Park. The film was so popular it spawned a sequel; but without Bakshi's involvement. "},{"Title":"A hilariously bawdy and dirty adult cartoon hoot","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hip and libidinous New York University student Fritz the Cat (nicely voiced with rascally aplomb by Skip Hinnant) embarks on a loopy and perilous journey of self-discovery as he lives it up during the tumultuous swinging 60's. Fritz becomes a fugitive on the lam from the police, makes a dangerous journey into Harlem, and joins a scary group of hyper-aggressive violence-loving hippie radicals. Writer/director Ralph Bakshi brings Roger Crumb's legendary underground comic character to the screen in a rude, coarse, and nasty, yet often funny and deliciously irreverent manner that mercilessly mocks the 60's youth culture (the revolutionaries are exposed as a bunch of deranged nuts who only want to inflict hurt and pain as much as possible) and takes no-holds-barred ferocious satiric potshots at many scared cows (for example, blacks are depicted as jive-talking crows while the cops are shown as literal pigs). Moreover, this extremely brash and brazen cartoon sure ain't wholesome family entertainment the seedy characters featured herein curse, do drugs, urinate, and have sex (Fritz convinces three ladies to do just what you think in a bathtub with him), plus there are truly shocking outbursts of raw and ugly violence. Highlights include Fritz's eye-opening experience in a Harlem bar, Fritz recklessly driving a stolen car, and Fritz inciting a race riot. The funky, garish, and bizarrely stylized animation is pretty crude and unpolished by today's more sophisticated standards, but it does the trick just the same. Fritz makes for a charmingly impish and mischievous protagonist. The constant snappy pace, inspired sense of merry anarchy, and groovy syncopated score further enhance this film's overall infectiously wild'n'wacky buzz. An enjoyably freaky head trip of a movie. "}{"Title":"Much better than Nine Lives(may contain minor spoilers)","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rated X for Sexuality,Nudity,Drug Use,Language and Violence(today it would be Rated R). Quebec Rating18+(should be 16+) Canadian Home Video RatingR(should be 18A)I saw Nine Lives Of Fritz The Cat a few weeks ago.I was disappointed with it.I thought it was a little bit boring and not very funny.But I decided to watch this film and well...it is way better than Nine Lives Of Fritz The Cat.This is the very first X-rated animated film.Today however it would be easily Rated R.Both this and Nine Lives have great soundtracks but I found this one to be more funny and more entertaining.The second film took place in the 1970's.This one takes place in the 1960's.Fritz is a college student who smokes weed and has sex with some of the girls on campus.One day while him, his roommates and some of the girls are having group sex, some pig cops come in and break up the party.Fritz gets stoned and escapes to first a synagogue then an African-American bar where he meets a crow named Duke who brings him to this woman's house.After smoking 5 joints at once and having sex with the woman, he stands on top of a car and talks about the revolution, this entices a riot and his friend Duke gets shot and killed.He then escapes with this other woman in her car.They plan on driving out of town and getting married but their car breaks down,they argue and Fritz ditches her.He goes to a gas station and meets a heroin-addicted biker rabbit who is with the revolution and his girlfriend who he abuses.The biker takes him to meet some of his friends and together they all plan on blowing up a power plant.This leads to the conclusion which I will not spoil here.Fritz The Cat is an entertaining film which is much better than its sequel. "},{"Title":"Excellent sideways look at society.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is nearly all first rate - the ending seems to be added later on because it makes little sense.However, the first half is a wonderful satire on the pretentiousness of the 60s revolutionaries. It is really a series of cameos as Fritz goes from one movement to another; the scene where his meaningless speeches impress the pseudo lefty girlies is an absolute gem.I lived through the 60s and the guys who were busy making speeches, encouraging impressionable students to ditch their education for the cause, are now themselves in dead secure meaningless political jobs.This film is well worth the time and ask yourself Where would Fritz be today. I think he would have wormed his way into a political advisory post for whatever party paid the most. Skip the ending - when they get into the desert the worthwhile part of the film is over. "},{"Title":"Very Strange, but it had its good parts","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fritz the Cat is indeed a very strange movie.  It was rated X when it came out, but today the X-rating doesn't really exist anymore, so the movie is currently unrated by the MPAA.  If it should be rated anything, it should be rated R or NC-17, because there is still drug use, nudity (including a surprising number of shots of the penis, more so than in R-rated movies), and, in one case, violence.The movie did have its funny parts, and it had some things that were timeless.  For instance, I could surprisingly relate to Fritz talking about his dislike for the whole college life about the hypocrisy of intellectuals.  There were other parts that many people could relate to in 2003 also.  However, there were also some brutal parts.  The part where that Neo-Nazi bunny beat up on his cow girlfriend was the part where I just stared at my TV screen with a horrified look on my face.  Not only was that one of the most brutal scenes I have seen in an animated movie, but it was one of the most brutal scenes I have seen in a movie period.  That was where I stopped laughing and began to hate the movie.  Also, the parts where black people in Harlem were depicted as crows made me a little unsure about the movie as well.  I mean, I guess it was a spoof of how Walt Disney put black crows in Dumbo that were immitating black Southerners, but I just didn't buy it.  This movie had its good parts, but the end of the movie got your head scratching.  I guess it was a good movie for its time, but for this time it's a little out of date.  Also, if you're getting this movie for its pornographic material, just remember that these are ANIMALS having sex, not humans, and the effect is not all too arrousing.  So overall, I give this movie 3 out of 5 stars.  It was okay, but was pretty overhyped.  Not a movie I'd see more than twice. "},{"Title":"SO-SO BAKSHI","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ralph Bakshi's FRITZ THE CAT was one of the most controversial films of that last golden age of filmmaking, the 1970's. Based on Robert Crumb's groundbreaking underground comic, the film was the first of its' kind to receive an X rating from the MPAA. In those days, an X rating was NOT a kiss of death at the box office and audiences flocked, making this a smash hit. Watching this 30 years later, I can't imagine what the fuss was about.Perhaps it is my handicap that I have read the comics. I cannot see this film in any other light. Bakshi has taken Fritz-an oversexed, cool and hip character-and transplanted him into a story so sour, dark, pointless and hopelessly dated that watching this film becomes a chore. There are some moments that suggest the spirit of Crumb, but they are over much too soon.Bakshi tries to paint a portrait of 60's America and what was wrong with it. Some of it does hit home- particularly the unrest between African-Americans and the police. But Bakshi never settles on the right tone for his film. Is it a raunchy sex comedy or a biting political drama? It doesn't succeed on either level.Certainly not as a raunchy sex comedy. For an X rated movie, this is very mild. If you are looking for any kind of raunchy, erotic experience, you might as well go on. Whatever sex scenes this movie has doesn't last long and is mostly disturbing and joyless. There is a plethora of street language and drug use in FRITZ THE CAT. I have nothing against strong language or drug use in a film. Films like REQUIEM FOR A DREAM, PULP FICTION, PANIC IN NEEDLE PARK and PERMANENT MIDNIGHT use it to give us insights into their characters. But in FRITZ, it is used to merely shock. That's not good enough.A friend of mine on the DVD Verdict site said in his review that I don't advise the use of narcotics, but I think I can safely say that FRITZ THE CAT probably works better if you're high on some kind of illegal drug I certainly agree with that. I don't condone drug use either, but most certainly the only way any satisfaction can be gleaned from FRITZ THE CAT is from being stoned out of your mind.*1/2 out of **** stars  "},{"Title":"Drab... (SPOILERS!)","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A stylized look at the lifestyle revolutionaries of `64-73, and as dated as the fashions and music of 1972. In short Fritz is the world's most irresponsible NYU student beginning half-baked revolutions in a crow-dominated Harlem, running from literal pigs, skipping town and getting involved with a crypto-fascist gang in a plot to blow up a power plant somewhere in the American Southwest; you name the hot topic of the late sixties and he did it. Great if you are stoned and like watching anthropromorphic animals hump and smoke dope. I'll stick with Crumb's drawings. "},{"Title":"psychedelic drug and drug culture animation","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this animated film because it was slow paced and could be easily watched over a pint or something more sedatory. The characters suffer the usual problems of nazi state anti drug cultures whilst at the same time try to rise above the constraints. Fritz is a cat who certainly has nine lives and seems able to get the pussy - cats and doesnt ever lose hius head, stays cool amongst his pals. Like an x rated top cat episode.If you follow Ralph Bakshis work you can see how he tries to develop characters that dont try to explain themselves to you with over obvious monologues, they just are the way they are, take it or leave it. This style pops up in all his animations and indeed may have been the reason Cool World (Bakshis Animation/live action flick) was misunderstood by many because of its multilayered self possessed characters. (I loved Cool World) You may get the feeling you need to know more about the characters before watching the film. However I have never seen any Robert Crumb comics, but still enjoyed Fritz The Cat. "},{"Title":"R. Crumb is to Socrates as Bakshi is to ...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie 5 times when it first came out--I worked in a drive-in--and haven't seen it since, so I really don't know if it hasn't aged well, as some other reviewers have claimed.  (Also, whether R. Crumb liked the movie or not is neither here nor there--what good author ever REALLY liked the movie made from their work?)But the reason Fritz the Cat got an X rating in its day is the same reason that Socrates got his hemlock.  That is, besides its messages of the pre-AIDS sexual revolution and the pre-coke-and-crack pot scene, this movie delivered the same dangerously subversive message that R. Crumb's comic crows did  ya in a bag, ya gotta bug out!  Bug out! "},{"Title":"Literature","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's something wonderful in the grumbling quality of all of this. Yes, Fritz the Cat is a subversive X-rated cartoon, satirical and dastardly and absolutely raunchy, not to mention of course pretty psychedelic. But what I liked about it above all is Fritz's rants and his pacing, the way he stomps around looking for something he doesn't know (and he doesn't know what it is) while reacting negatively to the phonies around him that he also represents. Fritz is like an avant-garde Holden Caulfield, a demented Huckleberry Finn, and the best part is that he'd absolutely loath the comparison.I like the crows. I think modern society has long since lost track of what it was really like to be black in that era, and worse of all never really knew what it was like to be black in that era even when it was that era--this is the real misunderstanding of critical race theory and it's contemporary politically correct counterpart. Then again, that's just one feature of this entire film, each picaresque segment doing it's own work to reveal the times in the way that we've forgotten, worse, the way we've never understood.Does Fritz the Cat ever come to an understanding of it? Of course not! To do so would be beside the point. However, at least this movie is here, a time-capsule or document of sorts to be referred to when somebody says they think they know something about what things were like.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"There are problems with this movie.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The biggest problem being how could the film match up to R. Crumb's comic books?  Like a lot of comic characters, i.e. Warren Beatty's portrayal of Dick Tracy, Fritz just didn't translate well to film.  Perhaps if Bakshi had stuck more faithfully to the book, it would have come off better. "},{"Title":"My Eyes! My Poor Eyes!","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why, why, why would anyone, in the name of Lucy, want to even SEE a movie as stupid and low as Fritz the Cat?! I just... This movie is about as fun as watching paint dry for hours. That is how bad this film is, and I would be happy to discuss the grudge I have with it!First off, the voice acting is terrible. The characters' voices are either too high or not suitable for them at all. There is one pig cop in this movie, whose voice sounds like it was done by Patrick the Starfish from SpongeBob. I know the actor was trying to do his best to make this character sound dumb, but that voice just doesn't cut it. I'm really starting to not care at this point. The only exception out of the voice cast was Skip Hinnant, the voice of Fritz. He actually sounded like a teenager, and Hinnant managed to pull the voice off. Second of all, the animation is wretched and downright obnoxious. Sometimes, it looks almost like something from Disney, other times, it looks like a cartoon that Warner Bros. would create, and finally, the colors, in four scenes, blend in with the background; when the characters are smoking, to Fritz's pointless hallucinations, when Bertha the Crow shoves joints into his mouth, the scene where he goes back to his dorm and sets his exam notes on fire, and a random sequence with a bird who was snapping his fingers to '60's music. The coloring is beyond ugly, and you can't make out what is going on. I know this is a cartoon from the 1970's, but it doesn't put the least bit of effort into itself whatsoever. It's not even trying, I swear.But the hugest grudge I have with this movie is the title character, himself. Sweet mother of Pearl, I hate, no, despise Fritz with a passion! He is a complete idiot to everyone, he doesn't give rat's hat about anything, and he makes out with female animals for his own freaking amusement! My poor eyes!It is so clear that this movie has neither smarts, explanations, consistency nor decency to save its life. It makes Family Guy, another cartoon I hate, look like Shakespeare, and it has no plot or effort put into it. I refuse to give this stupid, utterly disgusting motion picture the satisfaction to be appreciated, watched or mentioned in a future reference! Fritz the Cat is garbage! No, uh, uh, I shouldn't say that, it's garbage of garbage!You want my verdict of your film, Ralph Bakshi? Well, here ya go, I hope you're happy!THE FINAL VERDICT AND RATING 1/10 (It doesn't even deserve it.) "}{"Title":"Underground means doesn't make any sense?","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First off, I'm not a big fan of Bakshi's animation style. For example, I was delighted to hear someone was making a proper version of The Lord of the Rings - Bakshi's animation was... shall we say... painful to watch, but I did have to admit even that had its brighter moments.Fritz the Cat is supposed to be underground. I'm fine with underground stuff, but this kinds of things suffer from just a small problem Underground locations tend to have rather inadequate lighting, which often means people fumble there, and the result is something that's just plain awful to look at in broad daylight. The plot is a nonsensical collection of jokes that may or may not have been funny at the moment. The drawings must have looked really good in complete darkness, but not really so now. It seems to me that underground was interpreted as hell, nobody will see this, it doesn't need to make any sense at all. Well, guess what, I walked into a music store in middle of nowhere and bought the DVD from the bargain bin. This stuff has a longer half-life than radioactive uranium, and it's probably all over the place in no time. All underground artists should remember this.Also, there's the adult bit - another idea that probably sounded nice on the drawing board. It *could* work. It *could* have been interesting. Now? Yawwwn. A very non-interesting example in my opinion. They interpreted adult as sex and violence. Mature isn't really the right world, since you could stretch that to also mean mature movie construction, which this movie notably lacks. A shame, really.And then there's the 1960s angle. Yeah, need I say more? 1960s was interpreted as psychedelic. Combined with the underground bit, this probably means doesn't need to make any sense at all, but wow, look at all those pretty colors.In short Bad movie that doesn't make *any* sense and isn't even funny when it intends to, trying to take everything out of its shock value. It was probably mildly interesting for, let's be generous, two days after its release, after which every animation guru on the planet had shown they could write better scripts over breakfast. It's not really a fun movie to watch even if you happen to like bad movies.  "},{"Title":"Raunchy Fun!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah, the world's very first X-rated cartoon. Where would we be without it? Call me a pessimist, but I simply don't believe that society would be able to function properly without a DVD of a stoned, foul-mouthed, animated cat available to buy. It's kind of old, of course, and the voices make it pretty obvious in some scenes. Sometimes it's drop-dead hilarious, and sometimes it's just nasty. Nowadays, I doubt it would warrant a X or NC-17 rating. Most likely, it would end up with a hard R. Also, you should consider yourself warned as decent as this one is, make sure that you stay away from its awful, awful sequel, Nine Lives of Fritz The Cat. It sucks! Take my word for it. "},{"Title":"One dirty cat","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't respect anyone who hasn't seen Fritz The Cat. Way way before The Simpsons and The Family Guy, this dirty intellectual cat, who's prone to smoking bongs and involving himself in orgies, created quite an uproar. This very clever animation, not for kiddies, shows this naughty cat get into some real mischief, one party where two cops (of course looking like pigs), are called out, one of them horny. One of the V.O's here sounds like Brad Garrett. Fritz and his girl take off. His car runs out of petrol. Real cool about it, as nothing really phases Fritz, he heads off on his journey. The finale where Fritz blows himself up, and surviving, really goes to prove, that cats do have nine lives, and where stitched up in hospital, he doesn't let this deter him in his sexploits. The script runs deep in potent dialogue, dealing with real issues of the sixties as if all the animated characters were real. But really, I think a lot of us just want to see some cats get it on and be amused at the same time. A comic adult romp, of cult status. Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Really Under-appreciated Movie","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I began to watch Fritz the Cat, I did not expect much, basically Family Guy with nudity, a film that traded on sophomoric shock value. I was never more happy to be proved wrong, as it turned out to be a surprisingly deep coming of age story.The movie traces Fritz's progress through various aspects of 1960s life, with an emphasis on the era's radicalism. It actually represents an intelligent response to the emergence of groups such as the Weathermen, suggesting that violence ultimately harms the people it's supposed to help.Furthermore, we see Fritz's emotional development as he goes from a pleasure hungry horndog to a blind idealist to, finally, a mature adult. Yes, the film has all the sex, nudity, and violence it's notorious for. However, that isn't the main point, and the film has been unfairly dismissed for it. "},{"Title":"A landmark in animated film","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Am astounded that this title achieves such a low score amongst the mostly reliable IMDb ratings. For me, this film kicks the living sh** out of Easy Rider or any other take on the 60s - perhaps because it simply has the good sense not to take itself seriously at all.Coupling Crumb's beautiful signature artwork with a crisp, dry and youthful Woody Allen-esque script and an incomparably right-on soundtrack (including an entrancing minute-long Bo Diddley transition segment), this is a delicious tongue-in-cheek take on drop-out and beatnik culture. Made 8 years before I was born, but loaded with scenarios and characters I recognise from my own life experience, all sent up with sublime elegance, this film is a must-see for anyone who ever hung out with alternative types or politically motivated self-righteous zealots - or for that matter anyone who's ever known (or been) a lazy, sex-crazed party animal of any generation.An historical classic, fabulously well written (I'm not kidding - pay attention, watch it again), performed and animated. Deserves a much higher rating. Will happily watch it again and again, and lament ever missing a moment of it, hence 10/10 "},{"Title":"Classic Animation, Lewd and Crazy Satire","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Way back in 1972, before consummate bad-boy Ralph Bakshi became terminally embittered by Hollywood's numerous betrayals (both real and imagined), he created this masterful piece of adult animation, which was based upon his very own underground comic. In the story, Fritz, a young cat with neither purpose nor direction in his life, tries to find both through a series of meaningless sexual encounters and carefree drug use. He wanders through the chaos that was the 60s, getting involved in all kinds of mayhem. Bakshi's trademark irreverence shows in many ways, for example, depicting black people as crows, and police as pigs. Fritz gets caught up in many life-threatening situations, including getting involved with a violent group of radicals. There is plenty of violence, sex, drug use, and even an implied rape that in my opinion was not necessary and which did not help the story's general feel. In the end, despite coming close to death, Fritz finds neither the purpose nor the enlightenment that he sought. Only more mindless hedonism.I would consider this film to be among the top 10 American-produced animated films of all times, although I definitely would steer curious kids away from it. It's only weakness lies in it's very topicality, which sadly dates the film. On the other hand, the sequel to Fritz the Cat, the nearly-impossible-to-find Nine Lives of Fritz the Cat, is just aimless and way too mild to be anywhere as good as is the original. It's too bad that Mr. Bakshi's creative talent has never been replicated in today's rather milquetoast animation community. "},{"Title":"feline groovy","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ralph Bakshi's adaptation of Robert Crumb's Fritz the Cat is a biting satire on American society, as told through the eyes of a cat. College student Fritz experiments with sex and drugs, and also gets to know a number of black revolutionaries (in the form of crows), all while dodging the police (who are literally pigs).Without a doubt, this movie is animation's ultimate break from the Disney mold. There was never a rule saying that cartoons even have to be for children, let alone cute -- it was Disney that started that -- and so now a cartoon is an indictment of America's excesses. It's like Candy meets Shaft, but much more serious (while very funny).Anyway, this is truly a milestone in cinema. Definitely one that I recommend. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic at it's Finest.","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" To be honest, I found this a very funny film to watch. The poor quality, the memorable scenes, th excellent 60's style music and the sick story line all just make this film flow well. Why can't people pull of this goodness of nasty cartoons anymore, all we get is stupid little kids cartoons that nobody gives a damn about.The Film is about a bizarre, insane like alley Cat called Fritz who loves to bang cat, dogs, crows??? Loves drinking and causing as much chaos as possible. I love it. He also travels around every where, but never stopped causing trouble.At first I found myself not liking this film to much but as the randomness of this cult nasty flick continued, it just got better. I can only suggest this film to those who feel they have the stomach and right head space to watch it cause some people could possibly turn off this goodness within 20 minutes or so.I know this isn't Taxi Driver gone wild but in a way it felt like Martin Scourse's Taxi Driver because of the fact that the setting was set in the dirty, slutty, violent streets.After watching this cult classic, I really want to watch the 1974 sequel now. They say the director nor neither the creator had anything to do with it's sequel.This is a must watch and after that you should seriously check out Peter Jackson's classic 1990's hit, Meet the Feebles. That's if your up to it after watching FRITZ THE CAT. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Early effort not the best","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Animator Ralph Bakshi would become far better at his craft with movies like Wizards and American Pop, until apparently forgetting everything he knows to do over-rotoscoped semi-live action junk like Fire and Ice (based on Frank Frazetta artwork), Cool World, and similar crap. I personally like the sequel Nine Lives of Fritz the Cat better (a non-Bakshi production), but there are still some great moments in the original Fritz. There probably never would have been a Heavy Metal cartoon, or Rock and Rule, had Fritz not opened the door for adult cartoons. Not to mention rarely screened adult 'toons like Dirty Duck ---- "},{"Title":"Buy the books instead","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now that publishers all over the world are falling over themselves to present the 'complete' works of Robert Crumb (even to the point of publishing the little doodles he makes on restaurant napkins whilst waiting to be served!), the original Fritz the Cat stories and books from the sixties are pretty easy to find. So do yourself one big favour. Go to your local bookstore or comic shop, and order up as much of this stuff as you can. Then you can enjoy Crumb's notorious creation as nature intended, because this film is terrible. The animation isn't too shabby, managing to capture something of Crumb's style and humour, but the script is a disjointed, meandering mess that fumbles toward one of the weakest conclusions I've ever seen. All of Crumb's cynicism and irony has been replaced by a desire to shock and offend. Even though this is 'only a cartoon', I found the sex and violence - especially the scene where the female horse is whipped with a motorcycle chain - very hard to take. Crumb didn't completely disown shock value (anyone who's seen his infamous 'Joe Blow' strip will vouch for that), but he did it so much better than Bakshi's animators. There are several scenes that are completely pointless and seem to drag on forever. Maybe this is funnier to people who were there at the time, or who have smoked roughly their own body weight in marijuana, but to everyone else (especially Crumb devotees) it's a yawn. "}{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's easy to see why Robert Crumb was hugely disappointed with this film.  Once the shock value of seeing an adult cartoon subsides, we are left with just another boring movie. Perhaps this may have seemed fresh and relevant in 1972, but by 1998, it comes off as a tired old relic with no real redeeming qualities. "},{"Title":"Cool 'Cat'","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For an X-rated animated comedy, Fritz the Cat is funny and tackles various issues during the 60's-70's era.  Racism, politics, education, sex, drugs, and rock-n'-roll are dealt with in offbeat and crude ways.  I have to disagree with some people who don't like this movie.  I really found Fritz the Cat funny.  At least it's better than Ralph Bakshi's Cool World. My evaluation *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"provocative and fresh, if dated; lewd & crude satire all the way","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ralph Bakshi's film of Fritz the Cat, his first and the first (maybe for the times deservedly so) X rated animated film, should not be in too much comparison to Robert Crumb's original underground comic strips. Although I haven't read most of the Crumb books, the sensibilities in sense of humor in the original writer and the animator-director may be a bit different, if not more often than not. This might put up a front for a viewer who may be very deep into Crumb's catalog of work of daringly f***ed up strips with topics ranging from the perversely sexual to the all-too topical stuff. But once one may (or may not as seems to be the case by some viewers reactions) get into Bakshi's more off-beat and crude way of style, it works just enough for a good late-night viewing. It's one of those films that has the distinction of having its own direction in its seeming madness, here in how the episodic nature of the film takes shape. It's specifically the anti-Disney formula, as up till then was not just the norm but for the most part what was singularly considered as 'the' animation out there. While this places bits in the film into a time capsule of the counterculture that might be hard to break for today's audiences, it's also a fun, and funny, in a very unhinged, demented absurdism that could ONLY have come out from that time.To say that the films own provocations about showing sexual and racial stereotypes, class, drugs, experience itself, can go either way of being interesting and creative or falling flat with its own want to shock and cringe, is not an understatement. Fritz is a cat looking for more to life than what is offered in college, hippie-type of settings, and his reaching into 'experience' as a would-be poet and most-of-all ladies man (and part time quasi-revolutionist), goes into Harlem, the desert, with ultra-radicals, and finally on his 'death bed'. Each segment feels more or less complete on its own, and because of this its sometimes hard to really enjoy the film on the whole. Fritz's own crazy, cynical, outrageously hip turns are reflected off of everything else that's pegged along in the film, with cops as pigs, African-Americans as crowes, an assortment of dogs and cats filling up parts, not to mention the blue, junkie-rabbit out in the desert (maybe one of the funniest, if most disturbing, parts of the film).Segments, and sometimes scenes, are bridged in by small interludes that work half and half, where the experimental edge of such an image as pulling up an aerial image of the city from a tiny dot slowly into the whole frame isn't quite as cool as it might have been had I seen it thirty years ago. Oddly enough, here and there, the many great, bizarre and intuitively amusing characters and lines and such by Bakshi are sometimes taken aside for some scenes, even with such 'hot' material like prolonged animal sex scenes. It helps that at least the first segment, with Fritz luring a few girls up to a party where it soon goes to bust when the pigs bust in and he hides out in a synagogue, is about the closest to being a gem unto itself in how it balances the fearless, irreverence with bittersweet, silly bits and big laughs for its audience. Also, the music is connected well and (usually) varied, the voices- all sounding very close to making them more real characters in the abstract even if many are by Bakshi himself- are well balanced. And 2/3 of the time the director's focus on the satirical worked. Maybe it's too off-the-wall and brash to really be an excellent film, but if you're already into other kinds of 'mature' animation, to which a show like South Park owes a little debt to, it really does have its moments. "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the last things I want to see is animated animals having sex. This first animated movie that received an X-Rating is not something I would like to see again for that reason alone. There are other reasons. The movie is supposed to be funny but may be I laughed once, the movie has not aged very well and basically the movie is insulting for some groups in our society. The only thing I did like sometimes is the animation itself. It looks pretty good.I wanted to see this movie because it was the first X-Rated animated movie, and may be therefore you should see it as well, but let it be the only reason. To tell you the truth it still is pretty innocent and today it would be rated R. "},{"Title":"Fritz the cat","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like cartoons with adult humor, so I was looking forward to see this movie, which supposed to be a cult classic back in the 70's. I don't know what did they smoke back then but this cartoon is one of the most disgusting things I've ever seen. And what's even worse it's not even funny. There is not a single humorous moment in this movie, not one good joke and the characters are also very unlikable.I like Robert Crumb and respect his work, but he hated this cartoon and I couldn't agree with him more. This cartoon wants to be some kind of satirical view into the wild 60's years and hippie movements but it's nothing like that. It's just a stupid C - quality cartoon with no story, bad voice acting and disgusting humor. The director Ralph Bakshi made a terrible mistake by making this movie really R - rated. It doesn't have any sense. I fell sick watching one clip, where a group of cats are urinating on some other cats... THAT'S NOT FUNNY, THAT'S DISGUSTING AND RETARDED! Who is so sick watching two animated characters having an explicit sex and enjoy in it? This is really just too much for me. This cartoon is sick. Really sick in the most negative way as possible.AVOID IT AT ALL COST! "},{"Title":"A social commentary that runs thin by the end.","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fritz the Cat is an X-rated film, and the movie cover and posters flaunt that fact. No adult would care if a cartoon is X-rated, and these posters are obviously meant to grasp the attention of pre-teens who yearn to see a cartoon cat have sex or show his privates. This movie, though profane, vulgar and full of animated sexuality and nudity, would not appeal to the younger crowd. The whole movie is a social commentary, and the only parts most children will enjoy are the sex scenes, which actually work well and don't seemed forced to make this such a dirty film.Fritz the cat is a college student who constantly has revelations, and goes through many adventures learning the truth about life. There really is no plot, except that Fritz has several adventures that lead to a development matching that of Alex's in the film version of A Clockwork Orange. The casualty of the dialogue is interesting, but sometimes the random plots get to be too much, and a nice solid story would've been much appreciated. The sexuality and nudity are plentiful here, but unlike the poster would suggest, they aren't just flaunted around. Any dirty scene works, and this film has a casual feel to vulgarity, as opposed to the forced feel that some films have when they want to push some swears or a pair of breasts at the teenagers. The animation is so-so, and can be kind of dull, but I suppose it looks good enough to be a theatrical release. One annoying part of this very short film is the nonstop establishing shots. The movie is only 70 minutes, and 20 minutes are dedicated to views looking downward on the city every 10 minutes, and that can get very annoying.Overall, this is a social commentary on college students, and humans in general, and it really doesn't try to be much more. It's got too many flaws to be good, but it's an okay film for a late night viewing.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 72 mins. Rated X for animated nudity and sexuality, language and drug use. "},{"Title":"X Marks The Spot.","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The original poster art is wonderfully descriptive. Besides the classic tagline, you have a male cat on a couch with his legs tangled around a female cat's legs, one hand displaying a peace sign and the other inside the female's shirt, firmly wrapped around her breast. Now that is a movie I would see. This is a dark comedy that takes aim at the peace and love, or sloth and lust, culture. Everybody plays a guitar, smokes weed, and has sex with everyone else. This should still be relevant to anyone who is in or who has been in college. The movie is split into three parts, complete with non-existent transitions. If fact, the movie's main problem is it's lack of focus. There is a lot of drugs, sex, fighting, sex, and drugs; and the point of any one encounter is a little difficult to comprehend. Also, if you were raised on the new style of animation, this will look ancient to you, but the grungy drawing is actually a huge plus. The ending leaves a lot to be desired, considering that one of the three female cats is suddenly back, sans glasses and the babbling hippo girl appears as a nun. I wondered if Fritz had gotten hit by a car and dreamed the entire movie. Either way, this is one trippy, messed up cat. "},{"Title":"Cats drugs and rock and roll","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excuse my English, cause i am from Austria!The problem with this movie is, that many people think it is funny, or on an American Pie level. When I saw it the first time (with 14) i was thinking, it was a animated porno with animals .... and that was it for the first 15 minutes.But Fritz has his three chapters, and so you cant say that its only about orgies in bathtubs . The first is real funny and entertaining (also very pervert). Fritz, a student on NY Uni, is searching for cheap sex adventures with his band. Then in a Hippie-Drug-Room the find a bathroom, and f*** around (entertaining)chapter two is about the problems of black people (wich are crows) in harlem. At this part i began to understand that this movie is much more than a comedy, it has also his politicial background (and chapter 2 has the most interesting parts)Chapter three is about drugs, and bizarre creatures like a stoned bunny, a horsewoman, a snail in a coat, and a horny lizardwoman. It is the weakest part of the movie, because it is too violent (hiting the horsewoman with a chain) or too pevert (f***ing the horsewoman, wich is bleeding from the chainhit).the animation is very interesting and funny, and the characters are all cool an likable. I give it 7 stars from 10 because chapter 3 is week and to heavy.  "},{"Title":"Too episodic.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Provocative cartoon feature that was probably innovative in its time for using scenes of sex and violence that would be almost unacceptable in a live-action film. It's visually imaginative and has some creative moments (like the slow death of a crow), but the story is so loose and episodic that the film becomes superficial and wearying.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Sexist, and superficial","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I admired the portrayal of women. Well done. What do women want actually? We are just vaginas and boobs with legs and arms and we are waiting for a guy to please us all the time, it doesn't matter who he is as long as he is a dude. We also share our guy with all the other women in the world because everything on this world is to please our masters. Men can do the revolution, we are not able to think about stuff, we don't even know what 'existential' means. Well, up yours Ralph Bakshi. This animation is just another example of superficial movies using 'deep stuff' to make itself look cooler or deeper than it really is. First of all, if you want to tell a story, you create one and show what you want to tell in that story, by creating a plot or using metaphors. You can't just shout the message directly. It is not storytelling, it is not a proper scriptwriting. I am sick of this kind of writers/directors using nudity and sex, or simply a couple of copy-paste philosophical messages and get all the votes. And most of the people just buy it and praise the show/movie like ' Wow, so deep. OMG, so brave. He is the voice of our generation. Great movie! ' . Anyone who is into film making will understand my point. There is no script, there is no plot or scenes that will help the backbone of the story if there is one. There is just irrelevant parts showing unrealistic women and their unrealistic reaction to penises as if they were playing in a porn movie, unnecessary sex scenes just to get attention, and copy-paste political messages that looks so detached. Just because characters shout ideas in some of the scenes doesn't mean it is a good/deep movie. Anyone can do that.And 2 points I gave were just the sake of the effort Bakshi made to make this crap. "}{"Title":"The times, they have a-changed.","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the early 80s, during the dawn of the home video revolution, there were certain titles in my local rental shop guaranteed to become the subject of banter on the playground&#x97;Caligula, Porky's, Adventures of a Taxi Driver, Lemon Popsicle, Flesh Gordon&#x97;films that promised glimpses of the naked female form in all of its glory, but which were frustratingly inaccessible to the under 18s. Amongst these much discussed legends of top-shelf smut stood an animated film that was apparently so depraved that it too needed to be placed out of the reach of minors. That film was Ralph Bakshi's Fritz the Cat.Based on the cult comics of Robert Crumb, the film followed the X-rated adventures of a student cat who drops out of University, encounters all sorts of way-out characters, indulges in plenty of drugs and carnal action, and ultimately becomes part of a revolutionary terrorist group. In 1972, when the film first came out, Fritz was considered cool by stoned counter-culture types who dug its anti-establishment themes, and offensive to conservatives everywhere, but its power to shock has seriously waned over the years.In 1982, my 14-year-old self would probably have found Fritz's antics dull (had I actually been allowed to see the film) but by modern standards, Fritz the Cat's subversive satire, social commentary and lame sexual shenanigans are simply embarrassing; times have changed, we now have the internet, and I doubt that many people these days would be outraged by this now incredibly dated piece of hippie bilge. It would be an incredibly desperate teenager these days who would hunt this one down for a little titillation when he has access a whole world of filth at the press of a button. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but nothing amazing.","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've always been interested in midnight movies. This being a cartoon on the midnight movie list is interesting, so I finally watched it. Overall, this movie was OK. It's basically a satirical film about the hippie era, racial violence, and other hot topics of the late 60's. Fritz the Cat is a college student who believes he is more important to society than he really is, which leads to his downfall towards the film, or so we think. He exploits the free-love movement to lure women to large orgies, runs from the cops, starts riots, and meets interesting characters on the way to California from New York. This film contains a lot of graphic sex, nudity, violence, and language. Personally, I think this movie could have been a lot better without all the sex. But, of course, this makes it a midnight movie, with its sexploitation and shocking violence. If you have a problem with viewing rape, orgies, or full nudity, I would not suggest this film, even though the characters are not human, but animals. The movie itself is not good enough to view just for its take on 60's topics when you have to see all the sex and violence. If you can take it, it's definitely an interesting movie to watch, but I would never put it on my favorite film list. "},{"Title":"The First Cartoon For Adults","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fritz the Cat made history as the first animated feature to be rated X. It's based on the popular character by R. Crumb, who did not give his permission to have his creation made into a movie, and was reportedly upset with the result. In this story, Fritz is an idealistic young college student in 1960's New York. He's out to change the world, and maybe get laid, too, while he's at it. Fritz is voiced by Skip Hinnatt, who is probably better known for his acting on kid's show The Electric Company (and this is a far cry from that!). The movie earns its X-rating with graphic sex, cartoon nudity and strong language. It would probably be of interest to animation devotees, but it's definitely not for children, or the easily offended! "},{"Title":"Seen This One","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's still the most hilarious film I have ever seen...and the dirtiest, just kidding! I'm going to put it on order and see it once again. Iwas a teenager back in 1972 and sorry, but I had an older boyfriend which had it's advantages! I was able to see movies my parents probably would have shunned. Oh well, that's life and over thirty years later we still talk and laugh about Fritz the Cat. Some of my favorite lines, well..Some you don't want to read like ---k a duck, I'm out in the middle of the desert, and the racial depiction of the crow, the funniest when the pigs crash and are left standing with their pants down. Too funny and surely one not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Ages VERY badly!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw it because I couldn't believe a cartoon could be X-rated--it would get an R today. I couldn't make heads or tails of it! There's a plot (sort of) with Fritz wandering around and meeting various people (all animals talking and acting like humans). However the animation was crude, the humor made almost no sense (supposedly it was uproarious in the early 70s) and the message in the film was obvious and (in this day and age) very unhealthy. Robert Crumb HATED this movie--it's easy to see why! Basically a film that was really relevant in the early 70s, but it just doesn't age well. Worth seeing if you were in college in the late 60s/early 70s--otherwise stay away! "},{"Title":"Dated.","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Blending cartoon characters with adult humour may have been a gamble for it's time, but the laughs (if not satire) have not dated well. Starts promisingly enough but soon begins to drag as the audience drudges through Fritz' drug and sex fueled journey. May intrigue the curious or die hard Crumb fans, even though the talented creator detested it. "},{"Title":"Party in the tub","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fritz, a rebellious cat, a revolutionary cat, a perverted cat. A cat that made history.Fritz the cat is the second film that i see of Ralph Baskshi. This movie is a good animated movie of violence and sex about a cat that loves the freedom. Fritz is the regular student that prefers the revolution. Fritz is too a confuse cat. A cat that lives thousand of adventures in the streets. Is or not a perfect portrait of, not only people of the sixties, if not of us and our time? In those years, much people live things like this... well, not so exaggerated, but still is like the life of the people who has a crazy life... just like Fritz. Still is like the life of people who want change the world... just like Fritz. Based on Robert Crumb's creations, Fritz the cat is a delicious portrait of much people. People of different times and minds. This cat, is too, like i say before, a confuse cat. A confuse cat because the cat want change the world (this animal don't want just get cats and have a good time in a tub). This cat want change the world, but this character doesn't know how. For that reasons, for example, the cat go with the wrong people... but the conscience (yes, Fritz has conscience)of this animal reflects. Like many of us. Fritz the cat is a good animated critic of us. The world and the people.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any "},{"Title":"A waste of animation and film.  Find The Mighty Heroes instead","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having recently viewed a few of Ralph Bakshi's films (quite by accident), one has to wonder what went wrong.  He got off to a good start with the hysterical Saturday morning cartoon superhero-spoof The Mighty Heroes, but then landed in the world of depressing, horny, pointless animated features.  This one is certainly no exception to the latter, along with Heavy Traffic and the unfoundedly praised American Pop.  While the visuals in the aforementioned films have a lot of eye candy, all three suffer from the same problem  too little story and too much sex and drugged-out sequences.  Don't get me wrong, I have bad taste, but even these films are beyond me.  And what's up with all the female characters falling out of the shirts every time they appear onscreen -- then having to tuck their breasts back in.  Once is okay, but it seemed like everytime you see a female, her boobs are falling out.  Heavy Traffic & The Nine Lives of Fritz suffer from that same problem.  It's a one note joke that wasn't very funny the first time...not that any of the jokes are very funny (that joke just got old really quickly).  Not that I'm offended by animated nudity, but geez, they were going too far over the top with pointless nudity in these films.If you like Ralph Bakshi, either rent Cool World or track down a copy of the rare Video Treasures release of The Mighty Heroes.  Avoid this one like the plague.  If sickness and depravity is your cup of tea, track down the Muppet-like Meet the Feebles instead.... "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was relatively funny. Through the humor, it demonstrates the craziness and diversity that was the 60's. It can be used as an effective lesson in history for kids who need animation to hold their attention and for the adults too. My 7 and 5 year old loved it and their new found vocabulary learned from this movie is hilarious!!! That in itself made this movie worthwhile. Make some popcorn, call in the kiddies and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Don't bother unless you have time to kill.","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a waste of talent.An adage applies to this film - Just because you can do something, does not mean that you should.I was seventeen when this came out. As I recall the only reason that anyone went to see it was because of the X rating. It appears only to have been produced for it's shock value.I did not bother with it until 2007 when I accidentally came across a copy on-line. It may have been state of the art animation but the script has no point other than to feed Ralph Bakshi's ego. The director's attempt to satirize the culture of the time is only insulting.If you watch this it will be 11511 that I you can't get back. "}{"Title":"Hopelessly outdated","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fritz the Cat is an outdated look on society as it was in the 1960 -70's. Black people consistently portrayed as crows, cops as pigs and an annoying cat preaching revolution. The animation is crude, but has it's charm. The music, however, is annoying. It's the typical hippie-feel good tunes that make you want to press 'mute' on your remote. Furthermore, the main character is a very irritating one. Preaching revolution for the 102nd time is a bit too much.This may have been hip and 'fresh' in the 60-70's but time has caught up with this cat. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I hated this movie. Hated, hated, hated, hated! It is assuredly on my list of all-time worst. It was so bad I couldn't even watch it; by about half-way through I started fast-forwarding through it looking for anything interesting. I didn't find anything.There was no discernible plot, no likable characters, nothing worth looking at. It was a lot of hippie counter-culture crap, and if you weren't part of that culture, it isn't of the tiniest bit of interest. This was just self-indulgent garbage.The only other Bakshi film I've ever seen was Cool World. Fritz the Cat actually manages to be worse than Cool World (if such a thing is possible). I will never, ever, ever, ever, ever see another Bakshi film. "}]