[{"Title":"Redefined the genre, and still does","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although this is technically not Lees greatest film, it is a personal favourite since Lee was in full control and everything is pure Lee.  Many have wrongly stated this film is bad, having not seen the originals where you can really appreciate the composition of the showdowns (visual director with potential - see the rare 'rocking chair' shot in Game of Death).  The script is bad in a few places, particularly the humour, but this film was never inteneded for the west, but designed to appeal to his country men.Now, the film features the best array of fighting sequences ever commited to celluloid.  Obviously influenced by Sergio Leones trilogy, tension is excellently built up before fight.  The sequences are not overly choreographed or played in slow motion or 'lightly' then speeded up, but contain a raw, feral edge combined with breathless technique.  The perfect marriage between art and realism.The fights with Wong Ing Sik and Bob Wall while short, are underrated even by Lee fans.  Those who have been lucky enough to see the double nunchaku sequence in full, will have witnessed one of the best display of weaponary ever shown on the silver screen (along with the 'original' and 'complete' nunchaku footage from Game of Death and the wonderfully comprehensive display of martial arts in the underground Enter the Dragon sequence).And then theres THAT coliseum fight.  Perhaps the start is abit overdone (But Lee wanted to put forward a point i.e. don't play to your oponents strength), but it is undoubtedly the best expression of the human body ever, whether fighting, dancing, running whatever.  Those brought up on Latter day Chan stuff and in particular Jet Li fights, will not appreciate this piece, but those knowing anything about the fighting arts or good choreography will be shaken not just stirred. "},{"Title":"A true classic from the greatest martial artist of all time.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best Bruce Lee movie, period.  The single reason is that this movie shows him off a lot more than the other ones.In this film, the one and only Bruce Lee made his directing debut.  Not only the movie showed the world why he is the greatest martial artist to ever live, it showed that he is way ahead of his time.  This film showcased his astounding skills, agility, and charm much more so than the brilliant classic Enter the Dragon, and this film will show how truly fast and nimble Bruce Lee is with his fists and feet (the people had to accelerate the frame rates of all his films in order to catch his movements properly). The fight scenes are unbelievable, and it is already widely regarded that the final Colloseum battle between Tang Long (Bruce Lee) and Colt (Chuck Norris) is the best fighting sequence ever filmed for a movie.Do yourself a favor by watching the original Way of the Dragon with all it's original fighting noises intact.  Those who are content on only watching the English-dubbed version are missing out on a lot!!!!  Any true fans of Bruce Lee can attest the massive difference it makes in experiencing the real voices of Bruce Lee when he is fighting on-screen. "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee at his best","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Movement #4...dragon seeks path.That one scene sets the whole film for me.I will definitely say I really love this film.  No matter how many countless times I've seen it ever since I was a kid watching it on the Big Apple movie (old skool!!).  This movie introduced me to kung fu and the legend Bruce Lee.  His character is very interesting in this one, because he's a stranger in another land (Rome).  The people he's supposed to help don't even trust him (hilarious scenes of awkwardness between Bruce and Miss Chen).  Ha Goon plays a great comic relief (CHINESE BOXING!).  Although the movie takes a dark turn, there are many moments of laughs.  I will never forget that you can't order chinese spare ribs.    For the action, Bruce dominates as he takes on a whole gang of thugs using everything from fists and kicks to darts, a pole, and of course his awesome nunchuk scene (MOMMA MIA!!).  I love the sound effects when Bruce hits his opponents and the WOOSH sound is great!!  His training scenes show that Bruce Lee had 0% body fat and is good motivation for working out.  The finale between he and Chuck is a classic kung fu moment.  Great shots before the fight including the cat too!!This is a great film.  Another example of a great martial artist. "},{"Title":"Adorable mixture of silly slapstick and ritual violence.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If, like me, you have only seen Bruce Lee in the wonderful, but portentous, ENTER THE DRAGON, than you might be surprised by this quite potty earlier film.  In ENTER THE DRAGON, Lee was amused, but sombre; a fighting machine, pivotal piece in a deadly serious mythological puzzle, his strength never in doubt.The first third of this film couldn't be more different.  Played as (very funny) comedy, Lee is passive (we first see him waiting for someone), a figure of fun, a fish out of water, exagerratedly polite, bewildered by alien custom and language, as well as his own bowels.  A number of scuffles take part early on in which he takes no part, and which make us doubt his prowess.Lee directed this film, and his visual conception is much more inventive that Robert Clouse's (ENTER).  Although it lacks the insane invention of A TOUCH OF ZEN, or the dizzy verve of Tsui Hark's films, Lee is not content with simple ego gratification. His two directorial mentors seem to be Melville and Leone.  The former (hugely influenced by Oriental martial discipline himself) gave him a hero who is narcissistic (check the opening shot), whole; whose physical prowess is ironically the result of mental superiority, an almost Zen laid-backness; concealing the coiled, taut, muscle-burst of Lee's beautiful body.Kung Fu is primarily an art of self-defense, and this film returns to these roots its conception of protecting the oppressed rings throughout the film (in the seemingly gratuitous picture-postcard scenes, Lee makes the connection between European colonial splendour, and the poverty and repression of Hong Kong).  Chuck Norris's character has betrayed Kung Fu by siding with the oppressor - his art is bestial and clumsy, lacking the spare geometric elegance of Lee's.But Kung fu's self-defense is also a defence of one's 'self' (this is where Melville comes in) - it protects one from any threat to one's powerful wholeness, especially women (and men.  There is a slight whiff of homophobia, mitigated by the outrageous campness of the film (all that red! The whole idea of SHANE recast in a restaurant!).  This is ironic, since it is the proof of Lee's martial art power that makes the initially sceptical heroine (very stylish and lovely) fall for his charms (and who can blame her?).Lee's second master is Sergio Leone, from whom he has learnt an irreverent approach to genre, with jokey zooms, close-ups and cuts; mocking, yet mournful and melancholic Morricone-esque music; a ritual stand-off between mythical archetypes (an awesome set-piece in the Colosseum), with the film's heart belonging to the slightly silly, but loveable, subsidiary characters.The use of these iconoclastic directors adds a reflective and critical dimension to a genre previously (in its most populist form) a showcase for male vanity (although Lee never lets us forget how gorgeous and sweetly small and cuddly he is).  A supremely entertaining film which unexpectedly achieves a climactic power and melancholy. "},{"Title":"Boards don't hit back...","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...and neither do the villains, because they never have a chance to. Bruce Lee is awesome yet again in this cool story about a Martial Arts expert helping his Uncle to save his restaurant from gangsters in Rome.The fight scenes in this movie are well done. Bruce Lee takes on hordes of bad guys as if they were flies. Possibly the most famous scene in this movie is the legendary battle between Bruce Lee and chuck Norris (Undoubtly the role that gave him his break.) It's a great fight and one that will mark this film down in the history of classic Kung Fu cinema films. Do not let this be confused with Enter The Dragon, as they are two completely different movies. The basic misconception is that this is Enter The Dragon's sequel, when in fact that came later, and if I'm not mistaken was Bruce Lee's last film.I wish Kung Fu movies these days were as good as this. "},{"Title":"Way Of The Dragon Review And General Feelings On Bruce's Death","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Way Of The Dragon had the potential to be Bruce's best film in my opinion but was bogged down by the dubbing and acting. But it still stands solid as one great Bruce Lee film and boasts the greatest fight scene ever in my opinion. Bruce plays Tang Lung who travels to Rome to help his family battle local gangsters who are trying to take over their resturaunt. Bruce almost plays a Charlie Chaplin type role here which would later be more fitting to Jackie Chan's slapstick style. Much like the Big Boss the first Bruce fight scene is way into the film but in my opinion this good because it creates a good build up, the nunchuka scene is second only to the one in Fist Of Fury or the uncut Game Of Death. The fight scene in the Roman Colliseum deserves the credit it gets because of one simple reason, its a simple fight, there are no gimmicks, sure its set in the colliseum and the fight is supposed to reflect two roman gladiators but there are no weapons and no sweet talk.  It truly has epic scale. The thing that also makes this fight scene work is the end when Tang Lung out of respect covers Colt with his Karate jacket. There may have been better fights since on screen and I havn't seen many Hong Kong films with Sammo Hung, Jackie Chan, Donnie Yen etc but this is the first great one on one fight, therefore it set the standard.There will indeed never be another Bruce Lee. I find it fascinating to imagine what Bruce would have done if he had lived, the 80's and 90's would have been very different if Arnie, Stallone, Wiilis, Seagal and Van Damme had Bruce to compete with, Bruce is sometimes critcised for being a bad actor, but i disagree, if anyone has seen his episodes of `Longstreet' or `Marlowe' they will see that Bruce could convincingly carry a dramatic scene given the right script and no dubbing and he oozed charisma, and he showed glimpses of good acting in Enter The Dragon.Being a Bruce fan i kind of wish that Jet Li would do the films that bruce did or was planning on doing, Jet's early work in Honk Kong like the Shaolin Temple or more recent stuff like Fist Of Legend(remake of Fist Of Fury) and Once Upon A Time In China was very promising and it seemed he was the successor to Bruce but instead now he's doing crap in Hollywood with DMX and Jason Statham. Strangely the mediocre Lethal Weapon 4 is Jet's best Hollywood film, Maybe Jet should do a project with John Woo, it would be interesting and they'd probably get the best out of each other.  "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee rules!","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bruce Lee really rules. Before this I had seen only enter the dragon. It is usually considered to bee  his best film, so I didn´t really know what to expect from way of the dragon. I liked it very much.  Biggest problem I had with it was that I had to watch  the english dubbed version. I prefer the original  language! Lee really knew how to entertain the  audience. He was funny, but not too funny. I  particulary enjoyed the last fighting scene when  Colt was defeated. For once the bad guy went down with honour! I recommend this to anyone who likes a  good kung-fu movie. There might be better ones, but  no complains. 8/10   "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee at his best","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bruce Lee demonstrates why without ever being a tournament champion that he was one of the best martial artists of all times.  His speed and technique easily out class the other real martial artisits this film presents.  His fight with Chuck Norris in this film is legendary.  Watching Chuck in his prime is intense, high speed and accuracy. What scares me is that Bruce is faster.  And even though he is lacking size, its obvious that the little dragons power is intense.  Yes the scenes in these movies may be choreographed, but it's hard to make duplicate the skills shown by these fighters with trick photography and ballet lessons.This is the first film Bruce took a major role in both on and off the set.  He searched for quality martial artists for the fight scenes and was the one who reccomended Italy for this shoot.The film revolves around a restaurant in Italy run by Lee's uncle and his (assumably ) cousins.  Local gangsters try to close the restaurant down and get a piece of the action.  To avoid complications with the law, they try and man handle the resteraunt owner and workers and Lee comes to the rescue.  "},{"Title":"Simply Bruce Lee at his best!","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The United States and the world would discover Martial Arts actor Bruce Lee until 1973 with the release of his first (and only) Hollywood film, Enter the Dragon, a masterpiece of the Martial Arts genre and arguably the film that started the trend of Kung-Fu films. However, before making Enter the Dragon, Lee had already participated in three major films in Hong Kong, two of them under the direction of Wei Lo and the third the only film of his where he had complete control under everything, Meng Long Guojian, the Way of the Dragon. Better known as Return of the Dragon in the U.S. (where it was released as a sequel to Enter the Dragon), Meng Long Guojiang was Lee's first film as a director, and like his following two final films, a movie where he was able to express not only his physical abilities, but also the philosophy he developed to achieve them.In Way of the Dragon, Bruce Lee plays Tang Lung, a young man from Hong Kong who is sent to Rome by his uncle in order to help a family friend, Uncle Wang (Chung-Hsin Huang). At his arrival, he is informed that the problem is that the Italian Mafia wants the family's restaurant, and uses violent intimidation to pressure the owner. While at first not everyone is convinced that Tang Lung would be of any help (as he is not used to the city), soon they discover that Tang is in fact a talented Martial Artist. With Tang Lung's help, the Restaurant's waiters manage to defend themselves from the gangsters, but the Mafia Boss is completely decided to get the Restaurant, so he hires a group of Martial Arts experts, including the famous Colt (Chuck Norris) to eliminate Tang Lung.After proving he was a bankable star, Bruce Lee finally got the opportunity of not only writing, but also directing his own film. Free at last to make his vision of a Martial Arts film come true, Lee builds up a film focused on two very personal themes for him. On one hand, his very own experience as a stranger in a strange land, and the feelings of being like a fish out of the water; and on the other, his ideal of the hero who uses his very own technique to fight against the established disciplines. While the plot is very straight forward, and a bit typical, Lee uses it effectively to showcase his own ideals and philosophies as martial artist, delivering finally an action film with some depth beyond watching the character overcome the enemies.Borrowing heavily from Spaghetti Westerns (even some score by Morricone is used), Lee creates a magnificent epic set on the beautiful locations of Rome, where his lonely hero Tang Lung arrives as a modern day cowboy to right some wrongs. While of course not an expert filmmaker (it was after all, his first film as a director), Lee shows a great eye for visuals, as the camera becomes an essential part in the creation of the sublimely choreographed fights, and the highly stylish set pieces (again, influenced by Sergio Leone's westerns). Meng Long Guojiang is definitely the basics for what Lee conceived as a Martial Arts film, and many of what he developed for this movie would become of great influence for future directors of the genre.Due to his character in Enter the Dragon, most people remember Bruce Lee's acting as a serious, dark personification of the perfect martial arts warrior, however, Meng Long Guojiang is a chance to discover a way different side of Lee's persona, as he allows himself to be as funny and human as skilled in Kung-Fu. Way of the Dragon offers insight into Lee as a comedy actor, as Tang Lung's personality (and probably Bruce's real one too) is that of a happy man who enjoys life. The rest of the cast ranges from good to average, with one amazing exception Ping-Ao Wei. As the treacherous translator Ho, Ping-Ao Wei delivers one of the best comedic performances of his career, and an excellent (and effective) comic relief for the film.As written above, the cast (mostly the case of the many extras in the film) most of the time doesn't seem up to the challenge of the film, and the awful dubbing done doesn't really help with that. Another truly big problem is that Lee didn't had enough budget to fulfill his vision and in some scenes it really shows. This two problems really hurt the film badly, and while Lee's inexperience behind the camera is quite obvious, it's safe to say that he delivered a great job against the odds. The epic tone of the film and the superb climatic scenes really make up for the notorious flaws the film has, and one gets to wonder how would Game of Death may had turned up if Lee had lived enough to complete it.It's a shame that Lee died so soon and was unable to craft his ultimate Martial Arts film, leaving the world wondering what would he do to top this film (and the reliable sources agree that Game of Death was really going to be his best). This flawed masterpiece may not be perfect, but it's monumental when one realizes how influential it became. Sure, Enter the Dragon may be the better film of the two, but Meng Long Guojiang is the film that shows us how Lee really was, and what he really believed in. In more than one sense, Meng Long Guojiang is truly, the real Way of the Dragon. 8/10 "},{"Title":"My personal favorite Bruce Lee film.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Even though this movie was dubbed, and the dubbing isn't that great. the whole movie is great. I actually find this movie way better then Enter the Dragon. Plus, you got Bruce Lee, writing, starring and directing it, and he knew what to do to make this kung fu movie awesome. I reccomend this one to any kung fu fan who has not seen this one yet... i give it 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Bruce Lee's Quality Shines Through","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bruce Lee really takes control in his third starring role, acting as producer, director, fight choreographer and writer. In some respects this means a better film than the previous two, but it also seems that he took too much on himself, much like Jackie Chan who made some great films with such control e.g. Police Story (1985), but most of his best work in the 80's was in collaboration with Sammo Hung.The tone of the film is inconsistent in that for a time it seems to want to be a weak fish-out-of-water comedy film (complete with cheesy music except for a section taken from the Ennio Morricone score for Once Upon A Time In The West) as Bruce Lee's character Tang Lung struggles to adapt to the unfamiliar Italian surroundings. There is even a running joke about him repeatedly needing the bathroom as he accidentally orders a number of bowls of soup at the airport restaurant. About 30 minutes or so into it however it becomes more of a serious martial arts film, with some excellent fight scenes particularly the classic showdown with Chuck Norris at the ultimate fighting ground - the Coliseum in Rome. I particularly like the way that during the fight the camera frequently cuts to a small kitten looking down on the struggle, as a kind of juxtaposition between innocence and brutality.There are some incongruities such as the wooden darts that Tang Lung makes and uses to disarm men with guns, one of the more imaginative if unrealistic ways of squaring up to the problem that martial arts features always have when it comes to films set in the modern era - and still causes problems more than thirty years on.Much like the majority of Lee's work Way of The Dragon would be largely forgettable except for his magnetic screen presence and superb fighting skills but its influence is undeniable and far reaching, even prompting an impression of Tang Lung's actions to scare off the gang boss in 2004's Kung Fu Hustle by the landlady (Yuen Qiu). It is also worth noting that one of the stunt-men from Way of the Dragon, Yuen Wah also appears as the landlord, showing that Lee's contemporaries work on today. "},{"Title":"The Last Act Redeems Just About Everything Else","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Really, the only part of this film worth praise is the fight scene between Bruce and Colt at the end.  The rest of the movie, as a comedy, works in a sort of The Gods Must Be Crazy, What's Up Tiger Lily? way.  But as a martial arts film?  No way.  It's so bad at times that you really believe he made this movie with the full intention of spoofing martial arts films. The one thing that keeps this movie on its feet is the Gay Translator.  That character alone carried the sagging weight of the movie as a kung-fu film. Unfortunately, the weight was picked up and carried as a comedy.  Still, there are some notable fight scenes, and if you are kung-fu nut I suppose story doesn't really matter much anyway.  I'm a film student, and I've always looked at movies as movies.  In watching Kung-fu films I've had to discipline myself in detaching the genre from all other standards of film. These films are about the martial arts, and it's not supposed to matter how utterly bad the movies can be.  This is where knowing a lot about movies actually impairs me, where I can't get used to the concept of a movie not existing for the sake of being a good movie.Oh well.The fight scene at the end makes you forget about everything else.  The way they portray Chuck Norris' character is simply amazing.  During the fight scene there was a surprising depth to it all, in which you actually sympathize with Colt.  He keeps getting up, and all the while he has this look on his face that shows that he doesn't want to fight anymore, and that he knows he has lost the battle.  But he keeps fighting, because that is what he has to do.  He knows if he keeps fighting he'll probably die, but he goes on anyway, wearily.That alone makes the movie, and I hope I've made sense to people. "},{"Title":"The movie is really picked up by the film's subtle sense of fun","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am not a huge fan of the genre, so I only give the movie a 7--though it IS one of Bruce Lee's best films (the only one better being ENTER THE DRAGON--which has nothing to do with this film, despite the title). I am more of a samurai movie lover and only watch kung-fu movies on occasion. So please keep this in mind when you read this--if you are a huge fan, you'd probably give the movie an 8 or 9 but if you have little interest in the genre, this film probably will only rate a 4 or 5. If you can suspend disbelief and just enjoy the great stunt-work and cute story elements, you'll probably be pretty satisfied.Okay, the casual kung-fu viewer will certainly notice that the film is very grainy and washed out as well as possessing pretty awful dubbing. I really wish these films were available with subtitles instead, but in the 1970s distributors thought Western audiences wouldn't see a film with subtitles, so they slapped on absolutely terrible dubbing tracks. While this isn't the worst I've seen, it is bad and the film has no background sounds (other than slaps and celery crunching during the fight scenes)--so it sounds pretty weird. Also, the music is ultra-cheesy.However, despite all these shortcomings, it's obvious that the germ of an excellent film is hiding underneath. That's because the plot and idea of putting kung-fu action in Rome is inspired! Instead of the usual problems occurring in Hong Kong (or elsewhere in China), here we have something different. Plus, many times the action is pretty funny--with cute fight scenes and parodies of some of Lee's earlier films. For example, one of the Italian thugs uses Bruce's own trademark thumb brushing against his nose move. I also liked the cheesy effeminate voice used for the dub of the Chinese guy who worked for the mob--it was so silly and over the top you had to laugh. In addition, seeing Lee impaling the gunmen's hands with darts was a good way to explain away why this mob didn't just shoot Lee (though, inexplicably, again and again despite their hand being pierced, the wounds disappeared an instant later due to continuity problems).The film ended well with some excellent fights--particularly the finale in the Coliseum with an evil Chuck Norris. It's just a shame that they didn't have Chuck shave off his icky back hair first! This scary sight is repeated, by the way, in the first few minutes of THE GAME OF DEATH--Lee's final film and a total mess of a film due to his being dead during most of the filming!! "},{"Title":"Dragon whips his tail.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Meng long guojiang opens with Lee in Rome, the first ten minutes being a comedic culture clash, as he cannot speak Italian and has to use mime. The joke was stifled somewhat on one version that had both Lee and the Italians dubbed into English, meaning the joke literally lost something in translation.Production for this one is a step back from Jing wu men with the film stock poor and the overdubs (not a fault of the original version, of course) once again mismatched. The incidental music also seems designed specifically to get on your nerves. Lee's direction isn't awful, but it's far from exceptional, with garishly unsubtle usage of the location, except for canny utilisation of a coliseum at the climax. And I loved the pussycat meow that initiates that final battle.Tang Lung, Lee's dopiest character, continues to be embroiled in fairly amusing comic setpieces, the plot not kicking in until the half-hour mark. Lung eventually finds himself fending off a protection racket from his uncle's restaurant, becoming embroiled in gang warfare. There's even an unexpected twist during the final third, perhaps something you wouldn't expect from this type of movie.There are some funny moments, such as Ping-Ao Wei as a stereotyped homosexual, though at times the screenplay is a little too flabby to satisfy its medium. Often impressive, though often unfocused, this is a worthwhile, though only semi-successful attempt at a lighter vehicle for the star. "},{"Title":"Martial arts expert Bruce Lee fights off mobsters and world champion Chuck Norris","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Fury of the Dragon or Return of the Dragon or ¨Way of the Dragon¨ is a classic Chop-Socky in which wild fighting scenes provide an overwhelming view of Bruce lee's skills. A man named Tang Lung (Bruce Lee choreographed his own fight scenes) arrives in Rome to visit his relatives , he help his cousins (Nora Miao who along with Lee played ¨Fists of Fury¨) in the restaurant business . There Tang has to help them defend against brutal gangsters harassing them and attempting to take over . The syndicate boss hires the best foreign martial artists (Robert Wall who played some films with Lee) to fight Tang , but he easily finishes them off . The American martial artist Colt (Chuck Norris film debut) is also hired and takes place a deadly ending combat .This violent Chop-Socky displays action-packed , thrills , fast-paced and wild fighting images . It is a corny , action-filled and violent film , being filmed in Rome , Italy . Breathtaking fights and embarrassing acting , the whole thing was shot without sound, with the actors looping their lines in post-production. Overwhelming final duel between Lee and Norris , in fact it was last movie to be filmed in the actual Roman Colosseum ; Bruce Lee had Chuck Norris put on weight so he would looks less impressive by comparison . This is a top-notch Kung-Fu movie with the unforgettable Bruce Lee , though he does not fight till almost 30 minutes into the movie. It was billed Return of the Dragon during its western release in order to cash in on the success of Enter the Dragon as its sequel. Bruce Lee produced , directed and even wrote the death threat note which the mafia gave to Uncle Wang and also dubbed almost all of the English speaking characters in this film including one line for the boss . Bruce Lee formerly played one of the biggest international hit smashes , ¨Fist of Fury¨ , it was previously realized to his American box office ¨Enter the dragon¨. This one was made later but released before ¨Lee's Return of dragon¨ , and Lee had formerly starred ¨Fists of fury¨ or ¨The big boss¨. ¨Enter the dragon¨ was realized by an expert on Chop-Socky movies , Robert Clouse , and he directed Bruce Lee's last film . ¨Enter the Dragon¨ is his last complete movie character but his next film ¨ Game of death¨ was absurdly edited after his death . This Kung-Fu actioner titled ¨Return of Dragon¨ was realized by the same Bruce Lee . According to the Bruce Lee documentary, this is Linda Lee Cadwell's (Bruce's wife) favorite of all her husband's films. ¨Return of Dragon¨ is indispensable and essential seeing for Lee fans and Karate enthusiastic . It is not ¨Enter the Dragon¨ but his fans -who have so few to choose from- undoubtedly will want to see it again . "},{"Title":"What I like. I get.","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bruce Lee might make his mark with Way of the Dragon in front, but also behind the camera due to him penning the material and taking charge of the director's chair in his directorial debut. Therefore you could say it's a personal film, but where most of the interest arises is that it stars a pre-stardom (movie-wise at least) American karate champion Chuck Norris. For Lee, Norris wasn't his first choice for the part, but Norris acting bad-ass was nothing more than imposing even though he doesn't make his first appearance until somewhat after the hour mark. The gusty, live-wire iconic battle between the two in Rome's historic Coliseum is simply a marvel, even so the intense lead-up to it. Lee plays country boy Tang Lee who arrives in Rome from Hong Kong to help a family friend whose restaurant is being terrorised by the local Mafia. After getting the better of them in many exchanges, these gangsters won't back down and decide hire outside help in the shape of American karate champion Colt. Way of the Dragon is very rough around the edges, as Lee tries to fuse together his fondness for slapstick amongst the punishing, high-impact kung fu combat. The concise and precise choreography is breath-takingly well-done caught by its showy camera-work, but the comedy is clumsy if charmingly so. The plot is rather simplistic, revenge and nothing more. Although there are awkward moments and some strange sub-plots, but it does offer up a stinging surprise in the back-end. Another humorous thing would be the thugs that Lee finger waves to. Quite a colourful lot with some dramatic acting, but the dubbing makes it sound rather campy. Watch with subtitles instead. Lee is charismatically confident in front of the camera. The choice of setting is interesting and ambitious, but this exotic backdrop adds another layer despite some obvious studio bound sets which did give it a cheap, dingy look. Way of the Dragon is raw, but magnetic martial arts entertainment with plenty of flair and energy by its star. Let him know. If I ever see him here again&#x85; He won't leave alive! "},{"Title":"Dragon Whips his Tail!!!","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are a great many people out there who will tell you that Enter the Dragon is THE martial arts film par excellence, and the greatest movie of the late Little Dragon himself, Bruce Lee. These people are, of course, wrong. This is.Written by, directed by, and starring Bruce Lee, The Way of the Dragon showcases his martial philosophy and incredible skills, as well as a flair for comedy. Lee stars as T'ang Lung (literally China Dragon), a naive martial artist who travels from China to Italy to work along with his fellow countrymen in a restaurant - which happens to be located on some prime Rome real estate sought by a Mafia boss and his hired goons. After some humorous fish out of water situations arising from his unfamiliarity with Western customs and behaviour (and Campbell's soup!), his amazing kung fu skills are utilised to protect his friends from the predations of the criminal gwai-lo.With great villainous support from Jon Benn as the unnamed Boss (whose incredulous Kung FU?!? always raises a smile), and the great Wei Ping-Ao giving a reprisal of his fawning henchman role from Fist of Fury but with the camp factor cranked all the way up to eleven. The gorgeous Nora Maio is the leading lady exasperated by T'ang Lung's country bumpkin behaviour, and Malisa Longo (credited quite accurately as Italian Beauty) gives nice eye candy titillation in a brief topless scene.But the aspect of the movie that everyone is familiar with, and we are all eagerly anticipating, is the gladatorial conflict between Lee and karate champion turned right-wing loon Chuck Norris in the Roman Collosseum. Called in by the Boss after Korean hapkido expert Wong In-Sik and American karate exponent Bob Wall (as Bob / Fred - couldn't they have decided on what his character was called?) have failed, we are introduced to the mighty Colt (Norris) in a frankly disturbing shot that sees him disembark from a plane and march groin foremost straight towards the camera. It's a good thing this movie wasn't in 3-D.This clash of the titans is witnessed only by a small Italian kitten who, speaking neither Engliash nor Cantonese, cannot hope to follow the gargantuan combat taking place before his tiny eyes. But as the fight ends, as it must, with the stunning defeat of Colt / Norris, T'ang Lung must bid farewell to his new-found friends with their new-earned respect, and head off into the distance with his knapsack on his back like Dr. David Banner.Or like Caine from Kung Fu.KUNG FU?!? "},{"Title":"a fascinating film","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" excerpt, full review at my location.In late 1971, now comfortably the biggest star in Hong Kong, Bruce Lee consolidated his influence in the local film industry by forming his own production company, under which banner he would produce and direct his own starring vehicles. Way Of The Dragon was the first - and, sadly, only completed - film that he directed, in addition to writing the script, co- producing, acting and staging the fight sequences. It contains perhaps his most iconic on-screen battle, and unquestionably his most curious leading role.A tantalising glimpse at what might have been had Bruce Lee not passed away. Not the best film he made, but the combination of stunning action with the almost disarmingly light-hearted tone of the first act make Way Of The Dragon a fascinating film to revisit. "},{"Title":"A goofy, fun 70's Bruce Lee vehicle.","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Oh, what rippling muscles!First of all, Return of the Dragon (or Way of the Dragon, depending on where you live) is wacky. Extremely wacky. Yes, it's one of Bruce Lee's trademark action movies and you get to see him go toe to toe with a ton of bad guys, but there's a lot of both intentional and unintentional humor. Obvious setups like Bruce fearfully fleeing from a gorgeous and aggressive topless woman are followed by the absurdity of Bruce beating bad guy after bad guy so easily that you wonder why they bother to fight him at all. He honestly doesn't get hit until his final battle, and then he's in trouble for all of 12 seconds before he's contemptuously dominating again. And the beyond awful dubbing of the voices is funnier on its own than half the comedies that are released today. The story concerns Bruce coming to Rome to help out a woman who's restaurant is being threatened by some kind of absurdly diverse mob. There's a pretty Chinese girl for him to rescue, a bunch of comic relief fighters to keep the bad guys busy until Bruce is ready to smack 'em around, and a hilariously offensive Asian stereotype running things as the number two for the sinister bad guy. There's not much serious about Return of the Dragon, so I wouldn't put it on par with Enter the Dragon (which is a classic, in my opinion). But, the fights are fun and there's nothing wrong with seeing a martial arts movie that tries to make you laugh, every once in a while. Check it out if you're a fan of Lee or older movies of this kind.   "},{"Title":"The Way of the Capitalist Body","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Way of the Dragon is the only one of Bruce Lee's films that the star wrote and directed himself. He supervised every stage of the production and stated that it was his personal favourite. Therefore we might be justified in taking this as the most concentrated evidence we have of his philosophy of life, society and art.The first thing we notice about the film is its concentration on the needs of the body. Lee's character Tang Lung arrives in Rome after a long flight from Hong Kong. His flight is early, and he is starving hungry. He seems to be ashamed of himself as he sneaks into a restaurant and orders a large number of bowls of soup, which he wolfs down ravenously. This is a strange sequence, as Tang appears shifty as he goes about the process of finding and taking food, and people respond to him in like kind &#x96; his waitress judges what he has ordered and stares at him as he begins to eat. As soon as he is finished, he seems to suffer some discomfort, and the first thing he asks the young woman, Chen Ching Hua, whose restaurant he as come thousands of miles to protect is the direction of the sh**ter. He needs the toilet at the airport, at her apartment and later at the restaurant. The first 20 minutes of the film are punctuated by his visits to the toilet, and he is even in there when we first see the gangsters visiting the restaurant. The question is, why does Lee focus on Tang's bodily functions to this extent in the first part of the film? It has a certain quirky, if distasteful, humour about it, but the meagre laughs hardly warrant the extent to which it is dwelt on.This concentration on bodily functions is linked to a small, odd episode towards the end of the film's first half hour (there have been no fights yet). Tang and Chen Ching Hua are sitting in a square when he is approached by a ravenously beautiful Italian woman. Chen is instructing Tang in the niceties of European etiquette &#x96; smile at people when they smile at you, go somewhere if they invite you. Comedy ensues as Tang leaves Chen and goes off with the Italian woman, following Chen's advice. When he arrives at the woman's apartment, he is shocked that she strips her clothes off and proffers herself for sexual intercourse. Tang runs out, returns to Chen's apartment and concentrates, from that moment on, on the job he has come to do. This job he accomplishes with the usual physical aplomb with a display of the most extraordinary kung fu prowess, vanquishing the gangsters by the film's close.The first 30 minutes of the film, far from being some awkward comic preamble to the fights, help us to understand Lee's philosophy. The body is not to be trusted &#x96; it needs feeding but is unruly, and the wrong type of food can have results which have to be immediately taken care of before business can go on. Lee leans a lesson in the consequences of his first restaurant visit's upsetting of his stomach &#x96; he must be very careful with his body indeed and, when in Rome, he must emphatically not do what the Romans do. This is why he rejects the advances of the Italian woman &#x96; to do so would be to put his body at risk and therein risk business.Business is what Lee's Tang is all about. In a sightseeing trip with Chen, he dismisses the space devoted to parks and fountains as a waste, positing that if he owned such land he would build an office block and earn money from the rent. He is devoted to his mission as a protector of Chen against the inroads of the gangsters to force her to sign her lease over to them. Lee positions Tang as not anti-Capitalist but rather as anti-bullying. In this way, he is a precursor for the caring Capitalism which was posited after the neo-Liberal ravages of the Reagan era became unfashionable.Lee's ideal man is a kind of stoic idealized Capitalist entrepreneur, fending off those who would cheat at business but utterly committed to taming the unruly human body so that it serves the needs of good business. He positions himself as a kind of Shaolin monk for Capital, an Asian entrepreneurialism which is honest and fit for purpose. Against this are the corruptions, temptations and indulgences of European Capitalism. It is telling that Lee's script has an effete, sissy-queer Asian would working for that old paradigm. America, embodied by Chuck Norris' fighter Colt, is seen as a kind of ultra-trained dog of old Europe, and it is no surprise that on inviting Tang to fight in the Coliseum, Colt stands and downs his thumb like the Emperor Nero, embodiment of all that can go wrong when power is given over to the indulgence of the body and its selfish needs. It is questionable whether Lee's vision of a New Model Asian Capitalist is a very attractive one. There is seed of that Puritanism that leads to fascism in his ideal man. Whilst The Way of the Dragon may not, then, really offer a vision of humanity and society which is particularly desirable, it does suggest that Lee was aiming for his cinema to be more than mere entertainments; the story here is an embodiment of an idealist, Capitalist ethos which is only possible, suggests Lee, once the body, that unruly thing we all are, is brought under the control of the man of business. "}{"Title":"When in Rome, kick ass!","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ignore, if you can, the silly comedy which was aimed at an Asian audience and doesn't travel well. And worry not too much about the lightweight plot, which isn't exactly Oscar winning stuff (and spends rather too much of its time dissing the Japanese and their 'inferior' martial arts). Instead, just sit back and revel in the athletic prowess of the god that is Bruce Lee, who delivers scene after scene of iconic fight action, culminating in his legendary showdown in the Colosseum against hirsute Karate champ Chuck Norris.Lee stars as Tang Lung, a kung fu expert sent to Rome to help defend his relatives against gangsters who aim to get their hands on the family's restaurant. When Lung sends the bully boys packing, effeminate thug Ho (Ping-Ao Wei) enlists the help of several martial artists, including formidable US fighter Colt (Norris), to help even the score.Watch the uncut version of the film and be amazed as Bruce uses two sets of nunchakus to decimate his foes, delivers punches and kicks so fast that to blink is to miss them, and unleashes his fury against Chuck in a fight to the death that, to this day, remains one of kung fu cinema's most impressive battles. In addition to all of this skull-cracking and bone breaking, Bruce gets accosted by a busty brunette (but runs a mile when she gets her kit off), teaches his style of fighting to the restaurant's staff (who had been learning useless Karate up until then), and gets acquainted with oriental cutie Chen (the rather gorgeous Nora Miao).A classic of the genre that no self-respecting fan of fight films should miss, Way of the Dragon once again proves that Bruce Lee, above all others, is, and probably always will be, THE coolest martial arts star of all time.8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Watch the FULL version to enjoy this film","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember watching this film and being disappointed at first. The only really good fight being the one right at the end with Chuck Norris. Then some years later I got to see the full un-cut version and realised that the censors had ruined a good film with their ridiculous censoring of many of The earlier fight scenes. The early fights outside the restaurant make no sense until you watch the full version and the fights with Bob Wall ( Colts student )and Wong in Sik ( Who played the Japanese ) were truly awesome when watched in full. Bruce actually made full contact with Bob in a number of those fights as he himself says in his recent interviews. I just wish we could have seen longer fight scenes especially with Wong in Sik. It should also be remembered that Bruce never intended this film for western audiences and the humour in particular is peculiarly Chinese. I also agree with earlier comments that the Chinese version is best ( without the awful dubbing ) but that is true of most Chinese Kung Fu Films. I sometimes wonder what Bruce would have achieved had he lived? Sadly we will never know but he left a legacy that affects action films down to this day. "},{"Title":"Essential Martial Arts Film","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Way of the Dragon is considered on the best martial arts films ever made and one of Bruce Lee's best. It is an entertaining film which helped build up Bruce Lee's reputation in the West, and sadly, gave us Chuck Norris as an actor.The plot for the film is thin. Restuarantour, Chen Ching Hua (Nora Miao), was suffering trouble with local gangsters in Rome, who want to buy her restaurant and use the land. They force business away and intimate the owners. She writes to her uncle who sends martial artist and Kung Fu expert Taug Lung (Bruce Lee), which she was surprised about. The workers of the restaurant also trained themselves up in karate. The gangsters try and take control of the restaurant, and each time Bruce Lee beating the living days out of them. This lead to the gangsters to hiring on of the best fighters from America, Colt (Chuck Norris), which lead to the two fighters having a epic fight in the Colosseum.I say the plot is thin, but you do not watch martial arts films because you want to see action and top-notch fighting, and you get a lot of it in this film. Bruce Lee is on the top of his game and its great watching the man at work. The fight with Chuck Norris is especially good. However, if you put any ideas of logic to the plot then it would fall like a house of cards, such as why didn't the gangsters just go in with guns and kill them all or why not all the gangsters and fighters attack Taug Lung at the same time, or bomb or touch the café? As well, why when the film is set in Italy, why does everyone speak Cantonist or English and not Italian? They was also a very camp gangster in this film which by modern standards might be considered homophobic. But at least some credit should be given to Bruce Lee, because before Bruce Lee became a massive influence on Hong Kong cinema, films were just mindless action and swordplay. Bruce Lee at least gave it story and structure.Bruce Lee was also the director of the film and he does a good job at it. The fights were really well done, and he is a perfectionist. As well, its nice to see a fight scene where you can see the action and fighting, compared to the second two Bourne films and Quantum of Solace (which I liked). It goods out-skool film-making. As well, I like during the scene in Colossum where the shot cut from the fight to the cats watching, especially with Bruce Lee's famous scream. If you like you martial arts films, even if you only watch the modern ones, you will be happy. As well, you get to see Bruce Lee using Nunchakus, which is always fun to see.As well the film is more comical then I expected, especially at the beginning. I assume its deliberate. It is basically a fish out of water situation and the fact that Taug Lung can't communicate with the locals. He is also a slightly native character at the beginning who grows as the film continues. As well you get a little of Bruce Lee's philosophies and some old Chinese sayings in the film. Taug Lung is also a man on a mission and does it out of loyalty; he doesn't leave his friends and will do anything for them.Finally, the film was rated 18 in the UK, but I feel if it was made now it would be a 15.Basically, a good film, a worthy 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Cheap but effective","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" From the first sight of a modern spoilt movie-goer (spoilt by today's high-tech video, commercials, and CGI) this film is ridiculous and childish. But to anybody who knows what Mr Bruce Lee was, what Mr Chuck Norris was, and what they used to do without computer technology and wires, this movie really matters.The most important part of this movie is the final battle between the two you-know-who. Their warming-up is as groovy as the fight itself. Great stuff. The little kitty-cat fits the picture perfectly and adds much gracefulness to the unique atmosphere of one-on-one.The bad guys in this movie look and talk so out-of-date, - it's like being dunked into the atmosphere of 1970s. The way their voices dubbed is insane (is it Bruce Lee talking?). Ready to fall from my chair with laughter every time that lean black hooligan opens his mouth. His vocabulary is so squeamish and his intonation is a killer.Some minor scenes are very amusing Lung in the restaurant, Lung going with a female stranger, Lung sitting on the pan, the kitty playing while the big boys are brawling, etc.Would prefer to see more of full contact like in Lord Dragon. Some of the blows definitely do not connect with the target while the opponent falls or sways in the movie. Of course Bruce Lee had enough power to kill with one blow or at least injure badly, and the director of the movie could not allow people being killed off and crippled one by one.The Japanese fighter and the big boss in Lord Dragon were played by the same actor. It's just amazing how the actor's stamina had increased from this to that! In Lord Dragon he is an absolutely awesome daredevil of a man (I mean his coming to the shed to beat the three fighters alone) with very impressive technique.A 10 out of 10 (en excellent classic of kung fu cinema). Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"100% Bruce Lee","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In an age where CGI effects and wires can make the most impossible move possible and can turn your average Hollywood actor into a fighting machine, I feel great relief when I watch a movie like Way Of The Dragon. Because its real, all of it. Because I know that someone has taken the time to study and perfect his skills. Instead of the usual post production editing so that the fight scenes and moves could look cooler, they are great and without the need of it. Bruce Lee's amazing skill is what made this movie so good, no wires, no need for fast forward photography, just pure skill.Way Of The Dragon casts Lee as a simple man from the outskirts of Hong Kong who is sent to Rome to help some relatives fight of members of the mob. Not the strongest of premises but then again this is a Bruce Lee movie (even more so then the rest since it is also his debut as a director) so chances are you're not watching it for the plot but for the action scenes. And boy are they something, starting from the restaurant fights with the two nunchaku to the final fight against Chuck Norris , this Lee in his best form, giving his best. You could easily forget the bad dubbing and the not so good picture quality , when Lee is on the screen.A definite must have for any kung-fu enthusiasts out there. This is one of if not the best martial arts movies of the seventies. "},{"Title":"Way of the Dragon- the best","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" How can i put this. the best fight scene in movie history. Some folk look at the matrix - which has a majority of computer graphics. To me thats nothing. The fight scene in the Colosseum, outstanding. OK the storyline might not be great. Since when was any Bruce lee storyline great. Most folk will only watch it for the fighting but will take the storyline into consideration which i respect. Chuck Norris (not the best of actors)is an outstanding martial artist. Watching Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris fight is like watching Jet Li and Jackie Chan fight nowadays. However neither Jet Li or Jackie Chan could impress me with their fighting techniques. Mainly because of the computer graphics with Jet Li and then I just don't like Jackie Chan. "},{"Title":"Bruce The Legend","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The plot in this picture is ordinary and used 100 of times before. But what makes this worth of time is the legendary fight Lee Vs. Norris For me the fight is the best ever topping even my all-time favorite film The Matrix. The scene itself is actually that god that even today i doubt eny1 could make it better than the legend himself.I feel like the entire world has been robbed when Bruce died. The man who had a dream that became a realty, too sad it came to late.The acting in this film is very very bad but its the fights that are worth watching and worth of your time.Sure there will never be another Mr. Lee but we have his films to keep him alive and when we have children his films are the right choice to show to them and find a great role model. "},{"Title":"Return of the Dragon? - He never left!","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've never been to Rome. I'm sure it's a beautiful city, a wonderful vacation spot, and then of course there's the Roman Coliseum - a landmark in a region of the world that revels in its own beauty. So you have to wonder if Rome would make a good place for a kung-fu movie. (Why not?) Apparently Bruce Lee thought so, and it is this lush city that he selected as the setting for his 1972 film Return of the Dragon.Most movie experts (as well as fans of kung-fu movies, Lee, or both) will realize that Return of the Dragon marked Lee's third film in China, his first time behind the camera, and he also had credits on the screenplay. After the disappointing Fists of Fury (1971), I was glad to see Lee in a role that was less bombastic and less comic in nature. (Return of the Dragon also happens to be my personal favorite Bruce Lee film from when he was still working in Asia.)In Return of the Dragon, Lee is of course, the country boy named Tang Lung, who returns to aid friends and family in peril. In this case, said relatives own a successful Chinese restaurant in Rome, Italy, and are constantly being harassed by a powerful gangster and his legion of disposable henchmen - Tang's frequent encounters with them eventually leading to one of the greatest Nunchaku showdowns I've ever seen in a martial arts movie.Tang Lung annihilates most of the bad guys sent in his direction, many times leaving them beaten and bruised. Most of them are played for laughs to begin with, so that makes their beatings even funnier (though you really shouldn't laugh at the pain of others, even if they are villains).When Tang proves to be too big a problem (in fact, WAY bigger than they expected him to be), the gangster boss uses his contacts to hire an American martial artist, Colt (Lee's most skilled opponent in the film and world karate champion Chuck Norris, in his breakthrough film role), to deal with him. The action then escalates into the film's brutal, take-no-prisoners climatic showdown between the two combatants at the Roman Coliseum, in what is widely said to be one of the greatest fight scenes ever filmed.With its goofy humor, horrendous dubbing and comic book bad guys not withstanding, Return of the Dragon is actually one heck of a good movie. None of Lee's sparring partners in the film really stand up well against him, except of course, Chuck Norris in the film's climax. And Lee also makes the best of the stranger-in-a-strange-land scenario that he's set up as the film's premise.Return of the Dragon is the second Bruce Lee movie I've commented on at IMDb (Lee's last film, 1973's Enter the Dragon, was the first) and I really liked ROTD. Lee demonstrates in this movie why he is the greatest martial artist that ever lived. His direction here is a little choppy in spots, but for the most part, the action is intact.7/10 "},{"Title":"Lees worst, but Norris' best","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As far as I know Bruce Lee said about this movie that it was his best. Sorry, I just can't understand that. Except for the fights, it is Bruce Lees worst movie, in my opinion. I think he tried to focus on acting rather than fighting, but he failed. It doesn't even come close to Enter the Dragon.Nevertheless I think that it is Chuck Norris' best movie. I haven't seen Code of Silence yet which has quite a good reputation, but from every other Norris movie I've seen so far (I've seen quite many), his performance in Way of the Dragon is the best by far (and his 70th style appearance too). The fights are really worth watching (Bruce Lee Quality), but the rest of the movie is only for the hardcore fan.  "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee The original martial arts action hero.","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bruce Lee started it all. This movie has great kung fu fight scenes. Although it is proven that Bruce Lee was'nt much on interesting dialogue when he wrote and directed this movie. The fighting scenes pretty much take the movie. What also makes this movie is Chuck Norris, before he became a martial arts icon. He played Bruce Lee's fierce opponent named Colt. Although his part was'nt very big, and got very little dialogu. His percents was very memorable. And the fight Bruce Lee vs Chuck Norris, creates a martial arts classic that will go down in history. "}{"Title":"One of Bruce Lee's best work.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bruce Lee excels himself again. Way of the Dragon tell a story of a man living in Hong Kong is brought to Rome, Italy to defend his uncle's shop. What follows afterwards is war with a rival business company. Excellent fight scenes and good humour this is definitely one of bruce's best work. "},{"Title":"Oriental gladiator","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was so into this movie when I saw it in Singapore while in high school, right before they banned martial arts movies as bad for character formation.  Bruce Lee (Tang Lung in the film) exhibits all his fighting skills in rescuing relatives running a restaurant in Rome from thugs seeking to force them to sell it.  His simpleton persona contrasts with his ever-so-dynamic martial arts presence. Chen Ching Hua (co-star Nora Miao's character) and Tang Lung become quite fond of each other, but there is no true romance.  This was an early moment in Chuck Norris's film career, and his stage presence is not that great (it improved later) even as his formidable fighting presence definitely is, like Bruce's (he is impressive as the only one who can touch Bruce).  Tho not to be taken seriously, this film is fun to watch, more for young folks, knock 'em up, with some humor, such as Bruce and his soups and a great scene in which jazz music is the prelude to a fight involving Bruce and a black man.    "},{"Title":"My 2nd favourite Bruce Lee film","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a brilliant film, just for watching Bruce Lee's fight scenes.  Apart from Bruce Lee, the acting is very poor though, but if you want a laugh, watch this film dubbed.Like most Bruce Lee films, they story lines are weak, the acting is bad, and you have to watch them dubbed or in sub-titles.  I'd prefer to watch them in sub-titles, because at least it is the 'real' actors voices you hear.  However, I do not watch Bruce Lee films for the storyline and acting etc, I watch them because he was the best martial artist ever, there is no-one that can come close to fighting as good as Bruce Lee, he is the original.If you want to see a martial arts film, with no special effects to make the actor look better, for example, like in Jet Li's films and The Matrix, then I recommend this film highly, all the fighting is authentic.  All the moves you see in this film could be done by Bruce Lee.I rate this film 9/10, because it is still second to Enter the Dragon in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Better action than enter the dragon","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Despite idiotic storyline and laughably bad acting, the fight scenes are great.  Enter the dragon is considered the best, but I think the action, especially that of the adversaries, is superior in Return of the Dragon. Too many non-martial artists with bad technique in Enter the Dragon plus a weird guy with a claw hand (like Bruce couldn't take him out in second). At least in Return of the Dragon you have Chuck Norris using good marital arts technique (probably his only movie you can say that about) and some of the other villains (not the street thugs) do too.  And hey, the bad acting only makes the film more enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"Legendary duel with Chuck Norris at Colosseum!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bruce Lee's debut as a director is this film, Way of the Dragon (Return of the Dragon in US) which he also wrote. Lee plays Tang, who arrives in Rome from his home Hong Kong in order to help some relatives who own restaurant in Rome. He arrives, but cannot speak a word of English nor Italian, but manages to make some friends and communicate with the help of his Asian relatives. The main problem is, the restaurant has been threatened by mafia, which wants to buy the restaurant (why, it isn't explained) from its owner Chen (sweet Nora Miao, also in The Big Boss and Fist of Fury), who isn't willing to sell it. Once Bruce learns there's this kind of problem, he takes the matters into his own hands and makes the criminals stop their activities and threats. The plot is pretty non-confusing and this is easy to follow throughout. The premise is little similar to The Big Boss.I think that from all three finished Bruce Lee's Hong Kong films, this is the weakest one. The film suffers mostly of some stupidities and incredibilities like there's hardly any signs of Italian language anywhere i.e. restaurant menus are in English and local people speak English in telephones etc.! These are little too unforgivable since they could have been arranged more believably and naturally. There are also some other similar little flaws and stupidities, and this is definitely meant to be funnier than the two previous films, which are both directed by Lo Wei. The humor works at times and is never as irritating as in many subsequent Hong Kong movies, so Way of the Dragon is definitely not any slapstick comedy. The most negative thing I found is the character of Chuck Norris', Colt, and how he ends up. I wont tell what happens to his character after the legendary fight at the end, but this would've been even more powerful if Colt had had exactly opposite fate than he has now.The fight scenes are not as plenty as in Fist of Fury and Lee wanted to build the tension before he shows the first fight which takes pretty long to happen, but when it happens, it is even more intense and adrenaline laden. The two most memorable fight scenes in this film are easy to tell First is of course the one when Lee takes two nunchakus instead of one and fights with them. It is very great how he uses those weapons without actually hurting any of the actors, himself included! Another, and even more memorable scene is the end, when Lee confronts Norris in Roman Colosseum and its gorgeous scenery captured very effectively on camera. The fight is worth its reputation but as I mentioned, I'm not as pleased at the result as possible. It would be even more powerful experience if Colt's characters fate had been different. I think Lo Wei did greater job as a director than Lee and Fist of Fury is far greater movie than Way of the Dragon, mostly because of Fist's incredible fight scenes, camera work, settings and emotional elements, which are pretty much lacking in Way of the Dragon. Nora Miao is again in Way of the Dragon, but her character is never as near as deep as in Fist of Fury. The finale in Way of the Dragon is a delight to the eye as the Colosseum is so fantastic and the crew had to shoot those scenes very fast and hiding from local authorities, and the fight scene itself was shot in studios in Hong Kong, since the crew was not allowed to shoot in Colosseum! However, the end fight is fantastic and these two dragons give their greatest in the fighting department. Also cinematography is noteworthy and shows Lee's visual talent and his right choice when he got Japanese cinematographers for the film instead of Chinese ones, which he thought had not as great talent and education as Japanese colleagues. Then again, when I watch Fist of Fury, there's absolutely nothing wrong in its cinematography and it is made by Chinese, but since this was Lee's first film as director, maybe he just wanted to take no risks and use the most talented people he knew. This was also the first Chinese film ever to be shot in West, so Lee definitely used his power and authority as a director on this film. Other similar extraordinary things about this film are that all the rushes were in color, too,  (unusual that time) and the film had also own original music composed for it. Way of the Dragon is noteworthy piece of martial art cinema and because of Bruce Lee, it is even more noteworthy historically as this was his last film made in Hong Kong, since he never finished Game of Death and Enter the Dragon was not filmed entirely in Hong Kong and it was more intended for overseas audience by production company Warner. I think Bruce Lee's masterpiece is Fist of Fury and Way of the Dragon is approximately on same level with The Big Boss, which I still think prefer little more than Way. Way of the Dragon is worth 7/10 from me and still this is far greater than most action films and efforts made in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"You got any Chinese Spare Ribs?!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My first Bruce Lee movie was Fists of Fury. I decided to check it out, because I like martial arts movies, and everyone has said that Bruce Lee was the ultimate badass. I wanted to see for myself.FIsts of Fury was good, but not great. I liked it. I then saw Chinese Connection. The fight scenes were cool, but the non-fighting scenes were a tad boring. Now I finally saw Return of the Dragon, and I must say that I really liked it. The plot was basic, but it held my interest. There was even a little comedy thrown in, and the jokes were actually pretty humerous. Now on to the best part, the fight scenes. Man were they great. Especially the end one between Colt (Chuck Norris) and Tang (Bruce Lee. It was very well done. The ending actually surprised me, and quite franky I wasn't expecting any surprises. I mean this is a martial arts movie. Well n, it isn't just a martial arts movie. It is a totally different experience. Before this movie, I thought that Jackie Chan was the martial arts master. Well no longer. He is still great, but now Bruce Lee is the master. Go and see this movie. I don't think that you will be disapointed. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee, from scratch...","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If there's a single movie that should appeal to the purist, it's WAY OF THE DRAGON Bruce Lee conceived this one from scratch, and it offers the viewer far more in the way of the man himself than any of his other films. (Or, arguably, all of them combined.) No longer simply a hatchet man, Lee here is funny and awkward and dramatic in a way that he was never allowed to be in ANY of his other films. On top of everything, WAY also showcases some of the greatest fight scenes ever commited to film. (Lee's interest in photography served him in good stead the fight scenes he choreographed REMAIN the standard by which all future fight scenes will be measured.) His sense of composition was amazing, too, something no reviewer has ever apparently picked up on. In the words of one admirer, Bruce Lee's films marked the first time that a SPIRIT was caught on film. And, again in the words of that admirer (whose name escapes me), this is kung fu, plus.   "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's successful classic is etched in history","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bruce Lee wrote, directed and stars in this masterpiece.. The original title was Way of the Dragon, but after the tremendous success of Enter The Dragon (1973), the title was renamed Return of the Dragon. Lee is a country boy going to Italy help a  family friend whose Chinese restaurant is  being bullied by local gangsters.The movie is nothing short of brilliant and it has several themes to it, and yes I'll explain everyone of them.Bruce Lee in all his films managed to maintain a family element in his films. He is either fighting alongside family members against crooked politicians or Chinese gangs. In short, he comes to his family's defense when they need him.Also unlike most Hollywood directors who use people for a film and throw them away, Lee always wanted to include his friends in his films (Chuck Norris, Kareem Abdul Jabbar, Nora Miao  and others).The costar of this film, Nora Miao was in The Chinese Connection and Fists of Fury. She is a pretty decent actress in those films.So Bruce comes in to help his  family from these thugs threating their humble establishment and he  beats the hell out of them. LOLI remember the first time as a kid I saw Bruce Lee's movie in the U.S. not only were they good ,but soon after many Asian stars (Jet Li, Chow Yung Fat, Jackie Chan) saw there was a market for martial arts action and gave their best efforts to live up to the same high quality Bruce Lee had in his movies.On top of that, the whole Martial Arts movement have inspired many people to take self defense karate courses and martial arts training. A kick can do much more damage than a fist sometimes.Anyhow, soon the head crime boss (Robert Wall who is the godfather of Freddie Prince Jr.) enlist the help of a famous US martial artist named Colt (Chuck Norris) to  eliminate Bruce.The action scenes are incredible. To see Bruce go into his routine and execute his moves to perfection is inspiring.Especially the fight with Chuck Norris, before fights him he goes into a mind  boggling array of stretch exercises that were soon copied by bogus Bruce Lee imitators including Chuck Norris.Without giving too much away, the film is jam-packed with flying  fists, kicks and humor.In one scene for example, an Italian thug tries to use Bruce Lee's nunchucks against him and ends up hurting himself!!!The movie is a great buy for any action fan, and if you're a Bruce Lee fan, you should have this in you're collection.More info about the movieOn Amazon.com, the movie has gotten great feedback from it's viewers, including Leonard Maltin.Chuck Norris was a student of Bruce Lee's martial arts school along with James Coburn, Kareem Abdul Jabbar and others.Raymond Chow produced this film but it was Lee who wrote ,directed and starred in it.Raymond Chow has executively produced other great martial arts films like Police Story by Jackie Chan and the Bruce Lee movies Fists of Fury , Chinese Connection and Enter the Dragon.  "},{"Title":"Awesome film.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Return Of The Dragon is my favorite Bruce Lee film, because he directed it and the film is his vision. I've only seen the dubbed version, but the guy who voices Bruce has a cool voice.Bruce Lee plays a relative who comes to Rome to help out his uncle, who owns a Chinese restaurant and also has a dojo to train people for martial arts. However, Uncle has a problem with a boss who calls himself Mr. Ho, he apparently owns Ho money, and business has been slow. Who better than Bruce to beat up the thugs who are threatening his business?Bruce Lee's in top form here. Unlike Jet Li, who's been hurt by movies that need to use computers to make him look good, Bruce is using just his God-given ability. The film has great fight scenes, a story with a shocking development, and the classic fight at the ruins against Chuck Norris is one for the ages. Although a few of his others are bigger budgeted, this one is still his best one. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but Bruce should've stuck to acting","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie as we see Bruce Lee's full arsenal of deadly moves, yet the film could've been better had they had a better director. The scenes of Rome could've been better and stuff, not to mention the non-Chinese actors.That said, I hear Lee had to slow down his motions for the camera (unbelievable as it sounds). This shows just how incredible the guy was. I remember back in school how people would compare Lee to Chuck Norris, and I now think Bruce would've whipped Chuck's ass in a second (or faster, considering that Bruce had superhuman-like speed and power).Perhaps Jet Li might want to remake this movie with Tim Burton as director. "}{"Title":"The best fight scenes in a Bruce Lee Flick.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Until recently I had not seen the full version of 'Way of the Dragon'(it was censored).  However I have recently seen the full version of this film and can say it has the best fight scenes for Bruce, in all his films (not surprising as he directed it himself). The double nuchaku fight scene is tremendous and the final fights are brilliant.  If you see this film as Bruce intended it you will see no better martial arts film.   "},{"Title":"Unedited it would be great","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I would love to see this film in its original form.  The video version I saw made little sense.  Bruce Lee comes from Hong Kong to Rome protect his friend's niece from bad guys who want her Chinese restaurant.  Why they want her restaurant is beyond me.The fight scenes are spectacular, but beyond that this film was little more than a travelogue of Rome.  I must admit, Bruce Lee was a better actor than I thought, but his directing style left a lot to be desired.  Why do a lot of Hong Kong film makers love the zoom shot?  And the sets where the fights took place were obvious sound stages.  Especially where Bruce fights a very young Chuck Norris.  Watch it on a rainy Sunday afternoon when nothing else is on.  "},{"Title":"A martial-arts classic","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The fact that this was Bruce Lee's one and only spot as writer and director (as well as actor) probably makes this kung-fu classic deserve its status even more.  Lee uses a warmful story which he plays out rather comically and strangely - a seemingly inept chinaman comes to the aid of a friend's family whose resturant is being continually attacked by a gang who want the property for themselves.  Lee's encounter with the villans brings his martial arts wizardy to the forefront and things go on from there, with the bad guys aiming to destory the intruder.  The first half of the film is the comic side, which is rather uneasy but every viewer better brace themselves for a no-nonsense, white-knuckle climax with Chuck Norris in the Coliseum.  "},{"Title":"The apex of Bruce Lee's film career...","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    What can I say about this fantastic movie?  First of all, I don't think that ANY of his previous films showcase Lee's tremendous martial arts talents as much as this one.  Chinese Connection Ppphheh!  It's o.k., I suppose.  Fists of Fury Very, very good.  But not as good as this one.  Not even Enter the Dragon can beat this little gem, because not only does it feature some spectacular fight scenes (pitting Lee against street punks and hippies as well as international Kung Fu and Karate champions alike), but it also contains some very suspenseful and/or humorous moments which I won't spoil.  To call this a Kung Fu movie would be a travesty.  First of all, because Bruce Lee doesn't use Kung Fu in this picture, he uses Jeet Kune Do, the style that he revolutionized himself.  But it's a further travesty when you remember that it features some really good acting, which most run-of-the-mill Kung Fu movies don't.  This film is an action-packed martial arts extravagganza, guaranteed to make any die-hard fan of Bruce Lee OR Chuck Norris drool, with their eyes glued to their television sets.  So whether you're shaking in fear and anticipation of the bloody fight scenes, or just laughing your head off at the boss and his effeminine right-hand man in his red barretes and hilariously pimpish outfits, you'll LOVE this movie! "},{"Title":"Saved by the Fight Scenes","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bruce Lee marked his directorial debut in Return of the Dragon, (originally released as Way of the Dragon).  From a western perspective, Lee fails miserably as a director, but comes through as a fight choreographer and martial arts performer because his fight scene with Chuck Norris remains a classic to this day.  Keep in mind, however, that Lee did not intend this movie to be released in the US, and the corny comedy scenes were and are the kind of stuff that Hong Kong audiences lap up, and he was playing to that audience.Edited out of the US version are further examples of such scenes  ordering 7 bowls of soup because he couldn't read the Italian menu; a restaurant patron walking in on Lee in the toilet, squatting on the seat because that's what he does on the farm at home in China; after being enticed by a beautiful Italian girl back to her place, Lee's country bumpkin character has no idea what to do and instead winds up practicing kung fu in the mirror (a brilliant, albeit brief, demonstration of his skills).  The editors probably thought these scenes were too corny for western audiences expecting a more macho Bruce Lee, having seen him in Enter the Dragon.I personally missed those scenes in the US version, but I still groan at the story, the direction, and the production values even in the original version.  Nevertheless, my problem with this film isn't any of those things, because I can easily fast forward to the fight scenes.  My problem (anger, frustration, call it what you want) is with the terrible and inexplicable decision to dub the fight scenes, and to use someone who basically sounds impotent to do it.  If you are ever able to find a copy of the original version, with english subtitles (I finally found one in a local Japanese video store), do not let it out of your hands.  I amazed several friends by simultaneously playing the subtitled version and the US version on two VCRs hooked up to one TV, flipping back and forth to illustrate the power of the fight scenes when accompanied by Lee's original fight sounds.  Maybe some day, someone will get the bright idea to re-release the film with the original fight sounds and have the overall sound track redone.If you haven't seen a Bruce Lee movie, I suggest you start with Enter the Dragon (Warner's 75th Anniversary, and the movie's 25th Anniversary, special edition).  Otherwise, Way of the Dragon is somewhat entertaining and amusing, and memorable only for some great fights and of course the classic with Norris. "},{"Title":"This is his best","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had the pleasure and owning Bruce's movies for the last 14 years, and this is his best. The scene with Chuck Norris is a battle for the ages, the end of the fight itself is a solemn and erriely prophetic passing of the torch. Bruce uses great cinematography, a decent plot and action packed fight scenes in different settings, and against a plethora of foes. I have always admired Bruce as a fighter and as a person, this is his best work. Bruce I wish you were still with us. "},{"Title":"The uncut version's the best!!!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have the uncut, subtitled, letterboxed version of this movie.  In the Orient, it's known as The Way of the Dragon.  I think it's a shame that numerous scenes were deleted either because the movie was going to be dubbed or because they were not funny to Western audiences.  The uncut version makes this a totally different movie, just like the uncut version of Enter the Dragon. "},{"Title":"The Hong Kong title is the best","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One day when I was walking through a Chinese Mall downtown Cleveland, I saw Way of the Dragon which was more known to me as Return of the Dragon knowing this I went out and bought it. It has more funny scenes in this, but you have to get used to the subtitles. Really you all should check it out. "},{"Title":"Bruce's best!!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How can you not love Bruce Lee? He's the baddest kung fu master of all time and all of his movies are classics. This one however, would have to be my favorite of them all. In this one, he's even more tougher and charismatic. There is a lot of memorable chop-socky action throughout, especially the coliseum finale where he whoops Chuck Norris' a**. This one shows his strong directing skills as well. The fight scenes are well choreographed. The comic relief is also great with help from the silly dubbed voices, my favorite being the scene where a punk tells a Chinese waitor what Chinese Spare-Ribs are. Definitely check this one out, I'd really love to catch it in theatres again. This is one that belongs in any martial art fans collection. "},{"Title":"Fantastic action from the master of martial arts.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The plot is rather silly, but it does exactly what Bruce's fans  expect it to do--set up some of the most fantastic fight sequences ever put to film.Perhaps the thing that sets Bruce's movies apart from the myriad of action hacks that followed him is not his unparalleled kung fu choreography but rather his powerful screen presence.  He brings to his characters, including Tang Lung, the  same charisma, vim, and charm that John Wayne would infuse in  all his characters.  It is easy to see here the emotive talents  he learned performing in Chinese opera as a boy with his  father.  His ability to project emotion, particularly rage, may  even rival (dare I say it?) Toshiro Mifune's.  In Way of the  Dragon, Bruce gives an endearing performance as country boy sent to the big city (Rome in this case) to help his cousin who is being harassed by mobsters.Of course, the real attractions are the action sequences which Bruce choreographed personally, as per usual.  To the common action fan, they are simply a breath-taking showcase of flashy moves that get the adrenaline pumping.  However, die hard Bruce  Lee fans also get to see a detailed picture of the level of the  master's art just before he invented the anti-style, Jeet Kune  Do.  Those who study kung fu will get a lot from this picture,  particularly the scenes where Bruce demonstrates his style for  his friends.  There are even flashes of what will become Jeet  Kune Do in his climactic fight with Chuck Norris.Speaking of which, if you want to find simply the greatest martial arts sequence ever put to film, look no further.  The  direction is brilliant and the choreography is without equal. The tension in the air is almost tangible as the two gladiators prepare for battle in the Colesseum.  Watch the  expressions of the two combatants change as the flow of the  fight shifts.  Normally, Chuck couldn't act his way out of a  paper bag, but even he looks spectacular here.  It's this emotional contest between Bruce and Chuck that really grabs the viewer by his lapels and pulls him onto the battlefield.  The advantage belongs to Chuck at first, but it flows back to Bruce as adopts a more free style (an embryonic Jeet Kune do).  When it's clear Bruce is the victor, an injured Chuck refuses to  stay down in the movie's, and perhaps the genre's, most  touching scene (I imagine you need a Y chormasome to feel it,  though).  Chuck dies, but he dies swinging like a hero.  Though  his loyalties are questionable, his courage is anything but,  and a sorowful Bruce honors his fallen foe.  Truly magnificent.  "}{"Title":"Walker Texas Ranger pummeled for one and all to see!!!!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You could pit Steven Seagal, Jackie Chan, Van Damme, Sonny Chiba, and Bolo Yueng against Bruce Lee and it would still be a mismatch in Bruce's favor. But Chuckie couldn't take the hint. NNOOOOOO!!!! Well he learns the hard way in this movie that Bruce Lee does not need break a sweat to kick the bejesus out of any pretender to the throne. But I have to give old Chuck some credit he did what most mortals never can do (or would want to) Chuck actually lands a punch. Big Mistake! See this cause it's Bruce Lee's second best. See it cause it's the Dragon vs the Italian mob. See it for the coliseum. But mostly see it for the aftermath of that one punch.  "},{"Title":"U.S.A. version...cool","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have been a fan of Bruce Lee for almost all of my life, and 'Return of the Dragon' (Known to me for years as 'Way of the Dragon') has always been my favourite Bruce Lee film.  On a fairly recent trip to the states, I picked up the Bruce Lee box set from the Westlake centre in Seattle.  On watching them on my return, I was shocked to discover I hadn't seen 'Return of the dragon' at all.  The American version has at least 30 minutes extra to the U.K. version.  I couldn't believe how much I had been left in the dark all of these years.  So my advice is watch the U.S.A version of this stunning Bruce Lee film and think yourself lucky!  "},{"Title":"Karate vs Kung Fu","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is good when a little bit of story and a little bit of anything else besides fighting appears but thats not saying much. The fights in this movie are not anywhere nearly as well choreographed as Sammo Hung's movies for example, but that simply cannot be expected from Bruce Lee. Realism or not, its simply not very engaging. And there are plenty of fights in this movie. The biggest flaw would be something found in all Bruce Lee movies, that being his nigh invulnerability. At not one point during any fight does he seem to be having a hard time. The second thing is that while Karate and Kungu are very interesting to compare, Bruce less slanders Karate a bit too much. "},{"Title":"Bruce's Best","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A lot of people make comments abouit the horrible acting, and it makes me wonder if they saw it dubbed or with subtitles. If there is a subtitled version I would love to see it. So I won't rate acting skills here.The fight scenes were great. I loved the nunchaku fight fight and the fight between Bruce and Chuck is definitely the best Martial Arts fight scene ever.There are humorous moments that might bring a few chuckles (maybe not). All in all it's a very good movie. The plot might have made more sense if I had seen it in the original language.10/10 "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Simply awesome. Again, like Stallone today, critics seem to enjoy slamming Lee as being only able to fight. Lee fights in Way of the Dragon. He gives a brilliant performance when not fighting, conveying a myriad of emotions. Lee wrote this film. Lee directed this film. All those movie critics are fools. For those who say the characters are clichéd or stereotyped, please remember that this was made in 72, the time when such stereotypes were being formed. In twenty years we will be saying the same about Fight Club et al, because so many cloned characters will have come from it. A film is always of its time.Lee goes to his family in Rome as they need help to run their restaurant, and also as he was causing trouble with fighting in China. When he arrives he sees that local scum are trying to bully his family out of business, and he intervenes, proving to be a fierce, unstoppable fighter. As time passes Lee struggles to work out if violence should be used, while the bad guys increase in numbers. Eventually Chuck Norris is sent in, and in a twist, most of Lee's family and friends are killed. Lee tracks the bad guys to the Collosseum, where he fights Norris in the best one on one fight in movie history. No strings.As always, Lee deals with issues of racism, philosophy, violence, family, and the self. The tourist sites of Rome remind Lee of the slums of China, which everyone avoids. His character is a haunted one, like all of his characters, and the tone is dark again. 'Wherever he walks, he will walk alone' remarks one of his friends. Nora Miao gives a brilliant performance, as do Ping Ao-Wei and Chung-Hsin Huang. But Lee is the main draw, and he is breathtaking again. Few Actors have had such an impact on cinema, on pop culture, and on modern life, in such a short time, as Lee has. Aside from the Norris fight, The fights outside the restaurant are excellent, and Lee's 'lamp kicking' has to be seen repeatedly. Easily on of the best martial arts movies ever made, and one of the best movies of the 70's. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awful...until the end","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've never had much of a stomach for Hong Kong humor, and this is no exception. The humorous scenes are simply intolerable, and I was itching for the fast-forward button the whole time, though I forced myself to watch them anyway since I hadn't seen the extra scenes before. The various gang members really eat up the scenery (especially the Chinese guy) But the worst thing is how disappointing most of the action sequences are (note that I said MOST). I mean, Fist of Fury (aka The Chinese Connection) was the first film where Bruce really let loose and gave us a taste of what he was capable of. So in a film written, directed, choreographed, and starring Bruce Lee, you'd think the action would be even better, right? Well wrong, unfortunately. First of all, the first 30 minutes have no action at all. But even worse, when we are treated to some action, it's so...boring. It's just not as exciting as his other films. For a man who prides himself on on-screen chaos, it all feels very restrained. Even the nunchukus seem slow! But I can forgive all that, because once the film moves to the climax (starting with the fight with the two karate guys) it picks up like 200%. That fight gives us a much better taste of what Bruce can do, but it's still nothing compared to the infamous Bruce/Chuck Norris battle. Wow...I mean, wow. It continues to amaze me to no end. This mostly lousy film ends with one of the best martial arts sequences ever. It's like John Woo's Hollywood debut, Hard Target, which is horrible most of the time but ends with one of Woo's best shoot-outs ever. I guess they figured they've suffered their audiences enough, and better give them something to keep them smiling on the way out of the theater.Bruce's directorial skills were amateurish, to say the least. Thrill to the snail-like pacing. Glee to the endless scenes of sightseeing. Get a headache from all those rapid zooms. There were only two good points of Bruce's direction the cat's meow starting off the Bruce/Chuck fight was a stroke of genius, and he also manages to make the only movie where Chuck Norris is COOL! ) "},{"Title":"Another piece of gold from Bruce!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Folks forget that, although this film was released here in the US after Enter the Dragon, it was actually done before.  As such, it resembles Bruce's previous 2 martial arts movies in that the dubbing into English is uneven - blah blah blah.  But this film is still a gem because it is one of those that showcases the immortal Bruce Lee.  He's enraged and not able to control himself as all true martial artists are expected to - which makes him human which is cool for a change.  He even has a love scene with Nora Miao!  Need we even discuss the fight sequences?  I think not.Savor this one because, unfortunately for us all, Bruce wasn't around long enough to leave us a whole lot of 'em! "},{"Title":"One of the best martial arts movies.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've seen many martial arts movies and honestly I wasn't that impressed with 'Way of the Dragon' the first time I saw it. I was more into Jackie Chan movies (I still love Jackie Chan's movies from the 80's. A lot.), so I thought Bruce Lee was wooden and I didn't think he was as skilled as Jackie Chan. But the older I got, the more I got fond of Bruce Lee movies and Bruce Lee himself. What I realized was what Bruce did in his movies were something that only a very few could match. He had charisma, great martial arts skills, great acting skills and one of the few actors who had an in your face performance. Many actors have tried to match him but they often got comical instead of intense as Bruce did. This movie is a real gem and it is underrated compared to 'Enter the Dragon' and I like 'Way of the Dragon' more since I feel you could feel more of Bruce and his philosophy here. I feel what he tried to communicate in this movie was more important than his previous and later martial arts movies.Now the movie itself it is made with a low budget so don't expect great production value. The script is good and actually well thought out, the fight scenes are still among the best I've seen and it has a bit of Bruce's humor here. It is not as big as 'Fist of Fury', meaning it is a bit more (if not a lot) realistic. Tang Lung (the main character) didn't fight 20+ martial artists at once, which in my opinion made the movie great since it wasn't exaggerated. It was humble in that sense. The fight scenes are much more realistic than most movies and more simpler so it is more down to earth than the other martial arts movies he's been in, less fantastic. Which in my opinion makes the movie better than most action movies. The acting in the movie was sufficient for me, but it is mostly due to the bad English dubbing the acting seemed unnatural. I am sure the acting makes a lot more sense in the Cantonese version. Nora Miao was especially quite good, she had the biggest emotional span in her acting and as usual, Bruce Lee was phenomenal.The plot is like taken from Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns, even some of the camera angles that Sergio used are used here. They were magnificently used to create atmosphere and tension in the fight scenes. Tang Lung also has some resemblance to Clint Eastwood's 'The Man with No Name' character. Few words and more action. It is also a personal movie of Bruce Lee's where his character Tang Lung arrive at a foreign country and try to integrate, which he surely experienced when he moved to the US. It is also personal in that sense we get to see a lot more of his philosophy here, like shown in the scene where Tang meets the waiters of the restaurant for the first time. In that scene he said Foreign or not, if it works you should learn to use it, he wasn't degrading Karate he merely pointed out there is no need to be so narrow minded and only do it in one way. He really meant that use what works, use what is useful it has nothing to do with nationality. You don't need a uniform or a black belt to be a great martial artist, what you need is an open mind. The script is full of messages like that. So the script is full of philosophy and wit. Some humor too.Anyway, the final fight is one of the best. One of the movies that are on par with it is 'Wheels on Meals'. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Lee's single directorial effort is fitfully entertaining but no masterpiece","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After the dark solemnity of the two films he'd made under the direction of Lo Wei (The Big Boss and Fist of Fury), Bruce Lee clearly wanted to steer his creative ship toward sunnier climes. The Way of the Dragon, which turned out to be the only movie he ever directed, is far too inconsistent to qualify as a classic--but it has flashes of brilliance while demonstrating that Lee's strengths lay, after all, in intense melodrama rather than in action comedy. The alley nunchaku scene roughly midway through is fantastic, but it's the only successful blend of action and humor in the entire film; the rest of the comedy bits fall flat. Not until the mob boss calls in the three karate pros (Chuck Norris, Robert Wall and durable Hong Kong screen villain Whang Ing-Sik) to dispatch Lee's character Tang Lung does The Way of the Dragon really gather any momentum, and by then the movie's nearly over. But it's here that the tone of the film subtly changes (aided by composer Joseph Koo's moody and occasionally even disturbing dramatic cues), which attests to Lee's talent as a filmmaker. Had he lived longer, he would have sharpened his directorial skills. The fights are almost flawlessly choreographed, of course, and just as exciting to watch for the twentieth time as for the first. Six and a half stars. "},{"Title":"Decent Bruce Lee primer","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For an action comedy, The Way of the Dragon isn't all that funny, and it drags when Bruce Lee isn't putting the bad guys in a hurt locker. But for someone like me who''s never been exposed to this man's magic, this was a pretty good place to start. I came to this thing for the fight scenes, and they don't actually happen until half an hour in. Up until that point, it's mostly Lee's goofy charm that keeps this going. But even I have to admit to a squeal of glee when he went to town with those nunchucks. It is a thing of beauty to watch this man work.And things got serious in that final fight with Chuck Norris. That was exciting, and a great way to end the movie. I really dig those sound effects, too.6/10 "}{"Title":"One of the Better Martial Arts Films","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Upon the death of her father a young woman named Chen Ching-Hua (Nora Miao) inherits a Chinese restaurant in the heart of Rome. Unfortunately, a mobster decides that he wants possession of it and begins to pressure Ms. Chen in the hope that she will eventually sign it over to him. Not wanting to sell it she write to her uncle in Hong Kong who sends a young man named Tang Lung (Bruce Lee) to fix things. However, Ms. Chen is disappointed when he arrives because rather than being a lawyer or a savvy businessman Tang Lung has no discernible skills that will help at all. Anyway, rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this film is basically the extended version of Return of the Dragon with two particular scenes more fully covered. The first scene involves Tang Lung going into a restaurant in the airport at the beginning of the movie and the second gives more detail about his adventure with a prostitute. Both scenes are somewhat comical but neither really affect the overall storyline. In any case, this movie is clearly one of the better martial arts films ever made with Bruce Lee clearly being the main attraction but with both Nora Miao and Chuck Norris (as Colt) providing excellent support. That said I would definitely recommend this movie for all fans of this genre and rate it as above average. "},{"Title":"Classic great martial arts movie","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" At it's heart The way of dragon is pretty much a B-class movie. The low budget is quite obvious in few places and the story is very thin. The plot is pretty much an excuse for the nonstop action. The characters are one dimensional .The acting isn't anything special .The way of dragon promises action and that's the main (if not only) reason to watch this movie. Bruce Lee is responsible for writing and directing this movie. The movie has a very nice flow and well directed action scenes. There is plenty of fights here and they are all well choreographed . The final showdown at the Colloseum is very exciting and memorable. Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris have a great fight which shows how well skilled they both are.The story has a sense of humor which is sometimes subtly shown in the movie (notice the cat watching Lee and Norris fight). It never takes itself too seriously and the lighthearted approach makes you forgive the otherwise thin storyline. There is even one good twist at the end of movie .The music is nice. The characters are black and white , good guys are likable (if not forgettable ) and the bad guys are fun like cartoon villains. Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris give the best performances in this movie. It's no Oscar worthy acting , but a very adequate performances. Norris probably gives the performance of his live here and his last scene here made me care for him and left me sad. That tells you something.After Enter the dragon this is probably Lee's best and well known movie. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Bruce vs. Chuck","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Watching Bruce Lee go up ageist Chuck Norris is the only reason to see this movie. I'm always surprised by how many movies Bruce Lee made in his short time span as a movie star. This is one of the movies I always thought I saw but I realize I only saw the big battle. I just became aware that the English dub did a disservice to the comedic styles of Mr. Bruce Lee. Some of the jokes are lost in translation. I understood that everyone in the film is speaking a different language but conflicts caused by miscommunication still made no sense when their done all in English, so the movie suffered greatly for that. The epic battle was pretty basic and it didn't last long in comparison to what you would see today, but it stands the test of time as one of the greatest marshal arts battles on screen. From the part where the two Titans are preparing for battle to the point where Chuck smartly adjust his style in order to try to beat Bruce. Even the cat who gets bored while watching the toughest men to step foot on the face of the earth added to the enjoyment. I hope to one day see a English sub titled version. Maybe then I will enjoy it more, but is still gets a high grade for the battle of the century. "},{"Title":"Enter the Dragon Takes a Roman Holiday?","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This potential gem directed by and starring Bruce Lee is flawed by appalling technical quality that restoration cannot fix. Early sequences in the film are dogged by out-of-focus shooting, perhaps from a camera with a backfocus problem. The chromatic characteristics of the film stock appeal, but much of the imaging is just ratty, grainy and murky. The dubbing is inanely bad. Lee emerges as a noble star prepossessed with themes of taking on badness and vanquishing it, and a climactic fight sequence is well-choreographed and performed. The story is set in Rome and seems imbued with vague spaghetti Western themes, and these are hackneyed enough to dim Lee's rising star. But as a piece of art that rounds out Lee's repertoire, divulges more about his mystique while commanding respect, and has some highly stagecrafted, riveting, engaging sequences, this film certainly deserves watching. "},{"Title":"Early Chuck fun.","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Tang Lung (Bruce) is a Chinese native and something of a wide-eyed innocent when he comes to the big European city of Rome to help his relatives, who run a restaurant in the Eternal City. But a big problem arises when gangsters declare that they want the restaurant and the property it's on for themselves. Initially Lung's family are helpless and confused about what to do next, then they find out that Lung is a Kung Fu master. Lung staves off the gangsters by fighting wave after wave of thugs and baddies sent by the higher-ups in the nefarious syndicate. For a while, the restaurant seems secure. But then the bad guys bring out the big guns by calling in Colt (Chuck), an American Martial Arts master who flies to Rome with the sole reason of defeating Lung in a fight. The climax of the movie sees the two titans have it out in the legendary Colosseum. Who will emerge victorious? The Way of the Dragon (or Return of the Dragon, as it was marketed after the success of Enter the Dragon), was a Golden Harvest production written and directed by Bruce Lee, and he also co-produced, starred in, and of course was credited as Action Director and Martial Arts Instructor on the film. Bruce's talent was immense and seemed to be growing at this point in his career; unfortunately for the world, he passed away the next year after the release of this film. Of course, this led to many producers trying to fill the void left by the legend and his huge popularity, leading to such names as Bruce Li, Bruce Le, Dragon Lee, and our personal favorite, Bruce Rhee. Just to name a few. But for our purposes here at Comeuppance, it was nice to actually see a BRUCE LEE film, as opposed to some of the movies that appeared in his wake. It puts things into perspective when you can go back and see the originator, instead of one of the imitators.Don't get us wrong, many of the movies featuring the imitators are fun in their own right and certainly have their charms, but there's nothing like an actual Bruce Lee film, and, sadly, there aren't that many of them to choose from. Here, though, starting from the cool, Spaghetti Western-style animated opening titles sequence, we go into a very 70's world big cars, big collars, pea soup-colored home decor, and of course Bruce Lee was still alive. Maybe someday we'll be able to go back to the 70's. Of course, it was also a time when a young Chuck Norris, sans facial hair (but with plenty of hair everywhere else, as Bruce humorously points out during their fight scene), was just coming on the movie scene. Chuck doesn't appear until about an hour into the movie, as he's the baddies' secret weapon brought in to bring Bruce down, but, like Slaughter in San Francisco (1974), Chuck plays a villain with limited screen time. He had yet to establish himself as a hero, and of course when he comes up against Bruce Lee, the fur's gonna fly! The movie does get off to something of a slow start, and the pacing is kind of odd, especially by today's standards, but really there's no shortage of Bruce action. It was a time when terms like Kung Fu and Nunchucks were brand new in the American (and the non-Asian world's?) lexicon, so that was interesting to see. The dubbing is...unfortunate, but typical for productions of this time and place. That's how it is on the Inter-Vid VHS, and it's unlikely to be any better on many of this movie's other releases. A widescreen, subtitled, remastered DVD would be awesome, but it's probably an impossibility, because of the way the movie was shot. The only other real complaint we have is that it's kind of repetitive, plot-wise, but that's a minor quibble, we're just grateful this film exists in the first place. It would be fascinating to think what Bruce would be doing if he was around today.There's a really good chance he'd be making DTV movies with the action stars of our day like Scott Adkins and Gary Daniels, among others. Or perhaps he'd be making movies in Hong Kong with Jet Li and Donnie Yen. Or maybe both, there's no way of knowing. But Return of the Dragon remains an important part of the Bruce legacy. "},{"Title":"The Way of the Dragon","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Actually , my personal favorite was Fist of Fury (Chinese Connection in the US) but this is also a very good movie and it seems that it was the favorite of his wife Linda Coldwell. Way of the Dragon was known as Return of the Dragon in the US and Chuck Norris must have had fond memories of this one. The illegal filming in the Colosseum in Rome must have been a very daring thing to do. The scene with the dart in a man's backside was quite funny. This was to my knowledge the only Bruce Lee film with some humour in it. The question Is hore name Tang Lung? (no spelling error by the way, just the accent the man was speaking) by the Korean guy is the line I think I remember best. It was Bruce's first attempt at directing and he did a very good job too. "},{"Title":"Raw Bruce Lee","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I understand that this is the directorial debut for Bruce Lee as well as him as the screen writer.The format of the story is very raw. There are thugs that's trying to take over the Chinese restaurant in Rome, and Tang Lung (Bruce Lee ) is dispatched from Hong Kong to be the body guard for the restaurant. This results in endless hand to hand combat between Tung Lung and the gangs. Finally, the gangs runs out of option, and calls in Colt (Chuck Norris) from the United States to defeat Tung Lung. The result is one of the most famous fight scenes in martial arts film history.Story is kind of weak. I mean why would the gangs put so much energy into taking over a mere restaurant ? But that's how the story goes. The story is there to showcase Bruce Lee's martial arts skills, and this is the main focus of the movie. You will see familiar Golden Harvest faces such as Tony Liu, Robert Wall, and Nora Miao. Many of who've also starred in the Enter the Dragon.Very classic Hong Kong movie starring Bruce Lee. It has innocence of the old days, and is a good film to watch. "},{"Title":"Not Bruce's best but still good","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rated R for Violence Quebec RatingG Canadian Home Video Rating14AReturn Of THe Dragon or Way Of The Dragon is Bruce Lee's third movie.It is a good movie with the usual kung-fu scenes and mild humor of a Bruce Lee film but I preferred Fists Of Fury,Enter The Dragon and Chinese Connection.Return Of The Dragon is a good movie however and it is worth watching for any martial-arts film fan.The film is about a man who goes to visit his cousins in Rome.They own a restaurant, however they are being harassed by some gangsters to sell the restaurant.So basically Bruce starts kicking their asses.This film has an appearance by Chuck Norris as well and the final fight is pretty sweet.Overall a good martial-arts flick. "},{"Title":"Showdown...","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bruce Lee stars as a martial artist who travels to Italy to defend Nora Miao's restaurant from an Italian mobster who wants the property for mostly obscure reasons, at first Bruce Lee is successful in fending off these pesky thugs but then as a last resort the Italian thugs bring in the American karate champion who is played by Chuck Norris. Suffice to say this one is awesome for the sheer finale. I have to admit that I grew up with Bruce Lee movies and because of this I have a soft spot for his movies, as I do for some of the ones that star Bruce Le and Bruce Li (In fact Li wasn't that bad at all) in fact when compared to these style of movies and the ones from Don The Dragon Wilson, one only tends to look back at this old school nostalgia with even more love. Way Of The Dragon though has crossover appeal for everyone and I'm fairly sure that anyone who is a fan of the action genre cannot sit and watch without feeling a sense of excitement when Lee takes on Norris in the finale. Indeed this dynamite climax is what makes a slightly above average movie into the classic martial arts showcase it is rightfully remembered as. Other great sequences to look out for is the Bruce Lee signature nunchucks VS knife wielding thug, an Italian thug who accidentally smacks himself in the head with nunchucks and of course any sequence where Lee is fighting. If you do not like this movie, no old school martial arts movie will do anything for you.* * *1/2 out of 4-(Very Good) "},{"Title":"Bruce Li and Dragon Lee should die for messing with this legend","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In terms of entertainment, you can't go wrong with Way of the Dragon. Surely it doesn't really have any characters that are worthy of mention, the story is basically described in the first 5 minutes of the film, and watching it dubbed is one hell of corny experience. But Bruce Lee might be the most loose he has ever been in a role. He is smiling the entire film and nobody gets the better of him. From his kick ass darts, to him destroying everyone in his path, to the final battle between him and Chuck Norris at the end, this film is loads of fun. Forget the generic characters, plot, and almost everything else, and just focus on the fighting.Under the direction of Bruce Lee, I really don't find any noticeable differences from his other films, although this one is a lot more light (say than Chinese Connection). The weirdly hot girl played by Nora Miao whom does an alright job. Did they even try to find good talent for the goons in this one? I mean God, could you get more gangly looking losers? I doubt it. Chuck Norris hit his peak with this film, as he'd destroy the 80s with his painful crap that just has no redeeming qualities.The fights aren't as good as some of the earlier ones, but they still do entertain. Robert Wall (played Oharra in Enter the Dragon) gets whipped quickly, and so does that Japanese fighter. I still think that Norris and Bruce duke it out to one of the best fights in all of martial arts cinema. It isn't any tricky camera work, just two professionals showing their goods for 7-8 minutes (Goods do not refer to the hairy back and chest of Mr. Texas Ranger).Fun film that is mainly there because it's a Bruce Lee film. It's selling for 10 dollars now! I doubt any self respecting person who enjoys action films would not be willing to except this one into your collection. "}{"Title":"Jeet-Kune-Do vs. Tae-Kwon-Do !!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, this is the best martial movie that I have ever seen ! The last encounter that Bruce Lee has with Chuck Norris is the best 'one 2 one' fight i've ever perceived. We might have read stories of Hercules, Samson , etc. This fight is related to their class.The movie is very boring and it has a not at all meaningful concept ! It's a story of a Chinese restaurant in Rome that is being tried to be possessed by a rich man there - how Bruce retains the restaurant is the story. But, in a world where gun was invented in 17th century, how does Bruce Lee come to say that Kung Fu is the best ?A matter that should be argued upon! I also did not understand how come the boss spares the Hero even though he has a gun ! Bruce Lee could have proved his strength in some other field by working as a commando or a warrior! Movie field did not suit him!But still, what impresses me the most is his own style of Kung Fu that he developed....it's called 'Jeet Kune Do' (the art of interception of the fist). It is with this style that Lee defeats his enemy Chuck Norris , a six time USA Karate champion !!! Initially, by comparing the physique of the two, we might say that it's Chuck who'd be the victor....but things end up the other way.Very interesting is the way the fight proceeds in Colosseum . Initially, Chuck bashes Bruce Lee with his style of combat.Thrice is Bruce hit so bad that his mouth starts bleeding ( but in the middle, Chuck is stunned by the Bruce's fist's power when it grabs his chest!). But later on Bruce shows his immense and unbelievable speed when he escapes from the kicks of Chuck, who stands spellbound at the speed . Later Bruce attacks Chuck with such a speed that leaves the fighting speed of Chuck way back. Chuck uses all of his strength to do everything to attack Bruce but in vein ! We can compare the strength and commando style of Chuck and the martial arts knowledge and Jeet kune do style of Bruce ( Chuck's advantage  strength / Bruce's advantage  speed and the power of the fist). Bruce Lee's Jeet Kune Do( method of interception of the fist ) was a technique in which he compressed all his power and unleashed when the opponent was tired. But many say that Bruce practiced too much of exercise which resulted in a fatal cerebral disease.But there is one thing that I did not understand - how come the same Chuck who bashes Bruce initially, succumbs to his combat as a deer would to a lion ? Does Bruce try to prove that he's the mightiest ? One of my friends, who has had knowledge of Karate said that the styles of Chuck and Bruce should never be compared because the 2 are two different worlds !All in all, the movie is something that none should miss to admire the talents of Bruce Lee ! "},{"Title":"Lee's lasting testament on film","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Way Of The Dragon remains Bruce Lee's best film. Of course there are flaws. Any Hong Kong-made film set in Rome is bound to be a little problematic, especially when the Chinese all speak Chinese and the Italians all speak English. Lee's direction is technically very rough, in some ways Lo Wei's direction of the non-fighting scenes in the previous two films is more assured.However, The Way Of The Dragon is expertly paced and structured.The first third of the film is really a comedy, with Lee's fish-out-water character the butt of most of the humour. As he unknowingly finds himself in a prostitutes room, or accidentally orders loads of soup at a restaurant, we are aware that this is far cry from the serious Lee of The Big Boss and Fist Of Fury. When the fights come in, there is still a bit of humour love the heavy who knocks himself out with the nunchuku, but this gradually fades away. Lee shows amazing restraint- the fights are mostly quite short and sweet, the better to show off his fabulous skill and to highlight the justifiably famous duel in the Colossuem with Chuck Norris. This is simply a masterpiece of staging, pacing and structuring, one of the greatest fights ever staged.It's been said of The Way of The Dragon that the twist at the end adds a jarring note of seriousness. This is untrue. more than even in the previous two Lee films, there is an inexorable sense of violence escalating and not really solving anything. Lee was never shy of showing off his skill to the world. He did more than anyone to promote the martial arts. However, The Way Of The Dragon and it's two predecessors, shows that Lee had an ambivulence to the martial arts as well,as his character wanders off at the film's end, there is no sense of elation. This awareness and intelligence about violence marks out Lee's greatness as much as his skill.Of course the Way Of The Dragon is rough around the edges. However, just think of the masterpieces Lee could have made, given more money and greater control, if he had not sadly died when he did. "},{"Title":"It deserves an award, but the oscars are a joke.","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Man, the replay value on this flick never diminishes. The dubbing of this movie is the best thing since sliced bread, and the acting and plot are the most hilarious/best things i've seen in a long time.This is one of the best movies ever made. There's even an appearance from Chuck Norris, playing one of the last surviving sasquatches on this planet (the other notable being Robin Williams, not in the film tho).Anywho, not everyone will get why it's so great, but if you've been brought up to love your share of van damme, cheap arnold and sly movs, and bruce lee...well then, this movie is like a slice of pumpkin pie on a snowy x-mas morning where your stockings are filled with easter eggs. Yes, it's just that good.  "},{"Title":"Silly but nostalgic enjoyment all the way. Watch out for Colt...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why legendary, stylish and funny Way of the Dragon is clearly a better movie than late Bruce Lee's actual breakthrough classic called The Big Boss? Once again, Lee's foolish script is just as ridiculous and laughable but surprisingly fight scenes are slightly better looking - naturally what makes this a film worth watching is a chance to see charismatic Bruce Lee practicing his skills as a tough, hard-boiled and talented fighter. Way of the Dragon has much more humor - both intentional as well as unintended. Unintended comic comes from the facts that script is really naive and silly, most of the actors (especially ones who represent the mob) quite terrible and the story is simply illogical and dumb. Lee makes himself a Chinese Schwarzenegger when he shows off his muscles. Luckily Lee's character Tang Lung is not the traditional macho type - he screams and runs away when he sees a topless prostitute. Way of the Dragon has young Chuck Norris as an American karate-master Colt. I've never really cared for him but he amuses me in here. He has practically no lines at all (better that way, I think) because he's here basically to kick some ass. Way of the Dragon has lots of flaws but I still like these funny movies. Way of the Dragon is a very watchable film - simply a nostalgic enjoyment all the way. "},{"Title":"Campy, corny, and some of the best fight scenes ever filmed.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The last time I watched this I leaned over and kissed the fast-forward button on my VCR. The plot is a joke, most of the characters are buffoons and even Bruce's natural charisma takes a beating. It's a lot less painful to just buzz through this stuff.But when he walks into the alley to defend his cousins against the gangsters, all is forgiven. Bruce demonstrates how one little guy could indeed beat the crap out of 20 people in a dark alley, basically by being one critical step ahead at every turn.Bruce's technique in this movie is actually pretty limited. Most of his kicks are right leg only, for example. By the time he made Enter the Dragon he had evolved a great deal. Indeed, his whole body shape had changed. But that's hardly a criticism. I could watch him kick Chuck Norris's butt every day.I've always wondered what happened to the kitten in the Coliseum.... "},{"Title":"Where is the toilet?","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This must be one of the worst Kung Fu fighting movies I have ever seen. I decided to first watch Bruce Lees first movie (The big boss), which was laughably horrible (dogs jumping through the air and stuff). So then I wanted to see Lee's debut movie, Way of the dragon aka Return of the Dragon. I read on rottentomatoes.com that it actually was Lee's best movie, so I had great hopes on that one. But after watching this one I am badly disappointed.The Story is about the Chinese fighter Tang Lung (Bruce Lee) who comes to Rome to help out at a restaurant of a friend of him. The owner of the place, a young girl, is threatened by a syndicate which wants to buy the restaurant at all costs. Lung on the other hand is prepared to lend a hand by dealing with these thugs his way. That's the story in a nutshell until Lung faces Chuck Norris in a last battle in the Colliseum of Rome.I have difficulties to believe reviews that say that this is the best Kung Fu movie ever made. Because its got nothing worth seeing except for Lee's funny battle with two nun-chucks. The rest seems just questionably wrong. It starts off with Lee waiting at the airport while being constantly watched by an elderly women. Then he goes to a café to order food, but he can't even tell the waitress that he wants some eggs, although he speaks perfectly good English afterward in the rest of the movie. The peek of awkwardness comes of Lee asking at least three times in the movie where the toilet is. In the beginning I thought this rather to be a Jackie Chan comedy than a Bruce Lee Kung Fu movie. Oh yeah, he also asks the girl later if it was possible to buy a gun and she replies Oh yes, of course, everyone can buy a gun here! Say what now? That is Italy in the 1970's! Since when can anyone, yet alone tourists just buy a gun? What's more is that he never really goes to buy a gun. Instead he is making small darts out of light wood, which he later throws with high accuracy into the wrists of people being 5-15 meters away. Have you ever had a 10 cm stick in your hand? Even if you could lift 50 kg, you could never toss a stick like that further than 2 meters, yet alone pierce someones bone with them! Another example is that none of these gangsters that threaten the restaurant seems to be Italian. They've got blacks, Indians, Japanese and white Americans except for that one fat dude who screams Mamma Mia in one scene. At one other time the boss of the gang commands his underlings to take Lee outside of the restaurant to deal with him, but reminds them to be careful with the guns because of the open public. But every time they go outside of the restaurant in this movie, they go to the back ally behind the building where they are surrounded by 2 meter walls, so nobody can see them anyway! And when Lee finally finishes beating them up, the gang leader hires a Hit-man to snipe Lee down at night. But for some reason he is polite enough to send a message to the restaurant beforehand, placed inside a little nice coffin... What makes the situation worse is that the girl wants to protect Lee from being shot and recommends him over and over again to leave Rome at once, but for some reason never really tells him exactly why and that he will be killed if he doesn't leave.Another weird example is when the gangs' Japanese henchman is calling the worlds best fighter, who for some reason is an American. And he even tells the exchange through the telephone Give me America. Yes, you heard me right, America! WTF??? Then Lee and his restaurant friends have a big fight in the open area against an European and a Japanese karate fighter. But after Lee is done beating up the Japanese guy, his friends grab each of his arms and keep kicking him until he is... dead? I don't know, but that surely isn't what Kung Fu is all about. Lees master Yip Man would turn around in his grave if you would see this movie today. The weirdest plot twist occurs when the chef of the restaurant is stabbing Lees friends in the back only because he suddenly remembers that he wants to go back to Hong Kong. But that twist is never really further explained in the rest of the movie.The fight between Lee and Chuck Norris is a joke. Before they meet, Lee is running around for like 5 minutes in the whole damn Colliseum before they meet in some corridor. Then they face each other, stripping off their clothes to show their bare muscular bodies (but only showing Norris harry mess of a body). To make the audience wait even longer, they start warming up for about 5 more minutes. Then they start fighting and about 5 minutes later, Lee is breaking Norries neck and even seems regretting it all of a sudden. What the hell?? I didn't like this movie. The only two scenes I really liked was the one with the fat guy screaming Mamma Mia and the one where Lee is holding his quivering two fists and weaving is forefinger in front of the gang leader just to say No, no, no, you don't to that again. It's funny because the exact same scene is shown in the modern movie Kung Fu Hustle. Otherwise, this movie is a disappointment. I will watch the rest of his movies but I have no big expectations anymore. I give this movie 2 of 10. "},{"Title":"In this world of guns and knives, wherever Tang Lung may go to, he will always travel on his own!","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As a Bruce Lee fan, I refuse to believe that he wrote Return of the Dragon. But if he did, he probably knew that he could spit on any piece of paper, package it and people would adore him. Fans of cinema do not remember Tony, Jimmy, Thomas or Robert, nor do they care about the bizarre twist near the end of this film, let alone the fate of the restaurant that prompted Tang Lung to arrive in the first place. Every actor bumbles through this script straight to the fight between Chuck Norris and Bruce Lee, which is the only dangling carrot to get this film, in the hallways of Rome's Colosseum. God bless DVD's Scene Selection for this movie, but there are some other things of note...Tang Lung is sent from Hong Kong to Rome, to help Uncle Wang and his daughter from a 'syndicate,' who wants to take over their restaurant for reasons we can only ponder.You get a real sense of what Hong Kong theater must be like from this movie. There are moments in the dubbing, where you have to consider that Return of the Dragon would be a million times better without it. Bruce Lee and his waiter buddies share some Larry, Curly, Moe moments between themselves and the best part of the movie is not the Lung/Colt fight, but outside the restaurant where Lee uses his nunchuks against over a half dozen foes, prompting one of them to shout, Mamma Mia! I severely recommend Return of the Dragon to fans of the genre and the star actor only. If you are just recognizing Bruce Lee, or want to watch his movies, I recommend you watch this film perhaps later on, when you've seen his other work. "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee's Directorial debut!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Way of the Dragon a.k.a. Return of the Dragon (1972) was the first and only film that Bruce Lee had managed to direct solo. He also was the co-action director, writer and actor. For this project, Bruce Lee set this picture in Rome, Italy. He and a film crew shot footage for a few days in Rome and headed back to shoot the rest of the movie in Hong Kong. This was also the first and only time Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris fought on screen.Bruce Lee stars as a country bumpkin who travels to Rome so he could help out his cousins who are in trouble with some local thugs. The syndicate wants the restaurant that his family owns. For some time they have put up some resistance but to no avail. When they met Bruce and see that he could fight, everyone thought that he was the answer to their prayers, or is he?More comedic than his previous two films. This was because Bruce Lee was making a film that was catered to his Hong Kong audience. He wanted to make a movie that could make him some money so he could concentrate on a more personal project (The Game of Death). But by the time he completed this film he was already set to work on his break through movie Enter the Dragon (1973). Way of the Dragon was proof that Bruce Lee could work within Golden Harvest.I have to highly recommend this film. If you like Bruce Lee then look no further. This is a nice watch because the tone of the movie is somewhat light hearted compared to his earlier films. He proved that he could play comic roles as well as a hardcore fighter.Followed by Enter the Dragon and stock footage appearances in The Game of Death and The Tower of Death. "},{"Title":"Well, at least you can see Bruce Lee kick Chuck Norris' ass...","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I didn't really care too much for this film... I'm a big fan of martial arts, and beginning to become a very big fan of Bruce Lee(who is without a doubt the greatest martial artist ever), and there is no doubt about it; when Lee does his thing, it's hard not to get excited. However, he doesn't get to do his thing that much in this film(compared to Enter The Dragon, which I recently saw) and the story leaves a bit to be desired. The plot is kind of tame, and fairly clichéd... it's just the typical 70's martial arts movie, nothing more or less. The reason why this is a surprise is Lee... normally you would expect better from him. The pacing is very bad, I couldn't really sit through it, since I found it so dull. The acting wasn't particularly impressive. I saw an English-dubbed version, which just made it that much worse. The characters are clichés and stereotypes. The action is pretty good, but there's too little of it, and the sound effects are painfully exaggerated and often poorly synchronized. The main reason I decided to see this movie is due to the great chance of seeing Lee beat up Chuck Norris(who I really strongly dislike). That did happen in the film, but I don't know if I would claim that it's worth sitting through the rest of the film for. I recommend this only to very big martial arts enthusiasts(like me) who can sit through a pretty unimpressive film to see very good martial arts(unlike me). Very big fans of Bruce Lee might also like it, but the general public should probably see a better Bruce Lee film(like Enter The Dragon). 5/10 "},{"Title":"Wow... that was awful","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK, the Chuck Norris v. Bruce Lee fight seen was really good.But that's it.The rest of the movie isn't even mediocre. It's awful. I can't believe that there are people who honestly think that was a good movie. Geesh... Even Action Jackson was better than this.  "}{"Title":"Bruce Lee is this film's only redeeming quality","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It may have Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris in it - but those are the only bright spots on an otherwise laughable film.Was this film made by an Italian tourism board? On the way to the restaurant at the heart of the film, they happen to drive past every Roman monument. Furthermore, the film is terribly lit and shot. More than once, the film is out of focus. There are needless zoom-ins and zoom-outs. These film techniques work in fight sequences but not more low-key scenes.Maybe humour is just lost in translation, but the jokes where Bruce Lee has to go to the toilet (which ceased to be amusing quick) are laughably embarrassing to watch. The pace of the movie is very bad. One of the aforementioned toilet scenes has the girl of the film waiting for Bruce Lee while he's in her bathroom. I also fail to see how any assassin would use a shotgun for taking someone out from afar. The cinematography is also very poor.Thankfully, the fighting scenes deliver and Bruce Lee is on form. His fight scene with Chuck Norris is the film's highlight, but even that is filled with nonsense. Why, exactly, is there a little cat that the director feels compelled to cut to every 30 seconds? When there is a dramatic zoom-in, zoom-out on Lee and Norris, we get another close-up of the cat, ZOOMING IN AND OUT OF IT! Why?! (And thankfully, Chuck Norris would realize he looks better in a beard, and spare us shots of his hairy shoulders.) In terms of fighting, Way of the Dragon is a good watch, but so many pointless shots could simply have been, and should have been, cut. I'm almost positive the makers of The Hangover watched this film, as the main henchman could very well be Leslie Chow's cousin. He adds some comedic elements, but apart from him and the fighting scenes, Way of the Dragon isn't even an unravelled patch on Enter The Dragon. "},{"Title":"A Fine Martial Arts Film","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A man (Bruce Lee) visits his relatives at their restaurant in Italy and has to help them defend against brutal gangsters harassing them.I am by no means an expert on martial arts films or on Bruce Lee. I happen to enjoy the films of Donnie Yen, who I presume was heavily influenced by Lee (because, after all, everyone was influenced by Lee).This film has the distinction of including multiple jokes about Bruce needing the bathroom far more frequently than the average human being. More interestingly, it also features Chuck Norris as the villain Colt. Younger people today (2013) may barely recognize Norris, as he has no beard here and has some strange 1970s clothes. "},{"Title":"Ambitious but flawed directing debut for Lee","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bruce Lee's filmography was short. A short role in Marlowe, three Cantonese action flicks and one Hollywood venture with the near perfect Enter the Dragon*. Way of the Dragon was Bruce's only self directed work and while he'd started work on Game of Death he never got to finish it. His two other Cantonese films; Fist of Fury and The Big Boss were directed by Chinese pro Wei Lo who succeeded in bringing out Bruce's best when it came to his acting and, wisely, let Bruce loose when it came to choreographing the stunning fight scenes he's most known for. Although The Big Boss isn't very good, Fist of Fury is and it probably showcases best Bruce's acting and unbelievable martial arts skills. With Way of the Dragon Bruce wanted director's choirs and, sadly, he doesn't fare well. Taking obvious cues from Wei Lo but also influenced by American and Italian film making (my guess; Sergio Leone was a favorite of his); Way of the Dragon works best when simply focusing on breathtaking action and not the central story of a Chinese relative helping his kin keeping a restaurant safe from mafia enforcers. Bruce clumsily injects far too many scenes with silly and badly staged humorous sequences*. The location photographers went a little too nuts with Roman locals and the film practically slows to a halt midway through as Bruce and girl spend a day walking around the city. What drama there is is amateurishly handled and for too much over the top acting is let loose. The atrocious dubbing is among the worst I've seen and it doesn't help matters either. But the action scenes are simply sensational and ensure the film as a classic Bruce Lee flick. The one on one with Chuck Norris is legendary, the double nunchaku fight is intense and overall when it comes to fight scenes the film is impeccable. There's even a very surprising twist near the end that I didn't see coming and the dramatic ending is quite well played out. One must keep in mind how difficult and ambitious a project this was for Bruce. Only allowed to spend a limited time in Italy and with a crew that had a two week limit; it's maybe not so surprising that many of the location shoots turned out the way they did. It was a big thing for a Chinese film to be shot in Europe and there's a funny story involving the shooting in the Coliseum (extremely illegal and fast feet were required). Bruce's intentions were to bring Chinese films up to the level of American films and this was his debut feature. Taken as such; it's not at all bad. Bruce definitely would have polished his directorial skills and honed his craft even more. So we'll never know what he could have delivered but if the 40 minutes or so of footage he completed for Game of Death is anything to go by it would have been something special. As it stands; Way of the Dragon is a wholly uneven mixture of exceptional fight scenes coupled with a very rough mix of silly humor and amateurish drama (for the most part). *In the filmography listings above I left out his television credentials which of course included The Green Hornet, Batman, Longstreet and others along with many bit parts in Chinese films. *I must admit that one scene; where an opponent of Bruce gets hold of one his nunchaku's and accidentally knocks himself out is simply hilarious. I rewinded at least three times* "},{"Title":"The best Bruce Lee movie","Date":"18 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am a big fan of Bruce Lee, and have seen all his movies, read his letters, books and seen a lot of documentaries. He is the greatest athlete of all time, and a true genius, artist, mystic and philosopher. It was a great pity, he died so young. He would have been around 70 today. He was a renaissance-genius from a great time in human history. I think, this movie is way better than Enter the Dragon because you can watch the whole movie from start to finish, whereas no one (I think) will watch all the scenes of his other movies, I mean, in Enter the Dragon, there's a lot of stuff which is not about Bruce Lee, and doesn't seem to be about the plot at all, and his other movies, also have these minor mistakes, but The Way of the Dragon does not. You can watch it again and again. Also it contains the great scene with Chuck Norris and Bruce Lee fighting. Probably the single most amazing scene with Bruce. His other movies contain great scenes, and Enter the Dragon is great also because it's the only one where we hear his real voice. Nora Miao is also very talented, and does an extremely good job in The Way of the Dragon. All things considered, this is an epic masterpiece which should be on art-museums all over the world. It is an image of the 20th century that we cannot afford to miss. "},{"Title":"a.k.a. 'Way of the Dragon'","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" My goodness, how these U.S. titles of Hong Kong films get tossed around! Most of you probably know this film to be titled 'Return of the Dragon'. Make no mistake though; this is NOT a sequel to Enter the Dragon. This was filmed a year or two before Enter the Dragon and has nothing to do with Enter the Dragon's premise. Moving on, this is the famous movie in which Bruce Lee faces off against Chuck Norris in his (Chuck's) first and probably only role as a villain. Oddly enough, Norris doesn't appear until well into the last third of the movie. The overall film while only giving away some minor spoilers is that Bruce Lee is asked to go to Rome Italy to help restaurant employees fend of mobsters. Chuck Norris is sent to defeat Bruce should the mobsters fail. As one might guess the plot is a bit predictable though Way of the Dragon still entertains. The fight scenes are fewer than Fist of Fury but still good none the less. The scene with Bruce using two nunchukus is very impressive. Of course, most will view this film for the final segment of Bruce vs. Chuck and in all honesty, even if someone doesn't care too much for Way of the Dragon they will still get a kick (no pun intended) out of the nunchukus scene along with the Chuck Norris battle. Note for first time viewers Way of the Dragon starts off a bit slow and silly but eventually becomes action packed and serious. "},{"Title":"Average film - Excellent Fight Scenes","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Way of the Dragon is all Bruce Lees own work, and rather disappointly so. The fight scenes are the highpoint and very explosive, showing off the differing martial arts skills of both Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris. However the story is laughable and the acting even more so, the location is somewhat odd and the whole film lacks any kind of quality aside from the fighting. That being said, if you do watch this film make sure its the uncut version to get as much out of this film as possible, which as I said previously is not a lot other than some very memorable and seldom bettered fight scenes. To sum up, poor production values and a very lame plot(as well as awful 70's fashions!) let this film down, do yourself a favour and press skip until you get to a fight scene - after all thats the only reason your watching it....... "},{"Title":"BRUCE LEE AT HIS VERY BEST..","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Dragon returns in one of the last movies that made him a star. In this Lee is a young martial arts expert, who is sent to Rome to help a family friend whose restaurant is in trouble of being taken away from them. This sequel to Enter the Dragon (although filmed before) was a definate stepping stone in an already famous movie career. Watch the Colliseum fight between Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris it's a real classic.OTHER BRUCE LEE RECOMMENDATIONS  ENTER THE DRAGON, FISTS OF FURY, CHINESE CONNECTION, AND GAME OF DEATH "},{"Title":"I liked the kitten","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found this movie was too long.I appreciated  Lee's funny facial expressions.Great fights,ok, but the plot's really poor. The best actor was that sweet  lovely kitten at the Coliseum Even if it was filmed in Rome, I'm sorry to say it .but Bruce Lee 's  no Gregory Peck, and Nora Miao is no Audrey Hepburn "},{"Title":"GREAT IN PARTS, LESS SO IN OTHERS.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie must have been most disconcerting on original release to those who had seen ENTER THE DRAGON and expected more of the same. The reason for this is that the first 30 or so minutes of the film contain far too much of the sort of lame-brained comedy that makes so much of Jackie Chan's work almost impossible to watch. Instead of the all conquering,almost manic hero of ENTER,here Lee plays a country bumpkin type whose incredible martial skills are only partly hinted at until he really lets rip about half way through the movie.It was brave of Lee to play fast and loose in this fashion with the persona he had established in his first Hong Kong movies but the years have made these early sequences even more embarrassing to watch to Western eyes than they were back in 1974 when the film hit the U.S. and Britain.All is forgiven,however,when the master leaps into action and we are treated to displays of martial arts ability which we most likely will never see the like of again.The fights gain in intensity from the mid point on and the battle with Chuck Norris has been rightly lauded over the years as one of the greatest combat scenes put on film,no-one could seriously challenge this point of view.It should be noted though that anyone wishing to indoctrinate friends who have never seen Lee into appreciating his work should really introduce them to him via any of his other movies before this one.WAY OF THE DRAGON contains too much material that only true afficionados can respond to; even legends have to be nurtured. "},{"Title":"CLASSIC fight scene","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The ending battle between Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris is probably the best I've ever seen.  It's just wonderful; the movie overall is pretty good; the other fight scenes are great as well.  Bruce Lee is still the best ever. "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To everybody out there!!!Watch this movie. The final fight between Bruce Lee und Chuck Noris is excellent!!!  "},{"Title":"My favorite Bruce Lee movie!","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I was younger my brother wanted me to watch all these Kung Fu movies with him. I wasn't really into it back then but now I am in love with them! They're awesome to watch, especially the Bruce Lee ones! My favorite martial arts star is definitely Bruce Lee, and when I saw his first film (Fists of Fury) I thought maybe I'll rent another one. So my brother goes to the store to get me one and WOW! Was I amazed! This is probably one of the best movies I have ever seen! The storyline was great and the so were the characters. It had really awesome fighting scenes to make this movie what it is today. A BRUCE LEE CLASSIC.His other movies like Enter the Dragon and The Chinese Connection are good as well, but this one definitely tops them off. Plus, it has one of the sickest fights to hit the movies.CHUCK NORRIS VS BRUCE LEE in Rome's Coliseum! This is one of the greatest martial art movies to ever walk the screen and I strongly encourage you to go and rent it now! My rating  10/10 "},{"Title":"Way of the Dragon! Way of the Best!","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of my favorite martial arts movies with Bruce Lee in it. It simply amazed me. That Bruce is just so fast! I rented this one after I've seen a few other of Bruce's movies, and my brother went to go get it for me. This, is by far, the best one I've seen.I am now a total Bruce Lee fan! I own all 5 of his major movies on DVD and some of them on VHS. I really hope that you all get a chance to go and rent it. Plus, it has a super cool fight scene with Bruce Lee vs Chuck Norris! You won't wanna miss this!10 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Martial Arts Flick With An Incredible Fight At The End Between Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great martial arts film, with an incredible fight at the end between Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris!. It's got lots of great martial arts action, and the characters were great, plus Bruce Lee is simply amazing in this!. However a few things got on my nerves 1. The terrible dubbing,was extremely annoying,2. it did take a little while to get going and the villains were a bit too comical for my liking, however it's still very fast paced, and has lots of great martial arts action to satisfy one, plus the opening was pretty funny, and the fight choreography was great!. The character development is actually not bad,and as i said the fight between Bruce and Chuck is worth the price alone, plus the story is very interesting!. This is a great martial arts film, with an interesting story, and an incredible fight at the end between Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris!. The Direction is very good. Bruce Lee does a very good job here, with good camera work, great shots during the fight scenes, and keeping the film at a fast pace!. The Acting is great, however there dubbing sucked. Bruce Lee is AMAZING as he always was and is amazing here, he is very likable, funny, had some amusing grins,kicked that ass, had good chemistry with Nora Miao, and while not my favorite he is the best martial arts performer there ever was! (Bruce Ruled!). Nora Miao is beautiful and does fine with what she had to do i liked her. Chuck Norris is AMAZING in the fight scenes, however he had only 1 line, still he was quite menacing, and it was cool to see him in early role!. (Norris Rules!). Rest of the cast do decent. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if not brilliant","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is basically your standard kung fu movie, with the obvious exception of being directed by Bruce Lee. Lee, who also stars in the film, is a suprisingly good filmaker; he keeps the feel of the film light enough to avoid being laughable. This is the same simple formula that later made Jackie Chan a kung fu superstar don't take the film to seriously, or it may come off as laughable. The fight with Chuck Norris is worth the price of this one, but it isn't the only great scene. All in all, I'd say that Way of the Dragon/Return of the Dragon is tied with Fist of Fury/Chinese Connection as Lee's second best film (after Enter the Dragon). "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee beats Chuck Norris","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Return of the Dragon is another gem with the grandmaster of Karate and Kung Fu Bruce Lee! The story is more comedy-oriented than in his other films and his forced witty acting can be quite cheesy sometimes, but the Martial Arts-performances are still real pulsedrivers! The climax is the mortal duel of Bruce Lee and Chuck Norris. This showdown still belongs to the greatest Kung Fu fights ever filmed and the battle is absolutely amazing and brilliant choreographed! Unfortunately the king of Kung Fu died much too early, but his spirit will live forever! A true icon that influenced generations of Martial Arts enthusiastics with his philosophy like nobody before and after!! "},{"Title":"No doubt one of Bruce Lee's best.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one action packed film! Gangsters are threatening a restaurant, so Bruce Lee comes in! You gotta see him take these thugs like they were punching bags. The guy who plays the boss in this film is just plain dumb, but even dumber is his aid, but he had some smarts to hire Chuck Norris! The final fight is amazing, and must be seen to be believed! No wonder this gave Norris his boost! "},{"Title":"For Fans of Bruce Lee Only","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In Rome, the Chinese Tang Lung (Bruce Lee) arrives from Hong Kong to help his family in their business. They have a restaurant aimed by an Italian mobster, who uses his gang to threaten clients and employees. Tang Lung is an eminent Chinese Kung Fu fighter and defeats the bad guys. I borrowed this DVD from a friend of mine to see Bruce Lee fighting (I had never seen a Bruce Lee's film before, 'Return of the Dragon' was my debut). I found a horrible storyline and terrible 'acting'. The weird noise that Bruce Lee makes while fighting irritated me. The end of the story a la spaghetti western fits with the rest of the movie. I laughed a lot so bad this flick is, indicated for fans of Bruce Lee only. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) 'O Vôo do Dragão' ('The Flight of the Dragon')  "},{"Title":"ONLY BRUCE LEE","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is the greatest Hong Kong movie I ever seen. And its a good movie because of the Legend Bruce Lee. He was the first Asian who made all in his own movie..Bruce Lee The greatest...  "},{"Title":"Sorry, I don't like this movie","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is my first Bruce Lee movie I've ever seen, I've just finished watching it, 20 years after its production. It's a bad movie, really bad the story is stupid, the dialogues are surreal, the gags are not amusing, the direction and the the narration even worse. I must confess that I am not particularly interested in watching kung-fu movies, because beyond the fight scenes - that can be amusing sometimes - rarely there is a worth watching movie. However I HAD to see this movie because of the Lee legend and I don't regret my choice because I think there is some sociological reason to see it.As citizen of Rome I am not particularly proud of the use of Rome in this movie. In the initial scenes the movie shows some of the well-known Rome monuments while the car of the protagonists pass through the city center. The girl drives her car even through the michelangiolesque square at the Campidoglio, where cars are not allowed to pass...All these scenes are just mediocre post-cards that could be avoided. Better would had been to show these monuments in the narration of the movie, as in the final scene inside the Colosseum. But even in this scene a good director would have done better the entire fight is among brick walls, barely you can recognise they are inside the Colosseum! Would had been enough to build a little stage inside the arena and have the fight where the real gladiators fought and died. The spectacularity of the scene would have gained a lot I think.Apart from this, the movie could have been filmed in China. Most of the scenes are inside the restaurant (that really doesn't seem a chinese restaurant as we have in Rome) and in apartments (with post-modern furnitures, never seen in Rome).The bad boys are all but romans blacks, indians, americans, even a japanese. Maybe the stupid fat man that yells Mamma mia! is italian.This international team seems to act as Rome was its headquarter, police is a ghost (excepting the conclusion). If you are eating at a chinese restaurant and a team of armed bad boys invites you to go out what do you think you'll do? will you just go out looking for another restaurant, without bad boys if possible? If you are a character of a kung-fu movie probably yes.Ok ok, but the audience doesn't care of this, the audience wants kung-fu that's the answer that probably the producers would say. I agree but this movie seems to lack even real kung-fu scenes! I mean, half of the movie doesn't show any fight, and in the rest the fight scenes are slow, short and without special tricks or effects. I appreciate more fight scenes of Jackie Chan or Matrix or even Bud Spencer!!The american fighter is beated in one minute, and so the japanese one. The chinese waiters, without honour I would say, after Bruce Lee slayered the japanese fighter, continued to beat him without mercy even if he could not react. Is that the chinese philosophy of fight? I'm sure not. In this scene I think the movie shows the hate that chinese people feel against japanese people. Probably chinese people have their good reasons during the last world war Japan committed huge massacres in China and never apologised for this. But this scene has not a good message for humankind I think.In conclusion if this wasn't a Bruce Lee movie I would say don't waste your time watching it. However this IS a Lee movie and if Lee is a legend for so many people we are forced to see his movies just to understand why he is a legend.As I said this is my first Lee movie. I probably have to watch the other movies because so far I can't understand why. "}{"Title":"Junk.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sometimes people refuse to admit the simplest things. Dr.No is the first James Bond film, but it's unbearable. Return of the Dragon is a Bruce Lee film, but it's a piece of junk. Lee has great fighting abilities, but he made a tragic mistake when he decided to direct this; his direction is clumsy. The film is badly dubbed (with a very funny scene involving a translation from English to English!!)and astonishingly inept. The character of the (probably) gay thug is especially ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Does Not Deserve Its Classic Status","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't believe the hype. This is a truly appalling film and one of Bruce Lee's worst.The fight scenes (and lets face it, that's all people are interested in when watching a Lee film) are rubbish.  The world famous 2 Nunchuck scene is no big deal.  The end fight with Chuck Norris is totally exaggerated. I cannot believe people claim this duel to be the best martial arts fight in cinema history. Get Real.If you insist on watching a Bruce Lee film, then I would advise 'Fist of Fury' as the best introduction to the Master.What tah!!  Awoooooooooooo "},{"Title":"The best fight of the cinema","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not a good film. The story is really stupid and the actors very bad. Anyway, excluding some boring sequences, it is very interesting. Bruce Lee did his best in this movie. The spectacularity of his movements and his rapidity make the audience astonish. Even if someone can judge the choice of the Colosseum for the last fight as a kitch expression, I think that there is no other suggestive place as the Colosseum for a mortal fight, and that between Bruce and Chuck Norris is the best match ever seen at the cinema. "},{"Title":"So terrible I could cry","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Way of the Dragon is a disgrace to cinema. It is a simple storyline intended only to showcase Bruce Lee, and even in that capacity it fails horribly. There are maybe two fight scenes of any interest (the nunchaku one and the final fight with poor Chuck Norris, who doesn't land a single punch or kick); the remainder of the movie is a great example of everything a movie-maker shouldn't do. The other actors are terrible, the way they stand around is unbearable to watch, the dialog must have escaped from Alan Smithee's private hell, and the Chinese bad guy (is he supposed to be funny?) is intolerably awful.This movie is largely a complete waste which cannot be taken serious at all; it is in all ways that matter *unspeakably* bad. The only reason it deserves any place in history at all is because of Bruce Lee's presence, esp. in the final fight scene. Other than that, one can only groan.2 out of 10. "}]