[{"Title":"Reviewer Revels in 1776","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"42 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  1776 is a masterful representation of the emotion, logic and debate, leading to the critical creation and signing of the Declaration of Independence. It captures, beautifully and subtly, the moment the colonies crossed the line, one by one, to leave England's rule.The writing is superb, and the direction is perfection itself.  The music and lyrics add a bold exclamation point, for they range from funny to serious, simple to complex, in the richness of sound and appropriateness of placement.Leading the charge is the cantankerous character of John Adams (William Daniels).  It is nothing less than a remarkable and brilliant portrayal, probably one of the most difficult, and yet one of the best ever played. Daniels walks a very fine line, depicting the essence of a man who grates on his friends and foes, yet quickly pulls the audience to his side.  You can't help but feel the desperation, frustration and passion of Adams, as he tries to persuade and pull reluctant and loyalist colonial representatives to his cause.Frank Da Silva's Ben Franklin is equal to the challenge of the quality performance given by Daniels.   Franklin is certainly the more popular figure among the characters, but nevertheless has many complexities, expertly brought out by the quality writing and Da Silva's fine skill as an actor of high caliber.It is hard to write a review of such a fine film, without mentioning all the magnificent performances by a remarkably talented cast.  It is far easier, and much more pleasurable, to simply view the film.  Pay attention to the lighting and choreography.  Watch the meeting room transform from a rather plain space, to one of intensity, as the room goes from static and flat, to lively and dramatic.  It follows the mood of the film, as the issue of independence is moved from a side issue, to weave its way to the forefront. The oversized calendar reminds one of the ticking of a clock, as the days move inevitably to July 4th.  And while we know the outcome of the events, it is too easy to be drawn into the process, and become captured by the suspense of those last six weeks leading to the formation of a new nation. The tally board, which records the votes of the colonies, also looms large on the wall.  The movement from left to right, for and against independence, also adds to the suspense and drama of the film.There are lighthearted moments, and witty banter, among the characters, as one would expect.  But there are surprises too.  And the viewer gets to see an amazing transformation of the irritable Adams to a much softer person, when he corresponds with Abigail.  Please add 1776, with confidence, to your list of must-see movies.  I think it is as fresh today as it was 30-years ago.  It is time for a film re-release, or at least a revival on Broadway, but since such things rarely happen, do yourself a favor and rent or buy the movie.   Personally, I think it was the finest of its kind.  Can one rate it higher than a ten?  Would that I could, for it deserves it.  Kudos to the writer, director, and amazing cast.  It was, for many, their very best performances, both behind the scenes and in front of the camera. "},{"Title":"INTELLIGENT,WITTY AND TUNEFUL.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This movie scarcely saw the light of day in Britain and has not been seen on T.V. there for 20 years and this is their loss as this intelligent,witty and tuneful musical is up there with the best of its genre. Okay,so no-one goes round whistling these tunes like they do for the likes of Rodgers and Hammerstein and Lerner and Loewe but the music and lyrics provided for 1776 work like a dream and all are zestfully performed.As for the cast,you imagine that if you were to travel back in time these 200 years and more and asked the likes of Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin to sing to you,this is what they would have sounded like and these are the words they would have sung.William Daniels,short in stature but long in charisma was perfect here as John Adams.A shame that the big screen did not make greater subsequent use of this gifted performer.Full marks to all of those involved. "},{"Title":"Excellent, and remarkably accurate to history!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" As a person who has gained a college degree in History, I first fell in love with this movie when I saw it as the stage play with the Broadway cast in my junior year in high school, in 1976. The movie is surprisingly accurate with direct quotations from key congressional members, such as Adams, Franklin and Jefferson as borne out in David McCullough's John Adams. Yes, there were a few licenses taken with history such as the dramatic scene with Wilson,Dickinson, and Franklin when Wilson is forced to decide the entire question of independence on his vote. But it is these few licenses that bring out the true seriousness of the founding of our nation. One particular scene that I am glad was restored from Jack L. Warner's shameful caving in to Richard Nixon is the piece Cool, Cool, Considerate Men. That piece clearly fleshed out the Conservative's viewpoint in Congress. William Daniels is perfect for the part of John Adams. His Boston twang (even though he was born in New York) is excellent. One cast change that I am glad they made is putting Blythe Danner in the role of Martha Jefferson in the movie version, in place of Betty Buckley. No offense to Ms. Buckley, I love her as an actress in her roles, but her voice comes across too nasal and strident in her singing of Tom's qualities. (I own the stage play LP to make this comparison) The rest of the cast is perfect. Donald Madden was excellent as John Dickinson, even if you can forgive his singing voice in Cool, Considerate Men. I will always think of Howard Da Silva and Ken Howard as Ben Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, respectively. All in all, it is a movie that should be seen by everyone in their High School History or Civics class. "},{"Title":"A great musical...if you understand it","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Musicals are often looked at as foreign movies. Since most younger generations are not familiar with the musical genres of the 1930's and the 1970's, they don't understand the art form and style of communication / entertainment that the musical is. To screen this movie to a group of 7th graders, it will be a challenge to get them to enjoy let alone get it. The entire cast is perfect. Each actor is their character. Although actors William Daniels and Howard Da Silva are known for other roles, here they are Adams and Franklin. 30 years since its premiere in cinemas, many of the actors are long gone. Many have been dead for a good ten years. Still, their performances live on for modern audiences to enjoy. More then that, it remains one of the better musicals made in a movie. Especially for a post 2001 audience, there are moments interesting to watch. The issues of protection, fear and terrorism are made clear, even for 1776. This remains a great film even though its audience is small. "},{"Title":"I see fireworks,pomp and parades","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I promised my mother that I would once again put this wonderful movie on the video player this week end. There is a wonderful comment in the book Lets put on a musical about the fact that half way through the story you wonder if you really do know how it is going to end! William Daniels,is of course spectacular as John Adams,the linchpin of the show. Howard DaSilva and Franklin is just jaded enough(read dirty old man), and Ken Howard is delightful as Jeffrson. One person who was not in the stage production but is a definite asset to the movie is John Cullum as Rutledge.especially in his big solo number,Molasses to Rum.A real treat for eyes and ears ,and a history lesson to boot. "},{"Title":"A Must See For Every American","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Sherman Edwards was a modest teacher of history when he got the idea of creating a musical telling of the tale of the birth of the United States. As it turned out, even though the story of the Declaration of Independence was one most every American schoolchild knew, there was a lot more to it than the signing of a paper and the ringing of a bell.The Broadway version of 1776 became a sensation with audiences and went on to win the Tony Award for Best Musical of 1969.During this era of film-making, the musical was still considered to be a draw for audiences, so it was natural to take this show and bring it to the big screen. And best of all, John Warner brought the bulk of the cast from the show to the film. William Daniels IS John Adams to a lot of people, and his portrayal of the feisty proponent for independence is one of the great performances of any real life character. Daniels is equaled by his fellow Congressional cohorts, Ken Howard as the author of the document, Thomas Jefferson, and the amazing Howard Da Silva as the good doctor, Benjamin Franklin.To me, the most remarkable element is the facts of the story are pretty much accurate, the timing of the events, measured with a wall calendar, keeps the tension going as we count down to that particular date... July 1st, 2nd, 3rd...But it's more than just the story of the founding of the country, it's a love story, or really two, with the Jeffersons Martha, played by Blythe Danner and the Adams pair, with the incredible Virginia Vestoff as John's Abigail who interacts with her husband only in his mind.For a musical, it is something of a warts and all examination of the process, as the south refuses to sign a declaration that freed their slaves, as Jefferson had intended in the original draft. John Cullum brilliantly voices this discussion as the genteel South Carolinian, Edward Rutledge, in the hypnotic and haunting Molasses to Rum. In fact, every song in the score is well thought out, clever, truthful and very entertaining! Maybe this isn't *exactly* how the USA began, but, at least once a year, let's say it is. "},{"Title":"Big laughs, poignant moments, sweetest love songs.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Although at first, it's surprising to see a musical about the writing of the Declaration of Independence, the viewer is soon caught up in the politics and emotions of this important American event.  It should be watched more than once, because it can be appreciated on several different levels.  There are some of the biggest laughs,  some of the most poignant moments, and the sweetest love songs you'll see in movies.  Much of the dialog is taken straight from the documented letters and conversations of the principal characters, and we get to see them as real people with real worries and real feelings, rather than as the marble statues seen in the history books.  This is definitely a must-see movie (and stage play, if you get the chance), and one you won't forget.  "},{"Title":"Witty and Humanizing","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I have seen 1776 both on Broadway and on the screen as well as having acted in it as an amateur. The piece humanizes people we often look upon as flawless icons. Well, they did have flaws. The North's hands were stained with the blood of slavery as well as the South's. Delegates sometimes tended to represent their colony's interests over those of the collective group's. Today we fail to realize that independence from the mother country had never been successfully accomplished. If some had reservations, they had good reason. 1776 brings this out. In the song Molasses to Rum to Slaves, South Carolina delegate Rutledge (John Cullum) reveals the complicity of New England in the triangle trade. In his showstopper Is Anybody There?, John Adams (William Daniels) encapsulates the conflict between delegates while expressing his vision of a nation where all are free. Based on Adams' own writings, this song resonates long after the final scene.The wittiness of this piece also endears it. One scene is particularly noteworthy, for it lampoons the New York Legislature with uncanny accuracy. Space forbids me to elaborate but any New Yorker, or anyone else frustrated with politicians, will enjoy it.Although based on historical facts, 1776 entertains and helps us understand the real people to helped bring forth ..a new nation, conceived in liberty... "},{"Title":"An Imaginative and Brilliantly Original Musical Gem...","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" 1776 is the 1972 film version of the groundbreaking Broadway musical that chronicles the people and events that led to the writing and signing of the Declaration of Independence. The musical centers on soon to be second President, John Adams, who according to this musical was a tireless but obnoxious advocate for the thirteen colonies independence from Great Britain and it was his zeal for this cause that led him to being central to the creation of the Declaration of Independence. William Daniels brilliantly recreates his Tony-winning Broadway role as John Adams, the restless and ever-vocal spokesperson for Independence who would not be silenced. He receives solid support from Howard da Silva, who does a scene stealing turn as Benjamin Franklin, Ken Howard as Thomas Jefferson, John Cullum as Edmund Rutledge, and the lovely Blythe Danner as Martha Jefferson. Virginia Vestoff also recreates her Broadway role as Abigail Adams, John's wife who is presented as communicating with John through letters brought to life. The heart-pumping musical score features highlights such as Sit Down, John, He Plays the Violin, Yours, Yours, Yours, But Mr. Adams, The Egg, The Lees of Old Virginia, and the haunting Molasses to Rum (brilliantly performed by Cullum). One number, Cool Considerate Men was cut during the film's original release but has been restored to some prints. If you're a musical comedy fan with an open mind willing to experience something a little different, give this treasure a try. "},{"Title":"Our Lives, Our Fortunes, And Our Sacred Honor","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Probably even before the musical 1776 finished its run on Broadway of 1217 performances from 1969 to 1972 this film was getting ready for release. The musical won a Tony Award for being the best in that category for Broadway and a pity it wasn't similarly honored by the Academy. All it received was a nomination for cinematography.None of the score, excellent though it is by Sherman Edwards, was calculated to make the hit parade. The songs don't really stand alone, but they are part and parcel of the telling of the tale of the American Declaration of Independence. But what 1776 does is tell just how difficult it was to achieve a consensus for American independence even after we had been fighting the might of the British armies in the northern colonies for over a year.Two of the men at the Second Continental Congress John Adams (William Daniels) and Thomas Jefferson (Ken Howard) became American presidents. Others there are more or less widely known, depending how deeply one has read into American history or paid good attention in class during school. I think most people would have more than a nodding acquaintance with Benjamin Franklin (Howard DaSilva). All three of these players came over from the original Broadway cast as did most of the film's players.All of these people as Franklin said are the cream of their colony's society even if that society was built on human slavery. That the South's peculiar institution as they liked to phrase it came from the mother country is sometimes conveniently forgotten by critics of the USA. But slavery's existence was the biggest stumbling block towards building that consensus as 1776 graphically shows.The founding fathers as we Americans call these guys are shown to be flesh and blood. Franklin who was the wisest one in the bunch deprecated in the film and in real life the demigod status that would attach to them. One founding father however does get a raw deal from 1776. James Wilson was not in the indecisive ninny who only craved obscurity. Emory Bass who also came over from Broadway played him that way because he was written that way. In fact Wilson who should have had the Scottish burr in his speech that was given to Ray Middleton's Thomas McKean, was a man of great distinction and learning. If he didn't shine at the 2nd Continental Congress, he more than made up for it at the Constitutional Convention. A lot of what is in the Constitution is there because of him. He was also one of the original members of the Supreme Court that George Washington appointed. Not at all like the fellow you see in 1776.The ladies aren't ignored, Martha Wayles Jefferson appears in the flesh to give Tom Jefferson some relief from some tension he was having and is played by Blythe Danner. Virginia Vestoff plays Abigail Adams who only appears in William Daniel's imagination. It's fascinating to see Adams yearning for the wife, but still tending to business. When he became our second president, Abigail stayed in Braintree, Massachusetts which was their home and John spent as much time as he could with her and not really staying on top of things in Philadelphia and later in the new capital of Washington, DC. That's another subject for another film.In fact watching these gentlemen reach the consensus for American independence is watching them reach said consensus, but also knowing how they all became some really bitter enemies later on after the nation's freedom was secured. I hope some who read this review and see 1776 will take the time and trouble to see just what happened with the rest of these people.And if the film stirs your curiosity about how America was founded, than 1776 will be well worth watching. "}{"Title":"WONDERFUL American FILM!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" The NYC Broadway Musical was a great experience for me to have seen. However for some reason I did not see the film version until it was shown in Arcola, Illinois on a 4th of July celebration! William Daniels (John Adams)Her Alibi,'89, gave a great performancealong with Howard Da Silva(Dr. Benjamin Franklin),The Great Gatsby,'74 who looked exactly like the many pictures of Ben Franklin. Ken Howard,(Thomas Jefferson),At First Sight,'99, gave all his fellow Planner's of the Declaration of Independence a very hard time, playing a violin and enjoying the pleasures of romance with his wife. It is a wonder the Declaration was ever accomplished! The music and singing was very comical among the politicians. This is a great outstanding American FILM which all Americans can enjoy seeing every 4th of July for many generations! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Although I'm not an American, 1776 still ranks as one of my absolute favourite movies of all time, and I've watched it many times. By turns funny, dramatic and even romantic at times, this is a brilliant presentation of the debates and events leading up to the signing of the Declaration of Independence in 1776, based on a stageplay of the same name. Although there were many things I liked about this movie, what has always struck me most powerfully was the performance of William Daniels as John Adams. He was absolutely superb in the role, offering a far more complex portrayal of the man who would become the United States' second president than we often get from the historical record. Egotistical and arrogant yes - or, as various characters in the movie repeatedly remind us, obnoxious and disliked (and the historical record confirms that Adams felt himself vastly superior to people such as Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson and even George Washington and that he was certainly no democrat, at least by modern standards) - Adams is also presented as a passionate man - passionate about the cause of American independence and passionately in love with his wife Abigail, without whom he is terribly lonely in Philadelphia. Great work from Daniels. The romance of the movie comes largely from Daniels and Virginia Vestoff as Abigail, although the passion of Jefferson (Ken Howard) and his wife Martha (Blythe Danner) is also on display. Most of the laughs in the movie are offered by Howard Da Silva's wonderful portrayal of Benjamin Franklin, and his interactions with Adams, Jefferson at. al. The drama of the debate surrounding the Declaration is kept in historical context with the reading of dispatches from Washington, which describe the apparently hopeless situation of the Continental Army. There is also a very powerful scene headed up by John Cullum as Edward Rutledge of South Carolina demanding the removal of anti-slavery language from the Declaration and pointing out the North's complicity in the triangle trade. There's few weaknesses to be found here. Perhaps Ken Howard's singing wasn't quite up to par with that of the rest of the cast, but really that's a minor point in a wonderful movie. I have to give this a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"First rate musical despite the music - Great history lesson too","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Despite a few historical errors (one of which I will mention), 1776 is one of the best historical presentations on screen of the events leading to the creation of an important historical moment the decision of the Continental Congress to go for American Independence by signing the Declaration of Independence. The film is based on the Broadway musical in which William Daniels and Howard Da Silva had starred.The musical (Broadway show and movie) both concentrated on John Adams, the Massachusetts lawyer and delegate to the Congress (who eventually became an important diplomat, our first Vice President, and our Second President). Adams was a brilliant man, but blunt and insulting to get his points across. Like his cousin Sam (who is not a character in the musical, unfortunately, but was one of the most skillful rebel instigators of all times) John happened to be a realist. He had defended the British soldiers in the Boston Massacre, but he was a patriot who had seen what was going on in Massachusetts since 1765, and he was unimpressed by ideas of the restoration of colonial relations between the 13 colonies and England. Adams worked to get an edge in against the moderates (led by John Dickinson of Pennsylvania) who were mostly large property owners and felt the Empire was too great an institution to be thrown away cavalierly. Dickinson had little use for Adams or Massachusetts (he felt that was the only trouble-making colony and that Adams was impossibly rude - certainly not a gentleman).But Adams found allies - Dickenson's rival in Pennsylvania Ben Franklin, Virginia's Richard Henry Lee and Thomas Jefferson, and Delaware's Caesar Rodney. But even with these allies, could he build the consensus that he needed to get independence? Through the musical numbers the main problems Adams faces are brought to the attention of the audience. He is lonely - he misses Abigail (his wife, Virginia Vestoff) and they have several duets based on their letters (she wants him to come home too). Jefferson can't work without seeing his wife Martha, and Adams sends for her (much to Abigail's annoyance - why not her?). The South does not like any suggestion that slavery has been forced on them by English trade methods, and that the institution is wrong. The final outcome of all the negotiation and compromise (some of which infuriates Adams) comes down to a single man who disappoints Dickinson.Adams is played by William Daniels, who had the best role in his career and was lucky enough to duplicate it on film. A man of dry and slight appearance (perhaps perennially looking unhappy) Daniels fits the role of the dour, pessimistic, but witty Adams. Howard Da Silva is perfect as Franklin - charming and clever, and devilish in the conclusion in explaining why Adams must give in on the slavery question.Ken Howard is appealing as the idealistic, young Jefferson - who shows a sly liking for Adams that will build to a famous friendship (only disrupted by party politics for ten years on the 1790s). He and Blythe Danner are cute as the young couple (they were just married in 1773). Danner has one of the best tunes in the show - He plays the violin - which deals with her affection for Tom (listen to the melody carefully, the last verse has a degree of foreboding about her early death in 1782). Howard, Da Silva, and Daniels have a funny song, The Egg, about the birth of the United States, especially regarding the national bird (Franklin keeps pushing the turkey because it is a feisty bird and delicious). And note the song by the young soldier, Mother, Look Sharp which is ultimately tragic and chilling about death on the battlefield.As Dickinson, Donald Madden is a fine foe to Adams - and ultimately an honorable patriot (despite his desire for keeping the British Empire together, he will join the army to protect his country). And John Cullum has the best song (my opinion) in the show - Molassas to Rum to Slaves where he describes the hypocrisy of the North about slavery by showing the triangle trade that enriched New England.My only problem deals with one character - Judge James Wilson. He is the final key to Adams winning on independence, and is shown as an insecure figure who seeks anonymity. Wilson was no mediocrity, but a skillful legal mind who would play important roles in the creation of the U.S. Constitution and in the formative years of the U.S. Supreme Court (of which he was an Associate Justice). But aside from that the film is wonderful, and good entertainment for Independence Day.Postscript 07/05/2008 - Turner Classics showed the film last night as part of the Fourth of July Celebration. Apparently there is additional dialog that is useful in the film, and a nice additional song, Cool Conservative Men sung by Dickenson and Rutledge. If you want to get this film make sure to get the complete version of it. "},{"Title":"Closest thing to the original production","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I saw the original Broadway cast production and it was wonderful! The opening scene alone is worth seeing live on stage. After Adams' monologue, which he delivers on the stage apron in front of a closed curtain (the movie inserted the dialog between McNair & Adams in the bell tower), the house curtain literally flies up on the orchestra's downbeat. Wow!! I never saw a stage curtain open so fast.Of the two video releases, the director's cut is by far the best. I'm glad they were able to reconstruct Cool, Cool, Considerate Men as it is a crucial piece within the musical. Several other original large cuts, also crucial in the story line, have been restored.I never did understand, nor have I found any explanation, as to why they cut the remaining verses out of Piddle Twiddle. I can only surmise that this cut was made before shooting.My only complaint is in the orchestra track. In Mollases to Rum to Slaves the orchestration, or it's post-production, misses out on the deep bass drums. The climax was anything but climatic. It's a huge, powerful number (listen to the original Broadway recording).The other place is in the finale. At the end, the orchestra is so loud, Secretary Charles Thomas is literally yelling the final role call. The movie does use the original closing, showing the signers' names; done with a scrim in the stage version.Fantastic movie and well worth adding to your collection. "},{"Title":"Stirring story of Independence","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" William Daniels (the voice of the talking car on Night Rider) stars as John Adams in this rousing musical recreation of the weeks leading up to the signing of the Declaration of Independence. Adams is considered obnoxious and unlikable by all the other delegates of the Continental Congress, so his plea for independence falls on deaf ears. He finally wins most of the southern states to his side but the issue of slavery may end his hopes for a free America.This movie is educational, inspiring, poignant at times, and very often quite funny. Adams is a pig-headed idealist who only lets his guard down in his love letters to his beloved wife; their song duets are sweet and touching. Ben Franklin (Henry Da Silva) is a wise and funny old scoundrel. Rutledge from South Carolina (John Cullum who played Holling in Northern Exposure) is the villain of the piece and sings the show's most dramatic song, Molasses to Rum to Slaves. The delegates were quite human and had to make many compromises before they 'pledged their sacred honor' and signed the Declaration. Their bargaining makes for a long but very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I don't usually like musicals but I absolutely loved this. The songs were entertaining, the dialogue very witty and the acting was of an extremely high calibre - a cut above most films in my opinion. I'm a big history buff and I studied early US history in college last year so I found the storyline, particularly the debates over the Declaration of Independence, fascinating.William Daniels as John Adams stole the show. He was the best actor in a very strong cast and I was captivated from the very first scene. He has such a cool voice. (But no matter what he's done in his career, he's always be Mr. Feeny to me!) I've always admired the real John Adams to boot so he made an engaging protagonist. Howard de Silva as Benjamin Franklin was another definite highlight acting wise. "},{"Title":"An underrated movie musical that is just a joy to watch!!","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Earlier this year, I found out that my Theatre professors chose 1776 as one of the two summer shows they perform....over the summer (go figure!!). The title says it all It must involve our nation gaining independence or the war itself. I knew it existed but I had never seen it and knew little about it.So, I decided to go rent it at the local library and while I enjoyed it at times; it just seemed to long and it lost me in the middle. Nonetheless, I auditioned and got in the show so I decided to watch the movie again and give it another shot....and now I enjoy it very much. Sure, it is kind of hokey and the music/lyrics at time are questionable but I really find it fun to watch and feel it is one of my favorite musicals.The cast is excellent and the songs are still a lot of fun.A great and even important musical!! "},{"Title":"Why Is This Great Film Hardly Appreciated?","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" 1776 is one of the great film musicals. That it's hardly appreciated today both makes perfect sense and no sense at all.The audience for musicals is limited to begin with, let alone for ones about history, and even then it's not a war movie but a political one. The majority of the cast are all male, stuffy, middle-aged politicians, and most of the story takes place in a single room where the politics of independence is debated.And yet, it's an incredible movie that makes one think about how countries are formed. It's not so much a patriotic work as a thought-provoking work. Much like 12 Angry Men, suspense is created around the casting of a vote, and we watch through the film as the various parties change their minds.The cast is all great Blythe Danner is fun in her brief role as Martha Jefferson. Howard Da Silva and Ken Howard are memorable as Ben Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, respectively. But the star of the film is William Daniels as John Adams, who is obnoxious and disliked yet manages to make us care for him and his fight to get the US to declare independence. Daniels of course is best known as Mr. Feeny on Boy Meets World (where he was the principal of John Adams High, a reference to this movie). He's had a number of great roles over the years (The Graduate, St. Elsewhere), but any fan of his should see 1776.The songs are silly but fun. It's really the witty, clever script that makes this film a masterpiece. And hats off to its incredible final sequence. "},{"Title":"A great film which every American should see!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I love this film! I play it every Fourth of July to help me remember the true meaning of that important holiday to our nation.The fifteen-minute segment when the Founding Fathers are discussing WHY we need to write a declaration of independence is very dramatic and very moving. The debate between Adams and Dickinson is particular helpful in pinpointing the reasons that the colonists felt we needed to break away from England.I appreciate the extensive research done on this film and the true-to-life feel of the costumes, props, and scenery. It makes me feel like I am actually there with the real larger-than-life personages from our nation's history. I especially love Benjamin Franklin! Every American who values the freedoms we enjoy in this country should see this wonderful and delightful film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie (and a Great History Lesson, Too!)","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Let me begin by admitting that I am not a big fan of Broadway musicals. But 1776 is anything but a typical Broadway musical. I am a professional historian and a fan of entertaining movies, and I would give this movie high scores on both counts. Few of us today realize how close we came to NOT declaring independence from Britain in 1776 or understand the obstacles that the Founding Fathers had to overcome to create an independent nation. Nor do most of us appreciate the role that John Adams played in almost single-handedly turning around the Continental Congress to win support for his independence resolution. I recently saw a revival of the Broadway musical, and I was impressed by how closely the movie version adhered to its original source. Unlike some reviewers, I do not regard the songs as intrusive but consider them to be an integral part of the whole concept. The language is a bit racy at times, but nothing like the profanity that abounds in today's movies. My nine-year-old son enjoyed this movie every bit as much as I did, and I would recommend it to viewers of all ages. "}{"Title":"Good God what a wonderful film!","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I can't believe that I have not seen this film until tonite! I am glad that I had no other plans on this July 4th and watched this on AMC. I love that so much of the script is based on actual writings, etc. How wonderful to see the personalities and events that led to the signing of the Declaration of Independence. I sure don't remember those types of details being taught when I was in grade school (over 35 years ago). I think that kids would appreciate July 4th so much more if they were aware of how intense and personal the struggles were to reach this day. I agree with others who say that this film should be shown in all schools - although, unfortunately, without special effects and computer graphics, it may not be of interest to kids of today. Nevertheless, this film made me better appreciate what July 4th means and it's not about BBQ parties and fireworks - it's about independence and our forefathers who laid the groundwork for the great country that we live in today. I hope to make viewing this film an annual event on July 4th. "},{"Title":"Most Excellent","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" This is truly one of the great last musicals. I have seen this many times beginning with its original release that my history class saw on a field trip to tonight, November 6, 2006, when it was on TV.I never tire of it. The costuming, the photography, the music, the vocals, I enjoy all of it. Some of the greatest unrecognized actors of our time. John Cullum, William Daniels, Ken Howard, & Blythe Danner are just a few. The subject matter is just as relevant today as it was during the time it reflects in the movie.I know that some will find it dated & hokey, but if they view it with an open mind, they might find it the same as I do. "},{"Title":"Great movie for the family to learn from and enjoy","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. It is easy to sit here, 230 years after the Declaration of Independence, and see it as a foregone conclusion. This film illustrates the many facets that the fledgling United States had to overcome to become one nation. Sectionalism, loyalty to the British, and fear of military defeat were all obstacles in the path to Independence. Not to mention the fact that the Congress would be hanged for treason if they signed it. All of this is brought to the fore in this movie, and presented in both a serious and light hearted manner. William Daniels is outstanding, and his letters to his wife are touching and extremely well done. Ben Franklin is a hoot, and the songs throughout are wonderful. Also, the scene with the South walking out foretells of our War Between the States. All in all, this is a WONDERFUL movie for the whole family to enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the top three movie musicals of all time","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Singin in the Rain is another, and I'll leave the debate about the third to others.The book AND MUSIC are stupendous and emotional here. Lovely lines and fun songs (Sit Down John, You Should Write It, Eagle Being Born, and the unbelievably powerful Molasses to Rum are some of my favorites. Oh, and Mama Look Sharp...) and wonderful performances. Plus it stirs a great sense of national pride when Franklin, Adams and Jefferson express in debate exactly why we wanted independence, and why we deserved it.The long version is better, but if you've never seen it before, perhaps the original would be a good test as to whether this movie is your cup of tea. If you love it, then you owe it to yourself to get the director's cut (it explains several puzzling plot issues). "},{"Title":"Dialogue and audience","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Well, most comments here have already mentioned the great things about this movie (its music, acting, accuracy), so I just want to put in a word for something I *haven't* seen mentioned yet the dialogue of the film. Nearly all the dialogue is directly taken from letters/speeches by the actual Founding Fathers, and whatever isn't direct quotes (such as the songs) is paraphrased.  This is especially true for John Adams' dream sequences with his wife Abigail (one of the greatest love stories in history)  The writers wanted to present Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, and the others as truthfully as possible -- and they succeeded!A side comment the film isn't just made for Americans.  I recommended it to some of my friends in India, and they loved it.  You don't even need to know anything about American history or the Declaration of Independence to get the movie -- it stands on its own!Another amazing thing about this movie is its drama.  You know from the beginning what's going to happen, but you're still caught up in the drama of the film. "},{"Title":"A Real Delight For All.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" PERSONAL NOTE I first saw 1776 at the John Foster Dulles High School auditorium, in July of 1976, in Sugar Land Texas. At the then tender age of 15, I'd rather have been outside, goofing off, as opposed to seeing some educational movie. Fast forward to the late 1980's, and I happen to catch it on WTBS, one day. Then, I became hooked.On to the reviewWhat a pleasure it is to watch this movie in it's wide screen beauty on DVD. Now that I've had the pleasure, I am donating my pan-and-scan VHS copy to charity. The picture is glorious,the restored sound track powerful, and so much is missed on the VHS version of this film.Seeing 1776 with the restored scenes is also a treat. I was amused at some of the small scenes, such as FIRE WAGON!!, and some of the lost interplay between actors. The main draw was to see the restored number Cool, Considerate Men. On first viewing, I wasn't too impressed. However, it has grown on me. I can understand the concern Richard Nixon expressed to Jack Warner about it. I'm just happy that someone had the desire to restore this delightful movie. "},{"Title":"My route to patriotism","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I was in college during the worst time of protest against the Vietnam Era. Because of this, I have an ingrown distrust of the government and, often, I feel ashamed of what this country has become.When these feelings get bad, I pull out my copy of 1776. While a fairly inaccurate version of the writing and signing of the Declaration of Independence, for me, it nonetheless captures that essence of those days leading up to the birth of the United States.Making John Adams, obnoxious and disliked as he was, as the centerpiece of the play, allows one to get to known a hero of the Revolution all too often overlooked because of his short and undistinguished term as President. Yet, here we see him as one the brilliant linchpins he was. Jefferson, it is true, wrote much of the Declaration, but Adams pushed and prodded the Continental Congress into signing it.We are also introduced to the astounding relationship between Adams and his wife, Abigail. Yes, this is real. If you want to know more about it, seek out their letters, which are published on the Web.We also see that the issue of slavery and its repercussions have been with us since the beginning of the country. What would it have been like if slavery had been banned in 1776 -- if the country began with all people _truly_ equal? The song Tobacco to Rum glosses over the complex issue, but John Cullom's rendition is thrilling.In all, however, 1776 shows us exactly what it meant when these ordinary men became extraordinary by committing their lives, theirfortunes and their sacred honor. And, by doing so, it encourages us to do the same. "},{"Title":"1776 was a terrific musical","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" The film version of 1776 was and is my favorite musical of all time. The DVD version has some scenes not usually included on the VHS tape and there are enough of them to warrant buying the DVD even if you already have the VHS. I had the good fortune of seeing the stage play with William Daniels before the film was made and he was outstanding in both versions. Even so, Howard Da Silva as Ben Franklin was the hit of the production.A whole generation has grown up since the film was released and many of them have not seen it. I hope a new version of the musical is eventually made. "},{"Title":"I've read the play, heard the original Broadway recording and seen the movie and loved them all!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This is one film I can never see too often!  I love the film, particularly Howard De Silva as Ben Franklin (another actor-Ray Everhart, I believe, was in the cast on stage, but was replaced) and he very nearly steals the film from William Daniels.  My one quibble with casting is Martha .  Blythe Danner is quite good, but Betty Buckley should have made the transition from stage to screen.  I suppose the fact that she was married to Ken Howard made it to great a temptation for the powers to be to resist casting them as Tom and Martha Jefferson.  I first read the book and lyrics for this in 1973 in my 7th grade Speech class and got hooked then.  I saw the film a few years later and heard the Broadway cast recording in college 20+ years ago.  I have got to upgrade to CD and DVD some day!  A joy to watch.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Finally, a good musical!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  *** 1/2 Starring  William Daniels, Howard DeSilva, Ken Howard, and Blythe Danner.There haven't been many good musicals at all (with the exception of Grease) so I decided to take the chance and rent 1776.  I've heard a good rap from many critics so why not?  After seeing this movie, really why not?  The movie was excellent.  It's a historical musical (what are the odds?) about all the signers of the Declaration of Independence.  William Daniels portrays the second U.S. president, John Adams.  DeSilva portrays Benjamin Franklin.  Howard portrays our 3rd president, Thomas Jefferson.  Danner, who looks exactly like her daughter Gwyneth Paltrow, portrays Jefferson's wife Martha Wilkes Jefferson.  This movie is a must see, and finally a good musical since Grease. "}{"Title":"More Is Less from Stage to Screen","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" In 1776 Philadelphia, thirteen colonies from the future United States of America consider declaring independence from Great Britain. Leading the charge in Congress are founding fathers William Daniels (as John Adams) and Howard Da Silva (as Benjamin Franklin). Deciding a Declaration of Independence is needed, they employ reluctant Ken Howard (as Thomas Jefferson) to pen the document. He has writers' cramp due to sexual inactivity, until beautiful blonde wife Blythe Danner (as Martha Wayles Jefferson) visits. Southern royalist Donald Madden (as John Dickinson) leads the opposition...1776 was a big hit on Broadway, running from 1969-1972. No doubt this was helped by thousands and thousands of classrooms making the play a field trip. Not only did it beat a day in the classroom, kids could also relate to a cast of long-haired revolutionaries who were blatantly depicted enjoying sex, drugs, and contemporary music; and, teachers could use the story as a tool. Most of the original's appeal is lacking in this motion picture adaptation, brought to the screen by veteran producer Jack L. Warner. Reportedly, he relented to then President Richard M. Nixon's editing suggestions...The film is too long. President Nixon's trimming did not help...The real problem was trying to enhance the stage version by over-producing. This is most obvious in the segments involving Mr. Daniels and first lady of the film Virginia Vestoff (as Abigail Smith Adams). However, Ms. Vestoff's Tony-nominated performance manages to shine through the fuzzy lens and sprawling field. Vestoff is one of four from the supernatural serial Dark Shadows in the cast; the others are fly-swatting David Ford (as John Hancock), shy Emory Bass (as Wilson) and Daniel Keyes (as Bartlett). The film's greatest strength is that it does preserve many of the stage performances.****** 1776 (11/9/72) Peter H. Hunt ~ William Daniels, Howard Da Silva, Ken Howard, Virginia Vestoff "},{"Title":"Happy 230th birthday to U.S.","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I first saw 1776 at Radio City Music Hall as part of the annual Christmas Show. Back in the 70's, theatrical movies were often utilized to lure holiday patrons into the cavernous hall. It was an impressive experience for any child. A few years later, my class went to see a re-release of the film. My best friend John C. felt there was too much singing. Sit down, John. Sit down, John. For...well, you get the point.Peter Stone, who had a way with words like no other writer of the time, scores big with his interpretation of the birth of our country. Sure, he may have embellished some historical facts, but you have to remember his ultimate objective at the time was to create a piece of entertainment. Not a historical documentary. And I think he succeeds with a flourish. His secondary characters are not just scenery, they are carefully drawn men who stand out against the more dominate leads. William Daniels as John Adams is a revelation. And the fellow who plays Franklin must have been his spirit reborn. I don't think there was ever a better cast film than this one. The final signing of the Declaration of Independence is beautifully rendered and will transform the toughest cynic into a believer. G. Washington. "},{"Title":"Silly But Wonderful","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Congress singing and dancing in unison? Absurd, ridiculous! Buy my god, if they haven't captured the spark of what it must have been like on that sweltering summer in Philadelphia. In between the genuinely unique and enjoyable songs, is some magnificent dialogue, much of it humorous, but make no mistake; the players are wonderful, embodying their characters with such veracity that you can actually believe they are who they play. There are serious divisions in the Continental Congress and we see the days from June 6 to July 4, 1776 pass with tension fitting the gravity of the event. History is accurately worked into the film with actual quotes and letters from the founding fathers. I watch this film every July and its restoration on DVD is beautifully done along with inclusion of the, Cool, Cool, Considerate Men, scene, not shown in theaters.For all its silliness and catchy tunes, 1776 is great fun and a useful history lesson in the process. William Daniels as John Adams, Howard da Silva as Benjamin Franklin, Ken Howard (yes, the White Shadow) as Thomas Jefferson, Donald Madden as John Dickinson, William Hansen as Caesar Rodney, John Cullum as Edward Rutledge, and David Ford as John Hancock clearly channel the spirits of the men they play. Without their performances this could never, ever, have worked. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Play as a Movie","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Yes 1776 the movie has some interesting aspects as a movie filmed in the '70s. In any case this play/movie will always be a a favorite to my heart. One, I grew up in the Philadelphia area and visited Independence Hall many times. My wife saw 1776 on Braodway and I performed in 2 community theater productions as Samuel Chase. I will never forget signing the Declaration on 7/4/90 while my local town's fireworks could be heard in the background. In any case, I view a video copy of the movie every year on Independence Day. I love every movement of it, despite any flaws. Some of the actors are my favorites. But Williams Daniels takes the cake, Sit down John. "},{"Title":"A musical (American opera) that recounts for us how the USA came to be.","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I saw 1776 , the movie , when it was first released, and on the stage as well, but i had not seen it for many years now. I had forgotten how really special it is, until watching it again, tonight July 3rd. The history it recounts is accurate (what a change from all the tedious docudramas we see on TV). The writers actually used the real written words of John and Abigail Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and all the now historic figures. The Quotes on this database are a fabulous resource. If i make the musical sound too scholarly--think again. It is highly entertaining, at times humorous, funny, touching, and even makes you proud to be American. The actors are all outstanding, especially William Daniels who plays Adams. I am surprised 1776 isn't shown every 4th of July. "},{"Title":"A terrific Musical worthy of a place on the DVD shelf.","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" One of my favorites of all, Escpecially during the summer months. It never gets obsolete and is a great reminder of the beginnings of our great country.I love the dialog between Adams, Dickenson and the rest. The comic relief (mostly Franklin) is as good as comic timing gets!I would recommend this movie to any history buff, although, after reading biographies of Adams, Washington and Jefferson, I wonder if too much poetic license was taken with the conflict between Dickenson and the other members of Congress. The final scene depicting the signing of the Declaration of Independence is as powerful as they come, and the love songs between John and Abigail are so poignant! "},{"Title":"The Voice of Liberty","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I first saw 1776 in middle School. I'm now 37 and have made it an annual tradition to watch this movie every Independence Day.The actors portrayed America's founding fathers with humanity and honesty - not stuffy and mythologically. We see the real fear and real hopes of real men. We see the grief and hardship of the wives who must bear the burden of loneliness and chastity during the long terms that their husbands are off in Philadelphia to represent their colonies to the Continental Congress. The lyrics of the love songs sung between John Adams and his blessed wife, Abigail, are not fictional tripe, but are real words gleaned from actual letters sent between the two.What tips the scale in favor of this movie is the carefully placed humor, without which this movie would surely have failed as being too boring for modern viewers. But the humor is not tasteless or pointless jokes. Ben Franklin, the biggest jokemeister of them all, uses his humor to slam dunk logical and rational points which make the audience really think about what liberty is.The music in this movie is delightful - and even bearable for today's non-musical theater crowd. The songs tell stories, and the songs themselves make the viewer feel that it is a release of tension for the characters.While the story itself contains several minor historical errors (for example, Judge Wilson of Pennsylvania was not the person to cast the tie-breaking vote for independence), the literary license taken by 1776's authors is totally forgivable because they brought the past to life for us and made real that which was truly important. Anyone who sees this film will have a new found respect for the men who established this nation - from Congress to General Washington to the poor soldiers on the battlefield to their extended families and to the people of the Colonies themselves, without whose determination there would be no Sovereign American United States.Now, if only the President of the United States would watch this film... "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I love this musical! I loved the stage version and I enjoy the movie version almost as much. The music is wonderful and the history is fairly accurate, though they do take license with it to enhance the story and to make certain points. The casting of this movie couldn't be any better. William Daniels, Ken Howard and Howard Da Silva bring their historic characters to life in the more serious moments, and add their own wit and charm to make them unforgettable. John Cullum is brilliant as Edward Rutledge. His performance of Molassas to Rum is so powerful and deeply moving. This is one of the few movies I own and I watch it every year on the 4th of July. It reminds me of how unique our country is and the difficulty with which our freedom was won. It has also inspired me to read John Adams' and Benjamin Franklin's biographies and awakened a love of history in me that I wish I'd had in high school. "},{"Title":"Should be required viewing.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Back when I was in high school, an off-air recording of the network television version of 1776 was part of my American History class. As well it should have been, since underlying the musical comedy is an awful lot of very careful research.But the restored version, complete with the Cool, Considerate Men production number that Jack Warner had cut (at Nixon's request) from the original release, that was released on DVD for the 30th anniversary, is even better, and it ought to be required viewing not only for high school U.S. History students, but for voters, and for a joint session of the United States Congress. For this musical, in addition to being very entertaining, manages to lay bare the motivations of those who opposed Independence back in 1776, motivations that are not at all difficult to find today.I also note that William Daniels' portrayal of John Adams on both stage and screen was so good that, without actually typecasting him in the role, it appears to have earned him the same role in a miniseries. (He also played John Quincy Adams in two other productions, and Samuel Adams in yet another). And Ken Howard also returned to the role of Thomas Jefferson in another production.Incidentally, Daniels and Howard, along with Howard DaSilva, Roy Poole, David Ford, Emory Bass, Ralston Hill, William Duell, and Jonathan Moore, all came over from the original Broadway cast. (Notably, Star Trek's Brent Spiner played John Adams in a Broadway revival production that, to my knowledge, didn't include any of the original Broadway or film cast.) "},{"Title":"Still engossing after all these years and historically, close enough","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was nine years old as part of a class trip. I was enthralled then, and still, all these years later when I recently saw it again on the newly released DVD.  A musical about the adoption of the Declaration of Independence by the Continental Congress. How exciting could that possibly be for a nine year old?  The answer is--very exciting!  The story centers around John Adams's multiple struggles to 1) convince his peers that independence from Britain was inevitable and that it was the Congress's duty to adopt passage of the resolution; 2) motivate Thomas Jefferson to compose the Declaration; and 3) battle his own insecurities and stave off his loneliness by conversing in his imagination with his loving Abigail.  The movie anticipates David McCulloughs's engrossing biography of John Adams by nearly thirty years.  In fact whole passages in the book seem almost to be taken directly from the movie rather than the life of John Adams.  The fact the filmmakers were able to accomplish so much in a musical, and bring to life the very real tensions of the times when nothing was certain, least of all victory over an overwhelming force to achieve the reality of American Independence, is a testimony to the genuine respect the filmmakers must have felt toward this compelling drama in human history. There is very little not to like. The casting is great. William Daniels as John Adams is simply brilliant, playing off Howard Da Silva's portrayal of the irrascible Benjamin Franklin  without missing a beat. Blythe Danner as Jefferson's wife, although a small role, presents a certain  poetic symmetry to her daughter Gwyneth Paltrow's portrayal of Jefferson's daughter in the 1995 film, Jefferson in Paris. I think the songs have the perfect pitch of whimsy when the story requires nothing more as when Richard Henry Lee of Virginia describes how he can be certain of bringing a resolution on independence before congress. But then you are taken to the depths of inhumanity in the chilling Molasses to Rum when the line between North and South are clearly demarcated in the debate over slavery later in the film. Although Ken Howard as Thomas Jefferson may seem rather stiff and silent, the Sage of Monticello in reality was in fact a quiet and reserved man whose power to move was in his pen, not his oratory.  Therefore the contrast between the argumentative Adams and the taciturn Jefferson as portrayed in the movie does in fact hit the correct historical note.  Knowing as we do that the personal fates of these two men was to seemingly will their deaths so they each expired within hours of each other exactly on the fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration's signing has linked them together as much in death as in life.  Here we get to see their collaboration at the moment of birth of a new nation and we feel their fears, their insecurities, and their triumphant vision for the future.  See it if you haven't seen it before. But if you have seen it,  see it now with your children. "}{"Title":"I love this play and movie","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Folks, If you have never seen this play or film before, you must. If you are not a musical fan, I understand. I wasn't until I saw this one. If you are a history buff like I am, then you will love this. With its telescoping and other modes of compression (John Adams himself is a composite of that man as well as his cousin Sam Adams - thus the fire in his oratory - and Eldridge Gerry the governor of Massachusetts) it still manages to be astonishingly accurate, and I am so proud to have been associated with this production. (I was in a local production with a marvelous cast playing the part of Stephen Hopkins and would gladly play again and again.) William Daniels is one of my favorite character actors ever since I saw him in the movie The President's Analyst and he is the quintessential John Adams for me. He also voiced Adams words along with his cousin Sam's and that of his son President John Quincy Adams in other PBS productions) And the perfect Ben Franklin in Howard DaSilva. Interesting enough, and somewhat astonishing was that Da Silva was almost dropped from the show because of fears of his blacklisting during the dark days of the communist witchhunts. Thus, the role of Ben Franklin was assayed in the cast recording by Ray Everhardt.)Blythe Danner, mommy of the ever popular Gwyneth Paltrow and widow of Bruce Paltrow, director and producer, is a splendid Martha Jefferson replacing Betty Buckley from the original production. Though I must admit I prefer Buckely's singing in its amazing strength and purity.So many of the original Broadway cast did this film and no other film starting with Virginia Vestoff who died tragically before she could do more wonderful work. The actor who plays John Dickinson is also a standout and it is a shame he never again did a film. And I would be woefully remiss if I did not mention the work of William Duell as McNair. He is a joy along with Roy Poole's Stephen Hopkins whose performance inevitably affected my own in positive ways. The two are a comedy team in essence with their own dramatic moments as well. Notice how at times the director Peter Hunt manages to frame Duell in a way within the fireplace as to look like the Copley painting of Paul Revere. I am amazed that on the audio commentary track of the DVD this was never addressed or even mentioned. It makes me wonder if it was deliberate or a wonderful accident.Finally, Ray Middleton who portrays Colonel Thomas McKean in both the Broadway show and the film was not only the originator of this role but the very first actor to portray the Man Of Steel, Superman though never on film. Another great loss was his paucity of film performances.The shame of it is the cutting of Cool Cool Considerate Men due to the meddling of Richard Nixon. Nixon had been friends with Jack Warner and asked for the number to be cut by the author after seeing the Washington performance of the play. The author refused. However, when the film saw the light of day, Nixon got his wish. Fortunately, Warner no longer owned a studio by this time so was unable to destroy the footage and the number was found in the salt mines in Utah and was put back in its rightful place on the DVD copy. It is also ionic since Nixon was instrumental too in the political paranoia that was the Cold War and blacklisting of that day.The song that sold it all for me was the riveting and emotionally controversial Molasses To Rum, a pro-slavery soliloquy in song delivered magnificently by John Cullum in the role of Edward Rutledge. (Catch how he even mocks the Boston accent in the spoken part of the number. A brilliant acting choice.)One more point. I so love the re-insertion of that marvelous artistic depiction of Philadelphia in that oh so historic time. I may even recreate it for my own as I am an artist as well.This was also the show that saved Broadway in the late 1960s. Show such as Hair and Godspell challenged the status quo of conservative fare. The writers of 1776 showed the founding fathers as not much different in the voices of that turbulent time. It is best witnessed in the emotional number (which name escapes me at the moment) sung by the courier just after the Cool, Cool Considerate Men number.I am so glad to own the restored DVD with widescreen as you should also. Two other major crimes against this astonishing entertainment was to show it in pan-and-scan format now known as fullscreen. A work of art, and fun to boot and should be viewed every Independence Day to remind us of how important the whole history is to our country today. It becomes all the more poignant in view of recent history. "},{"Title":"Inspiring...But those Songs...","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  1776 is a wonderfully accurate musical rendering of the six or seven weeks leading up to the drafting and signing of the Declaration of Independence.  An inspired cast (many from the original Broadway cast) led by William Daniels, Howard DeSilva, Ken Howard, Blythe Danner Virginia Westoff, David Ford and Donald Madden bring poignancy as well as humor to this inspiring film.  DeSilva in particular is perfect as Benjamin Franklin. The `dialogues between John Adams and Abagail are based on their letters during their long period of separation.  The messages from General Washington are actual quotations.  Even though we know the outcome of the vote, the unbelievable odds (only two or three colonies favor independence in the beginning), and the terrible risks being taken by the participants) generate a great deal of suspense.  If possible, see the Director's cut, which contains the best song (`Cool Men'), and multitrack stereo, plus is a good half-hour longer than the version shown in theatres in 1972.  Certainly the movie isn't perfect (some of  the musical numbers make me wince; and there is NOT ONE genuinely memorable song).  Still, this is pretty entertaining, painless way to discover the history of the founding of the United States of America. "},{"Title":"Founding fathers","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Hard to believe but it's been 46 years since the musical 1776 opened on Broadway. While 1969 proved a tumultuous years for politics, the reverence that the material this musical dealt with was well founded and spoke not only to those who supported the government but who questioned it as well. It was only natural that the hit make its way to the silver screen and in 1972 it did just that. And while it's been available on DVD before, it just now makes its way to blu-ray with a special edition director's cut.If you're not familiar with the musical or the movie then by all means become acquainted. It tells the story of the Continental Congress and how they came to decide the fate of this nation, the United States of American. As seen through the eyes of John Adams (William Daniels) the movie opens with most of the congress tired of hearing his call to arms wanting to declare independence from England. Some are content with the way things are, other side with him and several are indecisive as of yet.Adams here is portrayed as a man with a short temper and a very vocal demeanor. Siding with him all the way is the ever well-spoken Benjamin Franklin (Howard Da Silva). They both have the same goal in mind but go about it differently, all the time working united to get this congress where they believe it and the country should go. Periodically word arrives from Gen. George Washington concerning the country's battles against the better organized British army as they make their way inland doing what they please. The battle of Concorde is long past but the memories of it weigh heavy in the mind and words of Adams. Eventually Adams gets his way enough that the Congress must at least discuss the idea of independence from Britain. But that nearly gets derailed as John Dickinson, one of the representatives from Pennsylvania, presses the issue that this must be a unanimous vote or it fails. To sidestep immediate failure, Adams proposes that a document be made first that offers what it is they are seeking. A committee is formed and the man given responsibility for bringing these ideas together is Thomas Jefferson (Ken Howard). Once the document is written more maneuvering is called for to get the needed votes to pass it. Not an easy task as the southern states aren't in favor of language that considers slaves to be people and not property. Adjustments are made, clauses stricken and the language finessed until that document, the Declaration of Independence reaches its final form and is voted on. A familiar story, right?It is indeed but as presented here in musical form it brings the men who formed that Continental Congress to life. It shows their intolerance for one another but respect at the same time. It displays the fact that they were simply men and longed for their wives. It shows that they didn't agree on everything but were willing to compromise to get started on independence. And in the end it shows the courage that it took to make the decisions they made as well as to follow through with them, placing their own lives and all they owned at risk.The music flows with ease here and is quite enjoyable but I didn't find any single song that I felt I would be humming in my head days after watching. It didn't matter. Between the performances and the subject matter it stirred emotions of pride and wonder at these men who have been besmirched in more recent years on film. What a difference nearly 50 years makes. We've gone from noting with distinction the sacrifices and bravery of these men to treating them more like news items on TMZ instead. There are few people without faults in their lives, but in the end the achievements of these men deserves more note than their bedroom activities. At the same time those items are discussed in this movie but not focused on. Jefferson's longing to be alone with his wife, Franklin's love of the ladies and the love of rum by most are all seen. But that's the point, they are merely touched on rather than making the movie about those things. The major focus is what they accomplished with creating this document known as the Declaration of Independence.The movie is sure to create a feeling of patriotism for those who are still inclined to feel that emotion. With hope it will do the same for those who lack it these days. Coming out as near the Fourth of July celebration as it is, merely a month away, it might make a good movie to watch on that day. On the whole the movie entertains, informs and will hold your interest from start to finish even if it runs almost 3 hours long. Some might find that too much time to spend hearing about this act, but isn't it's a small sacrifice compared to those made by these men. I highly recommend not just watching this but adding it to your collection as well. "},{"Title":"A joy and history lesson all in one","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Hi,Blythe Danner and her glorious singing of He Plays The Violin is reason enough to see this movie.As for the movie it self, it's a charming representation of the events that brought about the birth of this nation. See it as a child would, and revel in the joy it gives you, but put aside the seriousness of a dusty old pucker-puss professor of history. For those of us who are inclined to look beneath the surface, you will find here the motivations that moved these men, step by step, to commit themselves to revolution.See it when you want to feel good. You may even learn something in the processes.Tony "},{"Title":"A Fun Experience About the Declaration of Independence","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I think this story would be better fitted for a 2 hour drama, but the drama within this musical is still good and holds up the film nicely. I wasn't sure if I would be bothered by the fact that it is a musical, but honestly there wasn't as much music as I expected anyway, and I only thought one or two songs were unnecessary.In my opinion this film doesn't seem overly long even though it is a 2 hour 45 minute film. In fact, the best scenes in the film are the long, dramatic debates which the characters have with each other inside the Congress building. It keeps the film very enticing and questions ethics instead of just explaining how the Declaration came to be.The character of Benjamin Franklin is surprisingly very funny in this film. At one point, he even seems to make a phallic reference which I never thought would be part of the content for this film - but then again Shakespeare had hidden sexual jokes in his plays as well, and that was centuries before movies were made.One part of a scene that could have been omitted from the film in my opinion is when one of the colonies wants Jefferson's mention of slavery removed from the declaration. Since this movie was about America declaring their independence, this didn't seem to be a crucial part of the story, but this movie was highly about ethics so I suppose the filmmakers thought it was in the film's best interest to include this short debate.This is one of my new favorite patriotic movies, and I'll probably be watching it again around this time next year along with Yankee Doodle Dandy. "},{"Title":"This egg is hatching, right down the middle, and it's beautiful to watch!","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" This is very good movie for The Fourth of July! The movie was made in America, for Americans. Let's freedom ring with this movie! Directed by Peter H. Hunt, the movie tells the story of John Adams (William Daniels) on his pursuit to get his fellow Second Continental Congressmen to vote for American independence by signing the Declaration of Independence. Without spoiling the movie, too much, it has a very unique storytelling style. I never thought, once, that somebody would have made, a musical version of this historic event. Written by screenwriter, Peter Stone and based on the 1969 stage musical of the same name. The movie was very entertaining. While, the songs by song writer, Sherman Edwards weren't that memorable; most of them, work within the story. I love the opening song, 'Shut up, John' as it establish who John Adams is, and how driven, he is, for the cause. Songs such as, The Lees of Old Virginia, But, Mr. Adams and The Egg', were fun to watch, due to its light-hearted nature. It gave me, a few chuckles. Other songs like Mama Look Sharp and Molasses to Rum weren't so fun, but it shows, the real life struggles of the times and were very powerful. Then, there are the songs that, in my opinion, serve little purpose. Honestly, did we really need a song about playing the violin? What a waste of good screen time! Then, there is the controversial song, 'Cool, Cool, Considerate Men' which depicts Revolutionary War&#x96;era conservatives as power-hungry wheelers focused on maintaining wealth. The song got so much, backlash that U.S. President Richard Nixon requested to have the song removed from the film. Further complaints about the song, came from others, like historians; whom view the song, as incorrect, due to the terms right and left in politics being used. They argue that those terms weren't coined until after the American Revolution. The producers did cut the song, from the movie, but later, restored it, in future releases. While, only about half of the songs originally written made it to the final production. I think the movie could have, cut so much more. All the songs between John Adams & Abigail Adams (Virginia Vestoff) were pretty mediocre. Yes, it help humanize, John Adams, but I really didn't want to hear songs about pins and saltpeter, at all. For the most part, I think the movie could had work, better as a historical stage play, than a musical. The movie's songs are so spread out, that, it felt like I was watching two different films. If you take away, the music, the movie still works. The political debate wasn't boring, because the movie has some very clever fun dialogue to work with. It was assemble so well, with great effect. It had some really funny and powerful moments. Since Continental Congress was held in secrecy and there are no contemporary records on the debate over the Declaration of Independence, the authors of the musical created the narrative based on later accounts and educated guesses, inventing scenes and dialogue as needed for storytelling purposes. Some of these dialogue was taken from words written, often years or even decades later. The movie also took a lot of artistic license to the film's budget. Many historical figures were dropped from the production, as the entire complement of the Congress would have been too big of a cast to portray. They did make a halfhearted attempt to explain, why there were so many absent members. Most of the actors that play the supporting characters were pretty good. My favorite had to be, Howard Da Silva as Ben Franklin, Ray Middleton as Thomas McKean and Ron Holgate as Richard Henry Lee. Man, did they hammed it up! They seem, more like cartoon characters, than real people, with their odd delivery. While, they're not the best actors, they truly stand out! I loved it! Still, I kinda hope, for a more accurate depiction of these real life men. William Daniels as John Adams was amazing. This guy work his butt, off. Although, the film, makes Adams into one of the most-hatred characters in the film; in true life, he's one of the most respected members of Congress. After all, you have to be, if you're going to become President, one day. The only character that wasn't needed in the film was Martha Jefferson (Blythe Danner). I really felt that the time, spent with her, really ruin the film, because how historic inaccurate, her visit was, and because it took away, focus on how Thomas Jefferson (Ken Howard) wrote the Declaration of Independence. The movie awkwardly, moves from first draft document to presenting his masterpiece in quick movie pacing. When, watching it, I thought, I miss a scene or two, but no, that's how the movie was presented. Do warning, some versions of the film, has been brutally cut. A lot of the raunchier scenes was badly chopped, but if you want the best version of the film. Try to get Jack L. Warner's DVD restore version. It's the best copy, out there. Overall While the movie ends in a bittersweet note. It's still a great movie to watch on the Fourth of July! So check it out! You will like it. "},{"Title":"A lively if uneven musical adaptation","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" It's easy to see why 1776 (1972) has attained and kept its cult following throughout the years. One of the last big Hollywood musicals, it is also among the best of that period.If you thought a musical about the creation of the Declaration of Independence would be sleep-inducing, then you would be wrong. The well-drawn characters, witty dialogue, and good humor will keep your interest throughout.Of course, there's also drama and romance. The film never lets you forget the consequences of war and the looming threat of the English. The signing of the Declaration at the end of the film is not pictured as a moment of total triumph; the bell tolling in the background and the music lend a gravity to the moment. In fact, there is a lot of poignancy in this otherwise delightful film Martha Jefferson's song He Plays the Violin has lyrics which foreshadow her premature death by childbirth and Mama Look Sharp, sung by a shell-shocked young soldier, is heartbreaking.The songs are mostly fantastic and catchy (Till Then is a little too sappy for me) and the performances are mesmerizing. How can one even pick a favorite? Howard Da Silva makes a funny Benjamin Franklin and I never failed to laugh when Ron Holgate's Richard Henry Lee showed up. But like most people, my favorite performance is that of William Daniels as John Adams. He was just perfect, literally perfect (or maybe, literal-Lee perfect... ha ha).There are a few things in this film which are not so perfect though at two hours and forty-five minutes, it does drag sometimes. There are moments where the film goes 30-40 minutes without any musical numbers, which feels jarring. Overall though, this is a fine musical, well-produced and acted. "},{"Title":"A rousing musical triumph that makes you proud to be an old-fashioned American.","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" O.K., that is if you are descendants of the original 13 colonies and not descended from a a slave and not a woman who during this time and was still treated like a second class citizen. So America's first several centuries certainly had its faults, the most obvious of which was its European explorers who claimed to have discovered it yet basically banished or enslaved the natives who were already here and had already discovered it. But as the American colonies grew, so did the desire for those under British rule to form a new nation, and the congress congregated in Philadelphia were even divided about that. These long-ago patriots included famous inventors and future presidents, several state governors and notorious rebels. Here, the focus is on three of these men with others given moments in the spotlight to share their history. Future presidents John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, who have had their own more truthful tales revealed through T.V. and movies, and Benjamin Franklin, inventor extraordinary who has had more controversy revealed yet remains one of our greatest non-presidential figures ever in the American history books.The Broadway musical shocked everybody with its success, most theater people convinced that a musical about a basic High School History lesson would bomb quicker than the Americans over Hiroshima. But the way in which the story was told, passionately, elegantly and quaintly, surprised even the most cynical of critics, and the show ran for years, producing this motion picture as a result and later a successful revival that managed to extend past its intended limited run. The secret to the success of the show is the passion put into each of these characters, not simply American folk heroes whom we've only seen paintings of, but flesh and blood men and a few women who had dreams, passions and ideals, even if some of them have been a bit soiled over the years.William Daniels heads the pack as John Adams, the future second president (and first V.P.) who realized he was too obnoxious and disliked to write the Declaration of Independence. Adams may not be the most popular man in the congress (which he considers three or more useless men to be considered), but as you see his intentions and his desperation (told with sweet vignettes concerning his wife, seen in dream sequences describing their letters to each other), you can't help but like him. Benjamin Franklin, as played by Howard da Silva, is a lovable rascal, a bit perverted (although history has insinuated it to be more so), and every inch the bigger than life man his legacy has made him out to be. Future White Shadow Ken Howard is the soft spoken Thomas Jefferson, and while his controversial life as father to one of his slaves' children has since been revealed, here, it is his silent love for writing and his beautiful wife (Blythe Danner in one of her earliest roles) that makes him get down to write the most famous document in American history. Virginia Vestoff is tender as the feisty but loyal Abigal, and her singing several romantic duets with Daniels is one of the film's many highlights.For Daniels, Da Silva and Danner, there is the show-stopping He Plays the Violin where Danner confides the quiet Jefferson's secret of lovemaking to them. It leads into a lively dance sequence that proves you don't need tons of chorus people to make you tap your feet. Daniels and Da Silva are joined by Howard for The Egg in which they seemingly fictionally imagine what bird will be made the symbol of their hopeful new nation. In spite of its obvious falsity, the sequence is a symbol of hope that probably every patriot of a new nation felt as they stepped forward to change the course of history.The other congress people are a magnificent bunch of Broadway and Film actors, especially Ron Holgate as Richard Henry Lee, repeating his Tony Winning role with the show-stopping Lee's of Old Virginia, theater legend John Cullum as Edward Ruthledge who is determined to keep slavery alive in spite of objections of the northerners in congress, Roy Poole as the drunken Stephen Hopkins, William Hansen totally moving as the seemingly dying Cesar Rodney, original Annie Get Your Gun co-star Ray Middleton as the very Scottish Thomas McKean, David Ford as Congressional President John Hancock (the first man to sign the declaration, hence the slang term give me your J.H.) and John Myhers as the portly Robert Livingston. Along with Rex Robbins, Daniels, Da Silva, Howard and Mhyers sing the rousingly unforgettable But Mr. Adams in which the declaration committee argues over who will actually write it. Also memorable is William Duell as the feisty Andrew McNair, the congressional custodian who gets his own moment when he sings a bit of the moving Mama, Look Sharp, an obviously anti-war song about what was going on at the time in Vietnam with young innocent men being killed or maimed. Future Benson governor James Noble is obviously recognizable as one of the New Jersey delegates. Fans of the 1984 Academy Award Winning Best Film Amadeus will recognize a few of the smaller roles here from that later masterpiece which ironically took place at the same time yet many thousands of miles away. You can't call all of this the truth although many of the lines have been proved to have been actually spoken by the men who say them on screen here. Beautifully photographed and scored with an opening credit scene that reminded me of paintings of Charles Dickens novels, 1776 is a must see, not only for theater fans and history students, but practically everybody else who loves what America stands for. "},{"Title":"A human history","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" 30 years ago I sat home on a rainy day and discovered my calling. I stumbled upon this great American film and by the time it was over I knew I wanted to be a history teacher. The relationship between Adams and Franklin, the witty song lyrics which actually tell the true story of our quest for independence, and the humorizing of these great men (Yes, I said humorizing!) Throughout the last 28 years of my teaching career, I have often found myself reliving this version of history. William Daniels IS John Adams. Howard De Silva is Ben Franklin. The performances are so right that I hear their voices in my head while I teach. It accomplishes what all great films do. It makes the viewer want to learn more about the subject. I can not recommend this film highly enough. "},{"Title":"My first Broadway Play","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" At the tender age of eleven, my mother elected to take my sister and I to our first Broadway show. I confess, this was not the play I wanted to see (a short lived production of Childs Play was my choice.) I finally acquiesced based upon the remarkable reviews this production had garnered. How happy I am that I did! This is simply the finest musical ever produced in the United States. From the very beginning, the characters draw you in to that world that was colonial America. The writing of the script is unbelievably well crafted, and even as a precocious boy of only eleven, I was able to clearly understand the overall plot (if not some of the more sophisticated historical references.) What has stayed with me more than anything else, is the enormous respect I gained for those brave men who challenged the most powerful nation on earth and risked their very lives to create The United States of America. This feeling builds through all three acts of the story, and culminates in one of the most emotional finales ever written. If you don't feel the hair stand up on the back of your neck when the final frame becomes the famous woodcut of the signing of the declaration of Independence, you have missed the point entirely.My mother finally (at age 70) became the college professor she was meant to be, and her first class was American government. She proudly used this film as her main AV aid. She continues to be amazed at how few people have seen it. Don't be someone who hasn't! "}{"Title":"A Unique Musical Theater Experience","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" 1776 is the 1972 film version of the groundbreaking Broadway musical that chronicles the people and events that led to the writing and signing of the Declaration of Independence. The musical centers on soon to be second President, John Adams, who according to this musical was a tireless but obnoxious advocate for the thirteen colonies independence from Great Britain and it was his zeal for this cause that led him to being central to the creation of the Declaration of Independence. William Daniels brilliantly recreates his Tony-winning Broadway role as John Adams, the restless and ever-vocal spokesperson for Independence who would not be silenced. He receives solid support from Howard da Silva, who does a scene stealing turn as Benjamin Franklin, Ken Howard as Thomas Jefferson, John Cullum as Edmund Rutledge, and the lovely Blythe Danner as Martha Jefferson. Virginia Vestoff also recreates her Broadway role as Abigail Adams, John's wife who is presented as communicating with John through letters brought to life. The heart- pumping musical score features highlights such as Sit Down, John, He Plays the Violin, Yours, Yours, Yours, But Mr. Adams, The Egg, The Lees of Old Virginia, and the haunting Molasses to Rum (brilliantly performed by Cullum). One number, Cool Considerate Men was cut during the film's original release but has been restored to some prints. If you're a musical comedy fan with an open mind willing to experience something a little different, give this treasure a try. "},{"Title":"The greatest film about the American Revolution.","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" The American Revolution has not been served well on the Big Screen. Ican only think of three first class films about it; Drums Along the Mohawk, The Devil's Disciple, and this, my favorite. I first saw the Musical 1776 at the fabulous Fisher theater in Detroit back when in 1973. I loved it then. The Movie version fell sadly flat at the box office. There were some reasons for this. For one thing, it was the age of Vietnam and Richard Nixon, and patriotism- especially the intelligent, literate kind found in 1776 was out of style. Another thing that was out of style was Hollywood musicals.Almost every musical at the time was an over-produced flop, and most film-goers apparently thought 1776 would be more of the same. Finally, Columbia did a terrible job marketing the movie. The suits were stupid enough to think that their big hit would be the musical version of Lost Horizon, a film that must rank as one the supreme stinkers of all time, so they decided to focus on that silo of cinematic merde instead of this wonderful film.I just saw it again in an uncut, restored version on TCM. To be honest, I can see no fault in this movie. The direction ( by Peter Hunt, who as far as I know , did not direct another significant film in his life - His credits include such immortal series' as Tucker's Witch) was excellent. The acting is terrific and pitch perfect, by a cast that almost never appeared in major motion picture's again, was very fine. I was amazed to notice the likes of William Hansen, ( who I only knew from a single Slattery's People episode.) and Dark Shadows regulars David Ford and Emory Bass in a feature film. I notice carping critics who say that Willam Daniels looked nothing like John Adams.( other than his height). Who cares? He TALKED like Adams, THOUGHT like Adams and FELT like Adams. Finally,l there are the songs and the script. I noticed people saying that there were no memorable songs. Are these people tone-deaf? Molasses to Rum, look Sharp, the magnificent  Can Anybody Hear', the poignant duets between John and Abigail ( Incidentally, EVERY word in those songs was lifted from the actual letters of Abigail and John.) these are merely the tip of the iceberg. Then there was the script. It was witty, thoughtful, literate and erudite. This film is testimony to the fact that America was not only founded by bloodshed; it was founded by intelligent , sometimes painful argument. This show was not simplistic patriotism. No one who heard Molasses to Rume could think that. I hope to use this film with my American government students. It is one of greatest films about America-and one of the wisest films about politics- I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Average music - Excellent drama!","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" One of the challenges in studying history is being able to identify with it. When reading a history book, you are presented with a sanitized version, a catalog of events that clinically detail the moments. But people respond to personal stories. That is why documentaries and memoir reading will always resonate with us far more. They attempt to help us get to know the people in history, why they did what they did. 1776 is a very good film despite its average and somewhat unmemorable music. It wisely plays the drama at center stage and relegates the musical numbers to the fringes. At its centerpiece are the debates over independence, debate over slavery, and especially the final vote and signing. You feel like you are in the presence of great and flawed men, understanding their minds in the midst of this tense period of history. That our founding fathers are also portrayed as tired and horny men pining to get back to make love to their wives who they haven't seen in months, just adds to the humor and I dare say realism. I could soooo see them behaving that way, guffawing and rowdy. And yet despite their carnal nature, their brilliance and cleverness shines through, particularly in Jefferson, Adams, and Franklin, who steal the show. If this could have been a straight up drama without the musical numbers, it could only have made a better film. Some of the songs are so unmemorable that they kill the film's pacing in parts. A real pity. That's why this gets a 7 instead of a higher rating. "},{"Title":"A fanastic American musical","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" It took me a while but I finally got around to finishing this amazing movie. I was first introduced to it in my AP US history class last year, and got immediately hooked. Unfortunately I didn't get a chance to finally finish it until yesterday,and I must say it was better than could have possibly imagine. To the best of my knowledge there are no bad performances throughout. William Daniels is truly wonderful as the Great John Adams. His demeanor and voice fit the character so well I can't imagine anyone else playing that role. Howard Da Silvia played the humorous and witty Dr. Franklin, well humorously and wittily! Some of the great stand out performances came from Virginia Vestoff's Abigail Adams, who stole the screen and my heart with each of her's and Adams duets, Stephen Nathan as the young Minute Man, whose song Momma look Sharp about the experience of death in battle will bring a tear to even the most harden soul in the audience, and John Cullum's performance the South Carolinian delegate Edward Rutledge. His performance of Molasses to Rum is probably the most haunting song I've heard since My Friends from Sweeney Todd. Speaking of music, the songs are ALL terrific! Normally for me there are always a few song i would cut out of a musical, but I really can't for this one. My personal favorites would have to be the aforementioned the Adams' duets and the chilling Momma Look Sharp, but especially Molasses to Rum (you will not get it out of your head). Plus you can never go wrong with fun songs like Lees of Virginia and the opening number Sit down, John. If you're a history nut, like myself, you might get bothered by some of the more glaring historical inaccuracies (like Jefferson's position on slavery!) but overall the film does a great job of conveying the story of our independence in a fun and interesting way. I highly recommend it for anyone with a love of history and of music. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly Frank Musical","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" This adaption of a Broadway play rings with authentic appeal. The writers used writings and letters of Adams, Jefferson etc. in the dialog of the script. This gives the words more power and meaning. In spite of doing this, it is still a musical comedy.Making the American struggle for Independence into this form was not envisioned by the folks who did the struggle. In fact, the Continental Congress in this carries a tune pretty well. Overall, this is a very entertaining version of what went down in 1776.When this was made in 1973, the adult themes used in this film had just gone main stream a few years earlier and those themes are refreshing. This is not a Hollywood History but a more adult version which shows all the characters flaws and how things were tangled in this country even in 1776.Jack Warner first screened this for Nixon before his resignation. The frankness of it where the music often advances the story is a joy to watch. There were sections that Warner & Nixon did not want released but now have been released. I am not sure if the 180 minute laser disc version has been shown on TV though TCM ran an extra length version on the 4th of July. What is amazing is that this musical is one of the longest musicals ever made which can successfully hold it's audience. It never seems to get bogged down like most long films, especially musicals do. In a much smaller way, last year's film The Kings Speech used this same script formula of using actual letters of the participants to create good cinema. This one did it sooner and entertainingly successfully. "},{"Title":"American History","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I know that American History is very important. But I am not good at remember events. This stuff helps me to remember it. Even with cheesy musical numbers.I was able to connect who was the 'good guy' and 'bad guy' very easily. I loved the humor they had in the movie. I loved the suspense that was in the air during the voting.I choose 9/10 not because of how the movie was, but because of the importance of the events it was trying to betray.Thus, I feel that this movie is almost the highest I have rated, and for a good reason. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" This is one of the few musicals I like. I especially like the opening song, Sit Down, John. I only have 2 complaints Some actors did not resemble the signers too well. William Daniels looks nothing like John Adams, John Dickinson should've had blonde hair, not brown, as shown. John Witherspoon should have looked older. Also, the declaration was really signed August 2, 1776, not July 4. But the musical numbers are great! The bell at the signing gives the movie a dramatic feel. This movie is entertaining, and great to watch on July 4, or Just on a rainy day. If you haven't seen this, you must. I love Benjamin Franklin's humor and wit. I especially recommend the director's cut, which includes the originally cut number, Cool, Considerate Men. It's too bad most of the actors are dead. I looked at the actor's pages, and most died in their fifties or early sixties! Anyway, I love this movie as much as I love The Wizard of Oz. This movie is a must-see! "},{"Title":"This is a Must See","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" If there was ever a movie that is a must see this is it. The vignettes are compressed of course, but the minor inaccuracies on dates, etc are not important. The spirit behind the events leading up to independence are so beautifully portrayed in this musical extravaganza. But you must see the 2002 DVD re-release to get the complete pleasure out of it. When the stage play was first filmed Richard Nixon personally leaned on Jack Warner to cut some of it because he felt that he and the Republican party were being attacked. But those scenes are now restored and in a rare decision almost all of the original Broadway Cast was used in the film. This is a passionate presentation with bravura performances by William Daniels, Howard Da Silva, Ken Howard, Donald Madden, Ron Holgate, David Ford and the supporting cast. I only rated it 9 because I rate no film higher except for Citizen Kane, just as Washington remains the only president elected unanimously by the electoral college. This should be shown in every school in the land, and on July 4th everywhere. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie Musical","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" This is my favorite movie musical of all time! It humanizes the founding fathers by making them folks with everyday problems and desires! I just love the plot device which has poor Thomas Jefferson unable to write the Declaration of Independence because he burns for his wife. So John Adams and Benjamin Franklin arrange for Martha Jefferson to visit and the morning after Thomas is prolific! Blythe Danner played Martha Washington, her very first appearance on film, and her ethereal beauty and presence could rouse the writer in any of us.It's a hoot to see the founding fathers of our country dancing and singing. The musical has fun with the subject but doesn't forget the serious issues faced by the Continental Congress -- the compromise wording in the Constitution that allowed slavery to continue is addressed by a show-stopping maudlin tune that conveys the dread that would hang over the country for years following from this compromise.This is kind of movie that you need to watch with popcorn and wisecracks at the ready -- it's tremendous fun but you'll also walk away with some insights about the founding of the USA. "},{"Title":"Entertaining historical musical is also a history lesson...","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I hadn't seen this one in years and was surprised at how entertaining and well staged it was (as a musical), and how historically accurate it seemed in recreating the atmosphere that led to the historic decisions being made by a young government at that time. Democracy in the mid-east is going through the same growing pains the U.S. faced in 1776, which makes the film more relevant today.It profits from some excellent performances, mostly from those who are repeating their stage roles--particularly WILLIAM DANIELS as John Adams and HOWARD DA SILVA, who makes a wonderful Benjamin Franklin. Unfortunately, Da Silva was blacklisted for years during the Hollywood Witch Hunt of the '50s. BLYTHE DANNER, as Jefferson's wife, is charming in a small role (she looks so much like her daughter, Gwyneth Paltrow).The most robust singing is done by JOHN CALLUM, a well-known Broadway singer (he later did Shenandoah), and he gets to sing one of the most powerful songs in the show. But it's more a history lesson than a musical--although there's plenty of musical numbers that are hardly conventional (in a Broadway or Hollywood way) and are oddly effective.I'm sure artistic license was taken with some of the events, especially those detailing the signing of the Declaration of Independence, but history is beautifully brought to life in that final scene.Highly recommended, unless you have an aversion to this sort of musical entertainment mixing history with songs. "}{"Title":"Fantastic fun every American should watch ...","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I just saw a stage production of this again last week, and it inspired me to bust out the DVD again. I went through a phase in 1999 or so where I was watching this all the time. I even taught it in a collegiate film class about legal issues.It's odd for a musical, because it's not wall-to-wall musical numbers. But the fascinating information and portrayals of the Founding Fathers are an excellent history primer for anyone. Benjamin Franklin's comments about posterity (What will they think we were? Demi-gods? -- actually, yes, Benjamin!) and everything else shine as insight into the minds of Americans evolved from British Imperialism.Remember, this was literally the first time a colony had fought for and won independence from its mother' country. The ideas were radical, and we take them for granted today. We see why slavery remained an issue in the U.S. as long as it did (thank you, South Carolina -- you ought to be ashamed of yourselves!), and we see how persuasive politics came into play in the U.S. You scratch our backs, we'll scratch yours! There is a lack of women in this film, of course, although Abigail Adams' role is particularly interesting in its influence upon the true driver of independence -- her husband John. Overlook always by his more popular predecessor (George Washington) and his more famous successor (Thomas Jefferson), we really do see the great Adams for who he was in this film.The acting? Fun! It's fun to see the voice of K.I.T.T. singing songs, ironic to see the basketball coach from *The White Shadow* writing the Declaration of Indepence with such felicity of expression, and strange to see the old barkeep from *Northern Exposure* as such a racist prig. Also look for the governor from *Benson* and Gwyneth Paltrow's mom -- she looks exactly like Gwyneth, it's eerie.The songs are catchy and will remain in your brain. Only the somewhat annoying Richard Henry Lee song will grate. The rest is pure joy and learning. Not surprising, considering it was mostly written by a history teacher. "},{"Title":"A fine instance of historical accuracy","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" A wonderful film overall, it has a few errors in historical accuracy, and things that were changed for dramatic purposes. But one area where the film adheres to historical fact is in the distinction between the adoption of Virginia's resolution on independence, and the approval of the Jefferson's Declaration as a way to announce America's independence to the world. The first happened on July 2nd, the actual decision to become an independent state. It is for this reason that John Adams wrote that The second day of July, 1776, will be the most memorable epocha in the history of America. The Declaration of Independence was approved and adopted, although not signed, on July 4th. It was this date that was placed at the head of the formal document, written in calligraphy on parchment, and therefore the date which has come to be celebrated as the day of American independence. The film depicts this fairly accurately, although without an attempt to dispel the notion that the 4th of July is America's independence day. "},{"Title":"A grand opera of American history.","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" The gentleman from Wales (down in the 1999 entries) makes an excellent point people today (especially people under the age of 30) might dismiss 1776 as popular entertainment because its book and especially its score of songs aren't exactly...shall we say, toe-tapping, memorable tunes that you can whistle around for the rest of the day. In fact, much of the book is the actors speaking/singing their dialog, making the whole exercise feel more like a grand opera than a musical. I suspect that when this show was transferred from stage to screen, director Peter Hunt and producer Jack L. Warner probably dreaded the box-office returns coming from a modern and cynical audience. Having said that, the film (which I've now seen in the widescreen DVD) is rapturous, extremely witty in dialog, rich in script, costumes, art direction, and especially performances; no words can properly describe William Daniels' stand-out performance as the stubborn, argumentative, passionate, and brilliant John Adams. He is matched by Howard Da Silva's essay of Benjamin Franklin and Virginia Vestoff's spoken (and sung) performance of the feisty Abigail Adams. The scenes with the married Adamses are among the best in the film, lovely because they are all done in correspondence; particularly bewitching is the moment when they are missing each other more than usual, and John compares the virtues of 'New England girls' to those of the South, and it is not lost on his wife. And the lyrics on their duet Yours, Yours, Yours are both romantic and quite suggestive. The rest of the songs? My goodness! Sit Down, John; The Lees of Virginia; But Mr. Adams; He Plays the Violin (a showcase for the effervescent Blythe Danner Paltrow); and the chilling Act 2 soliloquy on slavery, Molasses To Rum, wonderfully sung by John Cullum. I always get chills at the movie's end when the bell tolls and Congress stands in its final portrait. "},{"Title":"It's the only reason I passed American History","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I hate history so much that the only things that got me through it were School House Rock and the musical movie 1776. That was over 15 years ago, and I still remember the songs. Suddenly what used to bore me to tears had me on the edge of my seat wondering what was going to happen next. That's the crazy part. Think about Titanic everybody knew the outcome, but everyone was still caught up in the action. Same thing here. We know that the Declaration was signed, but you would not believe how much drama can be packed into such an event. You also probably won't believe that our national bird was almost a turkey. From the opening song to the last gong of the liberty bell, 1776 will wrap you in the who what when where and why of the signing of the Declaration... or better yet, the almost NOT signing of it. Those who are not prepared to face the reality of certain sacrifices that had to be made should probably not watch this, as a very critical passage in the declaration was stricken in compromise. And after all the batting back and forth over that passage, to think that it still might not pass is enough to make you gasp. The birth of a nation came down to the decision of one man. Don't get me wrong, the movie is also full of laughs. When Ben Franklin remarks to John Adams that not everyone is from New England, I about fell out of my chair laughing. You will too when you realize what he's talking about. Well... then again you might not if you live in New England. All around, it is a great film, a great musical and a great learning experience. After you watch it, consider going to your local library and picking up a copy of the play. I did. "},{"Title":"entertaining AND educational!","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" This has been my favorite movie for a long time now, and it was with great pleasure that I introduced it to my kids. It has ignited a real interest in US history, which led them to Liberty's Kids, where they got a taste of the Revolutionary War, kind of the flip-side of 1776.I knew my daughter would develop crushes, but I never thought her first one would be on Thomas Jefferson! She has read book after book about Jefferson and knows more about him than anyone I know. My other daughter is now a fan of Benjamin Franklin, largely because he was left-handed (at least in the film; we don't really know for sure about real life). We listen to the music all the time. How many elementary school kids already know who was in the Continental Congress, and who was for and against independence? Now they nag me constantly to take them to Philadelphia again so they can see the actual rooms where these scenes took place. I have read more myself about John Adams (David McCullough's excellent biography) and have seen some of the words spoken in 1776 in letters between John and Abigail Adams.The music is simple, the lyrics and dialogue witty; quotes come to mind unbidden and melodies echo in our heads. It is remarkably close to documented history, though of course it has to take some dramatic liberties. It has led to some intense conversations about slavery and war.1776 walks that fine line between education and entertainment, without falling too far to either side. It has made the people real for us, kept them from being dry, cardboard cutouts from history books, and it has made history into a vibrant human story. I think it should be required viewing for all children, at as early an age as possible. "},{"Title":"The best Musical of all time! Spoilers!","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" 1776 is the best musical I have ever seen. I loved it as soon as I watched it. At first it didn't seem good, but the movie proved me wrong. Its songs and its charming characters make it the best. The part of John Adams played by William Daniels has to be one of the best performances I have ever seen. Howard da Silva and Ken Howard do a terrific job of acting their parts of Ben Franklin and Thomas Jefferson. The plot line ,though we all know what happens, makes it suspenseful. One may wonder how the Declaration of Independence was passed. The songs tie the story together. The darkest song in the entire film is Molasses to Rum. Where Edward Rutledge sings of slavery in the south. The best song in the entire movie is Is Anybody There? sung by no other than William Daniels. What a wonderful song. John Adams tells what he sees when America is free. I believe if you take the time to watch 1776 you will love it. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. It shows both the the humorous side and the serious side of history. I really enjoyed it and everyone in my history class did as well. The songs are very catchy and delightful. Even though they sometimes become stuck in ones head. I learned a lot and it made me think when I was through watching it. I recommend it to teachers and students for a fun way to know your history. You'll have fun and learn at the same time. I just wish I could have since it on the stage, how remarkable that would be. I now also have a much greater respect for these men and I recommend this to anyone, for some good entertainment and some good knowledge. (Now let s see a musical about the signing of the constitution.......how interesting)  "},{"Title":"a semi-forgotten gem","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I checked this out at my local library.  It wasn't the first time I've seen the movie, thankfully.  I'd forgotten just how catchy the songs are, how much the plot draws you in, and my goodness, the double entendres (and not-so-double ones as well)!  I'm sure most things are faithful to history, so the movie does serve as a good, entertaining history lesson.  This viewing brings my film viewings to three, and my musical viewings to two (both of which my father was in)...and I know it won't be the last.Also, make sure you have the director's cut, restoring the Cool, Considerate Men song that Tricky Dick made the filmmaker cut. "},{"Title":"The Story of American Independence","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Perhaps the perfect family movie!From Broadway to the home screen, finally a story that inspires child and parents alike. Researched from numerous sources, we are privileged to see the members of the 2nd Continental Congress as they grapple with a world empire, an encroaching war, and each other 'to bring forth a new republic'. A Who's Who of then-upcoming talent, it features Ken Howard (White Shadow, Dynasty, Crossing Jordan), William Daniels (St. Elsewhere, Knight Rider, Boy Meets World), Blythe Danner (Meet The Parents, Presidio Med) and John Cullum (Northern Exposure).The more you learn about this movie, the more fascinated you become with American history and its cast of portrayers.American family, meet American history. "},{"Title":"OMG!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I love this musical so much epecially the mollases to rum to slaves song...they guy that sings it was at my school last year and if you think he's good in the movie, you should hear him in person for being over 60 thats pretty dang good...o yea and he graduated from my high school so thats brownie points right there!lol but i do recoment it because it teaches you a lot about history and its fun to watch  "}{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This has to be one of my all-time favorite films - though as a history buff, I'm usually highly sceptical of historical films - & as an actress, generally sceptical of film adaptations of stage musicals.  The historical detail in this one, though, is amazing, as is its faithfulness to the play from which it comes, much of which is based on actual historical documents. (Much of Adams' dialogue comes from letters between John & Abigail - including the MAGNIFICENT song Is Anybody There?, which has to be my favorite scene in the film.) The performances of all the leads - all of whom came from the Broadway production - are all solid, especially William Daniels as John Adams, and Howard da Silva's Ben Franklin.  Any actor taking on these stage roles from that point on would have no choice but to follow a great many of these men's choices - they're definitive for the roles.  The only part I'd have liked to have recast is Martha Jefferson - it's really too bad they didn't use the original casting & put Betty Buckley in that role. The music is wonderful, memorable, & affecting - despite the fact that I know this musical almost literally by heart, I still can't listen to Mama Look Sharp without tearing up. I can't recommend this film highly enough!   "},{"Title":"I loved it!!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I had never seen or even heard of this movie until I was fortunate to stumble across the DVD at a bookstore.  I purchased it solely because my son is presently studying US History.  What a delightful surprise!  My son and I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of this movie and have watched it many times over.  It takes several viewings to really appreciate all the music and historical references. The movie even inspired me to seek out additional information particularly regarding John Adams.  What luck, David McCullough's Book, John Adams was sitting right in plain view at the bookstore, another streak of luck!I highly recommend this movie and have purchased several copies for friends and family!  It seems particularly important, in light of recent events, that we remember the great men and their purpose in the formation of our country.  "},{"Title":"Great show, very good movie -- excellent DVD","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  If you saw the stage play, you probably saw the movie.  If you saw the movie, you probably saw the heavily edited version.  If you've only seen it on television, you've missed a hell of a good film.This is a movie long overdue for a restoration.  About 25 minutes were edited out upon initial release -- one musical number was deleted as a favor to then-President Richard Nixon by his crony, producer Jack L. Warner, and hasn't been seen until now -- mostly for time reasons.  Restored, the thing times out at about 2 hours, 46 minutes!  But it rarely lags.The cinematography (by Harry Stradlin, Jr.) was nominated for an Academy Award (r), and now you can see why.  See ONLY the restored version.  AVOID the previous versions, and NEVER EVER watch it on broadcast TV!  A better posterchild for letterboxing -- and film preservation -- is hard to imagine. "},{"Title":"A human peek, with a tune, at stone American Icons.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" With light humor, mostly limited to witty exchange, the arrival at the proclamation of Independence is presented with 10 musical numbers, that actually are part of the plot not just lyrical support to the story. I first saw this film when first released; It then gave me encouragement to check on some of the points of history presented in the film. I found it to be quite accurate. Now after 30 years I have seen the restored DVD, and its appeal has not diminished, any more than the topic from which it draws. I think it should be presented in high school civic classes today. Not as a replacement for the study of American history, but a catalyst to in-depth study and debate upon the topic of American Independence. July 4, 1776 takes on a more human, and more fragile perspective.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of Historical times","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  O Good God, a musical about the Declaration of Independence? It will not pass. WRONG!! 1776 is the most reviting, colorfull, historical acurate, amazing specticals ever created. Peter Stone was a genius when he came up with the concept. For those avid Musical or History movie collectors this is a must. Through humor, and mostly drama 1776 tells the tale of the famed decleration to life supurbly. Of course with good script you need good acting, and thats just what happens. William Daniels is brillient as John Adams, Howard Da'Silva and Ken Howard bring life to Ben Franklin and Thomas Jefferson with flare and style. Of course Donnald Madden and John Cullum are just fantastic as John Dickinson and Edward Rutledge, the opposing forces. Virgina Vestoff, Roy Poole, David Ford,Emory Bass, Ralston Hill, William Duell, and, of course, Ronald Holgate support the cast 100 percent and plus. Incidently, 13 members reprised their role from the Broadway production. The score is brilliant filled with songs such as the  heartfelt He Plays the Violin, the Dramatic Mama Look Sharp, and the witty But Mr. Adams. The only fault is Donald Madden's Singing ability. However, the film still will remain a classic in everyone's heart (that is, those who've seen it) for years and years to come. Full marks "},{"Title":"A History Class in Song!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I wish all history were this fun to study. The music is delightful, the cast plays their parts wonderfully. Ignore the historical inaccuracies and have fun. Looking forward to the DVD, I'd really like to see how they restored the deleted scenes, "},{"Title":"One of the last great Hollywood musicals","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I love big film musicals, but for some reason -- probably my disdain for history, fostered by dry high school teaching -- I never got around to seeing 1776 until now. I was surprised at how impressed, and moved, I was by it. To place what is, for the most part, a fairly accurate retelling of these amazing events within the Broadway (and film) musical format, and have it succeed brilliantly, is nothing short of amazing. The film still retains a few timeworn musical comedy conventions, and Ken Howard's portrayal of Thomas Jefferson is a bit weak, but overall 1776 is stirring and extremely entertaining. John Cullum's solo turn on Slaves to Rum is astounding. And those who know William Daniels mostly as K.I.T.T. in Knight Rider or Dustin Hoffman's father in The Graduate will get a shock -- he's absolutely perfect here as John Adams. This really is one of the last great Hollywood musicals. "},{"Title":"History At Its Best","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"    To me this movie is a paradox. I hate musicals and love history. Here I got to know John Adams who I used to just think of as the short president between the two tall presidents. It led me to study Mr. Adams and I feel 1776 introduced him to a lot of other people. Another character introduced to me, maybe not to the extent of John Adams was Cesar Rodney, now we all know why he is on the Delaware quarter. Was Ben Franklin as mischievous as he is portrayed? I think in reality, probably.  Although there is no plain history lesson here, we do learn of some of the feelings of those who signed the Declaration of Independence and some of their character. All in all this is a great movie and one of my favorites.   "},{"Title":"A musical the appeals to even the non-musical fan.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of musicals, but my spouse got me  hooked on this one.  Not only is it a joy to watch, but the story treats our founding fathers as people instead of demigods.  It's educational as well as fun.The recent DVD release of this film is amazing.  Importantfootage has been restored, and the sound quality is  greatly improved.I recommend this film to anybody.  It's just plain good.  "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST HISTORY LESSONS IN A LONG TIME","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  My wife and I both saw the movie when it first came out. it wasn't too long before we showed it to our two boys. We were both surprised at how well they got into the music and the plot. It was a blessing. . because my oldest boy was studying American History at the time, and it helped a lot. We took a trip to Washington, an while in the National Archives. we saw the pictures of all the Delegates on the ceiling, and low and behold, both our boys started to name off each one, and where each was from. I highly suggest each parent to watch this movie and show it to their children. "}{"Title":"A simply great movie.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favs.I first saw it in fifth grade and never forgot it.It isn't one of those historic films that portray our forefathers as Demi~Gods.It is an excellent tool in teaching children about the history behind the Declaration of Independence!  It makes it fun for children without them realizing they have just learned a lot!My 10y/o daughter can tell you most of the names of the men who signed the Declaration as well as the colonies they came from!  "},{"Title":"Must See Musical","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  For anyone interested in American History or just looking for some fun, 1776 is one of the most unexpected pleasures you will find. The songs are memorable. The characters are more charicatures than anything. You see the struggle as the nation fights to be born.Great pain was taken in the research of this play for it to be suprisingly historically accurate. Of course some liberties are taken, but overall it is an excellent guide to the creation of the Declaration of Independence.The scenes between John Adams and Abigale (letters as a conversation) are touching and fun. William KITT Daniels is excellent being lovable yet annoying as John Adams. Howard DaSilva is believable as Franklin, and Ken The White Shadow Howard was suprisingly great as Jefferson.John Northern Exposure Cullum's performance as Rutledge singing Rum to Slaves is a dark moment, but excellent.Even the minor nameless characters have golden moments, especially the courier who sings the song that will pull at your heart more than any as he reminisces about seeing his friends being killed around him.The cast is phenomenal. The music is beautiful. Enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Hooray for DVD","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to not only see the orignal touring company of this show but also to perform in a very special stage version (we closed on July 4th, 1976) and I have always enjoyed the film but with reservations because of the cuts and that unbearable pan and scan. But, joy upon joy, I just found out today that a director's cut of the fully restored (welcome back you cool, considerate men) is being released on dvd just in time for the 4th of July. I know before I even see it that it will be one of the most watched musicals in my dvd collection "},{"Title":"Made me enjoy American history for the 1st time!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This filmed play is greatly entertaining as well as historically  accurate. In an appendix to the book, the authors list all additions, deletions, and changes ... and the reasons for each. If you want to laugh and cry your way through history-in-the-making, this film is for you. "},{"Title":"A clever and imaginitive portrayal of our forefathers' struggle for freedom!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I really liked this one! When I found out it was going to be a musical...I was sure its integrity would be ruined. But the music made it all the more brilliant and beautiful. I think the cinematography was half its allure. Some of the camera angles and lighting, really dazzled. The musical numbers are catchy and none are overdone or tacky. Very simple and yet captures the viewer. John Adams, who it seems to be centered around, is portrayed as the stubborn revolutionary, a patriot who's views seem a bit radical. Ben Franklin, is a wise man of his years, who has an excellent sense of humor and infinite patience. I liked Thomas Jefferson too, but I think his character looked a little weak in comparison. And the whole part about his sex habits and wife was unnecassary. Other than a few weirdly out of place moments, I think this was a great film, worthy of being shown in schools to educate and provide some light-hearted entertainment.Oh and by the way...the real John Hanncock never said that bit about his signature and King George. "},{"Title":"A Historial Tour De Force","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This is the movie that influenced my choice of college major and just reading. I agree with some of my fellow/sister fans of this film in that you can't just watch it once. It is a must viewing especially for 4th of July. An easy dose of history played to music-a joy to the history buff and the novice. It fleshes out many of major players in the continental congress with excellent performances by William Daniels as John Adams, Blythe Danner in her debut broadway role as Martha Jefferson, Virginia Vestoff as Abigail Adams, James Noble of Benson fame as the Rev. John Witherspoon, Howard Dasilva as Benjamen Franklin . Almost all of the Broadway cast returned to do this movie and the performances shown brightly. Until the laser disk and DVD versions of this movie came out, the movie was scarred by some butchering by Warner Brothers on the request of then President Richard Nixon. Nixon in his later paranoia over the Liberals and Democrats in the late 1960's and up to Watergate, found the passages in the original play and film objectable as against Conservatives. Therefore Warner Bros. deleted scenes and one musical number Cool, Coo; Considerate Men from the film. I've read the playbook and have the original cast album and was always disappointed when viewing the film because of this butchering. I'm glad that it has been restored to it's true original self. A Tour de Force!! "},{"Title":"A Yearly Ritual","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Once a year, usually around July 4, I schedule a showing of 1776. Though fraught with historical inaccuracies and rife with silliness, ultimately this is a worthy and solid depiction of how American declared its independence.The large cast is introduced in the least unwieldy way, and are so individual one never has trouble remembering who everyone is. The cast is mainly brought from the Broadway success with some notable changes (such as James Noble, John Cullum and Howard Caine).  William Daniels seems born to play John Adams, and is worth watching through every scene he's in.  Howard da Silva also gives the performance of a long career. Ken Howard is not altogether convincing as Jefferson, but he's good.  The rest of the cast is on a wide spectrum of buffoonery;  but they generally come out respectably.For those afraid of musicals, the songs are mainly frontloaded, and are used to develop character or advance the plot.  The music is generally good and infectious.  The lyrics vary incredibly from the sublime to the maudlin. Occasionally, hearing one or another song for the first time, one may be tempted to think it's pretty dumb;  but later one finds one's self humming it.  The movie also grows more serious as the threat to the founding increases and as difficult issues are mooted, especially the still thorny problem of slavery and the slave trade (addressed in the moving song Molasses, Rum and Slaves sung by then Broadway sensation John Cullum, with better orchestration than was on the original cast album).For generations who have not yet experienced deconstruction and the deliberate, vicious knocking of the founders off their pedestals, it was a fun, lopsided view of men who were elevated to the status of, as Franklin puts it, demi-gods.  It's still fun, although the reputations of some of the men have been unfairly besmirched since the movie was made.  Seeing it for the first time at the turn of the twenty-first century, some might think it's mere piling on.  Others, who have been taught, incorrectly and despicably, that the Founders were racist white dead slaveowners (and whatever other invective adjectives I've forgotten), it presents them as well-meaning, often pleasant, sometimes petty but not deliberately cruel.For all its license, it's a good -- and fairly painless -- starter history lesson for those who are truly ignorant about 1) how America became a free and independent nation, and 2) how diplomacy works.  From the broad and perhaps inexact notion this movie gives of the Founders, one may move on individual researches with reference points.The best thing about the movie is the cinematography.  The camera sweeps around Independence Hall with astonishing fluidity.  The first time I saw 1776 I missed half the plot from an obsession with the camera-work.The worst thing is, at this writing a letterboxed version is not available on VHS or DVD.  The cropping is obvious, of uneven quality, and sometimes downright infuriating.  Also, the currently available VHS version is missing scenes available in laserdisk that were cut shortly after the movie's release.  In fact, a completely restored, letterboxed version of this movie should be made available.Most people probably will not -- and should not -- make this movie a tradition, but it is a much-maligned, misunderstood, underrated, and under-known classic that makes you feel, ultimately, the danger and courage and commitment of the men who risked their lives, fortunes, and sacred honor to form a nation based on Enlightenment ideology and individual liberty. "},{"Title":"Pretty solid on the historical accuracy part","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Great costumes, pretty good acting and a good way to attach personalities to the founding fathers when reading history. After the first viewing, I would recommend fast forwarding through the musical numbers.  Adams was chubbier and balder in life, but that is just nitpicking. The movie makes a point of showing that the signing of the Declaration of Independence was just the beginning of a long struggle. It also shows just how fragile the relationships between the colonies were at that time. Definitely worth watching if you are into American history. "},{"Title":"Excellent as a teaching tool for American History","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This has been a favorite movie of me and my family for years! We wait for it each year at 4th of July and other holidays. I have also used it as a teaching tool for the high school (watch out for language - depends on the age group). It makes the characters of the Congress come alive in a very real way! I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"They're -- gasp! -- SINGING?!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  First time I chanced upon 1776, I tuned in during the Declaration writing committee selection. There was William Daniels being his quality self, parrying barbs with everyone, and Ken Howard looking so young and strapping and so very, very tall, along with their fellows, all finely costumed. Such wonderful carriage is always worth a look, certainly.Then they broke into But, Mr. Adams and my jaw dropped. They're...SINGING? Not only singing, but dancing! The sight of gentlemen Franklin, Livingston, and Sherman (Da Silva, Myhers, Robbins) frolicking on the stairs...oh, did I laugh! How delightful! Not put off by the disappearance of Dr. Franklin's gout, I settled in to watch what happened next.This is a measure of the best of film. I was entertained and entralled. John Cullum's rendition of Molasses to Rum was chilling and thought-provoking.May Columbia/Tristar unearth the Pioneer laser disc and release a special edition on DVD soon.  "}{"Title":"Great historical musical","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  The dialogue is magnificent.  The blending of history, music, comedy, and drama is nonpareil.  Why anyone would prefer Oklahoma or Singing In the Rain or South Pacific to this is simply beyond me.  Anyone who has children should make it a priority to watch it with them -- two or three times if possible.  Age 10 would be a good time.  "},{"Title":"Best musical I've ever seen!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Normally I hate musicals. Too bloody boring and I usually can't stand the music. Not 1776. My admiration for US history + great movie with catchy music > good thing. And 1776 is definitely a good good thing. "},{"Title":"A Classic, despite J.L.'s meddling","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  1776 was Jack L. Warner's swansong and I'm sure, as with his purchasing of Music Man, My Fair Lady, and Camelot, that his intentions were good. However, his old studio mentality would not let the film, pretty much filmed to match the stage production, alone. So, he trimmed a bit here, cut a verse there and completely excised the Cool Considerate Men number in deference, so I've heard, to his good friend Richard Tricky Dick Nixon, who found it distasteful to Republicans. He also decided that there was no reason for a stereo track so the film was released with both it's wings, visual and aural, severly clipped. Fortunately, one of the assistant editors carefully hid away the removed sections from the workprints (J.L. had the removed negatives burned, as was his won't) so they could be discovered by the gents who lovingly restored the film for the Pioneer Laserdisc release. If you can get a hold of one of these LDs, you'll see the best version of this film, practically complete and in widescreen and stereo. Columbia/Tri-Star also released this version on LD, but without director's commentary.  A wonderful gem from a rather sparse and dry period in American film history that should be watched and loved over and over! "},{"Title":"Good songs, historically accurate, and a lot of fun.  Recommended for all!","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I am a US history buff and this movie is quite accurate historically.  Not only that, but it teaches history in the most charming of songs.  William Daniels does a marvelous job, as do the rest of the cast.  For those of us who like musicals and history, it is the best of both worlds. "},{"Title":"***","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Solid, enjoyable version of the Broadway musical highlighted by an ensemble cast that is spearheaded by William Daniels, Howard Da Silva and Ken Howard as Adams, Franklin and Jefferson, respectively. Funny and irreverent, yet respectful of its subject matter. Features wonderful songs, particularly the haunting Momma Look Sharp and the chilling rationalization of slavery Molasses to Rum (sung by John Cullum of Northern Exposure fame). "},{"Title":"Very true to the Broadway play.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I saw 1776 on stage before I saw the movie.  I was so impressed that I went out and bought the book, which included the script and the author's notes on the play.When I finally saw the film I was, to my great surprise, very pleased. The story, feeling and characterizations were true to my memories of the stage play and I was captivated once again.William Daniels (John Adams), Howard DaSilva (Benjamin Franklin) and Ken Howard (Thomas Jefferson) were certainly outstanding, but the whole cast was truly terrific.Whether you are a fan of musicals, a history buff, or just someone who likes movies, you should really see this film. "},{"Title":"Peter Hunt,if your out there....","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  An absolutely fabulous musical that is woefully underrated.If you have not seen the Pioneer special edition laser version of this film,believe me,you haven't seen it unless you were fortunate enough to be at the premiere at Radio City Music Hall back in '72 when the full version was played for one day until it was mercilessly cut.Please Peter Hunt,if your out there,so much work and care was brought to the laser version,especially your commentary,please,please don't let it die there.We need this masterpiece on DVD so that we can all own as pristine a copy as possible.Bob "},{"Title":"An overlooked and underrated movie","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Despite this being a musical, it is one of the most realistic cinematic treatments of this period of history. The Founding Fathers, usually thought of as some kind of cardboard icons cut from a historical textbook, are delightfully portrayed as regular people with faults, fears, humor, and sexuality. Franklin and Adams are the perfect comedic team, trading barbs with each other as they try to start an unlikely revolution--probably not too different from how it really happened. The Revolutionaries were just that--more rebellious scoundrels than the revered nobleman they have come to be thought of today. William Daniels as Adams gives one the finest performances of his career, one that is often overlooked for his work on TV. To me it's his signature role.Amazingly, the film is always interesting even though we know how it's going to end. We all know that the Declaration of Independence was passed by the colonies, but what's interesting is how it got there despite what initially seemed to be impossible odds.The songs add much to the humor of the show. Not only is it a laugh seeing these historical characters break into song and dance, but also the lyrics are quite clever and music memorable. There are also a good number of more dramatic songs, and a moving love ballad between John and Abigail Adams, with lyrics taken from their actual letters to each other. The Momma Look Sharp number, an anti-war song about a mother searching for her dead son, is an obvious allusion to Vietnam considering the picture was made in 1972.Unfortunately, the movie released on video is missing about 40 minutes of footage that was deleted after initial screenings to cut down on the length of the picture. Bits and pieces are cut from several scenes and songs, but the most damaging deletion is the entire song Cool Considerate Men which kind of explains the antagonist position, and when omitted much of the subsequent action loses impact and sometimes doesn't even make sense. Also, it was shot in wide screen cinemascope, using full advantage of the wide frame, so it doesn't transfer too well to pan and scan TV format--entire characters are lopped off the edges of the frame, especially in The Egg number--the interaction among Adams, Jefferson and Franklin sitting side by side is completely ruined. So if at all possible, see the complete widescreen uncut picture available on laserdisc. Once you see the uncut version it will really be hard to watch the edited pan and scan video version. The laserdisc even has a newly remixed stereo surround soundtrack--something that wasn't even heard in the original theatrical presentation.  "},{"Title":"Patriots and musical-lovers will be enraptured!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This comedic musical about the framing of the Declaration of Independence uses humor and song to relatively accurately portray the Founding Fathers framing the Constitution.  Along with the Framing are hilarious anecdotes that serve as refreshing, intelligent humor amidst battles over gaining permission to revolt all the way through to the dreaded slavery issue.  Any American History buff will LOVE it! "},{"Title":"A funny, witty, and harmonious look at American Independence","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This film is truly an entertaining piece of work!  The mixture of history, humor, and wit, alongside great film work and a wonderful sense of realism; this is one of my favorite musicals.  You will feel immersed in an 18th century world while you are entertained to your hearts content.  Ben Franklin is portrayed quite well&#133; not to mention Adams and Jefferson. Good God! "}{"Title":"A magnificent throwback","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Actually, the first film I ever saw in a cinema. I was thoroughly entertained by the humor, music, and drama. As time went on, I discovered that it was more historically accurate than I had thought, although I rather doubt that the delegates did much singing and dancing in foul, fetid, foggy, fuming, filthy Philadelphia! (Sorry, Philly, I'm just quoting one of the songs!)The music was a throwback to earlier Hollywood musicals, The songs were sung with patriotic passion and zeal by the wonderfully casted actors. Howard DaSilva is a magnificent Franklin. Ron Howard is an understated Jefferson, but there are scenes where he shows a fire burning with the love of his country, (and his wife, Blythe Danner.) William Daniels' Adams is unstoppable in his single mindedness. He will stop at nothing to sever our ties to Great Britain.The line that stuck with meFranklin We're a new nationality. We require a new nation! All in all, a 10! "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I found it wonderfully entertaining and at the same time educational.  At first I thought it was going to be all singing, but the dialogue was excellent.  Humorous, historical, simply delightful.  Definitely a must see. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Dramatic, Great Tunes","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I was aware of this play for a long time, and before every having seen or read it, I recommended it to my high school (we did wizard of oz instead).  I finally got to see the movie on cable and immediately was floored by it.  Luckily I was able to get the restored Laserdisc version, which is not only the proper aspect ratio (the director used the whole frame fairly often) but it has a lot of footage restored, including the song Cool Cool Considerate Men which is often seen as the centerpiece of the 2nd act.There's some good trivia with this one too.  Howard Da Silva, who plays Franklin was once a blacklisted actor during the whole red scare thing. Jack Warner made many of the cuts to the theatrical version of the film (some 40 minutes) while the director was away.  They were restored to the film for the special laserdisc edition after it was discovered that his secretary had cut the parts into short strips and hidden them rather than burn them as Warner had requested.  These included the song Cool Considerate Men, which it is supposed Warner disliked because they bad guys in this case sing a song about keeping to the right and such. Anyway...great film, great performances, great great great. "},{"Title":"How Could I Have Missed This!?!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I had never ever heard of the movie or the play until 1993 when the community theatre in my area did a production of it. My college professor was John Adams! I fell instantly in love with it, astounded that it had been around for a long time and I hadn't heard anything of it. Being a backstage techie, I got to learn all the wonderful songs by heart, then was told about the movie version (another thrilling surprise) starring William Daniels (loved him since St. Elsewhere). It was so fab! The first time upon watching it, I found myself easily singing along with the cast. Every song's a treat, but my utmost favorite is Sit Down, John. Though, I also adore The Lees of Old Virginia, Momma Look Sharp, and Is Anybody There. I heard they cut Cool, Considerate Men from the film due to overlength. It was sorely missed by me, and was needed to balance to what John Dickinson stood for, as we already knew John Adams' standing. But I still loved the film (and the great stage play)!! "},{"Title":"A musical interpretation of the creation of the Declaration of Independence","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Growing up, I had the pleasure of seeing William Daniels performing on-stage in the national touring company of 1776, and I fell in love with the musical and the performance. It is still one of my favorite musicals, and I'm still sorry that we were not able to perform it while I was in High School (we had a great men's section in choir and would have done a great job).Unfortunately, I was always disappointed in the movie version. Yes, it had some great performances, but had some of the musical numbers (or pieces of numbers) cut out. To me, it lost some if its impact with the loss of those numbers.But recently, I came across a laser disc of a restored version of the movie. I had always thought that they just didn't film all of the numbers (a common practice in musicals...just look at how different the Broadway version of West Side Story is from the movie), but they did film the whole musical...they just cut some of the numbers.This restored cut isn't perfect, most of the restored material is not in great shape, but it gives a better impression of how the musical was supposed to look. Finally, a full version of He Plays the Violin and the inclusion of one of my favorite numbers Cool, Cool, Considerate Men.Search out the restored cut. Even though it is rough, it is worth it!To me, I will always associate William Daniels with John Adams (just like most of us associate George C. Scott with George Patton). Probably my favorite William Daniels moment from St. Elsewhere was when his character on that show (while visiting Philadelphia) started singing music from 1776 (It's hot as hell in Philadelphia!) "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  It's really one of the best musicals ever put on film and sadly overlooked. William Daniels is marvelous and the fact of the matter is that it is one of the only films that portrays ANY of the heroes of the American Revolution. Strange isn't it? How many Wyatt Earp films have there been, but this is the only true showing of Franklin, Adams, Jefferson, Hancock et al in screen history!Worth watching! "},{"Title":"A musical version dedicated to the efforts of the Continental Congress to create the United States","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  1776 was, before it was set to the silver screen, a very successful musical play on the Broadway stage and was performed many times on the road. But, the movie does depict the struggles of the Congress to form the United States from the 13 Colonies, and thus forge a new nation based on the ideas of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.From the opening session of Congress in Philadelphia in May, 1776, the viewer is taken back to history to watch the unfolding and struggles that the delegates had to overcome in order to forge this nation.  Granted, some of the history may have been altered, but the watching of John Adams, as portrayed by William Daniels, Benjamin Franklin (Howard Da Silva) and Thomas Jefferson (Ken Howard) in their efforts to successfully get a declaration of independence passed unanimously can be appreciated over and over again. The musical numbers add a superb blending of comedy and history, and the settings can only make Americans appreciate the efforts of the leaders for freedom from England.  A definite 9/10 and one to see over and over. "},{"Title":"Only one word for it -- brilliant!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  The play deserved its Pulitzer Prize, and the movie -- which thankfully kept the Broadway cast intact -- is almost as good. (Get the restored version if you can.) It's a rare delight to see any movie, especially a musical, that isn't dumbed down to the 8-year-old level. "},{"Title":"Superb, but not everyone's cup of tea","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Clever, witty, entertaining, thought-provoking and memorable.  Some think the songs are silly and a distraction (I like most of them myself), but the play itself is brilliant.  1776, like Apollo 13, is the rare movie that maintains suspense despite the fact that everyone knows how it's going to end from the opening credits.Still, it is not a movie for everyone.  The members of the Continental Congress are portrayed warts and all.  Many viewers may find this disturbing, or even downright unpatriotic during some of the sillier songs. Hero John Adams may be the least likable character in the movie while villains like Rutledge and Dickenson are quite sympathetic at times.How these vain, flawed men came together and put their lives, fortunes, and sacred honor on the line to form a country under the most trying circumstances imaginable is one of the finest stories of the millennium. See it live on stage if you can; rent the movie if you can't.  Should be required viewing in every high school American History class. "},{"Title":"Witty, amusing, very fun","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I love this Movie! It gives you a whole new view of history, portraying real people insted of stiff historical figures.  The singing is wonderful and often hilarious.  The movie really brings the Philadelphia of the 1700s to life.  "}{"Title":"The first Continental Congress tries to come up with the Declaration Of Independence and a new set of laws.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  An excellent movie for all to see. Sure, it may be educational and boring to some, but it is worth watching. The songs are great and it is interesting to see how the Declaration of Independence was created for our freedom. The casting for all the characters was an excellent choice. William Daniels does a great job as John Adams (With aggressiveness like that, who can argue?) Howard Da Silva plays the humble Benjamin Franklin who plays a crucial part throughout the movie. David Ford (John Hancock) is an interesting casting call for this movie.All in all, it was well-liked by me and should be seen by those who are history buffs and those who are just interested in the movie.Hey, it's better than sitting through U.S. History class.Rory Aronsky  "},{"Title":"Corny Yet Endearing","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Synposis The founding fathers sing their way to independence. Tumult and Revolution The year was 1969. Turmoil reigned; an unpopular war raged in South East Asia. Division between right and left threatened civil war. The midst of this strife seemed the worst possible moment to celebrate the bicentenial, the country's birth in a war. Yet author Sherman Edwards toiled to recreate the Declaration of Independence in a musical. Driven in hysteria to Philadelphia in the middle of the night to pray at Dr Franklin's grave for inspiration, Edwards scripted 1776 in a frenzy. The product, singing and dancing congressmen, who sung off the British yoke might have been just as corny. The end result was test aired on the Ed Sullivan Show. A command performance at the Nixon White House passed muster. The motion picture joined a very select minority which beat the curse against American Revolution films. Though fraught with trivial inaccuracies and rife with giddy silliness, the film tracks the nuances by which Franklin gently ramrodded the Declaration to a narrow. It's a good introduction to the silly speeches side of the war. John Adams An Unlikely Hero The play daringly makes a villain of American history, John Adams the hero. Long associated with neo-royalist Federalist oppression and persecution, Adams never attained recognition for nobler moments. Most credit went to the brooding philosopher Jefferson. A neo-conservative revival argued for a greater dignity for John Adams. Much could be said for Adams the patriot. And the view of both Adamses is up close and personal. If the movie claims homebound simplicity for Mrs Adams, more than legend asserts Mrs Adams not Mr served in fact as the second US president. And a rather glib one at that, Abigail openly advocated women's rights. An excellent performance by William Daniels as John Adams, a man short in stature but not without a certain obnoxious charm was nicely complimented by Virginia Vestoff as Abigail Adams. Both did justice to these dynamic people. William Daniels, John Adams reincarnate, would return to the Adams character in PBS' Adams family chronicles and again in John Jakes' THE BASTARD. Authorship of the Declaration The declaration is always attributed to Jefferson but others certainly had a hand in it. Fans of Thomas Paine say the basic text comes lifted from Common Sense. In Common Sense Paine suggested a declaration which says pretty much the same as that now on parchment under glass. Even if the text were not original, the ruffles and flourishes undoubtedly flowed from Jefferson's quill. The Icons Dance to Life Yet, although the play strives for a measure of historical accuracy, in deriving dialogue from documents and letters, the screen play does not become so much of a political science lecture that it ignores the emotions of this important moment. Turning icons to flesh and blood, the play presents real people with real worries and real feelings and unleashes the demi-gods from the marble in which history has ensconced them. The men and women who were in Jefferson's words an assemblage of demi-gods are granted that human face, occasionally with a touch of wit and humor, without besmirching their accomplishments.The Music of 1776 Great costumes and superb acting might attach personalities to the founding fathers but 1776's music rings a cacophonic note when first heard. The music of 1776 sounds like late music hall era of Gilbert and Sullivan knock-offs. Only the haunting melody Momma Look Sharp, an anti-war song, could be mistaken for a colonial aria. Cool Cool Conservative Men, the center-piece of the Second Act in the play cut from the movie at the insistence of Jack Warner comes close to a period song, The Liberty Song. As in The Liberty Song, the stirring bars of 'To Acheron in Heaven' just pop out. The Cool Cool Conservative Men Cool, Cool Conservative Men expounds the Tory position. Music develops character, compliments dialogue and advances the plot right up to Molasses, Rum and Slaves sung by John Cullum (Edward Rutledge), a chilling rationalization of the peculiar system. History vs Film The movie and American history in general miss the real controversy brewing between the obsequious Washington and the Congress. Washington pled for more more men, more money and more guns to build a professional army to face the British. Congress, though not without the invisible hand of backstage maneuvering, enacted the declaration in euphoria over the legends of the deeds of part-time untrained militia at Concord and Lexington on April 19th, 1775. Though that dates stands to this date on the US Army colors, the British accomplished the search and destroy mission which the Americans failed to interdict. A Nation and A Nationality We're a new nationality. We require a new nation! declares Dr Ben Franklin (Howard DeSilva.) Particularly perfect to the part of Dr Franklin whose humility masks cunning as a politician of the backstairs. How ironic! The Franklin template fits well on DeSilva blacklisted during the Red Scare of the 1950s. There may yet arise a wiser generation spared the experience of the destruction, iconoclasm and devaluation of the American past which stemmed from the tumultuous 1960s and 1970s. This film might serve as a useful starting point in building the future. "},{"Title":"It stunned me that the second half could be so bad when the first half was so good","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" At the end of 1776, I was restless, extremely bored, and stunned into disbelief. What shocked me was not the way some of the most important men and events in American history were presented in this film, but what had happened the joyfully self-parodying part-comedy that I had been enjoying so boundlessly just an hour and a half before. At the beginning 1776, I was giggling, slapping my knee, and even humming along to some admittedly campy but delightful songs. It did not bother me that John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, among others were being represented as clowning windbags. I was having a good time. And I kept on laughing for about an hour and twenty minutes. Then the film changed gears, the songs lost all their punch, and Director Peter H. Hunt completely abandoned his sense of pacing.1776 is based on the phenomenally successful stage musical that ran on Broadway for three years. It was directed by the same man and features most of the same cast. Two of the actors--Ralston Hill and Charles Rule--made their only film appearances in this movie. Being a musical, the stage production--and film--was part-comedy, so the dialogue pokes fun at the Founding Fathers of the United States. John Adams, as played by William Daniels, is an unctuous and arrogant little man with a dream of independence. Howard Da Silva plays Ben Franklin as a big-hearted, enigmatic old man. Thomas Jefferson is presented by Ken Koward as a dreamy-eyed writer who would rather rush home to his wife in Virginia than stay and write the Declaration of Independence. There's even Roy Poole, played exuberantly by Stephen Hopkins, who needs to have the rum hidden from him during all congressional meetings. These caricature performances unquestionably will, and have, angered some. But that did not irk me. I didn't even have any qualms with the movie's implication that Thomas Jefferson overcame writer's block by kicking John Adams and Ben Franklin out of his house while he had sex with his wife. There's a classic moment where he gives Adams a letter saying that he'll write the Declaration after he takes his wife back to bed, so please go away. All Adams can say with a dry voice is Incredible! Franklin, meantime, chuckles under his breath.In fact, the caricatures were part of what made me enjoy the first half of the movie so much. These actors are clearly have the time of their lives poking fun at American figures. In particular, Mr. Daniels is very entertaining as John Adams. The way he struts around like a proud peacock, his cane always thrusting at his side, and never changes his expression once be he angry, excited, or even remorseful. It is a shame that this very-good actor is basically unknown in the world of film outside of this film and The Graduate. The banter that Mr. Daniels and Mr. Da Silva have is giddily funny, as the latter's laid-back personality counteracts the former's sternness...even if it is hard to believe that a man this lazy and care-free could have had the patience to invent the lightning conductor.I was also getting a kick out of the cheesy songs. There is one sung by Ron Holgate (as Richard Henry Lee) in which he quips his surname to adjectives, such as certain-Lee! and absolute-Lee! Sure, it's goofy, but it's consciously goofy. The opening number, Sit Down, John! is also good. And although I could not quote the lyrics, the resurfacing number that plays when John Adams and his wife (Virginia Westoff) has a very soothing and uplifting musical score in the background which I found intoxicating to listen to over and over again. In fact, I found myself pretending there was no singing, just the music.So there's some joyous acting, giddy songs, and big laughs. The only problem is that that only lasts for the first part of the picture. After that point, when Congress goes into a heated, several-reel debate about independence, does the movie lose its head. There are some great moments, such as when Adams, Jefferson, and Franklin stand up against those who wish to remove the clause absolving slavery. A bold move on the filmmakers' part is not placing an African American anywhere in sight, but talking about them and the issue. However, the rest of the sequence is just dry with what looks like static rehearsal shots filmed from too far away where some close-ups would heighten a sense of claustrophobia.Furthermore, and for the worse, the songs go sour and double their numbers. Characters with little purpose take unneeded possession of center stage. The key example is an unbearably dull song featuring the secretary McNair (William Duell) and a recurring Army scout. The drab lyrics, coupled with over-emphasized candle lighting, drag the scene out without mercy. Equally boring is a midway number where opposition to the Declaration step out into the streets and enunciates instantly forgettable lines. The subject matter? I can't remember, and I'm not ashamed to admit it. That is the mark of a bad song, when you cannot even recall the subject. Whereas I can instantly tell you that Rum and Molasses was about the slavery issue and The Egg was about getting Congress to approve the Declaration.The second half of the movie, shot in excessive wide-angles, peters out and destroys all of the momentum, energy, and zest that infused the first part. Even the final scene, composed of nothing but the Congressmen writing their names, goes on forever. 1776 is one of those films that I really wish I could say I liked, because I did for quite a while. And it stunned me that the second half could be so bad when the first half was so good. "},{"Title":"Gentlemen may cry 'Peace!  Peace!'...","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" ...but there is no peace. The War has actually begun! Sayeth Patrick Henry at the Virgina Convention in March of 1775. He ended that speech with Give me Liberty or give me Death! That speech and character are not represented in this film, but that spirit is encapsulated in this film telling a version of the founding of my great nation, the United States of America.The creation of both the Declaration of Independence and the United States from the thirteen colonies is one of struggle and bloodshed, with great sweeping rhetoric that bound, loosely sometimes, the various national identities and hearts and minds of those thirteen colonies. The film is basically shot, but shows the raw energy of how those representatives of those lands from two and a half centuries ago, energized themselves with the great cause of removing the British Crown and its parliament from their everyday affairs.Peter Hunt's direction is superb. Pans, dolly shots, and otherwise basic lensing brings us a play like experience for an intimate and frank look at the personalities and disagreements of the leadership in the year of 1776. We see the great men of the time who had accomplished much, and had been chosen for their accomplishments to represent and guide the future of those whose ancestry hailed from England, but who now found themselves a new nationality. For the most part the film remains in the congressional hall in Philadelphia. There are some variants in location, but mostly we stay within the chamber of debate and hear the passions of the likes of Franklin, Jefferson, Adams, and others. We see and hear their minds, but are also exposed to the opposition. And from this we get a glimpse of how things might have transpired during those heady times of social change.My family fought in the revolution, and under direct command of Washington, so I get a bit of a thrill seeing this film. When I compare the ideals and values of that time with the current state of the United States and globalization, I shake my head. At present there is an effort to break down borders to create a global society where trade rules and mends all social rifts. But since that thinking has taken hold, starting here in the US I'll add, we've seen more domestic massacres, a rise in crime and criminality, a wanton separation of peoples through creation of social and disorders of mind and body, and more wars across the globe with higher degrees of savagery than ever experienced since the days of the Indian Wars or before the Roman Empire. A creation of a state of wanton endangerment by creating adversarial challenges on a personal level, relegating social injustice to a perception of mind, flies in the face of this nation's values of freedom, justice, and the pursuit of happiness.For the inter-connectivity courtesy of technology, I am baffled as to how those (doctors mostly) who envisioned a global community (nation if you like) saw that goal gybing with the values and ideals expressed in 1776. Values expressed in our most sacred documents. The Declaration of Independence. The Constitution of the United States. The ideals created and codified by the characters in this film were meant for Americans. Would Jefferson or Adams think it a good thing that the US destroy social and political borders for the sake of world peace at the cost of disregarding core fundamental American ideals? I somehow doubt it. Yet those who would initiate change for our preservation have been corralled and de-fanged via the change in our social dynamic. It is underhanded, designed to preserve peace at the cost of freedom. What did Jefferson write? Something about dying as free men rather than to live as slaves? That may be a lesson needing a revisit on the those who have fashioned our global world today.And that makes this film even more valuable and endearing, even though it is a musical out of the Golden Era Hollywood tradition. We see men of the time battling wits and expressing their beliefs. That's what 1776 is all about. That makes it noteworthy. Not historically accurate, but accurate enough.Daniel's expression of Adam's is, in spirit I think, superb. DeSilva's Doctor Benjamin Franklin is also perhaps engaged appropriately with the spirit of that great man, though I must admit, I never thought that the real Benjamin Franklin to be a baritone. Just me. The other characters are also full of life, and well thesped, particularly Ken Howard's intellectual Thomas Jefferson, whose confidence and frustration are well presented in this piece. No actor misses a single beat. The musical numbers seem marginally out of sync with the kind of movie this might have been, but they help bring added life to an already lively snapshot of a great moment in American and World history.Enjoy.Post Script; Patrick Henry got one of two things he demanded. It was not liberty. "},{"Title":"One of the best Broadway to Hollywood musicals ever made.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Film takes place in June and July, 1776, and shows how the Continental Congress came to create and sign the Decelaration of Independence. And it's a musical too! I saw this in 6th grade--it was released then and our teacher took the entire class to see it. She hoped it would help us learn history. Unfortunately getting a bunch of 6th graders to see a 2 1/2 hour movie did not work. I remember being bored silly and I couldn't wait for it to end. But, seeing it as an adult, I was totally engrossed.The story is never boring. You obviously know how it's going to end but I found all the debates and discussions fascinating. The songs themselves are excellent. There are a few clunkers but most work especially The Lees of Old Virginia and He Plays the Violin (even though Blythe Danner's singing can't match Betty Buckley's from the original Broadway show). Also the DVD version has 25 minutes of extra material including an entire song (Cool Considerate Men) that was deleted by the request of then president Richard Nixon! The acting is uniformly great. They got almost the entire Broadway cast to do this so they had their roles down pat. No one is bad but special mention must be made of William Daniels (John Adams),; Howard Da Silva (Benjamin Franklin) and David Ford (John Hancock).This may not be for the kids. There is some mild cursing and plenty of sexual double ententes and crude humor--but that will probably fly over their heads. They'd probably just be bored! I'm really surprised this got a G rating in 1972 (it's PG now).My only real complaint is it gets a little long (especially in the 3 hour version) and most of the songs come at the end--they weigh the film down a little. Still this is well worth seeing. A huge bomb in 1972 but now considered a great movie.There are tons of very funny lines in this but here's one of the best--John Adams is complaining to Franklin about his crude humor. Franklin's response is Don't worry John. The history books will clean it up. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Don't be put off by the subject matter.  This is a masterpiece of the American stage and cinema.  The score is beautifully integrated with the action. It is funny and daring.  None of the talented cast delivers a bad performance.  Stand outs are William Daniels as Adams, Howard Desilva as Franklin, and John Cullum as Ruteledge.  This is the masterwork of its creator Sherman Edwards who spend thousands of hours working on authenticity so sit back and enjoy...and not just in July! "},{"Title":"Totally made history come alive for me!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I first saw 1776 as a stage play on broadway back when I was 13 years old. The original reason I even went to see it in the first place was because an actress from my favorite tv show, Dark Shadows, was in the cast and I wanted to see and meet her (Virginia Vestoff).  Well, I fell in love with the show and I've been seeing it as often as possible ever since!  As someone who had always been bored by what my schools tried to pass off as history lessons, I was thoroughly entertained the entire time and it inspired me to read and learn more about that era of American history.  I am happy to say that the movie is very faithful to the play and I love it equally as well.  The songs are wonderful, the satire is biting and hilarious and the acting is terrific.  I had an instant teenage crush on both William Daniels and Ken Howard when I saw them on broadway and they are still favorites of mine. The only musical number I actually prefer in the stage setting vs the movie is Momma Look Sharp. Some of the impact of that song was lost to me by the distraction of how they filmed it.  It still brought tears to my eyes though, as it always had (and probably always will). "},{"Title":"Saltpeter, John!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I first saw this movie in the eighth grade back in 1976. The movie, based on the Broadway play, was made in 1972, with an all-star cast, including William Daniels as John Adams and Ken Howard as Thomas Jefferson. The movie, like the play, is about the signing of the Declaration of Independence, which was signed between July 4, 1776, and January 1781. The summary of this review, (see above, ^) is Abigail Adams' reply to a letter from her husband, John, who was in Philadelphia, attending the Second Continental Congress. Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and John Adams were the committee formed to write it. In the end, it was Jefferson who wrote it, and it was voted on by the full Continental Congress on July 4, 1776. "},{"Title":"We Must Hang Together.  Or We Shall Surely Hang Separately.","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Yeah, it's cute.  It hits more than it misses, despite some of the dialogue sounding contrived, or a little too formal for the wacky comedy we're supposed to be watching (no doubt because it was cribbed from too many actual quotes).Midway through the movie, one of the kids cleaning up the Congressional courthouse sings a song about he's comin' home to mama.  Don't know the context of the stage production, but it drags the film right down and serves no purpose, adding in a character then yanking him right back out, never to be seen again.  I had teachers fast forward through this scene during high school viewings.The blocking, costumes and sets are competent enough, though Peter Hunt seems more comfortable with the comedy than the motivations (or the romance)... the comedy is light and hysterical, but when it changes gears to get romantic, it DRAGS because we've got no emotional investment in these characters, except for their portraits on our money.The rest rides the line between slapstick and fierce politicking... hardly high entertainment, but when you hear the conservative rhetoric oozing out of Pennsylvania, you have to stop and think, Dude, that guy sounds JUST like Rush Limbaugh.Weird.  9/10. "},{"Title":"The best cheesy seventies musical available.  My favorite!","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I have watched this film since I was four years old.  I remember coming home from kindergarten and requesting that my mother play it in our VCR. William Daniels is the best young John Adams I have seen.  He is an underrated actor and this is an extremely underrated movie. "}{"Title":"Benjamin Franklin and John Adams, what a pair!!!!","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  Forget the music; forget the to and fro between Abigail and John.  The lines of the Declaration of Independence signers, as they are provoked and pleaded with by Adams and Franklin are wonderful.  And once more into the breach, Franklin's words are heard today He who swaps freedom for security deserves neither.  (And will lose both).Thomas Jefferson is characterized as a gentle giant, overcome with lust for his wife, but finally gets out the Declaration.  The many, many changes made are not as impressive as the last one.  Without cutting off Jefferson's repudiation of slavery, the South would not have signed.  Led by South Carolina, the rest of the delegation did indeed walk out.  The guy from Georgia however, caught between voting the will of his statespeople and his own conscience, finally came down on the side of conscience.Show this to your civics classes.  Oh, you no longer teach Civics?   well then, how about showing it to your World History class.  That neither is taught?  Then, American History, it belongs in.  Find out about each of these brave, sometimes stubborn men and what lengths Adams had to go to to get them to sign.  We were once a great country with people far less corrupt than now.  Although the soldiers starving at Valley Forge while these guys complained about the heat in Philadelphia and swatted flies was somewhat discomfiting.Good movie.  Wonder why the story of the Declaration of Independence and how it came to be signed can't be made straight, without the pitiful attempt at making it a musical. "},{"Title":"One Complaint","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  The characters are well-developed, the music is lively, and, for all the humor and artistic license, the script is surprisingly accurate in at least the broader details, with parts of the dialogue drawn from actual quotes by the historic individuals.  The writers and producers seem to have the general chronology and key events of the Declaration correct.Even Adams' and Jefferson's rather overt (for 1972) discussion on sexual prowess is palatable.  My complaint is really one of irony  I find it odd that the characters feel free to take the Lord's name in vain (Adams' repeated Good God! and McNair's equally repetitive Sweet Jesus!), yet when actually *referring* to God, they use synonyms (The Supreme Being The Almighty Divine Providence).  I suppose it's debatable whether this is the way the Founders actually talked; they probably did.  Nonetheless, it was this profanity which jarred an otherwise fairly enjoyable film.  Not only was it all totally unnecesaary, but it will keep me from showing it to my kids, where it would have served as a light and reasonably entertaining introduction to that period of history.Apart from that, it's a good film; not great, but good to have on in the background and to watch in spurts throughout. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but flawed","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  This would have been much better done as a non-musical. The songs seem an intrusion into the story line. Daniels (Adams)seems embarrassed to be participating in some numbers. The only actors who seem to be having any fun are DaSylva (Franklin)and Ron Holgate (R.H. Lee).As far as historical accuracy - good in the Congressional scenes, but some events are needfully telescoped to fit into the time frame. One wonders why the Sherman and Livingston roles were stressed early in the Declaration Committee scene only never to be heard from again. Probably just to stage another silly and pointless musical number.A few supporting actors shone in minor roles. Hats off to Ralston Hill as Congressional Secretary Tompson, William Duell as custodian Andrew McNair and Roy Poole as Rhode Island Congressman Hopkins.Overall, an entertaining movie if one can overlook the ludicrous singing and dancing. "},{"Title":"A musical history lesson.","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Or a historical music lesson... I just can't decide which this is. 1776 is the film version of a successful Broadway musical of the same name. And maybe that's why I cannot support it completely. There are just too many songs, and the historical figures and facts just kind of get shouted down. That isn't to say that the film fails to entertain. It is more than entertaining, and has quite a few memorable moments.The plot is simply a musical re-telling of how delegates from the 13 original colonies voted on American independence and attempted to hash out a Declaration of Independence. This would not be an easy task as each colony has its own ideals and some of these delegates are staunchly pro-England. The ringleader of the move for independence is John Adams, played here triumphantly by William Daniels. At his side in many scenes is Benjamin Franklin who is also skillfully portrayed by Howard Da Silva. There aren't too many other familiar faces in the cast, as many of these were mostly stage actors and have long-since passed away. Look out for James Noble as Rev. Witherspoon who heads the New Jersey delegation. He played the governor on the TV show Benson for years. A pretty young Blythe Danner is on hand as Thomas Jefferson's wife. I speculated that she might have a young Gwynneth Paltrow growing inside her during the filming of this, and the trivia section of this site confirms just that.1776 is an entertaining film. For me it just had too many songs, and not all of them are that memorable. The film fires on all cylinders when it focuses on the debates between delegates and the urgency of their decision. We are constantly reminded that the war effort led by George Washington is going poorly, and the congress needs to come to a decision and get behind the cause on independence if he is to have a chance. Once the Declaration is finished, the film hits its best note. Roll is called, and all of the delegates from each colony move front and center to sign it. A very moving moment indeed! Another note of interest is the large amount of sexual innuendo in this film. Even though it is theoretically a family film, there are all sorts of references to these men screwing their wives! Even in the middle of some of the songs! Kinda funny, if you ask me! Franklin in particular is portrayed as almost a dirty old sex maniac! 7 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Sit Down, John","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" Absolutely brilliant musical with a spectacular cast including William Daniels, Ken Howard, Howard De Silva and so many more ABSOLUTELY RUINED by the ham handed direction of Peter Hunt.The songs are great, the performances are terrific, the script rocks, but somehow Hunt managed to wreck what should have been a great movie by poor shot selection, doing quick headache inducing zoom ins and zoom outs, and basically shooting this great, great musical like a junior high student who just got his first super 8 camera.I love this musical and saw the film cast when they toured in the show as they prepped for the film. But I find this film virtually unwatchable. "},{"Title":"Really?  A '70's movie?","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":"  I can't believe it!  A movie made in the '70's that has a marvelous plot, hilarious characters, decent filming, and believable situations!1776 amazed and impressed me so much.  Benjamin Franklin surely is the cream of the crop in this movie.  Like Donkey is to Shrek, so Franklin is to 1776.  He is a very witty, hilarious character.  His one-liners will have you roaring, his attitude will make you burst, and his affection for the ladies... is pretty darn amusing.The music is rather annoying.  The movie is based on a Broadway play, so of course a lot of singing will be involved.  Some of the songs are downright funny, but others are very tedious and just plain stupid.  I'd have to say that the songs are more detrimental than helpful for the movie.The plot is well designed (what better than watching a bunch of bumbling idiots argue for hours and not get anywhere?), the story is overall neat and tidy (nothing useless thrown in... unless you count the stupid songs), and the characters are well made.I would recommend this movie to just about anybody.  Even if you're not much into history, like me, this movie should give you a good laugh.  The characters are very unique, have so many flaws and quirks that conflict so much.The ending is very somber and actually kind of chilling... a nice end to this tale. "},{"Title":"Witty dialogue, great photography -- but HORRIBLY directed","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" The songs are mostly mediocre Mama Look Sharp is cringeworthy, while Does Anybody Care and He Plays the Violin are almost as embarrassing. Dear Mr Adams has the best lyrics of the score, with some amusing if elementary rhymes (and one embarrassing moment of choreography). The intended showstopper Molasses To Rum To Slaves isn't too bad either. The TCM broadcast included the number Cool, Considerate Men which had been cut from the 1972 release (allegedly b/c Nixon wanted it (?)... Did he really think a movie song might cost him votes? He must've thought the movie would be a big hit rather than the box office flop it was). Like Molasses. Cool is better musically than lyrically, but it is interestingly choreographed and the closest thing in the film to actual CINEMATIC film-making (most of the direction is awful, though I'll admit there is a perverse pleasure in counting examples of inept direction Look! There's William Daniels sitting stiffly on the table, just as he must have done on Broadway in order to break up the staging! Look, there's the messenger delivering the messages with the exact expression on his face each time!).However, Cool is very disingenuous in attempting to link the anti- rebellion group with contemporary conservatives. This analogy doesn't hold -- Alexander Hamilton was as pro-independence as anyone, yet he was more conservative than most of the English nobles he was fighting.The saving graces of 1776 remains screenwriter Peter Stone's witty repartee and the brilliant cinematography of Harry Stradling Jr. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" I guess you have to give some points for the sheer courage of writing a musical around a history lesson but how about some decent music? Is the cartoonish acting of Howard DeSilva meant to pique the interest of otherwise jaded children? Is William Daniels' campy contemporary (for the time) acting style meant to appeal to a 1960s/70s demographic? Do we need all the in-jokes about NY & NJ? (I can hear the blue-haired Broadway audience guffawing on cue.) Sorry, I find the whole piece dated, boring & the acting far too strident for the screen "},{"Title":"History and musicals two of my favorite things.","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, History","Review":" But this movie was a bore. The history part was fine but the musical part was not. Not one song I cared about and no soundtrack to be heard.If Sweet Jesus was suppose to be comic relief it never work. If John Adams was suppose to be the obnoxious annoying one, the rest of them were trying to overthrow him in every scene.Hancock and Jefferson were the only bearable characters in the whole movie.The historical quotes and the debate about slavery in their historical context were interesting enough but not enough to overcome the lack of music in a musical.Shouldn't you be humming the songs after a musical, except for a few chirps, nothing else was worth the breath. "}]