[{"Title":"Best political film ever made","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"57 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this film in 1972 when it came out, and I just saw it again on cable. I am amazed at how prescient this film was. Remember, this was before Jerry Brown, the real life politician most people will think of as a counterpart to Redford's character, had not yet run for governor and was still unknown outside of California. Nixon was still in office and was about to be re-elected by a landslide. Abortion was still illegal in all 50 states, and Roe v. Wade had not yet been decided. The term sound bite had not yet been coined. Spin was something a washing machine did.Redford plays an idealistic young storefront lawyer who is persuaded to run for the Senate as a Democrat against a Republican incumbent running for his fourth term. He feels free to speak his mind because he knows he hasn't a chance of winning. His freshness and honesty win over a lot of people favorable to his politics, and suddenly the gap closes. Now he has a chance of winning, but to do so he has to win over the undecided voters in the middle of the political spectrum. (Sound familiar? I'm writing this nine days before the Bush-Kerry election, and no one knows who will win.) Guess what happens? Suddenly he's not so fresh and honest anymore. And by the time he finally has a televised debate with the incumbent, he has mastered the art of the non-answer answer, that is, responding to a reporter's question by making a vague statement of his own without ever answering the question.Fast forward to 2004. The spin doctors now run the show. This film was intended as satire and as a warning. Regrettably, it has become a prediction. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Ritchie seems to have this thing for competition -- whether downhill racing, body building, water skiing, or, as here, politics. This isn't my favorite human motive, besting other people, so this one comes as a rather pleasant surprise, laden as it is with more social and political content than the with the details of the quest. I mean -- Redford doesn't even want the office!The Candidate has the appearance of a made-for-TV movie. The credits are presented simply, as in a TV movies. There is no underscore but the music that we hear consists of marches with lots of drums and sometimes one or two instruments hitting clinkers, as they would on a bandstand behind a speaker.The photography is highly colored and flat, as in a TV movie. Everybody seems to be dressed in suits or riding costumes. They look overly made up, freshly preened and pruned. They drive big new American cars and live in splendidly arid modern homes. In short they appear to lead the kind of lives to which naive screenwriters aspire.That out of the way, this is a pretty brave movie. It's a story of an innocent and blunt lawyer who become progressively corrupted during the campaign as victory seems more nearly in his grasp and the grasp of his managers. They 86 his sideburns and give him a haircut and put him in expensive suits. Girls love him because he displays such, well, such Robert Redfordness. One guy belts him in the mouth at a rally and I can understand why. All men as handsome as Robert Redford should be illegal.But he does a decent job in his minimal way. His forte lies in little moves, as when he cocks his head and says quizzically, Eh? Everybody else is quite good too, though his wife is mostly decorative. Peter Boyle is fine, and Allan Garfinkle is always believable as a cynical scuzz. You have to admire the way the script does not spare Redford's character. He may be an idealist at first. What does he think of abortion? I'm for it. How about property taxes. I don't know. By the end of the movie he's learned fluent politicospeak. How's he feel about busing? You can't solve the problems of this country with a bus. (Right.) He knows that he's selling himself out but he wants to WIN. As the campaign gets into high gear he's late for a meeting with a labor leader, a grizzled Kenneth Toby given to smoking pinched little cigarettes. Everybody in the room is wondering where Redford is, and how he can treat an important man like Toby with such disrespect. And where is he? We see the door to a hotel room open and there emerges a girl so gorgeous that if she were an escort instead of a groupie she'd be extremely expensive. A few seconds later Redford comes out buttoning his jacket.Nothing much is made of this incident. Boyle watches this parade in the hallway, staring after the girl, but nobody says anything and the scene lasts for only a few seconds. And here is where Ritchie and the writers earn my respect. Think of how easily this very effective scene could have been demolished. Boyle stopping the groupie and demanding to know what's been going on. Boyle admonishing Redford for cheating on his wife -- If this ever gets out our goose is cooked! Redford protesting that his private life is his own business. But none of this happens. Not in this scene or in any of the others in which a piece of character is revealed. Ritchie trusts in the perspicacity of the viewer. He shows us, because he doesn't have to tell us. He figures we're smart enough to pick up this clues by ourselves. Thank you, Mister Ritchie.We should be grateful to the writer as well, and to Redford's improvisational talents, when, alone in a car's rear seat, half crazed, he mangles the stump speech he's given a thousand times and comes up with a hilarious parody The basic indifference that made this country great. Also admirable is that the movie deals with specific issues -- abortion, busing, unemployment, fire hazard, health concerns -- and Redford is the Democratic candidate while Don Porter is the Republican candidate (imagine actually NAMING the political parties and risking losing half the audience).Porter comes across like an actor, an old ham of an actor, which suits the part. He's smooth and wily at seducing the public, a kind of Don Juan of the political arena. Ritchie has taken some real chances here. Porter comes up with something like, Oh, sure, when I was a kid we were all poor too. Why some of us didn't even have our own SOCIAL WORKER. It took guts to make this movie. And talent to make it so well. "},{"Title":"Like they say, it's all about politics.","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Redford plays idealistic senate candidate Bill McKay. He's mainly running to bring certain political issues into the open, although he never actually plans to win. But as time goes by, he realizes that whether or not he wins, he might not be able to hold on to his values.The Candidate is one of the many great movies about the world of politics. It holds up as well today as it did in 1972 (maybe even better). Redford gives a solid performance, as does Peter Boyle as campaign manager Marvin Lucas. One of the most insightful scenes is the debate between McKay and his opponent about the issues. A great movie in every way. Look for appearances by Natalie Wood, Groucho Marx, and Howard K. Smith. "},{"Title":"The Candidate","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Redford, in one of his unjustly overlooked films from 1972, stars as a lawyer and the son of the former governor of the state of California in an election year where the senatorial incumbent has no competition. Peter Boyle convinces Redford to run, fully expecting and anticipating to lose, therefore being able to run on a platform of pure integrity to show how out of touch the current senator has become. But suddenly the public realizes that some fresh, younger blood with an idealistic eye might be what they truly want rather than another in a long succession of terms by the same old huckster. Melvyn Douglas also stars as Redford's father. Even though this film is almost 30 years old, the Oscar-winning screenplay by Jeremy Larner shows just how timeless the same old issues the candidate has to decide where he stands upon (abortion, the environment, health care) actually are. The script really is eye-opening, because it underlines very well the point that even if, say, Jesus Christ were to run for office today, what He would say is not as important as how and when He'd say it. Directed by Michael Ritchie (Smile, The Bad News Bears, Semi-Tough), one of the few American directors who has been able to successfully show the black humor of the strange, fetid underbelly of competition in this society. Blink and you'll miss Natalie Wood at a fund-raiser. Completely climatized to the Seventies, she looks like Donovan's aide-de-camp. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking look at politics and media.","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   The Candidate, 1972, was a film that really made me think. It takes you through Bill McKay's campaign for California senator - and shows how an idealistic and inexperienced young man gets trapped by the media system. Most plot summaries will tell you that it is about how he gives the political system a kick - but I found that it was really more about how he became lost in it. It seemed that it was more of an 'outside' movie than an 'inside' one - there is always some mystery about what is going on inside everyone's heads. Robert Redford is really very good here as McKay - watch for a speech he makes to himself in the car. Peter Boyle also gave a thought-provoking performance, as Bill McKay's smooth-talking campaign manager. A sad commentary on the way things work. Very relevant. I recommend it for fans of Robert Redford or anybody interested in politics or media. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The timeless definitive campaign","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a truly excellent and overlooked Redford vehicle, and his performance comes full circle.  From wide-eyed idealism to resigned cynicism, all the way back to little-boy-lost and overwhelmed.  Redford is flawless!  Peter Boyle is right-on as the experienced campaign hand.  Also it is easy to overlook Don Porter's effortless portrayal of the smooth and experienced incumbent senator, just on the verge of decline.  Porter's seamless delivery makes it look easy.Douglas is also excellent as John J. McKay, Redford's father and the former governor.  Obviously a traditional machine politician, and apparently estranged from his activist son for that, and perhaps for other reasons we are left to imagine, Douglas revels in the younger man's initiation to the corrupt world of politics.  Catch the hunting scene to illustrate how these two are poles apart.An intelligent, realistic, and rewarding film about politics, done at a time when folks were perhaps looking for a political fairy tale.   "},{"Title":"Well done, still resonates today","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Redford plays Bill McKay, a crusading lawyer who happens to be the son of a former governor of California, a fact he plays down. When incumbent Republican Crocker Jarmon (Don Porter) is running for his umpteenth term in the senate, kingmaker Marvin Lucas (Peter Boyle) decides to tap Bill as a wild, dark horse candidate. While young McKay is initially suspicious and unwilling, Lucas tells him he can do whatever he likes and say whatever he likes on the campaign trail because no one expects him to win. With that freedom in mind, McKay sets off to run a very different style of campaign.The acting here is all top notch. Redford, a natural for the cameras, manages to make McKay fairly awkward and uncomfortable in the early going, but as he warms to being what a candidate is all about, he takes to the campaign trail amazingly well. Boyle is also excellent as the kind of old bastard it always takes to win one of these races, the political insider every race needs to smooth over the opposition within the party and crucify those without. Porter is also good as Jarmon, showing a stiff, wooden, conservative incumbent who must have seemed hopelessly out of date in 1972 -- especially considering his dashing, youthful opposition -- but who also sounds oddly like any politician in office today, with his talk of loving America and supporting business.The movie makes a very keen point about what people have to do to get elected, and we see a slow whittling of McKay's priorities as he must sacrifice his principles one by one in order to get elected. By the end of the campaign, the fresh-faced, honest young man we were introduced to at the start is gone, replaced by a slick image who is all things to all people. To be fair McKay fights this process, but the movie makes a strong point that, simply, this is what is required in order to win. The end note -- McKay asking Lucas What do we do now? is both telling and chilling, that even thirty years ago, there was such distrust and distaste for politics and what it did to people (and this was a year *before* Watergate). The Candidate still plays well despite some dated material, and the lessons it offers about politics and what it does to people still apply today. This is a film well worth your time investigating. "},{"Title":"Bill McKay The Better Way!","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If nothing counts, then everything does. &#x96; Michael Connelly Some points...1. The Candidate stars Robert Redford as Bill McKay, a young lawyer who is manipulated into running against the Democratic candidate of California by political election specialist, Marvin Lucas 2. The film highlights how front-running politicians are often groomed by a team of handlers and election specialists. The end result is less a person and more some cookie-cutter one man for all people fantasy image. (historically, young/vibrant presidents often follow old/seemingly wise presidents, the public always bouncing from one extreme to the next, forever dissatisfied)3. The film charts how disillusioned those within the political sphere often become. McKay goes from an idealistic lawyer who fights in the public's interest, to a man who spouts banal slogans and vapid sound bites.4. How to win an election have no clear political message. Stick to vague promises and appealing catchphrases. Promise change but specify nothing.5. The film highlights how in-bred democratic politics has become. Everyone's father is in the business, everyone's calling in favours, scratching backs and providing a helping hand. 6. Studies show that, not only do a disproportionate number of sons follow their fathers into politics, but that those sons who lost or were separated from their fathers at an early age, or view their politician fathers as failures, often climb higher into power then their parents. There's some seriously warped psychological issues going on there.7. Those drawn to politics are often those worse suited to the job. Those idealistic few who join for noble purposes, are soon crushed by the system.8. Politicians automatons, cult like drones who adopt the speech patterns of those they admire and surround themselves with. Democracy forever dependent on voter gullibility.9. After McKay wins the election at the end of the film, he turns to his handlers and says, What do we do now? What indeed. If the process of winning an election is so difficult, so time consuming, one imagines that staying in power will become a similarly all consuming and obsessive task. The politician cares not about bettering society, but about doing what is necessary to stay in power.10. Most social changes, benefits, progress etc, occur despite politicians/politics, not because of it.11. Politics in the television age image driven, a circus act, empty spectacle, pure entertainment, voters asked to choose a leader like they choose a detergent brand.12. McKay's political colours (yellow, green) deliberately revoke the reds, whites and blues of Americana. Only at the end, when he wins and is fully corrupted, does he succumb, his car now draped in reds, whites and blues.13. Films like this were common in the 70s, many evoking the paranoia of the time period The Parallax View, Three Days of the Condor, Z, All The President's Men, The Manchurian Candidate etc.14. French sociologist Jacques Ellul argued in his book, Propaganda, that it matters little what propagandists stand for or what their ends are (Liberal, Conservative, Republican, Democrat etc), because they are all taking part in an exercise that is fundamentally dehumanizing and anti-democratic. McKay may be a handsome, sympathetic icon of liberalism and virtue, but ultimately this isn't important. McKay and what he stands for will inevitably be overcome by the political machine he inhabits. He's no different from his opponent.15. Ellul discussed this idea further in The Technological Society. Here he argues that we are now so obsessed with technology and efficiency &#x97; with that one very best way to achieve a predetermined goal &#x97; that we have lost sight of our actions and, in a fundamental way, of what it means to be human. This idea is apparent throughout the film, the political campaign run by a hive of specialised robot consultants and a candidate who misplaces some of his humanness once he becomes obsessed with getting his numbers to move in the right direction. Poll numbers, soft-money loopholes, attack ads, phone ratings...this is politics meets Game Theory. 16 The religion of the future the cult of control, of number worship, of data mining, of information gathering. Theory security equals more data. Reality Chaos.8/10 &#x96; Excellent. The problem with these films, though, is that we as a modern audience are so aware of the problems, are so cynical towards politics anyway, that these films all amount to wasted preaching. Perhaps the realisation is that it is arrogant to assume that one man, one bill passed by congress, has the effect to instigate meaningful change, especially now that we live in a world where the big social changes seem to occur irrationally, often by accident (a world where a woman like Rosa Parks sitting in the back of a bus ends racial segregation?). One is then forced to make an almost Sartrean leap. If nothing counts, then why enter politics? Which leads to, if nothing counts, then everything does. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A must for cynics","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Redford, the idealistic son of a former party machine governor, gets encouraged into running for the U.S. Senate by a coterie of professional handlers.  Fascinating film, alternately satiric, cynical, subtle, and ironic.  Shot mostly in a documentary style.  A must for cynics and/or political junkies; others won't care.  A good performance by Redford is complimented by fine work by Boyle and Garfield.  Douglas is also great as the candidate's father.  One of filmdom's classic closing lines.  2 stars of 4 on a tough scale. "},{"Title":"The Shaping of a Political Candidate","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Candidate is very insightful, very conscientious, and very accurate in exploring the trials, tribulations, and developments in transforming a nihilistic underdog into a popular, contending candidate for the California Senate. It is a good, provocative, and even satiric look at the ups and downs of the political landscape, as well as its many constraints, with political advisers not interested in the candidate's candidness, but rather sealing an election, and this is very fascinatingly and simply laid out in a film that goes the full monty in exploring the American political landscape- this is generally a behind-the-scenes development of the political process- from the frequent campaign rallies, to the luncheons and parades, to the advantage of incumbency, to dirty campaign tricks, to critical debates, and finally, to the anxiety, tension, and exasperation of the election. Robert Redford is the character study, playing an aspiring, yet hardly hopeful, son of a former California governor, dashing and articulate candidate for California Senate, Bill McKay, for the Democratic party. His challenger is incumbent Senator Crocker Jarmon, who seems to be the antithesis of all of the charisma, articulation, and humbleness that is McKay, a rather arrogant, prudent, and unappealing candidate, regardless of whether you share his beliefs. I have to wonder- is the film taking jabs at the Republican party- claiming it is apathetic, self-serving, and shadowy, while in contrast the Democratic party cares passionately about the people, contains darling appeal, and considers a better way for the people rather than simply winning an election. Perhaps I am finding ways to detract from some clear and distinguished differences between McKay and Jarmon, because of their parties in the film, and perhaps this is because I believe BOTH parties stand for the people, regardless of my political allegiances- whatever; just a curious observation. Robert Redford plays McKay very well and earnestly- really bringing this vivacious and whimsical character to life and shining on the campaign trail. The screenplay is absolutely brilliant- taking every idea about politics and ingeniously infusing it throughout the many events of the film a very constructive and admirable endeavor indeed. The music is very patriotic, sentimental, and portentous, really defining the American political spirit, and really pounding on a theme of greatness through victory. This is an extremely well crafted, well scripted, well acted, well directed, and well received, albeit very predictable and incisive, film, exploring the political landscape as verily as I have ever seen a film endeavor in. It's simple, entertaining, and contains some solid education about the shaping of a political candidate, through a hostile, volatile, and demanding political campaign- The Candidate is a real winner. ***1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Film for all  would be candidates to view","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone thinking of running for public office should view this film. It is primer on how to win a race. Roman Pucinski when he ran for the U.S. Senate in Illinois in 1972 required his staff to view this film. Redford was the candidate we all hope would serve our state. This film should be shown before every election.It has a timeless message "},{"Title":"Dull Debate about the Politics of Forty Years Ago","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Candidate is a film which has something in common with Sidney Lumet's Power from the following decade. Both films look at the role played by political consultants, what would today be called spin doctors, in the American electoral process, and both were made at a time when there was a popular conservative Republican in the White House, Nixon in 1972 and Reagan in the eighties. (Prior to the Watergate scandal, Nixon was highly popular, as indicated by his landslide win in that year's Presidential election). One difference between the films is that in Power more attention is paid to the personality of the spin doctor, whereas here it is the candidate himself who is at the centre. The film tells the story of a campaign for a Senate seat in California, currently held by another popular conservative Republican, Senator Crocker Jarmon. The Democratic candidate is Bill McKay, an idealistic, charismatic and politically liberal lawyer. Much of the film deals with the relationship between McKay and his spin doctor Marvin Lucas, who endeavours to persuade McKay to tone down his radical rhetoric, especially on controversial issues like abortion and school bussing, and to make himself a bland, centrist candidate, all things to all men. The script was written by Jeremy Larner, who had been a speechwriter for the liberal Senator Eugene McCarthy during the 1968 Presidential election campaign, so was presumably made with a liberal agenda in mind. It seems, however, to have ended up as one of those films which were ostensibly made from a liberal standpoint but which are just as capable of being interpreted in a conservative, or at least a centrist, fashion. (Others that come to mind include High Noon and Seven Days in May). Larner may have intended an indictment of the way in which the US political system discourages genuinely radical debate of issues such as poverty and race relations. The storyline, however, in which McKay comes back from a seemingly hopeless position to win the race, could also be interpreted as a warning that the Democrats must abandon radicalism and seek out the centre ground if they are to win elections. (If that was indeed the film's message, it was sadly lost on George McGovern, their candidate for President that year). Of course, Larner had put himself in a difficult position; had he written an ending in which Jarmon won the election, some might have seen this as an endorsement of conservative Republicanism. The film is made in a rather dry, semi-documentary style, concentrating more on political debate than on personal issues. There is a suggestion that McKay, a married man, may be having an affair with another woman, but this issue is given far less prominence that it would be in most political dramas. The personal relationship which is given most prominence is the rather difficult one between McKay and his more conservative father John, a former State Governor, who is initially reluctant to endorse his son's campaign. McKay is played by Robert Redford, one of Hollywood's most prominent liberals and a huge star in the seventies, but he cannot do much with the role; McKay comes across as little more than a handsome, charismatic mouthpiece for a set of ideas, some of which are not really even his own. Peter Boyle as Lucas and Don Porter as Jarmon are rather better, but to my mind this is a film which never really comes to life. Some of the issues have a certain modern resonance; many of Jarmon's speeches, for example, would go down well with the current Tea Party movement. Overall, however, my impression was that, while The Candidate may have been controversial in 1972, today is just comes across as a dull debate about the politics of forty years ago. Power has its faults, but it has held up rather better as an examination of the role of the spin doctor. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Candidn't who candid","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's interesting that The Candidate starts with a look at the attitudes of the political handlers because they're apparently the motive force in this film. They are (in the film) unscrupulous salesmen who are selling political services. Poor Bill McKay is the cynical son of an ex-politician who thinks he's seen it all but gets suckered and seduced anyway.That's the disappointing thing about cynicism- a lot of people knock it and try to eradicate it but, as this film suggests, frequently we're not cynical enough. Cynicism kills you while it protects you.I'm not a politician but what little I know about it, unless McKay's handlers were hired by Crocker Jarmon, they get paid to WIN, not lose. If they WIN, they get hired by someone else, if they LOSE, they don't. So it's in Marvin Lucas' best interests to WIN. When he tells McKay it's alright to lose, he's lying.Since Marcus came to McKay and not the other way around, (is THAT realistic?) then we have to view him as a sort of political guru-for-hire who spots potential, latent ambition/vanity/hubris (and ability to pay, presumably) and sells the idea of candidacy to the potential candidate.Unless I missed something, that's not the way it works, but OK.This is a film that works on the idea that even the most idealistic will be corrupted by the machine, remembering that ...the Abyss also looks into you.It's been said that no one who WANTS power should be CONSIDERED for power. Too bad it doesn't work that way.So here we have McKay, the standard Thanks but no thanks idealist who is corrupted and suckered despite himself, despite his cynicism. From being his own man, if that's ever possible, we see him start being handled by his new buddies and by his suddenly ambitious wife.I loved the scene when she says Ooh, they cut your hair like it was their idea (which it was) and they were the decision-making parents (which they were). It obviously pisses McKay off because she's so comfortable acknowledging that the handlers are making his decisions for him. She asks him to turn his head so she can see it but he doesn't do it, like an angry child. He's looking at her as if she's trying to decide which roses will look best in the White House garden. As he's struggling with his own latent ambition, he's also observing hers. He's lost control and, struggling to get away from his father's influence, he and his wife are now under the influences of both his advisers and their own life ambitions. Because really, how long CAN McKay remain an idealistic storefront lawyer? Growth is inevitable. The alternatives are stagnation and decay.Interestingly, besides creating a health clinic or planting some trees, his before candidacy character doesn't have solutions for the BIG problems any more than anyone else does. Idealism, yes, solutions no.And that's the message that Melvyn Douglas gives us. It doesn't matter. Politics aren't here to save the world, they're an element of it's destruction. We can slow the process down, (MAYBE) but we can't stop it. Like the aging process, you can stay in shape and eat well but you can't make yourself younger. The processes of the world (technology, power, suburban sprawl, etc.) have agendas of their own and we can push them forward but we can't hold them back.While you're saving the trees, they're killing the whales and when you turn to the whales, they're cutting the trees. When you're saving THIS forest, they're chopping down that one and raising the taxes, starting wars, creating pollution, writing new laws, limiting your rights and hitting you over the head with guns, red tape, inoculations and misinformation. All in your best interests. Progress will eventually kill us.So, The Candidate isn't about political solutions, it's about the seduction of Power. As McKay looks into Power, Power looks into him. Will he turn into his father, despite himself? Redford is great in this film, bringing a lot of comedy to a role that greatly needed it. I've always loved that scene where he can't keep from laughing (due to exhaustion) while trying to express his Point Of View. In his best films, he doesn't forget the comedy.This is the first time I've seen the film when I'm old enough (97) to realize that he does take a private timeout with that beguiling girl with the glasses.The Candidate is a great film but it isn't prescient. It's a statement of the eternal political process, more or less the way it's always been. Spin existed before the term was coined, they just called it something else, like lying.In case you care, my favorite parts of SpyGame were the parts in the present where Muir was outfoxing the foxes. When RR wants to be, he's one of the best actors around. Funny and smart.OK and while I'm at it, one of his best-delivered lines ever was in 3 Days Of The Condor It's a great face...but it's never been to China. "},{"Title":"Political world...","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently watched Downhill Racer, an earlier collaboration between director Ritchie and star Redford and didn't much enjoy it, largely due to a basic disinterest in the lives of Alpine skiers and Redford's rather unsavoury lead character. This scathing and realistic depiction of the US political scene however was much more rewarding allowing both Ritchie and Redford to shine in an excellent drama, making use of a fly-on-the-wall, almost documentary technique to paint a convincing warts-and-all picture of the machinery which it seems is necessary for the candidature of an aspiring US senator.Being from Britain, of course some of the background and terminology used was slightly foreign, but the film holds up really well on a universal basis, particularly in its portrayal of what we'd now term behind the scenes spin-doctors and the fronting of a political machine by a young good-looking idealistic conviction-politician against an old-style right-wing ultra-conservative rival - the parallels between the Blair/Major UK election of 1997 and obviously 2008 Obama/McCain US election, while not exact, are certainly palpable.I personally rate this as Redford's best ever acting display - he seems an absolute natural as the initially energetic, moral, campaigning, but no-hope candidate, who learns the hard way about compromise, political correctness and above all how the arcane machinery of politics USA actually works. Thus we see him on the stump in amusing vox-pops with eccentric or bemused members of the public, cleaning up his physical appearance and generalising his ideals for the sake of bland, voter-friendly rhetoric and even falling victim to the temptations of the flesh to an obsessive female follower, this last point, concisely and effectively made without over-dramatisation (c.f. Gary Hart and of course Pres. Clinton himself) - for sure Redford's McKay character did have sexual relations with this woman, but lives to tell the tale.Tension is built up as election day looms, and we see McKay starting to break down under the pressure as he resorts to gibberish en-route to a TV studio but by then his on-side advertising campaign, highlighting his good-looks, youthful vigour but playing down his more controversial left-of-centre views, propels him to an unlikely win against his incumbent opponent and by the surprise ending just at the point of victory, the director I think is telling us that the movie is less about the contest than the process itself. A similar ending device was used at the end of Downhill Racer but it works far better this time as you genuinely are intrigued by Redford's multi-dimensional character and wonder just what kind of senator he would have made. The absence of a sequel was definitely a missed opportunity here.A quick word about the ensemble acting - it's uniformly good and verite is reinforced with the appearances of a number of real-life personalities ranging all the way from pre CNN-era TV commentators to Natalie Wood at a fund-raiser, although quite what an uncredited Groucho Marx is doing haranguing Redford in a toilet is anyone's guess.In closing then a brave, uncompromising, multi-layered and above all entertaining insight into contemporary US politics of the early 70's. Note to self - must re-watch All The President's Men sometime soon... "},{"Title":"Timeless political comedy with bite.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Unobtrusive, documentary-style direction by the underrated Michael Ritchie lends verisimilitude to Jeremy Larner's witty (Oscar-winning) script. It feels like you're really on the campaign trail with a pretty-boy senatorial candidate (played with typically effortless charm by Robert Redford), who can barely keep up with a platform being built on the fly and the relentless media blitz that dogs him every step. Events move swiftly to their inevitable, ironic conclusion, highlighted by one of the best closing lines in cinema history. Terrific support is provided by character actors Peter Boyle, Allen Garfield, Melvyn Douglas and others, plus a host of cameos by real politicians of the era such as Alan Cranston and Hubert Humphrey. If you want an idea how modern American politics works, this is still a pretty good primer. "},{"Title":"A who's who of 1970s politics","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the best movies about politics EVER.One of the really cool things about this movie is the list of cameo appearances. Hubert Humphrey, George McGovern, John Tunney, Gene Washington, Cedric Hardman, Van Amburg, and other notables from California Democratic politics circa 1972 are all in here.George McGovern reputedly hated this movie. Remember that he was the Democratic nominee for president in 1972. When asked about The Candidate, he said I didn't like it, I thought it reflects the darkest side of American politics.Redford is amazing in this film, as an idealistic young lawyer torn between principle and ambition. Definitely one of the greatest actors of our time. "},{"Title":"Great movie, hope they make a sequel some day!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I finally got to see this movie and I found it very charming. Quick summary Redford plays a semi-serious lawyer Bill McKay whose father was once a governor for California. Now some want him to follow his father's footsteps and become a candidate for senator, but he has a tough rival and his attitude towards it all seems as if he doesn't want to do it, but does it anyway. Redford is just great in this movie... and very cute! The ending is left just right fora sequel, which I wonder why they haven't made yet.8/10. "},{"Title":"insightful writing and good performances","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Political operative Marvin Lucas (Peter Boyle) is looking for a Democratic candidate to oppose popular Republican U.S. Senator Crocker Jarmon in California. He convinces idealistic do-gooder lawyer Bill McKay (Robert Redford) to enter the race in an unwinable race. He offers him an opportunity to say whatever he wants. McKay is the son of former governor John J. McKay (Melvyn Douglas) and becomes the nominee. His campaign is being crushed by the Jarmon machine and he tries to water down his message. He struggles between the same politics as usual and his convictions as the race tightens.The Watergate break-in happened and nobody cared. The public still has some blind naivety about the world of politics at the time. This movie skewers it with a bit of humor and lots of insight. The shooting style is slightly documentary style. Redford and Boyle are terrific. The writing digs deep and wins the Oscar. It's a great movie about the real political world. "},{"Title":"Solid political drama","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The principal speech writer for Senator Eugene McCarthy during McCarthy's unsuccessful bid to win the Democratic Party's nomination for President in the spring of 1968, Jeremy Larner was uniquely qualified to write the screenplay for 'The Candidate'. A political operative with access to the inner workings of a major campaign, Larner was also an idealist who had become deeply disillusioned by the discrediting and abandonment of FDR-style liberalism in the late Sixties&#x97;done to death by LBJ's prosecution of the Vietnam War and Richard Nixon's opportunistic stress on law and order (a thinly disguised code term for white, middle-class reaction). Toward the end of Nixon's first term Larner penned 'The Candidate' as a protest and a warning that American politics was being stripped of any last vestiges of honor and ideological integrity for the sake of winning at all costs. Accordingly, 'The Candidate' follows the fortunes of Bill McKay (Robert Redford), a young, handsome civil rights lawyer and the son of former governor John J. McKay (Melvyn Douglas), who is recruited by Marvin Lucas (Peter Boyle), a shrewd political hack, to run against the seemingly unbeatable Republican incumbent, U.S. Senator Crocker Jarmon (Don Porter). Convinced that he cannot win, McKay initially uses his candidacy as a forum to air liberal issues close to his heart poverty, racism, ecological degradation, gun control, abortion rights, etc. Once it dawns on McKay that he will likely be on the wrong side of a humiliating landslide, he takes his campaign seriously and increasingly relies on Lucas to recast his image and dilute his liberalism so that he will appear more palatable to a conservative electorate. As he closes in on Jarmon in the polls, the latter requests a televised debate, during which McKay sticks to the prescribed platitudes&#x97;until the very end, when he blurts out his frustration with the contrived, irrelevant nature of the proceedings. His candor infuriates his handlers but makes his father proud of him. Indeed, the venerable John J. McKay makes a public show of support (that had been heretofore withheld at his son's request). In the end, Bill McKay wins his race against Senator Jarmon but has sacrificed his core ideals in the process a result that Jeremy Larner finds universal and inevitable in the overwhelmingly corrupt money and media-saturated climate of contemporary American politics. Larner's superb, prescient, and still highly relevant script garnered the 1973 the Writer's Guild of America (WGA) Award for Best Drama Written Directly for the Screen and the 1973 Oscar for Best Writing. The film also features cameos by a host of real politicians and journalists. Not everyone was impressed with 'The Candidate', however. Three weeks after the film premiered, New York congresswoman Bella Abzug (1920-1998) published a piece in the 'New York Times' that excoriated the movie for largely omitting the complicated, exhausting fund-raising process that is a huge part of every political campaign. She also found fault with its male-centered perspective and pervasive cynicism. VHS (1996) and DVD (1997). "},{"Title":"Superb political tale...some issues and tactics never change","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Candidate was the second film in which I saw Robert Redford; the first was Jeremiah Johnson. Both were released in 1972. And I knew from the moment I saw this film that Redford was something special.40 years, and at the base level, it's clear that politics hasn't changed too much. Yes, there's a lot of big money involved now, but the basics of candidate and voter is about the same...except less vitriol.There's not exactly a plot here. It's more a story of a political pro attempting to make a modern do-gooder into his candidate. Redford plays an idealistic community organizer who doesn't really want to be senator, but goes along with it and then gets wrapped up in it. Not a plot, but a story about relationships and the evolution of a candidacy.It's interesting to see some old familiar faces -- Natalie Wood, Howard K. Smith, and others.Redford is superb. But then again, he almost always was. This was probably one of Peter Boyle's best roles, and Allen Garfield was impressive, as well. Melvyn Douglas was a pleasure to see in his role as the candidate's father. And Don Porter showed his versatility in playing the old favorite Republican candidate.It's hard to find a negative in this film. It's worth watching and perhaps having on your DVD shelf. "}{"Title":"The CANDIDate","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE CANDIDATE is a fascinating piece of work. Viewed this week with MEDIUM COOL -- Which one poses the greater criticism of television? MEDIUM COOL soaks in faked realism, THE CANDIDATE does the same. But they are such different pictures. In the end, CANDIDATE ultimately forms a more electric and buzzing indictment of Communication Age politics and it does so at a predictably steep price. CANDIDATE revels in a backstage, candid approach to political procedure. It harnesses a very active camera - moving, zooming, panning. Evidenced immediately in the credit soundtrack, this isn't meant to be a deft evaluation of Americana, it's a mockery. McKay has his sleeves pulled up, he's eating, he's unbuttoned, he's untucked, he's incorruptible. And the picture is presented as such a slick piece of entertainment that it's just about impossible to disagree. Here's the really interesting part. Whether or not CANDIDATE was aiming for it -- was it? -- it shows television as the most formidable political gamechanger in history. So many of the lines tailor to it -- they cut your hair. So many scenes are Television Training Camp. There's the self-satisfied shot where the camera pans into the viewfinder of the TV camera while McKay compromises on his crime policy. In essence, CANDIDATE demonstrates a radically different and devolved political landscape than earlier pieces. Is McKay a Jefferson Smith of the 70's? I think he is -- thanks to the script. This celebrated script. It stacks Politicians against Non-Politicians and has Redford migrate from the former to the latter. And how it abuses Redford! Possibly the best thing about the film is Redford's amicability and his tangible love for filmmaking. Three years after Sundance, he is ready to be cool for the adults. But what about this script they hand him? The liberalism is so piquant that it smells like we would be better off without government. Like politics is somehow more corrupt or convoluted than anything else in the age of television. The one thing it gets right -- accidentally or not? -- is how the equation of celebrity and politics equals power. Towards the end, the script wallows so much in its own sagacity that it is enough to make me seasick. My biggest question is this -- is the ambitious and potent critique of television incidental or not? And another, how connected are Bill and Barack? Jefferson. Bill. Barack. America evolves, doesn't it?59.00 "},{"Title":"the more things change...","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jeremy Larner's brilliant, behind-the-scenes look at a modern political campaign and the marketing experts who make them work stars Robert Redford as an anti-politics California liberal reluctantly drawn into a race for the U.S. Senate with the naive hope of actually making a difference. He discovers, too late, that government isn't about issues or representation, but about exposure and packaging, marching bands and American flags; in other words, all the empty flotsam which, years later, now seems to mark the entire political process. The early '70s fashions are badly dated, but the film itself is more incisive than ever, showing how campaign attitudes, and sometimes even the actual speeches, haven't changed at all since 1972. Director Michael Ritchie reinforces the near-documentary authenticity by enlisting celebrities to portray themselves, from Natalie Wood to Mike Wallace. In 1988 the film was named by then Vice Presidential candidate Dan Quayle as a career influence, despite his obviously having missed the point of it entirely. "},{"Title":"Great film, great screenplay and great actors !","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a masterpiece in lots of ways. First of all excellent screenplay and an amazing supporting cast (Allen Garfield as Redford's ad man and Melvyn Douglas as Redford's father). Robert Redford plays Bill Mc Kay a young lawyer, son of Governor John J. McKay who becomes a candidate for senator. Mc Kay is very sympathetic and handsome too. Robert Redford is really incredible in this film, as an idealistic young lawyer torn between principle and ambition. Bob is definitely one of the talented actors of our time. This film has also a timeless message and should be shown before every election. What is also really very interesting in this film is how Bill Mc Kay evolves and how the political machine changes him. Finally we realize particularly at the end that he's no different from Crocker Jarmon his opponent (the debate scene is brilliantly performed by both actors Robert Redford and Don Porter).Indeed, what Bill Mc Kay stands for, his priorities, his principles will be sacrificed just to get elected as he realizes that he can win. Michael Ritchie does a brilliant job as well directing this film A MUST SEE movie that deserves a sequel. "},{"Title":"'For a better way - Bill McKay'","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Redford, reveling in his finest form (as in The Natural, ATPM, Brubaker & Indecent Proposal) is an idealistic young lawyer, who is sucked into the vacuum of politics - initially refusing to build up his profile by taking a free ride on the coat tails of his ex-senator father. American political films are common, but good ones are quite rare. This film falls into that latter category. Bill McKay agrees to run for Senate believing he can remain true to his values - honesty, realism, ideology, independence and a healthy distrust of policy for policy's sake. On that basis alone, he is an idiot, as the whole process predictably obscures his opinions, blunts his marriage and sees him struggle with compromise.Mc Kay is rushed around town as the new kid on the block, taking in snatched TV slots, endorsement opportunities, talking with union workers and disenchanted youth along the way. However, 'The better way' is blocked at the outset by the sitting tenant, Crocker Jarmon (Don Porter). As a time-served Mr American and the holder of an office that he feels he deserves just for parking his butt on the seat of history, 'The Croc' is a magnificent enemy. Note the key scene where McKay simply loses patience in a TV head to head with Jarmon. A house of cards seems to fall around his ears and what does The Croc do? Easy - he makes capital out of it in his smug dignified 'I would never stoop so low' brand of schmultz. You gotta love that guy.The final scene (even though you can guess the outcome of the plot) is a gripper. Mc Kay, among the chaos, manages to get a minute's privacy with Marvin, his overwhelmed agent, who has even combed his beard on the advice of his staff. He simply asks him 'What happens now?'. That left a chill with me when I first saw the film and, on a re-view, the impact is still just as strong. On that basis, 'The Candidate' has stood the test of time as the deep stink of party politics is as rancid as it ever was.Michael Ritchie is not a director I know much of, aside from his previous Redford collaboration, Downhill Racer, which I thought was average. How nice to be proved wrong, therefore, as this film is definitely a director's badge of honour. It is also extremely well acted across the range. I understand there was talk of a sequel and it is a shame that it never materialized. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about politics as usual","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is essentially a story about a young, idealistic lawyer who happens to be the son of the former governor of California and who is tapped to run for the US Senate. Robert Redford does a terrific job in this movie as Bill McKay, the main character who starts out against the political system but eventually is turned into a polished, coached, trained politician once it looks like he has a chance to win the Senate seat. It's amazing how subtle the writers were trying to be here, and less observant viewers may not notice McKay's very gradual transformation from a regular guy who speaks his mind Every woman should have the right to an abortion to a slick, smooth-talking politician Abortion is something that we should study. This story basically illustrates how most people get caught up in the mess that is Washington politics, and turn from young, idealistic people with noble intentions to sleazy, double-talking crooks whose only goal is to get elected or re-elected (the late Senator Paul Wellstone being an exception). The last line just goes to show that your average politician treats Election Night as if it is the end of everything, when in fact it is simply the beginning. A terrific movie, and I look forward to Redford's sequel. 10/10. "},{"Title":"almost too real to be true","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a film about how power, or its possibility, corrupts. Redford is fantastically subtle, and the film itself feels like a documentary which gives you an inside look into the whole process of 20th century ( and unfortunately 21st also) politics. It is must see for anybody who cares about politics, and questions himself on why the path to hell is padded with good intentions.  "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 12","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 12. THE CANDIDATE (drama, 1972) Lawyer McKaye (Robert Redford) heads his own public law firm. He's an idealistic man who comes from a wealthy-political family. Marvin (Peter Boyle) heads a political committee looking for a 'young, fresh face'. Though McKaye hates the political arena, Lucas convinces tells him that he has nothing to lose and everything to gain. He accepts in the hope of bringing his ideals to bear. Instead, he is introduced to the subversive political world and the dark forces lurking beneath its echelons.Critique Serio-documentary, 'The Candidate' is one of those films that should be shown to students seeking a political career. Its precise depiction of a 'citizen' turned into a bureaucratic tool is almost too real. Director Michael Ritche recreates the sometimes absurd, complicated and superficial world of political inner workings to perfection. Robert Redford is perfectly cast as 'wholesome', naive underdog-champion. You can almost feel a 'JFK-like' aura around him.The film's innovative 'cinema-verite' scenes further reinforces the sense of a documentary. An excellently written, 'illuminating' experience.QUOTE Pete I saw something up there tonight. Believe me this is effective. You can do it, you can go all the way. Look, you and I know this is all bulls#!t, but the point is they'll believe in it. "},{"Title":"Bill McKay, a WASP pezzonovante ...","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For the non-experts, pezzonovante is a direct reference to the Sicilian word used in The Godfather to describe a senator, governor, or any upstarts or ambitious newcomer on the political field (basically, what Vito Corleone wanted for his son, Michael)I chose this title because in 1973, the two Oscars for Best Screenplay went to The Godfather and The Candidate. Although they play in different leagues, both screenplays bear interesting similarities through the implicit statements they make about the limits of the American Dream and the ideals that supposedly forged it. Indeed, no matter how charismatic they are, there's something rotten in a country that allows such figures as Michael Corleone and Bill McKay to succeed.My judgment might be severe but it's a credit to Robert Redford's extraordinary performance. Sometimes, we're put in the electors' shoes and see him like a handsome and idealistic patriot, eager to raise the voice of American social outcasts and sometimes we remember, as parts of the sideshow, that these are the very reasons he was picked by his friend, Marvin Lucas (Peter Boyle) to represent the Democrat party despite his blatant lack of experience. And what's the catch for McKay? The film reveals its cynical and interesting premise when Boyle writes in a matchbox his only guarantee you will lose. The point of his candidature is not to undermine a Democrat potential leader's career and yet provide a realistic opponent to the Republican, the much popular Crocker Jarmon. The certitude of the defeat is compensated by a symbolical victory McKay has all freedom to spread his values, share his vision and gain some publicity. Seems like a win-win situation.McKay accepts, not without reluctance and more driven by the surrounding enthusiasm, starting with his wife who enjoys her new 'first lady' etiquette. But there's something we know about the American political machine, once you put your foot in, there's no way getting back. And the irony with McKay is that his political carelessness and lack of true ambitious will catch the eyes and ears of Democrats, by inspiring a more genuine and less generic form of political expression, precisely what the public needed. The Candidate brilliantly points out the effect of good merchandising in politics. Like a product, McKay has the looks, the message &#x85; and also, the brand.The name is in fact the film's subplot, involving McKay's father, a not-so popular veteran politician played by Melvyn Douglas. The reporters notice that the father never endorses his son's candidature, but McKay pretends it's a way to assess his independence. However, after a severe drop in polls that would have foreshadowed a total humiliation, McKay wins a debate against Jarmon at the last minute thanks to a genuine reaction rejecting the hypocritical aspect of a confrontation that dodged the real issues. Jarmon is upset, McKay wins, then McKay Sr. blesses him with the greatest compliment he could ever give him son, you're a politician.Jeremy Larner, who was a speech writer for the Democrat Eugene McCarthy and then can be trusted in terms of accuracy, wrote the script. It isn't just a fictionalization of a true story but a gutsy political pamphlet that hasn't lost its relevance. And if we don't remember McCarthy, we do remember the former President who hadn't done much for the country, yet compensated his lack of accomplishment thanks to his father's aura, and used Christian idiosyncrasies to please the crowds. Bush Jr. was no less a puppet than McKay, but he won, and the pages he wrote might not be regarded as the greatest chapter of American history.And since he was elected, I guess The Candidate failed as a warning, and this is why I blame the film for not having been more 'thought-provoking' and 'entertaining'. The script was great, the performance of Redford as a man torn between his sincere ideals and his conviction that he's a fraud get thrillingly palpable as the film progresses. Peter Boyle, Michael Lerner and Allen Garfield are absolutely scene-stealing as the show's ringleaders, and Natalie Wood's lovable cameo gave the ultimate touch of authenticity. Apart from that, the result is rather forgettable, lacking that spice we expect from a political satire. The Candidate could have been on the same prophetic wit as Network, Wag the Dog or A Face in the Crowd but the film was as frustrating as McKay struggling during his speeches. Jeremy Larner might have won an Oscar, but a Paddy Cheyefsky he ain't. And unfortunately, the real highlight of the film happens to be the ending with the unforgettable what do we do now? that leaves Lucas, and the viewers, speechless. The film was so full of awkward painful-to-watch moments (can you imagine anything worse than a politician being speechless?), fitting the film's anticlimactic realism but so frustrating for viewers who expect a few explosive outbursts. Redford remains an eternal enigma as a man we never quite see what goes on his mind, on TV or during a speech, challenging our patience but not rewarding it until the end, when he's put in the position he couldn't cheat anymore. I didn't know what he was going to do, but I guess I was glad they finally closed that door before we'd know. And that last minute gets me back to The Godfather, again. The two films had similar opening and ending one defeat speech from men who hadn't the stuff to 'win the game' and a door closing on the 'winner'. As if Crime and politics were the two evil twins of power in America, except that the first door was closed on an intimate room while the second left the protagonist with the public. And I'm not quite sure which is worse fooling the law in secrecy or fooling the public in total openness? "},{"Title":"The Game And How It's Played","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Young Robert Redford, son of a former California Governor Melvyn Douglas, is a storefront lawyer devoting his time and talent to those who need his services. Coming from the well to do, Redford can afford it. A couple of sharp eyed political operatives, Peter Boyle and Allen Garfield, spot him the way Paul Krichell must have spotted Lou Gehrig out at Columbia University and scout him like you would a prized first baseman. A man with no public record and some name recognition, he might be just the guy to defeat three term conservative senator Don Porter.Redford takes a chance and wins the primary and then he's the candidate against Porter. But he slips more and more into the hands of Boyle and Garfield in order to win. In the end he takes the road not taken by Spencer Tracy in State of the Union.In many ways this might have been the easiest bit of casting for Robert Redford in his career. His positions as candidate Redford are in no way different than those of citizen Redford away from the movie set. Redford's certainly given enough of his time and treasure to candidates and causes he believes in. I'm willing to bet he's been opportuned many times to go into politics himself and he knows the game and how it's played.That's what The Candidate is really about, the game and how it's played. Back in the days of the founding of America, the biggest media outlet was the printed word. The political parties of the time, the Federalists and Jeffersonian Democrat-Republicans, had rival newspapers that slung some pretty nasty invective back and forth at each other and the print media held sway for over 150 years. Then radio and then network television supplanted the other and victory went to those who mastered those media. That's what Boyle and Garfield are, spin doctors who know how to use the most advanced communication form of the day. If The Candidate is ever remade the characters of Boyle and Garfield will be those who use cable television and the internet.My favorite player in The Candidate however is Don Porter as United States Senator Crocker Jarman. Porter modeled his performance clearly on the current Governor of California Ronald Reagan who certainly mastered the media of his day. I think Crocker Jarman was probably Don Porter's career role and should have been nominated for Best Supporting Actor.Dated though it is because of the advent of cable and the internet, The Candidate if a prime candidate for a remake. Can you see Brad Pitt or Leonardo DiCaprio as Bill McKay talking about finding that better way and not quite sure what it is? "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hard to believe a movie about the American political system that was made 34 years ago remains so relevant.The opening premise of the movie could be taken from today's headlines. Democratic party operatives need a candidate to run against a popular long-term, Republican Senate incumbent in California. OK, a conservative Republican would not be so popular in California nowadays, but substitute another state and you get the idea.The Democrats do not expect to win, just to get a candidate to make a good enough showing so that the Republicans are forced to spend money here to defend the seat. There not being any strong Democratic candidates willing to go against this senator, the party operatives recruit a candidate based on his family name and physical appearance.Robert Reford's character, Bill McKay, is an idealistic public interest lawyer in San Diego who wants nothing of the machine politics that made his father governor of California a generation earlier. Peter Boyle's party insider character appeals to the younger McKay by promising that he will not have to compromise his ideals, and can run on the issues he believes are relevant simply, because they have nothing to lose as the election is already lost anyway.The story unfolds when Bill McKay needs to ramp up his campaign just to get to the point where his candidacy is credible. Once the campaign gets credible, the political machinery takes over and the ideals suffer.Other than how little the making of political candidates differs from today, it's amazing to see issues being debated in 1972 that are still part of the debate today (abortion, race, crime, environment, health care, etc.). Very little is said about Vietnam, which is surprising, but to have a movie that names the political parties and addresses real issues in the manner politicians from the respective parties would, shows a boldness no studio would touch nowadays (i.e. Joan Allen's pro-choice Republican in The Contender being named vice president by a Democrat, yeah, like that would happen).See it now, see it 30 years from now, it will still be relevant. "}{"Title":"In the meanders of an electoral campaign","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie gives us a realistic and intense picture of an electoral campaign for the U.S. Senate in all its details, compromises and tricks. It's not brilliant but still good enough. However its weakest part is the main character himself. Glamorous Robert Redford was not the best choice for the role of a sincere and honest politician who tries to make a clean campaign based on the real important political, economical and social issues and who abhors simple propaganda discussions and speeches. The result is that the character he performs appears as not as deep as it should be and not very convincing in his performance as a campaigner. But it is a well made movie after all in terms of images (almost in a documentary style) and the screen-play is rather good and interesting. "},{"Title":"Becomes a classic through the years","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having just watched this movie again, I realize with despair that it STILL has something valid to say, 33 years later! I think I would have really liked this movie in 1972, I certainly loved it a few years later when I saw it for the first time, but now it seems like an enduring classic. It is shot like a campaign is run - you feel the crushing emptiness of a political campaign, and Redford's frustration with being unable to raise actual issues is palpable. He is a contender mainly because of his looks (and family ties), not because of his beliefs. He has to boil them down to sound bites (not a term in 1972, I don't think) and then give some of them up altogether, all in order to win. The 'voters' don't come off too well, either - they seem like either groupies (young girls or older country club ladies) or disaffected losers. This should be shown in every 8th grade civics class! "},{"Title":"As Much a Story of Human Nature as of Politics","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" WHEN ONE VIEWS this film, it is obvious that the spin is definitely meant to favour the Left, Liberal or now called Progressives. That is quite obvious as the starring figure is portrayed by Mr. Robert Redford, himself. The characterization of the incumbent Senator Jarmon (Don Porter) is further evidence of our contention.HOWEVWEE, HAVING JUST watched the movie on Turner Classic Movies, again after some years, we find that although there is this bias in evidence, they did do a good job in at least trying to maintain a high degree of neutrality in their portrayals. It appears that it is all too easy to dismiss this as being so one-sided toward the Left, rather than looking just a little bit deeper into the true nature of the story.THE STORYLINE, SUCH as it is, follows the path that the young and otherwise naive son of a former California takes in becoming a candidate for the Senate. Bill McKay (Redford) at first begins his campaign as a sort of means of making a point about the present state of conditions in the USA. As he gets deeper into the run, he becomes influenced by the professional political operations of his campaign manager, Marvin Lucas(Peter Boyle), being supported by a fine collection of supporting players (Michael Lerner, Allen Garfield, Quinn Redeker, Morgan Upton, Kenneth Tobey and others). GIVING WHAT MUST be described as a feeling and look of realism to the production is the inclusion of so many people from the entertainment world and its great subsidiary, the news people. There are also included the cameo appearances by real, true life political figures such as Hubert Humphrey and George McGovern.IT IS ONLY at Film's end, when with McKay's ultimate victory in the General Election, do we realize what the true meaning of the story really is. And that would be that the with American tradition of having our candidates vetted by the people, as interpreted by our press, it becomes much more a matter of show Biz, rather than a free exchange and debate of issues,. ideas and political principles.AND THIS IS a powerful force that will transform people who seek office, whether they want it or not.NOTE Bill McKay's final fade out question to his campaign manager of Marvin, what do I do now? would appear to be a real, true slice of life. Years later, in 1979, a news camera caught the new Mayor-Elect of Chicago, Jane Byrne, asking the same question of an aid after addressing the press boys on her victorious election night. "},{"Title":"Finessing the Down and Dirty","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cynical young Bill McKay is encouraged to follow his father into politics by running for the Senate against smooth longtime incumbent Jarmon. Against his better judgment, the handsome McKay reluctantly complies.All in all, the movie shows the road to corruption without the corruption. True, we see McKay (Redford) drawn into the momentum of his Senate campaign under pressures of a large and harried staff. We know his early ideals are being slowly overridden, but crucially we never see the backroom deals that seal a fall from grace. We do see deal-maker Starkey (Tobey) meeting the candidate at a crucial election stage, but what exactly is understood between them is left unseen. Thus this inside look at our political process shows the colorful pomp but without the fateful circumstance.And show the political spectacle, the movie does, in spades. I don't know how they did the many crowd and rally scenes, but the numbers and enthusiasm are convincing as heck. It's an excellently produced and directed effort. Redford low-keys it all the way through. As the candidate, he's hardly the effusive glad-hander, but then, with his youthful good looks, he doesn't need to be. It's really Peter Boyle as the savvy campaign manager who projects. We also get a good look at the hectic pace and foul-ups that big time campaigns are subject to. Thus, it's no wonder that McKay slowly succumbs to the pressures of the contest that yield the movie's famous last line. However, as a down and dirty look at the deal-making so crucial to electoral success, the movie only implies but doesn't show. Instead, focus is limited to McKay's selling out, despite what he knows about the dirty business and his own better instincts. Thus the upshot amounts to the graphic undoing of one man but not of the process as a whole. Still, it's a very watchable production with lessons even for today. "},{"Title":"****","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excellent film where a young, good looking attorney is nominated by the Democrats for the governorship of California, opposing the Republican who believes strongly in the typical Republican line of Herbert Hoover-Individual initiative.The surprise in this film is Don Porter, a veteran character actor of television and the film, who gets the role of his life as the incumbent senator, ready to take on Bill McKay's (Redford)idea of A Better Way with McKay.Peter Boyle shines as the political operative and we see all the preparations that go into the making of a candidate. We see a candidate who refuses to compromise on his views, while seeing better days ahead. "},{"Title":"A Scathing Commentary","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Only recently does it seem like the political world has been soiled by entertainment media. HBO's Veep, created by the satirically minded Armando Iannucci, is a brutal comedy series that details the day to day life of the vice president. Don't expect to see an all-American woman pining for a better America, because you get a narcissist hungry for power. Netflix's House of Cards makes politics seem as dirty as the crime world, with elected officials offing enemies left and right, utilizing corruption for the sake of unbridled authority.In days past, there was something mystical about a candidate &#x97; the one we loved (not the Nixon of the race) seemed to be a sort of god who could do no wrong. Look at JFK, FDR; they were far from perfect, but their image, their reputation, turned them into unspeakably untouchable icons. But it seems post-Vietnam, post-Watergate, America has turned into a hotbed of negativity. We don't trust our sacred politicians like we used to. And so The Candidate is more relevant than ever. In 1972, the U.S. was just starting to turn into a bunch of pessimists. But now, we regard many of our elected officials in the same way we do the villain of a political thriller evil, devilishly evil. But smart. The Candidate is part black comedy, part political drama, all stitched together by an endlessly scathing screenplay and a finely tuned performance from Robert Redford. It isn't so much an emotional film as it is a witty commentary regarding the election process, and how most candidates go from freshly idealistic to power hungry after a mere few months of campaigning. The film doesn't tap into our fears in the same way All the President's Men did, or how Three Days of the Condor told us not to trust anyone sitting in office. Rather, it serves as a thought-provoker that makes us wonder if the smiles governmental hopefuls put on display are actually genuine. It's a bleak, bleak, movie, not so much because it is starkly negative but because it prefers to think that getting elected is a popularity contest, not a case of may the best man win. Redford plays Bill McKay, a 30-ish attorney who, on a whim, decides to run for Senate. Incumbent Crocker Jarmon (Don Porter) is slated to win &#x97; McKay, you see, has been approached by political specialist Marvin Lucas (Peter Boyle), who only wants McKay to act as a Democratic figure, not as serious competition. Jarmon, after all, cannot run unopposed. McKay knows he has little by way of chance, but, knowing he has the opportunity to spread his ideals around the state, does everything he can to potentially find success. And as the son of the former governor (Melvyn Douglas), with, not to mention, good looks that have captured much of the female vote, his possibilities may be stronger than Lucas could have ever imagined. Problem is, if McKay really wants to win, he'll have to, in some ways, trade many of his morals in favor of popularity.The Candidate is filmed as if it were a documentary, following McKay around until his positive nature completely breaks down and sardonic ickiness takes over. As the film begins, he is a charismatic intellect who has a way with words (he is a lawyer, after all). But by the end, he can hardly control himself from laughing attacks when faced with the bullsh-t of a television promotion. The more he campaigns, the more he becomes disgusted with the idea of politics &#x97; the officials are snakes who know how to manipulate the public. Morals, he finds out, are of little importance to his peers. Sounding good, looking good, speaking well, being agreeable, going against the grain of the now-hated person he's trying to rob the job of &#x97; those are the things that matter. You can forget about making the country a better place.Larner's Academy Award winning screenplay hits all the right notes &#x97; not mean but wicked, funny, but not overtly so. It isn't a comedy as much as it is a drama that realizes how ridiculous campaigning is, and it cackles along with McKay's increasing concerns. There is a great little scene that finds McKay in the back of a limo, reciting old lines from previous speeches. But after each sound bite he makes a sound of disgust, whether it be a gag, a cough, or a scoff. The sequence is subtle, yet it speaks volumes; have we gotten to a point in our election process where a particular quote, a particular fragment of a speech, matters more than the overall goal of a candidate?The film also contains one of Redford's finest performances, capturing his distinctly everyman appeal while heightening the sly humor he can easily project just by uttering a single line. He is the kind of actor that can deliver a line like We don't have sh-t in common and still remain likable; he is the kind of actor that can look unfazed by the presence of a cameoing Natalie Wood and not seem like a complete jerk. In The Candidate, we don't necessarily identify with him. Instead, we jump onto his back as he maneuvers through the jangling dishonesty of the election process. Here is a movie more interested in saying something than showcasing how great its actors are, how great its direction is. The Candidate doesn't move you; it causes you to think. And as the race for the presidency continually heats up these days, it is compelling viewing that has hardly aged in what it has to say. "},{"Title":"So, now what do we do?","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Polished Veneer of Politics has Become Unvarnished Since this Insider Uncovering Circa 1972. It was Much More Interesting, For Sure, During it's Initial Release (now this stuff is common everyday knowledge), But that Doesn't Mean that it is Irrelevant or Dated or Uninteresting.The Perfect Casting of Robert Redford as an Idealist Lawyer with No Interest in Politics is Recruited to Run for U.S. Senator and Convinced to do so Because He is Told that He Can Get His Ideas Heard and in The End...You Lose.Peter Boyle is Quite Good as the King Maker and the Media Machine Behind The Candidate is Convincingly Portrayed. In Fact the Whole Political Scene from the Early Seventies is Given Gravitas by the Screenplay Penned by Former Eugene McCarthy Speechwriter Jeremy Larner, and Received an Oscar for This Work.Overall, it is a Bit Startling, but Maybe Not, that the Issues Presented in the Campaign are Still Debated and Divisive Today. Also, the Rules of the Game Haven't Changed That Much Either. The Preparation, the Concessions, the Presentation, the Do's and Don'ts are Pretty Much the Same Now as Forty Years Ago.The Film was a Big Hit, a Liberal Wish Fulfillment During the Nixon Years and the Vietnam Era, but it Wasn't the Electorate or Electrifying Left Wing Candidates that Silenced (at least for a little while) the Silent Majority. It was Tricky Dicks Dirty Tactics and the Cover-up and His Loathsome Vice President's (Spiro Agnew) Corruption. "},{"Title":"Sort of like what it would be like to hang out with a political candidate throughout the election.","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Candidate is a very simple movie. It follows a guy (Robert Redford) who is running for the Senate and you see him from agreeing to run to his eventual election. Throughout, the guy tries (not always successfully) to keep his idealism but there is a strong push by his handlers to get him to talk more and say less at the same time. This aspect of the story is very believable and this man is, more or less, relatively 'normal' and without any earth-shattering secrets or personal deficiencies. In fact, the film has little in the way of excitement--no 'bombshells', no real controversies--just a look at the political process and the men who handle these candidates. Certainly not a must-see film but well worth your time. "},{"Title":"The Story Of An Empty Suit","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was shown this in social studies class in my senior year in high school decades ago. The liberal teacher used the movie to teach us how real-life political candidates are developed, and he asked us questions such as whether debates were truly useful except as publicizing candidates.The story itself Bill McKay, son of a former machine politician governor of California, is talked into running for the Democratic candidate for U. S. Senator by a campaign manager who has just come off a losing election of another candidate. The manager expects McKay to lose anyway, so he tells McKay to say whatever he wants since it won't make any difference.But as the campaign goes on, the supposedly strong incumbent is vulnerable after all, and McKay wins the Democratic primary, and there is a serious chance McKay could really win the election. No longer can he just say what his beliefs are; he now has to draw in more voters who don't want a strong liberal. Solution McKay has to be much more vague in answering questions (as directed by his managers), and to give generalized platitudes even his campaign team laugh at. He talks about unity and solving problems-but at the same time fails to tell the public what he intends to do about them. He wins anyway-and is confused as to what to do once he has the job.While it is true that an empty suit can win an election (look at who our current President is), the movie's inherent problem is that the movie doesn't really give a reason that McKay should have won over the incumbent. Longtime incumbents normally lose if demographics change greatly or if they alienate their constituency in some way; the movie depicts nothing of the sort. Also, McKay shows little enthusiasm for running throughout the whole campaign; surely there are others who would have wanted the spot instead? Still, if nothing else, the best part of the story was where the campaign manager is told to take a chair-and he does so, literally. "},{"Title":"Kind of Fizzled in the Latter Half","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is not bad for the first hour. It shows an independent man being chosen, almost at random, to campaign to be a California representative in the U.S. Senate. He is permitted to express, at the beginning, his own independent views; but as he becomes more and more popular his politics, his speeches begin to be more and more circumscribed in order to allow him to gain political office. In other words he starts to be a real Politician and tow the line in order to be victorious.The latter half of the movie seemed redundant to me &#x96; it is just one long campaign trail &#x96; with speeches and meetings with crucial individuals to gain popularity. It actually was somewhat boring. See Primary Colors for a more sordid close-up of the political process. "}{"Title":"The Candidate Excels In Telling A Tale About Politics","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Candidate is a film starring Robert Redford. Its themes include how the political machine corrupts and the need to dilute one's message to win an election. There are many parallels between the 1970 California Senate election between John V. Tunney and George Murphy, but Redford's character, Bill McKay, is a political novice and Tunney was a seasoned Congressman.The film was shot in Northern California in 1971. Peter Boyle plays the political consultant Marvin Lucas. The screenplay was written by Jeremy Larner, a speechwriter for Senator Eugene J. McCarthy during McCarthy's campaign for the 1968 Democratic Presidential nomination.Director Michael Ritchie and executive producer/star Robert Redford satirically explore the machinations and manipulations of media- age political campaigns in this cynical political drama.Rumpled left-wing California lawyer Bill McKay, the son of a former governor, is enlisted by campaign maestro Marvin Lucas to challenge Republican incumbent Crocker Jarmon for his Senate seat. McKay agrees, but only if he can say exactly what he thinks. That approach is all well and good when McKay does not seem to have a chance, but things change when his honesty unexpectedly captivates the electorate. As McKay inches up in the polls, Lucas and company start to do what it takes to win, leaving McKay to ponder the consequences of his political seduction. Working without studio interference from a script by Jeremy Larner, a speechwriter for 1968 Presidential candidate Eugene McCarthy, Ritchie enhanced the behind-the-scenes realism of Larner's insights with a realistic, cinma vrit approach. He orchestrated a campaign parade for candidate Redford that drew such a considerable unstaged audience that local politicians wanted to draft Redford for a real election. The first and arguably the sharpest expose of the new media-determined American political process, The Candidate offers producer-star Redford one of his strongest dramatic roles; Michael Ritchei's cautionary tale became prophetic in its message.Also,Redford's resemblance to the telegenic Kennedys, and his character's resonance with the future career of California governor Jerry Brown, only emphasized how close to the bone The Candidate was (and is). Released the fateful year of Richard Nixon's reelection, the film garnered accolades, if not substantial box office; Larner won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay and thanked the politicians of our time for inspiration.Creating a documentary fiction about the semi-truths manufactured to market a candidate, The Candidate shrewdly exposed the effects of the media on the increasingly cynical political process, posing unanswerable questions that have become all the more pressing with every soundbite-ruled election. "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bill McKay(Robert Redford) is a lawyer and the son of Gov. John J. McKay(Melvin Douglas) who is running for the California US Senate seat against Sen. Crocker Jarmon(Don Porter).It's a great movie staring Robert Redford, Peter Boyle from Everybody Loves Raymond,Melvin Douglas,Karen Carlson.It's the best.I give it *****. "},{"Title":"Good movie - Food for thought.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw the reviews of this movie and I figured I'd give it a shot. It lived up to expectations, but not in the way that I thought. I had rather expected a 1970s Bulworth. Someone who would hit hard, keep hitting hard and never let up, although not using rap to get the point across.What I actually saw was a realistic story of an idealist's struggles with politics and publicity, as well as the effect on someone's family life. The ending made me stop and think for a while about how the struggle for change can be a tough row to hoe.I would recommend this movie for anyone who wants to go into politics, since it's a realistic story of the pressures inherent in dealing with the pressures and the powers-that-be involved.  "},{"Title":"***1/2 star movie. Great film. One of Robert Redford's overlooked films","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie seems to have a great talent with documentary-style filming. It's so real that it's as if the filmmakers just let the cameras roll while Bill McKay was on a campaign run. However, this is not real. This involves Robert Redford in an overlooked performance as Bill McKay, an idealistic lawyer who runs for Senator of California to upset an old and creaky warhorse Senator named Crocker Jarmon (Who's really a Crock). This film takes you from the beginning when the idea comes about to the time of the debate (Which is one of the great climaxes of the film) to election night, to the results.    If only electing a President in this country were this easy. Robert Redford makes his role the best that it could be. Here's a man that goes through so many parades, interviews and handshakes and yet he still has the same ideals that people love, want, and need.    This is a great movie and is worth watching (Especially during a time of election). Michael Ritchie's documentary-style filming is exceptionally and tastefully well done and the rest of the cast (Including a few appearances by Melvyn Douglas) shines along with Redford.  "},{"Title":"Impressive!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of those movies that reminds you why Robert Redford is more than just a pretty-boy actor.This movie, released in 1972, is perhaps most surprising now because so many of the issues its political characters debate and discuss are still relevant in today's politics - even in this year's presidential election.The storyline is actually pretty basic and unexciting, but the execution is good and the acting is more often than not quality.I think I gave it a nine as much for the quality of its social commentary as for its merits as a film. "},{"Title":"One of the best political movies of all time","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is actually is a movie about politics and the message is that the system takes over from those who start out with good intentions.  From a UK perspective it means more now (the year 2000) than it did when it was released because then it was a picture of where we were heading and now it speaks to where we are!Soundbites, image and personalities take over from substance, especially as the candidate gets closer to victory.  Only those who know they are going to lose can afford to be completely honest, is the message, and the closer you are to winning the more you are under the control of the party machine.  As an independent local councillor in the UK I can personally testify to this.The seventies hairstyles and clothes are unfortunate to the modern viewer but we still recognise the characters, the pressures and the motivations.As message films go, one of the best ever made. "},{"Title":"Frighteningly topical","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The great American tragedy - a man of great integrity, who knows precisely what ethical dangers await one in elected office, sets forth to commit goodness, but in the end becomes -- a politician.A tremendous insightful film when first released, seen now just on the other side of Bulworth's threshold of a new millenium, one finds that the only changes after nearly thirty years are sideburn lengths and width of ties. "},{"Title":"Well-made, and more or less informative","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A fine film about a young lawyer (Robert Redford) running for the senate, encouraged by an old college-friend-turned-campaign-manager (Peter Boyle). Redford is assured by him that he will lose against the Republican incumbent and that he can therefore be as honest as he wants in the campaign. As his popularity increases, however, and it looks as though he may in fact win, his managers are far more careful about what they will and will not allow him to say on the issues of the day.The Candidate is very well made, with an excellent screenplay and supporting cast (particularly Allen Garfield as Redford's ad man and Melvyn Douglas as Redford's dad, a former governor of the state), but, probably because of Redford's own political views, the film doesn't go as far as it could in showing the corruption rampant in party politics. There is one scene in which Redford has a run-in with a Teamster boss, but it remains unresolved, and in the next scene Redford is more or less back to his old idealism. We know something happened, but we have no idea what.Despite this, The Candidate is highly recommended. Watch for familiar faces, including Senator Hubert Humphrey. "},{"Title":"No Longer a Satire","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a nation We must face up to the facts that we'll be watching President Michael Jordan at his state of the nation in the near future. Therefore, I think it is time reclassify The Candidate, the quintessential political satire, as something more along the lines of historic fiction.After all, what's satirical about an alleged maverick who rides a wave of good looks, charm and vacant promises into high office? Was I the only one in America who coughed up his fettucini when George W. Bush had the nerve to promise no new taxes, only new tax cuts? Am I the only one who remembers that even conservatives didn't care for his daddy? Satire is reality now. Mark Twain would be a realist now, not a humorist.Which brings us back to The Candidate. Awesome. You have  Redford (sideburns and all), the idealistic lawyer helping the migrant farmworkers down in San Diego. You have Peter Boyle as the old college chum who offers Redford a free platform in an election he can't win. Throw in Allan Garfield as a king-making campaign expert, and Melvyn Douglas as Redford's estranged father, a former Governor, and you got it all. The acting by these folks is excellent. The presence of many real reporters and journalists only adds to the realism.You aren't five minutes into the campaign, and the sideburns are gone, the sell out begins. From the trenches down in San Diego, to the rich lady lunch-ins in Bel Air, sucking around for money and votes. So much for idealism. Natalie Wood shows up, as herself, and as you watch Redford chat with her, you'd swear it was Bubba Clinton. It's no surprise that writer Jeremy Larner and director Michael Ritchie are both veterans of the campaign trail. They understand it from the inside out. A big reason this movie towers over most recent political films, is because it never feels canned. I really believe (Idealism alert!) that this film was made to teach, not simply to make a buck. Lately, when I watch most new political satire, or any new satire for that matter, I often feel cheated. I get the impression that I'm being pandered to, rather than enlightened. I'm too often reminded that I'm watching a Hollywood product, with the everpresent marketing logos sprinkled throughout, and the forced pop references. Satire is supposed to ridicule through irony. Films like The Candidate and Network don't wink at the audience. They play it straight down the line, heightening the absurdity of their subject, by keeping a straight face.Treasure this movie. It's fast becoming a dinosaur. I can't imagine trying to write a satire on politics these days. Maybe that's why the more recent films don't quite measure up. Maybe it's not Hollywood, but the decrepit political system that ties the hands of the new breed of filmmakers. Maybe it isn't the money that kills filmmakers integrity, but simply the lack of good material to make a good satire. Maybe the last two lines I wrote were laced with satire! "},{"Title":"thoughtful political study","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Candidate' isn't a great film but it does have its perceptive moments and a certain sly, knowing quality about the subject it deals with, big-time politics. This shouldn't be too surprising, as its screenwriter, Jeremy Larner, was a former speech writer for Eugene McCarthy during his presidential bid. Perhaps it's the passage of time and the advent of 24-hour cable news networks, but much of the film seems obvious now, almost quaint. Robert Redford plays Bill McKay, son of a famous California governor, who has no interest in running for office at the start; he's a liberal activist lawyer helping Indians, hippies, and the downtrodden in general. A political consultant, Marvin Lucas (Peter Boyle), seeks him out to become the Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate, mainly because no one else wants to take on the popular Republican incumbent. Lucas presents the idea to McKay like this you don't have a chance of winning, so you can say whatever you want. McKay brushes aside his initial misgivings, finding that the idea appeals to him. After the campaign has been underway a while and McKay has secured his party's nomination, Lucas tells McKay the polls show that not only will he lose, he'll be humiliated. Now why he would be humiliated, much less why it should matter to him, is never made clear and is a weakness in the script. Wasn't he supposed to lose? In any event, it does change McKay's thinking and so an effort is made to 'broaden' his appeal. He begins watering down his speeches and his campaign takes on a more generic tone, with upbeat TV commercials and a cheerful slogan, For a better way Bill McKay! The candidate and some of his supporters become increasingly disillusioned even while his standings in the polls rises. Finally, there is a televised debate between McKay and his opponent, where at the end, a frustrated McKay lets loose and ticks off a litany of social problems that he says haven't been addressed in the debate. This return to his liberal roots has a mixed reception; Lucas thinks he's ruined everything but some of McKay's disheartened followers are buoyed. McKay follows this approach through to the election in which to everyone's surprise, not least him and Lucas, he defeats the incumbent to become senator. The famous last shot is of McKay sitting in a hotel room during the election celebration, asking Lucas, Marvin, what do we do now?, which never receives an answer as a crowd of media and campaign volunteers swarm into the room to congratulate him. There's a lot of truth in 'The Candidate,' and though it is written from a liberal perspective, it doesn't spare that side of the political equation from some hard questions, especially that very last one. "}{"Title":"Solid Depiction Of Political Backrooms","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Considering that this movie was made in 1972, it holds up surprisingly well - which, since it came from an age when cynicism with government and politics was rampant - is hardly a positive message about modern society! Robert Redford stars as Bill McKay - an idealistic young lawyer who is largely an unknown, except for the fact that his father (Melvyn Douglas) was once Governor of California.McKay allows himself to be reluctantly recruited by backroom organizers for the Democratic Party to run against the popular Republican incumbent for a seat in the U.S. Senate. When first recruited, McKay is told that he can be his own man - that he can say whatever he wants and campaign however he wants. As the campaign progresses, though, he unwillingly falls more and more under the control of his handlers, and especially Lucas, played by Peter Boyle.I liked the portrayal of Lucas and the other backroomers. It seemed realistic; like a look into a real campaign for the Senate. I also appreciated Don Porter's portrayal of Crocker Jarmon (the Republican candidate) as well as the fact that the movie avoided the temptation of turning this into a simplistic evil right-winger vs. righteous left-winger story. Instead, both candidates came across as sincere and well-meaning, even while they are clearly the products of their respective machines. Melvyn Douglas as McKay's father had one of the great lines of the movie. Reflecting on his son's apparent disdain for politics (one gets the impression he had not been happy as the Governor's son) McKay, Sr. looks at his son with satisfaction and says you're a politician now. Both the beginning and the ending of the movie were well done. In the beginning Lucas is just finishing up working for a losing campaign. Far from being broken hearted by his candidate's defeat, however, he simply packs up and moves on to McKay. There's no depth of commitment to the candidate; playing the game is all that counts. At the end, McKay is somewhat unexpectedly elected, and he pulls Lucas aside and with a bewildered look on his face says, so what do we do now? Lucas, of course, looks back uncomfortably and simply leads him out of their hotel room to greet his supporters. The point is clear Lucas couldn't care less what McKay does now. He's probably already on the lookout for the next candidate and the next campaign. After they walk out, director Michael Ritchie has the camera linger, and the final few seconds of the movie are simply a shot of an empty hotel room - surely a commentary on the emptiness of the political scene.This movie is solid rather than spectacular; interesting rather than riveting, very well put together and believable in almost every way. 7/10 "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's hard to believe that the same guy who directed this movie would go on to direct Fletch. This movie starts out with Don Porter playing a powerful incumbent Republican who the democratic party don't believe can be beaten so no one is willing to challenge him. Peter Boyle plays a campaign adviser who wants to Robert Redford to challenge Porter. Redford is just a lawyer who isn't even registered to vote but is the son of the former Governor of California, played by Melvyn Douglas. Boyle tells Redford he has no chance of winning so he can basically say or do anything he wants on the campaign trail. In one scene it shows Redford attending a diner that includes George McGovern and Hupert Humphrey. This is a great film about politics and there is a possibility that there may be a sequel which would be great news. "},{"Title":"Excellent satire on the problems of modern politics","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While this film was made before the golden age of mud slinging politics, it accurately portrays the problems of the American electoral system in the age of television. As exciting as that sounds (sarcasm), this film actually keeps it interesting and never loses its sense of humor. Dynamic, fascinating characters, well acted by the likes of Redford, Peter Boyle and Melvyn Douglas (to name a few), deliver a slice of reality that is as ironic as it is fun to watch. No one is who they claim to be as we the audience are dragged into a world where everything is staged and carefully planned by a bunch of men in a smoke-filled room.Since this film is a satire on politics circa 1972, many of the issues addressed in this film have actually gotten much worse. For instance the attack ads portrayed in this film are tame in comparison to todays standards. Also, a few of the political issues are a bit out of date. Aside from that, The Candidate 30 years later still holds up. Showing how even a man of deep convictions struggles with the insanity of political sound bytes, 30 sec. commercials, instant polls, theatrical televised debates and wishy-washy swing voters. After viewing this film, my optimism for the future of politics was damaged, as I realized how deep the problems that TV bring to the table actually are.Excellent cinematography, acting and screenplay! I highly recommend this film for anyone who loves or hates politics. It goes right up there with Barry Levinson's Wag the Dog, as a film that should be required viewing in high school government class.  "},{"Title":"Robert Redford's First Out Of Character Film Results In Another Success","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Redford first tried to establish himself as a serious actor with his role as a lawyer who pursues a run for a senate office in this 1972 Warner Brothers release. He succeeds yet again even when he goes almost completely out of character. There's some comedy here but it's mostly a dramatic show as Redford's character gradually learns how politics really work. A career highlight that would serve as a basis for Redford's later dramatic successes.  "},{"Title":"Pungent, observant, and trendy...","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Redford is in excellent form playing Bill McKay, a lawyer and idealist who is persuaded to join campaign for the Senate on the Democratic ticket as an automatic underdog, yet his off-the-cuff appeal manages to reach a great many more voters than first anticipated. Fascinating glimpse into the election process, with fashionably quizzical what now? finale. Acerbic director Michael Ritchie sees the appeal in the material and never clutters up the scenario, getting fine supporting performances from Melvyn Douglas, Peter Boyle, and Don Porter. Jeremy Lerner's solid original screenplay won an Oscar, though Ritchie and his editors spike the narrative a great deal with their prickly handling. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Solid behind-the-scenes look at a political campaign","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great look at a political campaign that remains timely despite it's age. Redford is good as the young, glamour-boy candidate, but Peter Boyle carries the movie as his campaign manager.  Boyle's performance is Oscar-quality, one of my favorites of all-time.  Look for Natalie Wood in a cameo, she's never looked better. "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like Robert Redford quite a bit as an actor. I especially like him in anything political. His run for senate as a nobody has the makings for a great movie. Great, it wasn't.I found it entertaining, however, it seemed slow and at times boring. In fact, I wasn't impressed with Redford as much as usual. Most of the rest of the cast was just filler.One problem I had was that the movie fails to explain in any meaningful way how Redford continues to close the gap to his opponent. Surely good looks isn't going to get you from 32% to over 50%.Overall, I wouldn't even waste a minute on this movie, but any political movie with Redford as a star has got a big advantage up front. You default to liking it and you only change your mind if there are serious problems. There weren't any serious problems, but I have seen Redford in many better movies - Sneakers, The Natural, All the President's Men, Three Days of the Condor and The Sting, for example. "},{"Title":"Shallow and pointless","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film tries to show how pointless and shallow politics is, by being pointless and shallow. It's amusing to see how nothing has changed in thirty years. But don't waste two hours on this film. Redford does better as a director than as an actor. "},{"Title":"OK movie - very lacking as a political movie goes","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Preface I think Robert Redford is a great actor and plays his roles very well. None of the below criticism and comment is directed toward his performance.It was an OK movie, but very lacking as a political movie goes. The movie had a lot of potential for the first half, where their was actually a dialogue! In the first half Characters were being developed, difficult political questions were being discussed, and even the personal difficulties of running for office and selling vs. keeping true.THEN the second half of the movie came. There was almost no dialogue, and the little that there was, was seriously not compelling. There was a lot of music cutting from scene to scene, and cinematography showing this or that and then back again. But there was very little point.Maybe I'm exaggerating a little to make a point. If this is your first politics related movie, or you really don't know much about politics, and your interested to 'see THE VERY SURFACE of what it might be like', then you could enjoy this movie.Otherwise, avoid it like the plague. It will certainly make you feel like you wasted your time. And, if you're like me and have a very hard time turning off a movie if you thought it had potential near the beginning stay away. You know, as it trends into an abysmal spiral from the middle to the end, even though your 90% sure it will crash and burn on the same predicted trajectory, you WAIT TO SEE THE END and are even more frustrated. The end was fairly pathetic.Serious bottom line Watch any of The West Wing and you will be so much happier.Did I miss anything? How did this movie win an academy award for its writing of all things! blah to that. "},{"Title":"About as relevant as the hula hoop","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Ritchie's 1972 The Candidate is a sharp satire about a good looking and idealistic young lawyer who becomes compromised by political handlers that are more interested in images than issues. The film contains one of Robert Redford's best performances as Bill McKay, a labor and environmental activist lawyer who is the son of former Governor John McKay (Melvyn Douglas). Although Ritchie is even handed in allotting blame to both the candidate and the system for the eventual outcome, the implication is strong that the pursuit of political power in today's America is inherently flawed.Marvin Lucas (Peter Boyle) is a savvy political boss who is looking for a candidate to oppose long time Republican incumbent Crocker Jarman (Don Porter). He approaches McKay, telling him that, though he will probably lose, he will have a platform in which to speak his mind. McKay accepts but stumbles right from the start, being upstaged by the overly aggressive Republican incumbent at a fire in Malibu and in speaking to an almost empty audience in central California. McKay says the right things but his platform manner is halting and unfocused and he lacks a coherent message.When Lucas notices a slight uptick in his poll numbers, however, he hires Allen Garfield, a media specialist who transforms the campaign into an exercise in image making and slogans such as McKay The Better Way. Though McKay has his heart in the right place, he defers to his strategists and begins to tone down his rhetoric about abortions and school busing and learns how to play the game. The film even hints that he is not above seducing young campaign workers in a hotel room. With his son's prospects increasing by the day and impressed by Bill's debate performance against Jarman, his estranged father comes out to support him, even arranging for a deal to give political favors to a Teamsters boss in return for the delivery of a large number of blue-collar votes.McKay ends up being a packaged candidate spouting liberal rhetoric without any substance or style. Compromise and manipulation is the order of the day. Written by Jeremy Larner, a former speech writer for Senator Eugene McCarthy, The Candidate delivers some funny moments such as McKay cracking up in laughter before a television camera and a memorable scene in which he spouts platitudinous nonsense in the back seat of his car on the way to a rally. Unfortunately, now that the 2008 U.S. presidential campaign has shown that victory and integrity do not have to be mutually exclusive, The Candidate seems about as relevant as a hula hoop. Even against long odds, the Senate seat in California is one of the most sought after prizes. Potential nominees campaign for years to achieve name recognition in the largest state in the country.Even then, no one undertakes running for the Senate without previously amassing a sizable amount of money, support from labor and key interest groups, and an understanding that the huge media market requires professional advertising and marketing. Ritchie has a political boss calling the shots, ignoring the fact that California, because of the work of the California Democratic Council in supporting grass roots participation in the selection of candidates, was free of political bossism at the time. While The Candidate may once have had some relevance, today it comes across as irrelevant. Ritchie's cynical attempt to demonstrate why politics is b.s. only succeeds in showing that the film's premise is b.s. "}{"Title":"Disappointing ending","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie spends an hour and a half convincing you that it will reveal some great truth about politics, about our world, about life.  Then it spends the last 2 minutes convincing you that you wasted an hour and a half.  "},{"Title":"Grade A All-American Cheese","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I disagree with the other reviews. I think that this movie tries hard, but it falls short due to bad acting and inept directing. One of the cheesiest movies I have seen in a while, and I'm a fan of these things. This movie just lends itself to so many jokes. Mystery Science Theater 3000 fans, this is the one!  "},{"Title":"More election-year left-wing propaganda rubbish with Redford.","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just one in a long line of propagandist anti-Republican movies released during election years with the sneaky but mostly gullible/optimistic hope of swaying a major chunk of U.S. voters to vote Left. This movie, however, failed to prevent Nixon from losing in 1972. (Did Oliver Stoned get drunk or stoned that day out of desperation?) Just as Fahrenheit 9/11, released in election year 2004, didn't prevent Bush from winning. Oliver Stone's W. (2008) also served that purpose; however, Obama was such a hands-down clear favourite last year, that the intention of Stone's masterpiss was moot. Altman's Bob Roberts (1992) didn't exactly help Clinton win, but it had that purpose too. All the President's Men (1976) was released months before Carter won.Solidly made, but the content and basic message are where the problems lie. The film is extremely naive in the sense that it suggests that a politician running for the Senate could be an idealist to the bone, and would be oh-so concerned about having the campaign be based on truth and values rather than opinion polls and winning. Of course, this candidate is a Democrat, because the Republicans - as we ALL know - are just evil, rabid Capitalists hell-bent on destroying planet Earth and all of cosmos. (Your stupid stupid minds! Stupid! - from Plan 9) But what can one expect? After all, this is a Hollywood movie, so I knew 100% what to expect TC, ultimately, more than being a study of the American electoral process, is a political motion-picture billboard advertisement for the Democratic Party, i.e. for the extreme left-wing of that party, the drooling liberal wing.Very occasionally there was non-partisan satire of the American political scene as, for example, in a brief segment in which a middle-aged woman tells a reporter that many of her friends voted for Redford because he is handsome.But (much) more often than not political bias prevails; for example, the way Redford's supporters are presented as smiling, young, normal-looking people, while the Republican candidate's voters are shown as smelly, fat, freaky, badly-dressed degenerates.(Has no-one seen a Democratic convention or rally? White trash in its gazillions...) Ludicrously unrealistic is the scene in which Redford and his opponent engage in a TV debate. Redford - a newcomer - is portrayed as totally confident, while his opponent - a guy who won no less than three senatorial elections and has been in politics forever - is shown as unprofessional, edgy, irritable, and unable to hide his negative emotions. Total nonsense, fairy-tale stuff. Brainless fluff. Preaching to the converted in ways that are more puerile than Roseanne's farts...Redford's views are supposed to be embraced by the viewer, but his speeches are so full of idiotic left-wing rambling that only the most extreme left-wing viewers will find him appealing. His speeches are written with intent to make him likable for the viewer, but in reality Redford's character only has empty, trite, old rhetoric to show; meaningless and vague populistic political banter of the kind that gets votes - and not the words of a wholesome idealist.I was disappointed that Redford's affair with a woman wasn't used as a factor in the outcome of the election, but, instead the movie goes the predictable road, and Redford beats the odds, winning as a heavy underdog (much like Rocky Balboa or Bugs Bunny). Had that affair ruined his election, this movie would have had something of a soothsaying nature regarding what had later happened to Gary Hart in the '84 presidential primaries.If you're a left-winger and love watching propaganda films camouflaged as dramas, have a blast.(Please punish me hard, very HARD, by clicking no below. That'll teach me...) "},{"Title":"You'll Be Bored","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe because I'm 18 and my favorite movie is Armageddon,or maybe because this film is awfully dull,or most likey both; But what I do know is that this film didn't hold my interest at all...They could of made a political movie just interesting enough to hold my attension until the end,which they didn't.The ending,which is supposed to be ironic,was very inconclusive.But it didn't matter.This is a dull,dull movie.No matter what political messages they tried to convey or whatever story they told,it just doesn't work because it's boring,and there's no getting around it!And I thought Spy Game was the most dull Robert Redford movie.1 1/2 stars out of 4. "}]