[{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I randomly put this movie on today, and I was pleasantly surprised. So much that I took the time to register and write the only review of a movie I've ever written. The movie feels more like a play, with a majority of the movie occurring in one space. The bulk of the movie is dialog, the main character Donny is blind. The movie is about his struggle for independence from his enabling mother and his interaction with his newfound roommate, Jill. I found all the actors delivery to be exceptional, and the interactions dynamic and entertaining. Most of the movie is conversations between the characters with quick replies and wit worthy of note. There's not much going on in the film outside of a simple plot, but the movie touches on some very serious, emotional moments as well as humorous. I think Donny's character is played excellently, and the other roles very convincing as well. Overall I found the movie to be really well done, entertaining and not at all bland, although it is definitely more like a play than a movie, so it might take a little more creativity and thought to make it as appealing, but that's what I enjoy anyway. Very impressed, haven't enjoyed a movie that much in a while. And it's 34 years old.  "},{"Title":"**** One of Goldie's finest moments","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Need strong proof to support the argument that Goldie Hawn is the finest of actresses? Watch this classic one along with her masterpiece Private Benjamin. In Butterflies she's funny, tragic, serious and as endearing as she could possibly could be as Jill, the wacky new girl in town who finds herself surprised when her neighbour Don (Edward Albert, Eddie Albert's son) reveals to her that he's completely blind. They have lunch, go shopping, get to know each other, and worst of all meet Don's mother. Don't mistake Eileen Heckart or her awards in the role of the domineering matriarch, she ain't just any aging woman playing a mother. The character is annoying, callous, loving and wise and the relationship that develops between the three characters is very moving. All this presented with great dialogue provided by Leonard Gershe (based on his own stage play).   "},{"Title":"I would love to see this story performed on stage","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much; it appeals to the romantic in all of us, yet it is very candid.  Goldie Hawn is perfect for the role of Jill, she seems so at ease with the character.  Eileen Heckart is wonderful as the overbearing yet caring mother.  She loves her son and it is hard for her to let go of him & to stop taking care of her son, Don, especially since he is blind.  She feels that he needs someone to care for him and  she thinks his new neighbor and love interest Jill is not the girl to do that.  Heckart won the best supporting oscar that year for the film and she was much deserving because she is excellent.  The film has some very touching scenes between each of the actors as Don struggles for independence from his mother and as he fights to convince Jill that they could have a relationship despite his blindness and how his mother has scared her away.   I also love that the film has been adapted from a play and you can really sense that with simple apartment setting.  A interesting note is that the Leonard Gershe who wrote the play was inspired by a real life person Harold Krentz.   Gershe heard Krentz talking on a radio show about being drafted for the military during the vietnam war, the odd thing is Harold Krentz has been blind since childhood.  Harold Krentz wrote a book called To Race the Wind and he writes about being the inspiration for the story of Butterflies are free.  "},{"Title":"the girl next door and the cute blind man...","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A light drama set in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury area of the early 70's. It is the latter days of the Vietnam War, an innocent time for us here in the 90's prior to the advent of AIDS & gay liberation & Watergate. Young cute and blind Don Baker(Edward Albert) makes a concerted effort at independence from his home and his clinging over-protective mother(Eileen Heckart) by moving into his own apartment. He meets and falls for the girl next door,literally. Goldie Hawn, here in one of her more successful & effortless roles as an extrovert gregarious actress. Young Don must come to terms with his blooming relationship together with his handicap.There is also mothers apparent disapproval of her son's budding affair.(her silence on the matter is thunderous).  Enough said.There are some wonderful scenes in this movie especially those moments between Heckart & Hawn. For her role Heckart deservedly won an oscar that year. Domineering & disapproving she may be but she is not an ogre rather a contrast in femininity to Jill,  the other woman in Don's life. The emotional change as she slowly accepts her son's independence gives the film some substance it would not otherwise have. Wonderful scene when mother & girlfriend first meet, in his kitchen, and Jill in her underwear !.The chill in the air is palpable but both characters size up the situation without even a hint of discomfort. The ending was surprising and very apt, a very touching moment between mother & son. Edward Albert does a convincing turn here and his circumstances are clearly the pivotal link for the other two characters coming into conflict. But it does seem superfluous at times in view of Hawn & Heckart's strong performances. A not too serious romance not to be missed by the romantics in all of us. "},{"Title":"Worth a Watch","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have been wanting to see this hard to find flick since I had the chance to play the Goldy character in the stage play. Although the film dates to '72 it really isn't even dated, although in one segment it does reference two out of operation airlines--sign of the times. The cinematic version retains many of the features one would find in the stage play. I found the experience of watching Butterflies are Free so much more rewarding then many more countless modern pictures I've forked out 8 bucks for at the theater.The character development is fantastic, Goldie Hahn is really classic as areformed hippie San Fran transplant. However, I feel the supporting characters really shine with their nuancedperformances. The long camera angles and the sets really allow you to see the interaction between the actors and the talent shines. This film is entertaining and enjoyable without expensive special effects, graphic violence or vulgarity-- just a young Goldie in her cute panties and tiny, svelte figure. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece Romantic Play","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Masterpiece film that has great quality production and acting.The story is a romance/drama that incorporates very real love/life struggles that come with it.Also a very good snapshot of early 1970's free spirit experimentation of 20 somethings without having to exaggerate.Also a good example of Goldie's acting skills.One of the top 20 Romantic Dramas of All Time and one of the 100 Best Movies All Time in my book.Only for romance/drama/play fans and big fans of the lead actors......  "},{"Title":"Long Shots","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie, but one thing I noticed and appreciated was the long shots. Modern movies usually are changing angles and context every few seconds; while like a play, this movie will hold a shot for minutes at a time. I think it shows the strength of the actors, while most contemporary movies can mask poor acting with editing. This is especially true towards the end of the movie, in the scene where Don and Jill confront each other's feelings. I was amazed at how Goldie was able to hold the emotion of the scene and keep me drawn in for such an extended period. I've never been a big Goldie fan, but I had never seen this movie until recently. I have to say this movie changes my opinion and makes we wonder what other films of hers from this period are like.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I just finished watching this movie. I woke up this morning believing I saw this movie years ago, and decided to give it a chance to see if it jogged any memories. Turns out I did see it years ago but now with me being much older, it held much greater significance for me. This film was not dated at all and it would be relative to almost any period in time. The issues dealt with in the movie are the same issues that people deal with all the time, except of course for the role brilliantly played by Edward Albert in which he plays a blind man. One of the beautiful aspects of this film is that the script tries, and succeeds at eliminating the stereotypes and limitations of the handicap to instead focus on the real emotional ups and downs of the human soul. Absolutetly brilliant film. "},{"Title":"The golden days of Goldie Hawn. (spoilers)","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I like watching 1970s comedies based on plays. They're so simple; usually three or four characters in one or two settings in a story with light-hearted quick wit comedy. Butterflies are Free is one of those movies.This is the story of a young blind man (played by Eddie Albert, Jr.) trying to prove to his mother that he is perfectly capable of taking care of himself. He moves into his own apartment, adjacent to a young eccentric actress (Goldie Hawn). His overprotective mother is suspicious not only of him living alone, but that should he fall in love and then have his heart broken, he won't be able to deal with it. Everyone in the film is terrific. I started looking for more Eddie Albert, Jr. movies as well as more Goldie Hawn movies from what looks to be her hayday (her movies nowadays just don't have the same effect). It's a very simple, very fun little film. "},{"Title":"Stage presence","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I bumped into this movie, a Goldie Hawn feature that I hadn't heard of. It turned out to bit of a gem. Clearly, written for the stage rather than the big stage, it did translate into a watchable couple of hours although I still consider that the stage is probably the most suitable home for this piece. The acting was terrific. Hawn was quirky, charming, frustrating, not to mention sexy. Such a confused and immature character, yet you couldn't help but like her. You wanted to sympathise with Edward Albert as the blind neighbour and yet, he didn't want people to sympathise with him. He displayed admirable courage and yet a fragility that could break at any second despite his noble. independence. Eileen Heckart won an Oscar for the mother. She was frustrating to start with and then her love and determination to look after her son shone through and you ended up being so full of admiration for her. Lots of talking and yet you get drawn in from an early stage so that you really, genuinely care. Don't let this butterfly pass you by. "}{"Title":"WOW!! What a great film!!!","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" So I got home last night and there was a Goldie Hawn marathon on TCM. I thought I knew all her films but I guess B.A.F. slipped through the crack somehow.You can definitely tell this was a play because it looks like a play. Although there are a couple exterior and location shots most of it takes place in the same setting. But it works well as a film and it has held up well over the years even if many of the scenes are obviously visually dated.Hawn and Heckart are great &#x96; and it's a well deserved Oscar for Heckart. However I was really blown away by Albert's performance. Although he only won a Golden Globe this is also an Oscar worthy performance and in my opinion they most hypnotizing out of the 3.SPOILER**** I'm noting this as a 'SPOILER' but will try to be somewhat vague here to not actually spoil it for those who have not seen the film. There is a pivotal moment in the film where Albert's character realizes what's about to happen, and he has this moment of emotion. I was so incredibly choked up by his performance because we all have gone through a similar event in our lives. That one scene made the whole movie for me. He did an incredible job.This is definitely a must see movie &#x96; especially if you are an actor in search of learning a real craft!! "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of a play, made better by the acting","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is an incredible movie. It has everything great acting, an Oscar winning performance (Heckart as the mother), believable characters, and a young, hot Goldie running around for thirty minutes in her undies.The acting of the three principles deserved three Oscar nods, but only one was given (for the top performance). Mother Bird goes from being overprotective to having to push her son from the nest. The different emotions portrayed by the character are wonderful and we can all see ourselves as overprotective parents in her role.Edward Albert's performance makes us wonder why he never became an A list actor.With Goldies performance in this film, along with her other early performance and Oscar in Cactus Flower, I wonder why she lowered herself to the stupid comedies she made the next several years (Protocol, etc.). The ditsy, dumb blonde was and is a better actress, as is evidenced by her work here.Why does Paul Michael Glaser seem to show up in bit parts in all the great 60's and 70's films? He was also in Fiddler on the Roof! This is one of the great romantic comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Romantic Comedies I Have Ever Seen","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The romantic comedy Butterflies Are Free is directed by Milton Katselas and stars Goldie Hawn, Edward Albert, and Eileen Heckart. The film takes place in modern day San Francisco, almost completely in one apartment.The film starts out with Jill Tanner (Hawn) in her apartment and seeing a young man, Don Baker (Albert), staring at her. She flashes him to show her annoyance at his stare and then walks away. A few moments later he hears Don on the phone with his mother (Heckart) and finds out that Don has a month left to stay in the apartment alone to see if it is a good fit for him. Jill puts the radio on loudly so that she is unable to hear the rest of his conversation. Don asks her to turn down the radio and then she invites herself over to his apartment for coffee. There she discovers that Don is actually blind and begins to be so interested in him she becomes attracted to him. The rest of the film is about the relationship between the two and how the mother tries to split them apart.The screenplay for this film I thought was really excellent. It takes place almost entirely in Don's apartment yet it remains constantly interesting. All the characters were very likable and the dialogue was some of the best I have ever heard in a romantic comedy. It is rare that I laugh during a film but the wit from this one made me multiple times. The character of the mother was extremely strong and believable as was the rest of the characters. I liked the ending a lot and all the twists and turns, just a very well made screenplay.The direction was very good for this film. Katselas was able to get fine performances from his entire cast and kept the film interesting. It is hard to make a film that is in an apartment this entertaining. I really think he was able to get some great shots of Albert acting blind, for most of it I though he actually was. Unfortunately Katselas never became a big name director, but I will always remember him for this film.The acting by the whole cast was superb. Goldie Hawn was just adorable as Jill and I can see why any person could fall in love with her. I never understood why Goldie Hawn was such a big superstar but this film showed me why. Edward Albert was excellent as Don, as I said earlier I actually thought he was blind. He was able to deliver his witty dialogue brilliantly as well. Eileen Heckart earned an Oscar and it was well deserved because I was extremely attached to her as the mother, especially towards the end. She conveyed the worry every mother feels for her child and she did so brilliantly.Overall I give this film an 8/10 and I would recommend it to anybody who likes a smart romantic comedy with fine performances. "},{"Title":"Overprotective Mama","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film version of Leonard Gershe's Butterflies are Free which ran for 1128 performances on Broadway from 1969 to 1972 transfers the location from Greenwich Village in Manhattan to the hippest areas of San Francisco circa the Seventies. Eileen Heckart and Paul Michael Glaser, later Starsky on Starsky&Hutch retain their original roles.Replacing Keir Dullea and Blythe Danner in the leads are Edward Albert and Goldie Hawn. This was Edward Albert's film debut and Hawn was following up the Oscar she won for Cactus Flower. Both of them fit their parts perfectly.But I can hardly see anyone else in the role of Albert's overprotective Mama than Eileen Heckart. Though she's only in the film in the second half, Heckart really dominates the proceedings. So much so she got an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress that year. Heckart also avoids the usual stereotyping as the mom, but she does register real concern for her kid going out in the world.Edward Albert is her twenty something son who is trying to break free from his mom and is now living in an apartment that has a connecting door to the next apartment which is occupied by free spirited hippie chick, Goldie Hawn. Of course the key here is that Albert is blind, blind from birth. They develop into quite the romance that Heckart tries to break up.Do love Goldie's fashion sense. See the episode where she takes Albert out of the apartment and clothes shopping. Remember those seventies fashions? Straight off the rack or the body of Barry Williams as Greg Brady. "},{"Title":"Goldie at her most enchanting.....","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" BUTTERFLIES ARE FREE is the delightful 1972 film adaptation of the Leonard Gershe play about a young man who has been blind from birth (Edward Albert)who moves into his own apartment and almost instantly falls in love with his kooky next door neighbor (Goldie Hawn), a flighty free spirit who has trouble with anything resembling commitment, which he turns a blind eye to but is picked up immediately by his clingy, over-protective mother (Eileen Heckart). This breezy comedy still holds up pretty well for a film that's over 30 years old, thanks to an enchanting performance from Hawn in one of her earliest roles and a flawless supporting turn from Eileen Heckart as the mother-from-hell, who swoops in to protect her baby boy from this evil woman. Heckart underplays her role so beautifully here, a perfect supporting performance that won her a richly deserved Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. I love when she first meets Jill, who is in her underwear, and Jill explains that she came over so her son could help her with her blouse to which Heckart replies, with the sweetest smile on her face, Where is your blouse? Edward Albert, son of GREEN ACRES' Eddie Albert, made an impressive screen debut here as Donny, the young man between these two women. Albert won a Golden Globe for Outstanding Newcomer for his work here but it is the work of Hawn and the divine Ms. Heckart that make this film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Fine Cast and Witty Dialog Compensate","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" At first I thought the movie was about Don (Albert) freeing himself with the help of free- spirited, hippie chick (Hawn) from an oppressive establishment, exemplified by his tyrannical mother. In short, I thought the film was another facile exercise in '60's counter-culture. But no. Because beneath the hip '60's trappings, lies a deeply humane message, valid for any time or place.The movie has its faults, mostly those endemic to any stage play adapted to the screen. There's basically only one set, and lots of talk, talk, talk. But fortunately the dialog is crisp, witty, and often highly intelligent, particularly Don's perceptive nuanced distinctions, e.g. 'want to' vs. 'have to'. And if Don often seems too good to be true, actor Albert manages to make him believable without preying on the audience's sympathetic instincts. Hawn is Hawn, a lovably flighty extension of Rowan & Martin's 'Sock it to me' girl. In fact, at times here, she resembles a cuddly bunny peering out from under a mop of blonde hair.At the same time, interest really picks up in the second half (as others have noted) with Mother's (Heckart) arrival. Her raspy voice and domineering manner inject needed drama and comedy into what has been a mounting one-note love fest. Right away Mom seems ripe for audience dislike, but that's part of the movie's overall moral, which I take to be about overcoming internal barriers to happiness.Anyway, the movie's a tad over-long in the first part. Still, a difficult topic is well-handled by an intelligent script, and a fine three-person cast of players. As I recall, the film was quite popular when released, and I'm glad to have finally caught up with it. "},{"Title":"Wispy-thin, but engaging on a minor level","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Only a couple of days pass during Butterflies Are Free, but Lives Are Changed Forever--or so they say--in the course of its story. Two neighbors (one blind) meet, fall in love without saying it, manage to take on his domineering mama, argue, and...well, you can guess the rest. Based on the popular play, the film uses its staginess to good advantage, making the blind man's apartment a character in the proceedings (with a bed up on stilts and a bathtub under the dinner table!), yet it's a one-note, one-idea movie which seldom takes its emotions very far. I wanted to be moved by the ending, but it's puzzlingly bland. All the acting here is very fine, Eileen Heckart won a Supporting Actress Oscar, but it isn't a picture that changed or improved careers. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Should be seen","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I first saw the play, then the movie, then a play put on at a local University. Now I watch the movie anytime I notice it on and have the time.This movie will be hard to comprehend unless you can devote full attention to it as it moves fast and just gets better as it goes along - in other words if you don't have a copy of it make sure you've got your popcorn and a quiet house. It's mostly happy, with a few sad points but has a happy ending. This one gets all the stars and we did have one Oscar winning performer in it, I'll let you guess who.A movie not to be missed, and if you can see it in a local play don't hesitate as it performs well even on the small stage. "},{"Title":"Warmed-over hippie tripe","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" After listening to a witty radio interview featuring Harold Krentz&#x97;a blind man mistakenly classified as 1-A by his local draft board&#x97;screenwriter Leonard Gershe (the 1958 Oscar winner for 'Funny Face') was inspired to write 'Butterflies Are Free', a play about a young blind man who moves from Scarsdale to Greenwich Village to get away from his overprotective mother and establish his independence. Opening at the Booth Theatre on W. 45th Street on Oct. 21, 1969, 'Butterflies' starred Keir Dullea ('2001, A Space Odyssey') as Don Baker, the blind protagonist; Eileen Heckart as Baker's mother; Blythe Danner as Jill Tanner, Baker's next-door neighbor and love interest; and Paul Michael Glaser as Ralph Austin, a friend of Jill's. A surprise hit, the play ran for nearly three years (1,128 performances) and earned Danner a 1970 Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Play. In March 1970 producer Mike Frankovich ('Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice') paid Gershe $300,000 and a percentage of the film's future earnings for the screen rights to his play. Frankovich also hired Gershe to adapt his play to the screen and the play's director, Milton Katselas, to direct the film. Of the original cast, Eileen Heckart and Paul Michael Glaser were tapped to reprise their Broadway roles but television's favorite blonde hippie chick, Goldie Hawn (Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In), replaced the then relatively unknown Blythe Danner and 20-year-old Eddie Albert, Jr. supplanted 35-year-old Keir Dullea in an obvious bid to lend the film greater youth appeal. Likewise, the setting was switched from New York City to San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury district, to marinade the story in hippie counterculture ambiance. Viewed now, decades after its initial release, 'Butterflies Are Free' can be regarded as a time capsule of a short-lived Aquarian Age, or more cynically, as a transparently slick exercise in sentimentality dressed up in hippie garb. Eileen Heckart's turn as Mrs. Baker earned her the 1973 Oscar for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. A final irony although the title sounds like the quintessence of hippie philosophy, it was actually derived from Charles Dickens' 1853 novel, 'Bleak House'! VHS (1996) and DVD (2002). "},{"Title":"Touching The Heart In Plain Sight","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Thanks to Turner Classic Movies and Goldie Hawn night, I have finally seen this movie. It is most impressive. Goldie Hawn is fantastic in this one, and not just her looks. She plays this role like she was meant for it even though she was not in the stage play.Edward Albert is great in the title role and the lady who plays his mom is perfect. This is a film where good dramatic writing is raised above that level by excellent acting. It is very much like the stage play but it is done so well, and the characters draw you in so well, that you wish you could have seen this play live.It is also a vivid reminder of how stupid being politically correct really is. The script and the actors point out so well at several points that it is not important if the words are right, but it is extremely important how you live with words that will not go away. This might just be the best film to reflect the hippie era.This movie should be put on any viewers list as it is one of the better films of it's type. The characters are deep and it is entertaining without being an action movie. This one is just before the action era dominated films the next few years. "}{"Title":"Jill I played Yum-Yum.  Mrs. Baker Yes, I'm sure you did.","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Goldie Hawn received much attention as a dancing bikini-girl in Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In TV show (1968), the one with all of the parody and flying jokes. Goldie was covered with funny slogans written in body paint. She would often flub her lines and giggle in a dizzy way. Voila, a star is born! The laugh-In girl made some interesting pictures and did quite well on the big screen. At the very beginning of Butterflies Are Free, the viewer gets the impression that Don Baker (Edward Albert) is a peeping Tom. Before long we understand that he is blind. Don had moved into his apartment building against the advice of his mother. Nearly the entire first hour of the movie is essentially a two-person play &#x96; with much dialog and little music &#x96; as neighbors Jill Danner (Goldie Hawn) and Don Baker (Edward Albert) get to know each other. Practically the entire setting occurs in Don's apartment (except when they go shopping for clothing). Goldie, as usual, is a delight to behold, with all of her zany expressions and sayings. She looks fine in her bikini, er, underwear, and comes across well as a freewheeling ex-hippy who falls for philosopher-neighbor Don. More than halfway through the movie, we have a three-person act, as Don's domineering mother, Mrs. Baker, (Eileen Heckart) walks uninvited into the apartment while Jill and Don are hanging out in their underwear. It is apparent that Jill will not be a big hit with Mom. She does not believe that the giddy Jill is right for her son, who has already had a failed relationship. Furthermore, she disapproves of Don's neighborhood, and still wants her son to move back into her house. Mrs. Baker takes Jill out to lunch to discourage her from seeing Don, but to no avail. Then Ralph, a playwright, enters Jill's life; she gets the part of a nude in his latest play, and the waif is excited.How will it all pan out with Don and Jill? No spoilers are given here. While it's not a brainy film it certainly is a charming and enjoyable romance feature. It's not too dated except that it does not contain the vulgarity of many recent films. Eckert and Albert won awards, the former the Oscar, and the latter the Golden Globe. The Golden Globe also nominated Goldie for Best Actress. Pleasant. "},{"Title":"Butterflies Are Free and So Are We to See this Wonderful Film ****","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A truly wonderful film of the highest order.In a 24 hour period Goldie Hawn and Edward Albert are 2 free spirits who meet as neighbors and prove that love conquers all even in blindness.There is a splendid Oscar-winning performance by Eileen Heckart as an over-protective, completely overbearing mother who meets her match with Hawn. Heckart who had been nominated before for 1956's The Bad Seed had to be terrific to beat out Shelley Winters' portrayal of Belle Rosen in The Poseidon Adventure. She certainly was.The dialogue in the film is crisp and some of the lines by the characters are so well delivered in round sequence.My favorite line was when Heckart says to Hawn So your marriage lasted 6 days and the 7th day you rested. Hawn said No, on the 7th day I split!Edward Albert is masterful as the blind youth,refusing to allow his handicap to conquer him. Heckart, as the doting mother, will do anything to keep her sonny boy in tow until a memorable lunch with Hawn,changes all that.This is certainly a classic film. "},{"Title":"Some of the better dialogue around","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I agree with some of the other comments, it's obvious this was written as a stage play, because the film plays the same way. If you're able to get past the dated aspect of the accoutrements (it's replete with late 60s early 70s time-stamping), which you should be able to do considering how good the dialogue is, it's really a terrific piece of work. All roles are extremely well-written and well acted. Very real, in the truest sense.The dialogue is extremely witty, yet equally natural, and scarcely any filler is present. The premise itself is weighty and important. A blind man fighting for independence from his overprotective mother, whom we later learn did everything she did, including the children's stories she wrote, out of maternal love and desire to help him.The character Jill helps the mother to see that she has overdone her job and it's now time to let her work (her son) takes on a life of its own. She realizes this to such a degree that when Jill walks out on her son, and in an emotional moment of turmoil he relents his desire for freedom and concedes to go home with his mother, she doesn't let him. She finally really gets it.This work abounds with powerful human moments. It never feels forced, preachy, or artificial. Just powerful. It's a story wherein the three principal characters all grow and learn. What else is there in life? "},{"Title":"Powerful performances by Goldie Hawn, Eileen Heckart and Edward Albert","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The three main characters in this movie give powerful performances.  I really enjoyed the movie and although dated (1972), the acting is real and believable.  It must have been wonderful to see this movie on the big screen.  Goldie Hawn is bubbly and likeable, but shows that she can be firm and cry.  Eileen Heckart is bold, direct, and loves her son (Edward Albert) to the extreme.  Edward Albert ties all the characters together.  I found the movie touching, enjoyable, and adorable. "},{"Title":"An excellent film with a superb assortment of talents.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Butterflies are free is a wonderful film about the struggles of a young blind man trying to make a living on his own in the city. Eddie Albert Jr. is wonderful as the main character, and Goldie Hawn and Eileen Heckart give outstanding performances as the precocious next door neighbor and the over-protective mother. The film is a superb look into the internal and external struggles on the path of maturity. "},{"Title":"Goldie Hawn is perfect for this movie!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I love this movie! This movie is great! Goldie Hawn gives an Oscar performance as her role as Jill. I highly recommend renting this movie as soon as you can! It may be one of her older movies but that's what great about it!  "},{"Title":"BUTTEFLIES ARE FREE (Milton Katselas, 1972) ***","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is yet another film I ought to have watched or, at least, acquired well before now; given its subject matter of a blind young man (a debuting Edward Albert) falling for a free-spirited girl (Goldie Hawn) and meeting opposition from his possessive mother (Oscar winner Eileen Heckart), I expected melodrama of the worst kind &#x96; but the approach, which veered more towards character-driven romantic comedy, proved far less oppressive than it certainly could have been! On his first film, too, was director Katselas &#x96; who had a rather brief career, following this with 40 CARATS (1973; which, again, I own but have yet to check out), which reunited him with Albert and screenwriter Leonard Gershe.Though the Leslie Halliwell Film Guide gives it no stars at all, which probably had more to do with my overlooking the movie all this time than anything else, it has received a number of accolades apart from two other Oscar nominations for Best Cinematography and Sound (a vital element in view of the physical impairment concerned), it was also up for a number of major awards &#x96; albeit in the Musical/Comedy slot &#x96; at the Golden Globes (but, surprisingly, Heckart did not even make the Supporting Actress shortlist this time around!) film, actor, actress and the song Carry Me, while Albert did emerge the winner in the Most Promising Newcomer category; Gershe, then, was a WGA nominee for adapting his own play to the screen. Interestingly, the male lead being the son of veteran character actor Eddie Albert, it should be noted that the latter was himself Oscar and Golden Globe-nominated that same year for THE HEARTBREAK KID (1972; which also lies in my To Watch pile)! Another odd coincidence between father and son is the fact that, when the 99 year-old old man was going through his final illness, the younger one &#x96; who, by then, was caring for his parent on a full-time basis &#x96; learnt of his own terminal ailment and would pass away only a year later (at age 55!)! Anyway, the central triumvirate of characters virtually duplicate those of the recently-viewed A PATCH OF BLUE (1965), only here the blind person is male; we also have pretty much the same lack of sentimentality in dealing with such a sensitive subject &#x96; with the afflicted party longing for both independence (which he gets by surprisingly famously unless objects are displaced from the way he left them!) and love (though already disillusioned when we first meet him). Hawn is typically kooky (upon noticing Albert looking at her half-dressed, but without being aware of his predicament, she takes a leaf out of Luis Bunuel's TRISTANA 1970 and angrily flashes him!) and, at least initially, superficial &#x96; since she, an aspiring stage actress, has no qualms about moving out of the condominium and in with her director, played by Paul Michael Glaser (of Starsky & Hutch), after having led the blind man on! Perhaps allowing for the fact that Albert's character cannot see her, she spends a good deal of her time in his adjoining flat in her underwear; in fact, when Heckart turns up unexpectedly, the young couple had just spent their first night together (he eventually suggests &#x96; at Hawn's implication &#x96; that she change her morose expression, lest others take her for a lesbian)! Albert has managed to learn to play the guitar to accompany his lyric writing and adequate singing voice (at one point, he covers John Denver's popular Take Me Home, Country Roads!); this artistic bent (which also explains the myriad literate references throughout, the title &#x96; also utilized in a song &#x96; deriving from Dickens) was inherited from his mother to alleviate her son's loneliness growing up, used to write children's books in which the protagonist was a blind superhero named Donnie Dark!! The confined setting (only briefly opening up for Albert's change of clothing under Hawn's guidance and, then, her tete-a'-tete with Heckart &#x96; which inevitably ends in a row), considerable length (109 minutes) and talky nature do not necessarily work against the film, thanks to the characterizations being so finely-tuned to their social background (conventionally-bred Heckart's apprehension about Hawn's lack of commitment &#x96; who, at 19, is already a divorcée' &#x96; is proved right, at least for a short while) and liberated era (Albert's apartment had served as a hippie commune, while Hawn's all-important theatrical engagement involves copious nudity). "},{"Title":"Cute Film","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I like this film as it is a simple premise and not hard to follow. I want to be entertained at the movies, not confused or frightened or ill. Goldie and Edward are cast right, and that makes an enjoyable movie.Some of the funny scenes include Edward's comments about Goldie's hair; when Goldie moved the ashtray (not knowing that Edward is blind) and he 'notices' it when it isn't there to catch the ashes; counting of the steps to all the places he needs to go. If this movie was to be released in current times, it would not be appreciated. It's too predictable, maybe even corny, for today's movie goers. But there's nothing wrong with basic movies that just make you smile!  "},{"Title":"Humorless romantic comedy","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A young woman (Goldie Hawn) falls for a blind man (Edward Albert) who is struggling to break away from his worry wart mother (Eileen Heckart). Bland idea for a romantic comedy that suffers from a strong lack of fresh material. "},{"Title":"Forgettable hippie schmaltz.","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The first half is really tedious, full of fluffy dialog. Once the blind guy's mother walks in things liven up, and from then on things are more interesting, though at the price of being decidedly soap-operatic. Much of the dialog of conflict reminds of soap-operas; it's the same old lines and attitudes that we've heard and seen a million times before. The guy playing the bondman is okay but somewhat bland, and not really a match for a young, spunky Goldie Hawn. She is cute and charming, and does her best, but there is a limit to what she can do with her stereotypical character; she plays one of those free-spirited, cheerful, young hippie girls with a good heart - a moronic cliché in the movies of that era. There is also little that Hawn can do with the mediocre script; instead of creating a script that exploits the comedic possibilities by creating humorous exchanges between characters, the writer has opted for a safe and easier way schmaltzy melodrama, with the dialog occasionally being somewhat witty, but never funny. The ultra-dated and annoying hippie-era clichés that creep in on a regular basis don't help, either; it's clear that this was written by some left-wing Hollywood bozo. "}]