[{"Title":"A first class ticket of horror !!!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"57 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pardon my enthusiasm but Horror Express really is a must see for all fans of classic horror. It simply is one of the best horror movies made in the seventies and I can't think of many aspects about it that are negative. First of all it stars Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing. There.that should already be enough as a recommendation. These gentlemen are one THE greatest duo in horror ever and they didn't do their finest work just for Hammer Studio's exclusively. And the fun doesn't stop with these two icons.Horror Express also stars Telly `Kojak' Savalas in a delightful role.  It's actually a shame that his screentime is rather limited because he manages to impress as much as Lee and Cushing. He clearly enjoyed playing Captain Kazan and he makes the most of his performance.But Horror Express has a lot more to offer than just good acting. It's a powerful and fascinating story that delivers a good old fashioned amount of scares and atmosphere. The entire story takes place on a old train which is the ideal setting for a film like this. The old and noisy carriages create a unique atmosphere of claustrophobia and the `nowhere to run'-element is used to the max. The plotline itself surprisingly good and it keeps you alert during the entire movie. This is also thanks to the several other, interesting topics that are included in the movie like anthropology, religion and the evolution-theory. Sure, the entire screenplay is illogical and the plot contains as many holes as a small Swiss cheese but - seriously - who cares. I prefer this kind of silly inspiration and creativity a million times over the horror crap they make nowadays !! Horror Express is - simply put - a must see ! I'd even say it's essential viewing if you're looking for the highlights in the genre.  It's original, creepy ( even pretty bloody and violent ), it contains enough humor to moderate things and most of all.it's very entertaining. Climb on board and find yourself a seat.Horror Express is one movie you won't regret watching !! "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first halve of this movie is pretty standard seventies horror stuff like featured in most of the old Hammer movies. The second halve however really surprised and impressed me. I loved it!I really love old-horror movies with both Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee in it. In this movie they are better than ever together. Their acting is superb and so is the rest of the cast even though it is a bit strange that almost all of the Russians are played by Spanish people. Telly Savalas also shows up in a fun role. Savalas is probably best known for portraying Ernst Stavro Blofeld in the James Bond movie On Her Majesty's Secret Service but he also played in classics like Cape Fear (1962), Kelly's Heroes, Capricorn One and The Dirty Dozen. It's wonderful to see such fine acting in one movie because normally mainly it are just only Cushing and Lee who are the only good actors in a movie like this.Also this movie is actually scary and gory and it has a really good atmosphere. It starts like some kind of monster movie like Creature From the Black Lagoon but the second halve of the movie is more like a Zombie movie like Lifeforce (which is an underrated horror classic in my opinion with a great soundtrack). A combination that worked really well for me.The story stays simple and of course ridicules but it still is better than 90% of the other movies from the same genre and it actually goes deeper in trying to explain some of the things.In my opinion a real horror classic!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"47 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Picture a frozen ape man discovered by a British archeologist and scientist at the turn of the century, and being placed aboard a Trans-Siberian railway from China to Russia..and you have the beginning of Horror Express.  Christopher Lee plays the man who finds this fossil, as he calls it, which turns out to be so much more.  The film itself is beautiful as we see this elegant train traveling across snow-covered terrain(actually filmed in Spain).  The cast of characters aboard are of equal interest.  Peter Cushing plays a scientist named Dr. Wells.  For Cushing, this is a fine performance of a scientist less hypnotized by the ethic of science and more worldly.  He bribes officials to get train tickets, has a baggage man drill holes in Professor Saxton's(Lee's) discovery, flirts with both his manly lady assistant and a beautiful stow-a-way, and in general seems less serious than many of his former roles.  Nice to see him occasionally smile.  Lee's professor is quite typical of Lee, burly, officious, obnoxious, and willful.  Both Cushing and Lee are extraordinary and sights to behold as they waltz through the script of finding the creature which is wiping the minds of various peoples.  The rest of the cast is also very good with a Rasputin-like monk stealing scene after scene.  Horror Express is fast-paced action, inventive science fiction, gory thrills, and chilling horror. Indeed it is worth a look!  "},{"Title":"Great Yarn","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"48 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Judged on its own terms--as a 70s ghoul movie--this film should be rated a 10 out of 10! The plot is well-structured and tightly directed, and contains lots of great elements 1906 setting, fancy trans-Siberian train ride, a ghoul, a mad monk, alien theorizing a-la-X-files, zombie soldiers stalking, Peter Cushing sawing the top of somebody's head off, a beautiful spy, eyeballs in a dish, a beautiful Polish Countess, and, believe it or not, it's all very cohesive! That's an admirable achievementAnd the acting is great. The Monk is a scene-stealer. Christopher Lee gets to play a testy, priggish Edwardian scientist, and he does it very well. Cushing's character plays off Lee's stodginess as a laid-back deal-maker(yes, he actually smiles and cracks jokes)These two performances prove that Lee and Cushing were both gifted and versatile actors. Telly Savalas arrives for the final act, and proceeds to strut around and chew up the scenery on a level that would make Rod Steiger or Al Pacino jealous. This movie is one of the best of its type. Yes, in the first two minutes you can see signs of a limited budget, and yes, the microscope scene is ludicrous, but in a way, on the level of imagination and poetic license, it's pure genius.Corrections a certain Dik offered this information while commenting1. An Italian film.(It's a Spanish/UK production) 2. Lee plays an American Scientist(the first thing you hear in the movie is Lee saying he is part of the ROYAL Archeological Society, and there's also a lengthy exchange about his character's Englishness Queen Victoria, crumpets, Shakespeare...etc.(The commentator actually goes on about how Lee's portrayal of an American reflects how foreigners view Americans. Well...there's a little problem with that idea, isn't there?) "},{"Title":"Body- hopping alien on the Trans-Siberian Express!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a very enjoyable movie. The story--about a body hopping alien loose aboard the trans-Siberian railroad in 1906--is like a dry run for all those X-Files to come, not to mention FALLEN. If you crossed the X-Files with Murder on The Orient Express you'd come close what is on display here. I really wasn't expecting much from this movie and maybe that is why i was so pleasantly surprised. Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee--given a rare chance to play allies instead of enemies--rise to the occasion and deliver spot-on performances that are filled with an infectious wit and good humor. And the incomparable TELLY SAVALAS--in what is really only a glorified cameo--makes the most of his opportunity--arrogantly strutting thru the train swilling vodka and chewing on the scenery with delight.The director shows a real flair for developing an atmosphere of paranoia and fear and the screenplay is, quite simply, completely bonkers! The feverish pacing keeps everything hurtling forward with an hysterical abandon and a fine (if perhaps at the time, unwitting)comic edge.If you are a fan of The X files, Agatha Christie murder mysteries, Brit horror icons Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, or just like movies set in Siberia featuring the dessicated remains of body hopping alien parasites--then HORROR EXPRESS is the film for you! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The real deal!","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSI've noticed that some people refer to this movie as obscure, which baffles me because I used to watch it all the time on television in the 70s & early 80s, back when it was still fun to watch late-nite TV (before the dawn of the infomercial). For a number of years, all you had to do was turn on the TV after midnight and eventually you'd catch Horror Express.Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing play two distinguished gentlemen at odds with a nasty frozen fossil that Chris picked up in the far East and is now taking back to Europe on the Trans-Siberian Express. The fossil, a half man/half ape Neanderthal that he believes may be the missing link, thaws out and becomes surprisingly animated. The creature begins attacking and murdering the passengers, draining them of their brain contents through their eyes, which turn white and bleed. Later, the fossil is shot down and killed, and it's only then that we learn the true threat a formless, extraterrestrial intelligence that can inhabit living bodies by entering through the eyes. The brain sucking allows it to absorb the intelligence of its victim, resulting in a cunning (and seemingly unstoppable) adversary.Horror Express has got a wonderful European atmosphere to it, in the tradition of the best 70s genre films, and it is a real treat for those who appreciate this kind of thing. Although it's a low-budget Spanish production, it's almost on par with the best of the Hammer productions. The presence of Lee and Cushing might actually make you think it's Hammer, but when Telly Savalas shows up to keep order on the train, you'll know it's not. The sets are weird and appropriately eerie. It's not quite as claustrophobic as a real train might be, the cars look a little too wide and a little too opulent. However, the miniature shots of the train are not all that bad for a low budget film. The movie does manage to be genuinely chilling in some places, especially the climax of the film that gives us an undead army of bleeding, white-eyed victims. Only a few campy sequences hold it back from being a real classic (the textbook drawings that are supposed to pass for real-life images they find in the creature's eyeball, for one). But so little to complain about in a film so delicious. Definitely worth your time, especially late late at night! "},{"Title":"Great teaming of Cushing and Lee in horrific chiller","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A sadly neglected and underrated horror story.  Every avid fan of either Christopher Lee or Peter Cushing should see it! Consider the setting; a trainload of passengers on the Transsiberian Express, with no way to go -trapped with a spooky prehistoric monster! It has a feel of low-budget italian productions, but it's not enough to spoil the great atmosphere of this old-fashioned fright night. And how many times do you get to see Cushing and Lee on the same side, battling the same foe? The climax, which resembles a zombie-movie could very well be the scariest in the history of all on-screen train rides! "},{"Title":"Compact, eerie and intriguing low budget thriller","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An intriguing idea of a spirit of pure evil with the ability to jump from body to body aboard a trans-siberian train. Well done considering budget constraints, and claustrophobic. Lee and Cushing are fine, but it's Telly Savales who chews the scenery to good effect. He is an unexpected treat as a bullying cossack officer and good counterpoint to Lee and Cushing as civilized gentlemen. Don't expect a slick Hollywood production and you won't be disappointed. I watched this on late night TV spookfests everytime it was on during the late 70s and saw something new each time. It's something like a cross between Hammer and Argento, and a little bit of Corman, too.  "},{"Title":"Seventies Cult Classic","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror Express - Ingredients A missing link unearthed from its icy tomb; an isolated train journey through snow-swept China and Russia; a mad monk; murder; startling discoveries and twists; a dash of comedy. Also add Christopher Lee; Peter Cushing; Telly Savalas. Place into pot and mix well, then prepare for one suspense thrilled journey. You will not be disappointed!    "},{"Title":"A great B-movie, if that is not a contradiction of terms","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie sets itself a modest purpose to keep us entertained for one and a half hours. It succeeds brilliantly, as long as we allow it to succeed, that is, as long as we are willing and eager to be entertained. This is one of only two thrillers that I know of, in which almost the entire story takes place on board a train the other is Murder on the Orient Express. The setting works very well in both movies, but I found Horror Express to be more satisfying. At the beginning, as the cast of characters got settled in the train, I got settled in my chair, eager for the journey to start. During the journey, there is enough suspense to keep the viewer interested, but nobody (except the very young or the very sensitive) needs to worry about being scared, or grossed out by gore. I must admit to not having paid too close attention to the plot, but this probably contributes to the enjoyment, and it means that I can enjoy seeing it again. In short, this movie is jolly good fun as long as you are not too demanding in terms of plot or character development. One of my favorite horror movies. "}{"Title":"Red Eyes, White Eyes - on a Train,Draining Brain","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" All aboard the Trans-Siberian Express - non stop to the shores of hell. That's the interpretation of the priest character on board. But he's off-base; it's an alien monster that's causing all the trouble - a monster derivative of The Thing story, but about 10 years before John Carpenter presented his version. The creature is literally millions of years old, having passed through various forms as life evolved on Earth; then someone makes the mistake of storing it on board in a frozen apelike fossil. Next thing you know, certain individuals are behaving strangely, with glowing red eyes, and others turn up dead with eyes whited out (and brains drained). This, of course, benefits from the umpteenth pairing of Lee and Cushing; Lee is the arrogant scientist here and Cushing is again a doctor. Much of the entertaining dialogue stems from the conflict between science and religion, during the transitional phase of the early 20th century. The priest rants on about Satan; Lee calls it rubbish. Here's a typical quote from the priest 'There's the stench of death on board this train; even the dog knows it.' The dog belongs to a couple of aristocratic Russians on board.At the one hour mark, Savalas shows up as a power-mad Cossack with his soldiers, ready to kick everyone to hell and back. He manages to make quite an impression in the next 15 minutes as the death toll escalates. He and the two leads (British all the way) sort of ham it up, as if knowing they're in some crackerjack cheesy horror material, but there's also quite a bit of eeriness to the proceedings. The filmmakers managed to get the nice train set from an earlier big budget production and made good use of it. The train itself becomes nearly another character, hurtling through the dark with snow and a chill wind all around, and the interior set design is quite good. The musical score is also unusual; when one expects ominous tones during some sequences, instead we get a kind of tuneful melody. But the best thing about this is the concept itself - this thing, this form of energy, having been around forever and theoretically capable of curing all our ills, contents itself with the easy kill. Boy, does it like to drain brains. "},{"Title":"A one-way trip to outstanding horror.","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1906 a British scientist discovers a mysterious frozen creature in Manchuria and boards a train to bring it back to England. Unfortunately the creature thaws and begins to possess the passengers; literally draining their souls by merely looking upon them! Horror Express is one unique and finely-made genre gem. From its eerie opening credits to its smashing, fiery finale it's a journey through the bizarre and terrifying unknown. The story is truly chilling and remains compelling all the way, as it builds to some great shocks and is cemented in a profoundly creepy atmosphere. Eugenio Martin's direction is good, making a B budget film into grade A quality. The camera work is nicely done and the period setting is quite authentic-looking. John Cacavas' haunting music score is also a great addition.Cast-wise the film is quite solid too. Horror veteran Christopher Lee delivers his usual sophisticated performance, while fellow horror star Peter Cushing adds a colorful presence of his own. The supporting cast is also good, particularly Telly Savalas who plays the captain of a band of rebels who take the train hostage.Excellent on all levels, Horror Express is a delightful and scary film. Definitely a must-see for genre fans as this is one of the best British horror films of the 70's.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A simply terrific period sci-fi/horror treat","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1906 haughty, insensitive anthropologist Alexander Saxton (Christopher Lee in peak snobby form) discovers a missing link humanoid creature frozen in a block of ice in the mountains of China. Saxton ships the hairy thing across the country on the Trans-Siberian Express. The monster, possessed by a non-corporeal alien intelligence which uses human bodies as a vessel to inhibit, wakes up, gets loose and sucks various folks' brains dry so it can absorb the knowledge it needs to build a spaceship to get back to its home planet. It's up to Saxton and his more humane rival Dr. Wells (beautifully played by the always excellent Peter Cushing) to thwart the evil extraterrestrial entity.This infectiously energetic, inventive and imaginative period sci-fi/horror combo treat gets by on the sheer basis of its unrelenting headlong momentum, tightly wound narrative and furiously busy multi-charactered story. But that's not all that this delightful humdinger has to offer We also get punchy direction from Eugenio Martin, a wildly stirring conclusion in which the out-of-control train hurtles towards a cliff while its surviving passengers are terrorized by freshly revived zombies (!), a fabulously funky score by John (Airport '75) Cacavas which comes complete with a burning fuzztone guitar riff and an eerie whistled theme worthy of Ennio Morricone, a then novel body jump premise which was later reused in a handful of 80's fright films (John Carpenter's The Thing, The Hidden, Shocker, The Horror Show, The First Power, et al), a wonderfully witty rat-a-tat-tat rapport between the deliciously dynamic and redoubtable duo of Lee and Cushing as reluctant allies, and a superb supporting cast which includes a splendidly frantic eye-rolling hambone turn by Telly Savalas as a loutish, overbearing Cossack (!) police captain, Albert (Open Season, The People Who Own the Dark) de Mendoza as a deranged Rasputin-like monk, comely redhead soft-core film regular Helga (The Vampires' Night Orgy) Line as a sexy, beguiling spy, and the ubiquitous Vic Israel (Spanish horror cinema's Mr. Cellophane) as an ill-fated baggage man. Moreover, the picture deserves further kudos for directly addressing the ethical repercussions intrinsic to unearthing and subsequently proving the existence of the fabled missing link When Line accuses Lee's postulation that man naturally evolved from the apes as being immoral, Lee flatly responds It's a fact -- and there's no morality in a fact. This audacious subtext, specifically devised by screenwriters Arnaud D' Usseau and Julian Halevy to challenge mankind's preconceived beliefs about his own evolution, clinches this honey's status as one of the all-time great early 70's low-budget horror winners. "},{"Title":"The best of it's kind","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plenty has already been written on here about the stars and plot of this movie,Lee and Cushing are in top form.Savalas is like Kojak with a Russian costume,Do you believe in Satan little papa?The monk Pujardov is awesome,The train chugging thru the Siberian landscape,set to some of the Most awesome music ever heard on any horror flick,fuzzed out guitars groan and boink over an eerie and hauntingly beautiful whistled Russian waltz and the train whistle,making a haunting theme,rivaling the soundtrack for The Good,The Bad,and The Ugly. The plot is full of unexpected twists and you are never quite sure if the entity is Satan or a displaced alien,when Pujardov is host to it he says he was an alien traveler left behind,but Satan is a notorious liar,so you are never quite sure,witness the chalk not writing on the box as the monk attempts to draw a cross on it.International spies,mad momks,Satanic entities ,fried eyballs,crazy kossaks,Cushing and Lee,all this makes this one of the greatest low budget flicks ever made,Pick this one up out of the bargain bin for a couple bucks, you won't go wrong! "},{"Title":"Undeservedly forgotten horror film - one of the better examples of Lee and Cushing working together in the '70s.","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing. The two go together like strawberries and cream, like white wine and fish. One is a glove, the other is a hand that fits perfectly inside. The Lee/Cushing partnership made many movies together during the '50s, '60s and '70s, including some of the finest Hammer horror movies. Of their three decades as screen partners, their work from the 1970s is probably their weakest - Nothing But The Night, Dracula AD 1972, and The Satanic Rites Of Dracula are inferior examples of their films together. However, even in he '70s low period they still served up the occasional gem. The Creeping Flesh was a nicely done horror flick with a wickedly unexpected twist ending, and this - known in America and Britain as Horror Express - is a powerful and inventive bloodcurdler with a sprinkling of science fiction.In Siberia, 1906, anthropologist Alexander Saxton (Lee) finds a frozen creature which he believes to be the Missing Link. He transports the being back to western Europe by trans-Siberian train. Aboard the train are the usual assorted types- a Polish countess (Silvia Tortosa); her husband (Jorge Rigaud); a mad monk seemingly modelled on Rasputin (Alberto De Mendoza); and a fellow scientist and long-time rival of Saxton's, the charismatic Dr Wells (Cushing). Midway through the journey, as the train passes through a desolate snowscape many miles from civilisation, the creature thaws out and begins killing the passengers. Wells carries out an autopsy on the corpses and realises that they are not up against the Missing Link, but a weird alien organism which inhabits the bodies of its victims and steals their memories. As the finger of suspicion falls upon each character, the scientists try to figure out which passenger is carrying the shape-shifting monster, while trying to keep everyone safe and alive.Horror Express has its share of dumb moments (what horror film doesn't?) but in the main it is quite an intelligent and original piece. Some of the supporting actors are quite amateurish, too, giving performances that distract one's attention for the wrong reasons. However, Cushing and Lee are believable as always, and it's their straight-faced conviction which makes the story as spine-tingling as it is. There is also a well-developed subtext in the film condemning religious fanaticism, with Mendoza's character shown to be so unreasonable and misguided that his Christian rantings are every bit as disturbing as the teachings of a heretic. The atmosphere is spookily maintained, with lots of eerie scenes (which probably got many a heart fluttering back in 1973, in the pre-Exorcist days of the horror genre). In particular, the climactic sequence in which Cossack soldiers, led by Telly Savalas, board the train only to be zombified by the deadly alien, is a chilling episode. You may need to be a fan of old-school horror flicks to enjoy Horror Express, but if you are it's definitely one worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"A fantastic 70s horror movie","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is simply a very good movie. There is really nothing about it to dislike. Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing are the biggest names and they work well together on the screen. Telly Savalas shows up towards the ending, and makes a great performance.The movie is very impressively made. It is a work of art. Other than horror qualities, the acting is great and the setting works perfectly. This is one of those movies who works good on every level. The acting, the pacing and the sets are all perfect. The special effects in this one are still very fascinating and scary.This is one of my absolute favorite movies and I highly recommend it to everybody. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable Euro horror.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express starts in Provincia de Szechuan, China during 1906 as a British expedition lead by anthropologist Professor Alexander Saxon (Christopher Lee) discover the frozen fossilised corpse of a two million year old Ape man. Together with his unique specimen Professor Saxon boards the a train to Russia in Pekin, also boarding the train is Dr. Wells (Peter Cushing) a rival scientist. As the train speeds through the icy wastelands the Ape man comes to life possessed by an alien energy creature capable of jumping from body to body & sucking the thoughts, ideas & knowledge from it's victims minds. A hunt is mounted to discover which passenger is possessed with the evil alien...This Spanish British co-production was directed by Eugenio Martin & is an entertainingly absurd sci-fi period horror flick that is hard not to like. The script by Arnaud d'Usseau & Julian Zimet takes the basic premise from The Thing from Another World (1951) with it's story of a frozen alien found by unsuspecting explorers & adds a little bit of The Hidden (1987) in as well with it's body jumping alien & even manages to throw a tiny bit of The Night of the Living Dead (1968) into the mix with it's horde of zombies at the climax. One could also say Horror Express takes both it's setting & it's title from the action adventure Shangai Express (1932). The one thing that shines through about Horror Express is that it's very entertaining in it's silliness, a two million year old fossil coming to life, the sucking of people's minds dry, the idea that it's all down to a millions year old alien & the the scientifically unsound notion that images are somehow stored in eyeball fluid. It all works really well to create a unique horror film with a good story that continues to develop throughout it's duration, the character's are good & there's the expected religious reasoning as well which is disproved in favour of more scientific explanations. Overall Horror Express is a much better film than I had expect & as a film you can see that it has itself influenced quite a few other films that have been made since.Director Martin does a good job, there is indeed a sense that we are traveling on a train at the turn of the century. The period Hammer horror style production design & costumes are excellent. According to the IMDb the train interior sets & the model train used for the exterior shots were the same that the producer/director had used for their previous film Pancho Villa (1972) although other sources state that producer Bernard Gordon brought the train model from the big budget Nicholas and Alexandra (1971) & decided to make a film around it with both sounding equally plausible in the world of low budget exploitation & horror film-making. Whichever is true (if either are) the makers certainly get a lot of use out of the train model since every two minutes they cut to a shot of it speeding along the track, seriously if you were to edit out all the train model shots then I think Horror Express would be a good twenty odd minutes shorter. There's not much gore, there's some blood, there's a dissected eyeball & a surprisingly graphic autopsy scene for the time where Cushing saws the top of a corpses head off to expose the brain.Technically the film is well made with that 70's period Hammer horror atmosphere which makes so much difference, the way it's shot & the way the sets are so detailed really help make Horror Express look higher budget than it was. The model train shots look a little fake at times though, the monster is wisely kept in the shadows most of the time & the cheesy red eye effect often feels out of place. There's a good cast here with English horror stalwarts Christopher Lee & Peter Cushing who both turn in fine performances as one would expect. The bald one himself Telly Savalas has a small cameo as a Russian cossack & camps it up superbly. The rest of the cast while not as well know put in decent performances.Horror Express is a highly enjoyable & likable sci-fi horror film in the best tradition of Hammer horror with a good cast & it has an adventurous story that tries to be different as it mixes religion, horror & sci-fi. Much better than I had expected & well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, inventive 70's horror flick.","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's got a stylish, modern title, and its opening titles are in a slick, hyper-modern font...from the opening moments, this is clearly a film for the modern mind. But it's actually a period film...and it closes with a rock music version of its theme...I guess we could call this Period Cool!A frozen ape creature dug up in an archaeological expedition comes to life and begins killing the passengers of the Trans-Siberian Express. That may sound like sufficient material for a low-budget horror piece. But two sparring scientists on the train quickly discover that much more is going on. The enigmatic creature appears to be getting smarter with each person it kills--indeed, it appears to be draining the minds of its victims and absorbing their intelligence. There's more, much more--and you're going to have to watch the film to find out what happens.This is one of the best horror films of the 1970's...featuring many creative ideas and a fine cast including Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing, Telly Savalas (who steals the show during his brief appearance) and Silvia Tortosa. Everyone is lots of fun, and while this film is fairly gory, it's no mere bloodbath. It requires constant attention from the viewer as the story is actually rather complex. And unlike the characters we find in most current horror films, the characters in Horror Express are intelligent people, and their attempts to analyze the strange science-fictional situation in which they find themselves are most engrossing. Heck, even the monster in this movie is smart.It's strange to consider that, though it features all the trappings of a horror film, it has little of the conventional atmosphere...it's very thinky, and so cleverly funny that the word giddy can be used to describe it. The cast seems to have enjoyed the opportunity to work with such an interesting story. It transcends its genre.So much fun that the rough edges from its low budget are easy to ignore. One of the most enjoyable things Lee and Cushing did together. "},{"Title":"Classic and scary cult movie","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" the first time i saw Horror Express (because i've seen it several times) i became a huge fan. It's a classic and scary cult movie two icons of horror cinema, great acting, a creepy atmosphere,the soundtrack with these unforgettable whistling. The script is absolutely imaginative an ancient alien monster sucking all the memory contents of the passengers of the train, to get the enough knowledge to make a spaceship for comeback to his planet, it's absolute awesome. The f/x are pretty decent and Telly Savalas, Julio Peña, Silvia Tortosa, Helga Line, Alberto De Mendoza, Georges Rigaud, and Cushing and Lee of course, gives great performances. It's specially indicated to see at midnight or later, you will enjoy it for sure! "},{"Title":"Creepy for a 1970's movie","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen a lot of Hammer films, so I don't really know why the name Hammer is so significant in the genre of Horror. However, I must say that this film is just fantastic. It's actually generally frightening, and also a very compelling storyline. You have to take time and wonder just what the creature is, it an alien life form, or is it Satan? That's the one problem I have with the film. The movie can't seem to decide what it's villain is. For most of the movie, it shows strong evidence that it's Satan, or at least a demon ( i.e no markings appear on the box that the creature is in when the monk tries to draw a crucifix on the box with chalk). But then when the life form enters the monk, it claims to be a form of energy from another galaxy... which says that it's an alien. But then that doesn't explain the other things. Those two facts contradict each other too often, so it's almost impossible to come to a conclusion. Either way, it's a great film.  "}{"Title":"Strange science! (Beware of police inspectors with one hairy hand!)","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those 1970s films that whilst it can't seriously be called a great film is certainly great fun and so full of bonkers ideas it makes you glad it was made and sort of sad that nothing like it would get made these days. Films like Zardoz and The Final Programme would also fit that same description for me, but unlike those films, Horror Express is, despite its occasional sci-fi elements, firmly rooted in the horror genre. In fact it feels much more like one of those horror films that made the video nasties list in the UK in the 1980s than it does the typical Hammer-style horror film that you would normally associate with Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee (both of whom star). There is some quite graphic horror here with heads being sliced open and an eyeball being removed during autopsies, albeit with rubbish special effects and all safely within a 15 certificate nowadays. (The fact that the 2006 2Entertain DVD I watched it on presents the film in 43 aspect with less than great picture quality also undoubtedly helped to contribute to the video nasty feel!)It's a British and Spanish co-production, although the only evidence of British involvement on screen is the presences of Messrs Lee and Cushing, a fact not lost on the writers. In my favourite moment it is suggested to the British leads that one of them might be the monster that is killing people off on board the titular express train. This is an allegation they refute with an argument that consists entirely of looking indignant and explaining in two words that this couldn't possibly be case because We're British! We British might be a little bit emotionally stifled,but we're not the kind of people that would turn into a prehistoric ape man come alive from a 2,000 year-old fossil, that may or may not be Satan himself or may or may not be an alien spaceman, and that is killing selected passengers on board a trans-continental express train journeying across Russia. That by the way is the plot, together with some remarkably strange science along the way that tells us people's memories are either stored in the fluid in their eyeballs or stored in the creases in their brains (which brains will therefore become completely smooth if one is unlucky enough to have one's memories sucked out through one's eyeballs). Also amongst the strange ideas that are shoe-horned into the film's shortish (83 minutes) running time, at the expense of overall coherence, are a mad monk who converts from devotion to God to devotion to Satan with a remarkable rapidity and a police inspector with one hairy arm who nobody notices as a consequence keeps one of his hands permanently in his pocket. We also get Telly Savalas who stars a Cossack Captain and does his menacing-holding-his-cigarette-in-a funny-way-persona (much as he did for his depiction of Blofeld in On Her Majesty's Secret Service) for maybe about 15 minutes of the film's running time before being turned into a zombie! So all in all a film well worth a watch if you like that kind of thing! "},{"Title":"There's a stink of hell on this train!","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express is a great little horror film. It combines four things I enjoy trains, snowy backdrops, the dynamic duo of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing, and the theory of the missing link. It's an original and atmospheric film that is probably the best of any of the Spanish horror films of the 70's that I have seen. The special effects are pretty good and the direction is very nice for the genre and time.But really it's the cast that sells Horror Express so well. Obviously, any film with Cushing and Lee in it is automatically worth seeing. Lee plays the crusty Brit stereotype to perfection while Cushing plays a more laid-back character than normal, which is pleasant to watch. He even cracks jokes! Most of the non-English actors do surprisingly good with a minimal amount of overacting. Alberto de Mendoza as Father Pujardov is the worst offender but it actually works well for his character, who seems a sweaty high-strung mess the entire time. Telly Savalas, billed as co-star with Lee and Cushing, doesn't show up until about an hour in and has a limited but memorable role. He hams it up in every scene but it's a real treat to watch.Horror Express is a great movie to watch late at night. If you're a fan of the terrific actors involved or of movies that take place on trains, please give it a shot. It's worth it. "},{"Title":"A true underrated classic","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a horror movie that a lot of people will not of heard of but should definitely watch as it is a classic.I did'nt know much about this film when i first watched it and was not sure what to expect but i loved the film.The setting on the train gives it a scary atmosphere and that claustrophobia sense and being unable to leave adds to the feeling of fear on the train.Horror legends Sir Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing are on fine form and show us why they were such a legendary duo.Telly Savalas also stars as the crazy Captain Kazan,Though his screen time is limited he makes the most of it and delivers a great performance which adds positively to the film.This is fast paced action with genuinely scary scenes and some gory moments.This is a must see for horror fans,you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Late Nite Scary Movie Classic","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay. . .Okay. . .remember this was early 70's, so the monster effects will NEVER live up to today's standards. SO Just FORGET about computer digital effects. Forget about CGI. These were the days of costumes and Make-up. Forget Alien, The Thing, Bram Stoker's Dracula.What the Director lacked in terms of the ability of bringing an imaginary script to animated life, they made up for with Suspense and Acting.A Countess, a Poodle, a headstrong Scientist and some odd colleagues, a Priest and an assortment of other stock characters. A train crossing Siberia from China to Russia at the turn of the century with endless icy wastes all around. And inside. . .ancient evil.Give it a try as a Late, Late, Late Movie-- this is best on a cold winter Friday or Saturday Nite-- AFTER 12. Watch fluff and serials before-- but nothing serious or modern, else you'll spoil the mood.It's a nice go at a period piece set in the Victorian Age-- but in the Far East as opposed to England or Europe. And the central premise of the story is actually a little deeper than it looks on the surface if you give it a chance--especially since it isn't often that you hear the phrase Millions of Years and the phrase has NOTHING to do with Dinosaurs!This used to be what we called the Late Late Movie, forbidden Horror/thriller scares for after-Midnight when Mothers were always telling you to Go To BED if they woke up and heard the TV and found you snuggled on the floor in your blanket close to the flickering light.It's still enjoyable as such. Let the inner kid out. Snuggle up with some hot chocolate and watch. "},{"Title":"Fine,delightful Lovecraftian thriller","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's long since I believe that cinema&#151;either as art or as low&#151;brow amusement&#151;is a lost craft, a disappeared aptitude, just like sculpture, painting, poetry or symphonic music (but I could very well add the pop music as well &#133;). It just isn't here anymore. Such a verdict might seem quite harsh and adolescent or fanatic ;yet, it's the truest. Little by little, taking no more than one step at a time, life withdrew completely from the movies. It was still there in the '80s &#133;then it slipped out &#133;. There are exceptions&#151;blah &#133;blah &#133;--though what I pointed here was life as a rule, even in the humblest manifestations and expressions of an art&#151;or of an amusement&#151;not life as an exception, as an anomaly&#151;look, there's a Spielberg movie that can still be called an adventure flick&#151;there's a Crowe picture that can still be termed a western&#151;there's a French film that would still honor an art&#151;house &#133;.The cinema had life in it; it has not. And if we focus on the amusement side of it, the conclusion is the same. Once cheap meant funny; today, cheap or big&#151;budgeted means the same&#151;ugly, empty, stupid, boring,hollow.You might now be surprised to find out that I made this introduction, for one movie quite humble and standard&#151;and also by many considered silly and what not &#133;.Yet, to me, the difference between such a humble movie and any film nowadays is immeasurable, in the former's advantage.Horror Express was the first horror movie that I have ever seen;at that time,it proved to be extremely scare; now,it looked rather facetious and nonchalant and picturesque (see the Rasputin type of the Eastern monk, a wild demoniac mystic ;or the brave, cruel Cossack&#151;all, comic strips characters, so amusing and worthy of sympathy &#133;;it was like I met, after a life, a bunch of old, but not at all aged, friends, whom the celluloid kept from the waves of destructive time &#133;).Now,after so many years, so much wanderings and filth, I liked it again as much as I did expect.A kind of facetious eeriness, a tongue&#151;in&#151;cheek atmospheric Lovecraftian thriller &#133;.Seen by many as a standard Hammer (I guess) product, the films delights me by what it has unique, individual, singular, uncommon. The score; the pace; the art of the vignette; the characters; the suspense; the performances (no less than three stars of the genre films &#133;);the taste in selecting the frightful elements to be put into a story like this &#133;.And also the cheerful illogicality ,the defy of any rational coherence &#133;;it is a tale, a fairy tale, quite short, immensely suggestive, yet also quite explicit &#133;.A really compact and suspenseful flick,of Lovecraftian air,Horror Express is a movie I have re&#151;seen with a sincere love;it was the first horror I ever saw. And how endearingly is it acted! What an interesting cast ! The pace is excellent&#151;a nice job, from a time when the viewers got a better treatment &#133;.None of the recent horror movies equals this apparently clumsy, yet as a matter of fact very competent film. Its content is incoherent, illogical, silly, mystical and SF simultaneously, yet how picturesque! There are quite a few silly things in it&#151;but they are indifferent and exterior. The compact pleasure is here. Savallas' performance is, once again, above all hopes. His larger than life characters are made of his fascinating energy and brio. To fully appreciate a film like &#133;it takes to be able to taste a joke, a series of jokes; the nonchalant script asks for it. The movie delights rather than scares (when I was 12 yrs. I did not notice the errors, camp things, and I have been pretty scared &#133;).For me, it is a cult&#151;movie. A solitary pleasure, the in--depth movie&#151;love permits the existence of such one&#151;person cults &#133;.I knew nothing about horror films at 12;yet the knowledge added in&#151;between did nothing, I can see, to diminish this movie's charm. It is a harmless, atmospheric Lovecraftian tale. It brings some joy. "},{"Title":"Claustrophobic, Hysteria-Filled Midnight Movie.","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express is a strange little B-grade midnight movie. The film follows a British professor, Alexander Saxton (Christopher Lee, of The Wicker Man), an archaeologist who has just made a finding of a frozen prehistoric creature in the depths of Manchuria. Alexander decides on transporting his archaeological finding via the trans-Siberian Express, expecting no problems. But things go bad before the train has even left the station, when a civilian drops dead in front of the crate holding the beast. And things aboard the train turn into a nightmare when the strange creature comes back to life, and begins terrorizing and murdering the passengers all aboard. But can the creature be stopped before killing off everyone? It's up to Professor Alexander to stop the murderous, unknown beast.While the story to this film may sound silly, Horror Express is an amusing and enjoyable little B-movie, despite the fact that it is a bit campy. In fact, it's very campy, it's the kind of movie that you can't really take seriously, but just go along for the ride. And if you can do that, what a fun (train) ride it is! Among the few horror films that take place aboard a moving train (which really is an excellent setting for a horror flick, I might add), this surely ranks up there with the 1980 slasher flick Terror Train, but they are both very different movies. Horror Express bears a unique premise (especially so considering the time it was made), and the brain-draining creature is a great villain for the story. It's an intriguing idea and the writing is pretty solid as well, with fairly believable dialog (if you can get past Lee's British accent and a few corny moments).The atmosphere in this film is very heavy and claustrophobic, which is why I think the train-setting is so great. It's effective and it achieves a sense of claustrophobia, because our characters really have nowhere to run to when trying to escape the creature. Hysteria is also a common element to the movie, and it gets heavy when the creature begins its take-over of the train passengers. There are quite a few very scary scenes, and those white-out, blood dripping eyes are something that I'll never forget. That white, bloody-eyed imagery is enough to give anyone the chills, I had to note that magnificent little element to the film. Our creature itself, which is alien and ape-like at the same time, is actually pretty frightening. Acting-wise, we have solid performances from Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing, along with the supporting cast who all does pretty well. The ending is great too, and you can't forget that memorable music.Overall, Horror Express is a low-budget and entertaining midnight movie that will please fans of this type of film. It boasts a unique idea and there are a good handful of some creepy moments. Not to mention the presence of Lee and Cushing. It's no the kind of film you can take seriously, but it is an immensely fun little piece of horror cinema that most will find very entertaining. It's a retro, B-grade seventies horror movie that should be viewed by horror fans, because chances are that most of them will find it an enjoyable little ride. 7/10, pushing an eight. "},{"Title":"All Aboard for Horror Goodness...","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have vivid childhood memories of Horror Express. When I watched the film as a young 'un, I was vaguely traumatized by its imagery of dead people with white, blank, blood-leaking eyes. Creepy stuff, for a kid.Now that I'm an adult, with plenty of gory movies under my belt, I've largely gotten over my childhood dread of this odd little film. And yet, Horror Express still packs a scary punch for me during its best scenes. The train setting is both romantic and claustrophobic, and the monster is effective in both its human and creature forms.The script blends science fiction and horror to interesting effect, suggesting that the monster is some kind of unholy alien. I've seen a lot of horror/sci-fi hybrid stories on TV (in Kolchak, The X-Files, Doctor Who, etc.), but not too many in the movies - so Horror Express is fairly unique in its blending of genres for the silver screen.This movie is also noteworthy for its first-rate genre cast. Of course, horror icons Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee are on hand (unusually, Lee has more dialog than Cushing - the reverse is usually true). But the really noteworthy piece of casting is Telly Kojak Savalas as a loud, bossy Cossack captain. To be honest, I think his glorified cameo is a little outrageous, and temporarily threatens to derail the film (pun entirely intended, I'm afraid), but ultimately he doesn't distract too much from the other, better-established characters.Of course this is no masterpiece, but fans of what I call good little horror films should enjoy it immensely. It's got good ideas, scares, gore, eye candy, and cool actors - what more do you need, right? "},{"Title":"Lee and Cushing star in above average Euro-horror!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After two million years spent trapped in the fossilised body of an ape-like creature, a murderous alien entity is freed when geologist Sir Alexander Saxton discovers the remains and ships them from Manchuria to Russia aboard a Trans-Siberian train.Eugenio Martín's nifty slice of Euro-horror is an entertaining piece of hokum with a great international cast; UK horror icons Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing top the bill with US baldy Telly Savalas and a whole host of European stars ably filling the roles of victims.With loads of atmosphere, a smattering of reasonable gore (including the removal of the craniums of a couple of corpses), a few laughable scenes (it's a pterodactyl!), and even some zombies towards the end, this film is great fun from start to finish and recommended viewing for fans of 70s horror. "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews Horror Express","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientist Lee brings on board a train a fossilized corpse not knowing it houses an alien force with the ability to drain the entire intelligence from the human brain resulting in the macabre bulging whiteness of the eyes. This alien force also has the ability to transfer itself from host to host and does so before it dies into the Inspector on board the train. Lee's competitive scientist Cushing(probably over who can that make that BIG discovery first)joins forces with him to find a way to stop the alien before it sucks the intelligence out of everyone on board. They find it has a weakness for light and often does it's brain sucking in the dark. Once the alien fixates it's unique powers on your eyes, control takes over resulting in death. Soon the Siberian police, (ordered by Russia)led by Savalez, enter on board wanting answers to who is responsible for the killing. Lee and Cushing find out, through a thorough autopsy on the first creature's eyes that this alien force was around during prehistoric times as they discover pictures of dinosaurs and the earth as it is entering from another planet. While the eyes that light red seem hokey by today's standards, there's a jarring unpleasantness to the white bulging eyes that seems to work. The film has an intelligent script and story so that takes it a long way when the special effects seem a bit weak. The idea that this alien force was around during prehistoric times and it's keen, unique abilities provide great suspense within the story on how Cushing and Lee will be able to stop such power. Certainly worth a look if not just to see the entertaining cast. "},{"Title":"rip-roaring horror goodness!","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Along with The Creeping Flesh, Horror Express is a movie that has all the hallmarks of a Hammer film (the teaming of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing, a period setting, convincing costume work, and a relentless monster), but was done outside of that studio's jurisdiction. In any case, it's still a rip-roaringly good horror flick, in many ways stronger than the Hammer teamings of Lee and Cushing. A stuffy anthropologist (Lee, in an excellently conceited performance) uncovers a fossil buried in the ice, loads it onto a train to return it to civilization for study, thinking he has the proof of evolution itself. In the meantime, a rival (Peter Cushing) expends some curiosity that allows the creature to break loose, and things grow increasingly complicated when the hairy, red-eyed beast, who absorbs the knowledge contained in the minds of its victims, begins to manifest inside human hosts. Director Gene Martin builds admirable suspense; combine a brisk pace, a genuinely interesting story, and the efforts of a fine cast, and you have one of the finer gems of the genre. "}{"Title":"Sleeper","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forget the comments about this movie being not too scary. Those fans have watched too many Friday the 13th duds. Great horror doesn't need gore, although for it's era, it delivers. This movie is a sleeper classic. Strange that it's not on the horror movie radar, since the plot is original and the cast exceptional. The haunting theme creates an eerie ambiance making this movie a lost jewel.Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee and a little know Telly Savalas help weave this interesting plot. Certainly some of the sets and actors employed helped keep costs down but hold on to your seats, this movie is a creepy keeper. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Cushing and Lee have never been better together!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe some minor SpoilersThis is definitely one of the best Horror films of the seventies and one of my favorite horror films of all time. The story follows an anthropologist who discovers a prehistoric man frozen in ice, perfectly preserved. He arranges for the 'fossil' to be shipped on the TranSiberian express on which he will also be traveling needless to say the fossil thaws and goes on a killing rampage. Cushing plays a rival scientist on the same train.This movie is just awesome with great performances from Lee and Cushing and (believe it or no) Telly Savalas. It has a very interesting story that ties religion, aliens and prehistoric ape-men all together along with a lot of good old fashion atmosphere. A must for fans of seventies horror movies "},{"Title":"A rare good horror film.","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film on Bob Wilkins' Creature Features around '74 or '75, and caught it again every now and then, until around the mid 80's when it seemed to stop being rebroadcast.Then, some fifteen years later I caught part of it again on a Creature Feature like show, on some cable station. Said show was hosted by a bunch of young people who'd never seen the film before. I don't know why, but I felt touched that a fairly decent film from my younger days had reached a new audience who could appreciate it.I normally don't like the horror genre. When I was young it was because I was scared of scary movies. As I got older I just found them to be profoundly corny, but every now and then there's a gem of a film that comes along to blow the competition out of the water. In this commentator's opinion Horror Express is one of those films.Set in Czarist Russia (circa turn of the century) our heroes and heroines must face a thing that's just about had it with Earth. There's a kind of tangibility, that other commentators have alluded to, about this film. It's a horror film, but it's more than that, which I think made it a film that was ahead of its time when it was first made. Myself, I'd never really caught all the in jokes until I saw this film in again in the last couple of years. The jokes aren't really meant to elicit large laughs, but make the audience realize and understand better what they're watching. They aren't big obvious references, but subtle in nature. POSSIBLE SPOILER; Lee is about to blow away the antagonist with a double barreled shotgun, at which point the antagonist says Wait! When was the last time you saw the bad guy plead for his life like a classic B&W comic film star? SPOILER OFF.As other's have mentioned Telly Who loves ya, baby! Savalas plays a Cossack captain in the Czar's army, and seems to take his role to heart. His Russian and/or Cossack accent isn't all that convincing, but his approach to the character makes up for cosmetic shortcomings. And of course there're Lee and Cushing, at it again for another Horror film, giving us the staunch English gentlemen who're here to save the day.The DVD print is probably as good as can be expected. The ends of the reels are somewhat battered The opening credits are blurry, dirty, and partially scratched, as are other ends of the other reels in this film, but the meat of the film is clean and clear.One of the things that separates this film from other Horror films of the time is that there's actually a hard lined scientific basis given for the situation in which all the characters find themselves. There's allusion to the supernatural, but there're no real ghosts or ghouls as such, merely a malcontent, who has its own reasons for doing what it does.Horror Express survives because it's not only well made, but well grounded. The actors know their roles, and have fun with them. My only complaint happens to be this film's best quality, and that is it's a low budget borderline-B-flick. If this film were made today it'd bomb like nobody's business, because the film makers would be told by the corporate screw-ups to add X number of elements to make the film appeal to garnish young dollar-signs at the box office. Horror Express doesn't take too many liberties with its credibility (hey, it is a horror-flick), but manages to entertain without pornographic use of blood and gore.If you're interested in a horror film, but don't like traditional offerings, and want a film that has merit, then take a look at Horror Express. There's some blood, violence, bodies, and one pretty scary bad guy, but there're no bursting organs, excessive blood-shed nor other supernatural fluff found in films of the same genre. If you're in the mood for a fright, give Horror Express a whirl on the DVD player -)  "},{"Title":"Massively flawed, but very entertaining Cushing/Lee collaboration","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror Express stars two legendary masters of the horror genre; Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing. Any film with one of these two in it is usually worth watching, if only for their performance; but a film with both in it is almost certainly going to be a treat; and a treat, this film certainly is. Christopher Lee plays Professor Alexander Saxton, an anthropologist who has discovered a half-man, half-ape creature in Manchuria that he believes may be the missing link. He takes the creature back to his research centre aboard a train, but little does he know that it isn't just the shrivelled up pile of bones that it appears to be. Peter Cushing stars alongside Lee as Dr Wells; a fellow doctor traveling aboard the train. Not long after the train has left the station, the porter turns up dead and thus begins a train ride of terror and intrigue, as various passengers are picked off by the prehistoric monstrosity.Horror Express is an old-fashioned horror movie. It plays for scares and utilises its environment to make it all the more horrifying. The train, aboard which most of this film is set, serves as a great location for a horror movie; there's nowhere to run and nowhere to hide on a train, which means that our hero's have to face up to the horror and that makes the horror all the more horrifying. The film is also great entertainment; it doesn't lose its steam at any point and it thunders along at the same pace that it started at for the duration of the movie. The film does have very low production values, but that is fine by me, as I like the low budget style horror films. This one also has a slight European feel to it, which stems from its gritty style, and almost feels like it could have been directed by someone like Mario Bava or Jess Franco. The acting aboard Horror Express isn't the best that you'll ever find, and even Lee and Cushing (who is very subdued compared to what his fans are used to) have been better on numerous occasions; but acting isn't important in films like this, and therefore it can be forgiven. Starring alongside the two aforementioned actors is another important horror figure; Telly Savalas (or Kojak, as you may know him). It is unfortunate that he doesn't turn up until an hour into the film, but when he does turn up; you'll know it.The plot of Horror Express is about as flimsy as a piece of toilet paper that has been soaked in water. It's full of holes, and numerous things, such as, for example, why the people that the monster has killed are resurrected as zombies towards the end aren't explained properly. The film's plot does have some depth, however, as it deals with things such as evolution and the idea of aliens; but if the film has any real message, it is lost under its subject material. The script of the film isn't anything to write home about, and features some genuinely terrible moments. However, all of these negative aspects can be allowed to slide, as Horror Express is very entertaining. A movie like this doesn't require one to use their brain, and if you turn it off before viewing the film; you shouldn't have a problem. To conclude; Horror Express is a delightful piece of horror hokum, and one that should delight fans of old-school horror movies.  "},{"Title":"Monster aboard a Trans Siberian Train 1906","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What I liked the most about Horror Express were the characters, and the time and place that this movie takes place. It all takes place in 1906 China and the frozen reaches of Siberia aboard a Trans Siberian train. Hard to find a film that depicts anything during that time and location. There are a great assortment of interesting characters on the train. You come across archeologists, an inspector, a Rasputin like monk, a Cossack Captain along with some of his troopers, Russian nobility, and more. The characters bring a pleasant assortment of suspense, mystery, intrigue and horror as a monster terrorizes them on their journey. The plot does have it's flaws but I found it to be an interesting and enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"some interesting ideas for the monster","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1906. English anthropologist Professor Alexander Saxton (Christopher Lee) is transporting a frozen specimen from China back to Europe on the Trans-Siberian railway. It draws the interest of many people and leaves a trail of death in its wake. Saxton is followed by his rival Doctor Wells (Peter Cushing). The creature escapes its frozen hibernation and turns its victims' eyes white. However the creature is not so simple and has many surprises.It's pretty good for an old B-horror. I like the idea of the monster and what it turns out to be. There are some good turns in the movie. At first, I wasn't thrilled about another monster movie. The production is mostly limited and the monster is only a guy in a suit. There are some solid monster-movie acting from Lee and Cushing. This is better than most of the B-horror movies. "},{"Title":"Originally titled Panic on the Trans-Siberian Express","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just recently picked up this DVD (mine was from Gemstone Entertainment). I never heard of it before but I noticed it starred Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing, Telly Savalas and was made in 1972. Although this wasn't a Hammer film, it obviously had the aura of a Hammer film, and I love Hammer films. So I snatched it up (for a buck, no less!).Ah what a pleasant surprise! How can I describe Horror Express? Okay, imagine if a guy had in his hands the DVDs The Thing (Carpenter's version), Murder On The Orient Express, Trog, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (huh?) and a few Hammer films with Lee & Cushing. Got that? Okay, now imagine this dude taking a transporter beam back in time to 1972 and re-appearing with only one DVD, a mixture of all the above films. That's pretty much how Horror Express struck me.You might be curious as to why I included The Good, The Bad and The Ugly in the list of films; it's because the score in Horror Express will bring to mind that popular Western composition, except that it's a bit more eerie and fitting for a 70s horror film.Another highlight of the film is that it features two incredibly gorgeous redheads Helga Line, who was about 40 years old at the time, and another girl that was about 20 playing a Countess of some sort.At about 88 minutes the film definitely doesn't overstay its welcome, which can be a good thing.In its time I bet Horror Express was cutting edge horrific entertainment. Today, some of it will strike you as unbelievable (for instance, Lee accepts too quickly the notion of his caveman/fossil being alive and roaming around the train); at other times it will strike you as amusing (its hard suppressing a giggle here and there). But the film at least takes its subject serious; its never campy, that's for sure.If my description perks your interest, don't hesitate to pick up Horror Express.GRADEB "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Horror Movie for Its Time","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While exploring a remote part of Manuchuria an anthropologist by the name of Alexander Saxton (Christopher Lee) discovers a frozen body which he believes might be the key to the evolution of mankind. Excited about this new discovery he places it in a sealed crate on a train en route back to Europe. However, the body begins to thaw and what is unleashed is something extremely evil that threatens him and all of the passengers as well. Anyway, rather than go over any more of the plot and risk spoiling the film for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this was a pretty good horror movie for its time. I liked the idea of using the Trans-Siberian railway through the cold countryside as a backdrop because it added to the sense of isolation the passengers felt. I also liked the addition of Peter Cushing (as Dr. Wells) who always adds a certain presence to any film of this nature. Likewise, having Silvia Tortosa (as Countess Irina Petrovski) certainly added to the scenery as well. On the flip-side though there were a couple of scenes which tended to strain the films overall credibility with the most obvious example involving the use of a microscope to reveal what the creature saw and encountered during his life. Quite ridiculous. In any case, all things considered I thought this was a fairly decent action-packed, horror movie and I rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable horror film, flaws and all","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one has it all! -- Horror, gore, suspense, mystery, the alien sci-fi and anthropological horror connections, and as a bonus a few unbelievably attractive ladies (the countess in particular). And zombies. All set during a trans-continental train ride of terror no less.Low budget look and feel to it, yes, yet still with several big name actors of the time, this film delivers and delivers well, to a level that few movies before or since have. Granted, some of it is rather ridiculous and hard to swallow (the needless 'hand' transfer, pictures in eye fluid, etc), but if we don't overthink it and just enjoy it for the entertaining early 70's B horror that it is, it's simply a gem.8/10 "},{"Title":"Spooky horror classic, a bit dated, but a must see","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched Horror Express when I was a child and it made a strong impression on me. It has a spooky feel generated by the placing of the story on an express train in Siberia, in the early twentieth century. The scientists, arrogant middle aged men that think they know everything when they actually understand much only compared to the ignorant fools of that time, have to battle a being that survived since the beginning of life on Earth. With some religious connotations, but with characters ridiculing religious zealots, the movie perfectly captures the confusing life of people back then. I suspect, though, that it was purely coincidental, and for most of the watchers today, it would feel terribly outdated.The worst problem the movie has is its budget, that probably was ridiculously low. Bad sound, actors with weird accents that play bad, the movie is redeemed by that eerie atmosphere of helplessness in an age of blissful ignorance and the idea of this creature, possibly insane from its billions of years of captivity on Earth, contemplating the humans with the most appropriate contempt, but also vulnerable in front of them. This dance of two irreconcilable species trying to survive one another reminds me of The Thing or perhaps even Alien.It was difficult to watch the film, as dated as it felt. It may not be as glorious an experience for a young person that doesn't even know who Christoper Lee and Peter Cushing are, but I think there can be no horror/sci-fi loving fan that should not watch Horror Express. It might surprise you. "}{"Title":"Crackerjack Sci-Fi. Thriller.","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Cushing & Christopher Lee(frequent co-stars) play rival anthropologists who covet a mummified fossil that may represent the earliest known human, from it's place of discovery in Manchuria, to Europe, but when the fossil becomes reanimated, it goes a murder spree that threatens to derail the trans-Siberian express it is traveling on...Superbly directed and acted film also has a good script, that contains many sophisticated ideas for such a picture; effectively builds suspense and fear within the confines of the train, and leads to an action packed ending. Some explicit violence, but a unique approach(and amusing cameo of Telly Savalas) make this film a winner. "},{"Title":"The Thing on a Train","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whilst scanning through the numerous channels on a Roku earlier today i noticed a gem of a movie that for the last 25 years forgot even existed. As a child i watched Horror Express one late Christmas night and remember being absolutely terrified.So after seeing the title in the channel list i decided to spend an extra couple of hours in bed and watch it. Im so glad i did, this classic movie starring the greats of classic horror Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee as well as Telly Savalas turned out to be a refreshingly great alternative to the dull idiotic British daytime television that drones our screens.This movie wasn't quite as scary as i remembered from my childhood viewing but was still great. Basically, this film plays out like a train bound version of the thing, eventually culminating in Lee Versus a small army of Zombie Style Cossacks! A true Horror Classic!! "},{"Title":"Sensational","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been a horror and sci-fi fan since my childhood. Nowadays, the OLD-SCHOOL rules!!! They've made SENSATIONAL films from the late '50ies,and Lee-Cushing-Savalas trio was a direct hit for my brain! The story is a REAL and FULL one (A) fiction an EXTRAGALACTICAL intelligence arrives to earth millions of years ago(B) science an archaeologist founds its lifeless BODY in Manchuria, believing that it is the so-called missing link of the evolutionary chain/queue(C) action then he have his men packed this thing to the BAM(Baykhal-Amur Railway Line) and wants to carry it to London via Moscow. (D) drama Then the thing comes to life again, changes bodies and drains life-force and memories and knowledge from the worthy humans. And the train just runs at top speed through the taiga, at winter.(Of course, because it happens in Russia!) Though the end of the film is a bit American ... enjoy it! Some action, some violence, some horror and REAL dramatic art at the beginning of the XXth century, in Russia. LO,BEHOLD and WATCH (again and again!), you won't feel sorry. "},{"Title":"Monster? We're British, you know!","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror legends Sir Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing make one of their best teamings in this nicely plotted thrill ride set mostly on a train. This train is travelling through Siberia in the very early 20th century as Alexander Saxton (Lee) is transporting a recent find - an unearthed, prehistoric ape-man - back to England. Along for the ride is his friendly, rival anthropologist Dr. Wells (Peter Cushing). Unfortunately, they find out certain truths about Lee's find - starting with the fact that, some time after it awakens and runs amok, that it absorbs its victims' intelligence & memories - through the eyes, no less! The filmmakers, led by director Eugenio Martin, prove up to the challenge of shooting in these claustrophobic train sets, and create what is quite a beautiful and stylish movie, one that never ever stops moving and delivers some delicious atmosphere and an action packed climax. Elements of religion and intrigue are added to the story with great results; there are some enjoyable turns in this story along the way. The international cast performs the material with gusto. Lee and Cushing work well together as always and Cushing, playing a somewhat less honourable character than usual (he's not above bribery), gets to have some real fun. The supporting cast includes lovely ladies Silvia Tortosa and Helga Line, and Alice Reinheart, as well as some men who deliver especially solid performances Julio Pena as Inspector Mirov, and Alberto de Mendoza as demented monk Father Pujardov; also to be seen is Victor Israel as the whistling baggage handler. First time viewers should be aware that another star attraction, Telly Savalas, does not show up until the final third, but he makes the most of his brief screen time, tearing into the scenery with relish as a domineering Cossack officer. This Spanish / UK production is great fun for horror genre fans and this reviewer must now say that he wishes he'd seen it a lot sooner. It truly is a must see. Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"A solid chiller with Lee and Cushing","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Spanish/UK production is very much like a Hammer film that never was. It brings together the two legends of that studio's horror output &#x96; Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. Once again these two English stalwarts do a great job. In this instance they are two early 20th century scientists on board the Trans-Siberian Express. Lee's character has brought along a mysterious large trunk which contains the fossilized remains of a prehistoric man; soon afterward this creature comes alive terrorizing the passengers on the train.It has to be said that Horror Express is a very nice example of this type of film. It's well paced, with nice period detail and some interesting characters. It has effective horror scenes and the train setting is excellent. Other than Lee and Cushing the film also boasts Telly Savalas as a Cossack leader and even better Alberto de Mendoza as a Rasputin-like monk; Mendoza appeared in many Italian genre pictures but almost always seemed to play a bit-part policeman, in this film he is given a decent role for once and he's very good.Horror Express is pretty cohesive for a film of this type. The plot is held together well, even if there are some silly scenes. The microscope sequence being the most obvious &#x96; just how the scientist can see the earth from space and dinosaurs in the blood sample of the creature's eye is probably best left unanswered; however, corny moments like these do offer some fun in films such as these as they are not exactly reaching out for plausibility in the first place. And it does have to be said that the monster is a pretty good creation, while the death scenes and brain autopsy offer some welcome morbid details.If you like the kind of horror movies that starred Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing then you will like Horror Express. It's definitely a superior effort of its type. "},{"Title":"A one-way ticket.","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of the films that Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee starred together, 'Horror Express' would have to be my favourite of the bunch. Truly an uncannily eerie, but effectively ingenious and dependably taut little old-fashion low-budget UK/Spanish horror / adventure excursion that sees an English anthropologist Saxton (an magnificent Lee) discover a frozen ape man in the icy mountains of Manchuria which he believes may be the missing link. Transporting it back to Europe aboard a Trans-Siberian train, the creature thaws out and begins to kill the passengers. Along with fellow Dr. Wells (a classy Cushing), they try to figure out the true origins of the creature&#x85; and those glowing red eyes! With a tremendous cast to boot (Alberto de Mendoza, Silvia Tortosa, Julio Peña and a scene chewing Telly Savalas), numerous thrills, atmospherically bleak build-ups, unnerving imagery (mainly centred on the victims' faces), tight quarters with no escape aboard a speeding locomotive in the snowy wilderness, a flamboyantly robust score with chilling and saucy cues and time to throw in an humorous quip or two. You get a neat, equipped package. However these aspects play secondary to the absorbing story, which is an interestingly cunning mystery base format with underlining superstitious elements broken down by scientific reasoning and executed at a rapid pace. The provocatively resourceful script (despite it's heavy handed nature) makes sure this one delves a little deeper than the standard creature feature, although not without its flaws. "},{"Title":"Claustrophobic and Delightfully Creepy Chiller with Horror's Prime Duo","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express of 1972 is a magnificent and spine-chilling Eurohorror gem starring Horror's most brilliant duo - Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. Spanish director Eugenio Martin, who also made a bunch of good Eurowesterns such as The Bounty Killer (1966), delivered his greatest work with this ingenious and utterly suspenseful chiller with this British/Spanish co-production, which also ranks among the essential Cushing/Lee collaborations. The film has it all Great actors, an intelligent premise, a gloomy atmosphere and genuine creepiness, nonstop suspense and a setting that is inescapable.The year is 1906 English anthropologist Prof. Saxton (Christopher Lee) has found a frozen humanoid fossil in a cave in the Manchurian mountains. Determined that the creature marks the missing link in evolution, Saxton wants to ship the fossil back to Europe by train on the Transsiberian railway, laughing off the warnings of a Russian Orthodox monk at the train station. Also on the train is Saxon's colleague Dr. Wells (Peter Cushing). Even before the train starts, a mysterious death occurs, and once it has left the station, the corpses quickly pile up...As it is the case with almost any film the two starred in, the combination of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing is arguably the film's greatest aspect. Great friends in real life, Lee and Cushing have played mortal foes in many of their films. In Horror Express they are on the same side, with Lee playing the more short-tempered and Cushing the more gentle of the two hero characters. The two leading men are not the only great aspect though, as Horror Express is an excellent Horror film in all respects. Apart from the two Horror deities, the film's cast includes another great cult-cinema icon, the always-sinister Telly Salavas, who truly gets the best out of a rather small role. Other cast members include European genre-cinema regular Alberto De Mendoza as the eerie monk and prolific Eurohorror/exploitation babe Helga Liné as well as Spanish beauty Silvia Tortosa. The film has an intelligent premise that includes evolutionary and religious themes (I won't give away how), and the inescapable setting in an elegant but gloomy old train with loud wagons builds up an enormous claustrophobic tension. As desirable in a classic Horror film, Horror Express maintains a creepy atmosphere from the beginning to the end, and includes many genuine scares and shock-moments, some of which are quite bloody. The film is already uncanny in the beginning, and it gradually gets more and more suspenseful with each passing minute. It may have some minor plot-holes, but overall this film is an absolute must-see for lovers of classic Horror. I've seen Horror Express several times so far, and may add that it is the kind of film that can be watched over and over again without ever loosing their impact. If there ever was a duo of actors that worked together perfectly it is Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, and Horror Express is one of another film to confirm this statement. My rating 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Monster?! But we're British you know!","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While hardly oversold by an unimaginative title and lackluster sounding premise, Horror Express comes across as one of the more imaginative, fun and occasionally quite frightening horror B-movies of the decade. An interesting melding of a typical monster movie, a chilling psychological thriller (predating genre classics such as John Carpenter's The Thing making use of similar premises) and a pseudo-zombie film, the film also takes inspiration from Agatha Christie's Murder on the Orient Express of all sources, adding a classy mystery element to the already thrilling proceedings. This bizarre hybridity between class and trashy entertainment guarantees a memorable watch, making the film an unconventional genre entry and all the more enjoyable because of it. Director Eugenio Martin clearly has no pretensions about the sort of film he is making, and is wise enough to embrace his film's B-movie trappings rather than trying to supersede them, resulting in a product just as ready to self-reflexively wink at its own innate absurdity as milk it for thrills and shivers of fear. Covering up for a clear lack of budget by making exceptional use of an almost entirely single, confined location, Martin exploits every shadow and metallic squeal and clank of the titular train to tremendously unsettling effect. Similarly, Martin keeps his special effects simple rather than pushing for dated excesses, primarily favouring aggressive camera work and startling, jarring editing in order to amp up the fright factor, making the sparing use of the creature's gruesome aftermath (milk white eyes and blood trickling from the eyes, nose and mouth of the victims) all the more riveting and chilling. The film's musical score is a more unorthodox choice - a bizarre concoction of eerie whistling and strange, dissonant funk rock motifs, it proves jarring and out of the ordinary enough to add to the unsettling atmosphere of the film, but just as likely to come across as comically dated to truly instill fear into the viewer's heart. Paradoxically, however, Martin's contentment to make a simple, concise and enjoyable horror film without striving for anything more proves to be both the film's greatest strength and weakness. While he sensibly keeps his film sufficiently brief and to the point to not overstay its welcome, the variety of different forms of horror demonstrated feel somewhat under-explored, making for a fairly rushed climax, and certain intriguing thematic moments (anthropologist protagonist Saxton hesitates killing the monster, risking the lives of everyone on the train, intoxicated by the wealth of scientific discoveries it could unearth) being deprived the amount of depth which could have immeasurably boosted the film's quality. Nonetheless, the plot, despite the occasional bout of cumbersome pacing, moves along at a quick, concise clip, plunging the viewer straight into the thrills within the first couple of minutes and devoting no time or energy to extraneous subplots or unnecessary lines or scenes. One of the film's foremost pleasures is its uncommonly talented cast, adding credible realism and emotional tension to the thrills and frights. Genre veterans Christopher Lee (in a rare heroic role) and Peter Cushing add a welcome veneer of distinction and class to the film as a pair of sparring British scientists forced to set aside their differences and collaborate, and the easy chemistry and undeniable talent exuded by them is worth seeing in itself. Alberto de Mendoza and Julio Pena suitably fulfill the unnerving chills facet of the film as a sinister Satan-obsessive monk and surly police inspector respectively, both of whom may have greater connections to the monster than it would seem. Finally, an unexpected appearance by Telly Savalas in a hilarious, scene-chomping role as a deranged but noble Russian (complete with laughably poor accent) captain determined to smoke out the monster by unconventional means just about makes the film. Sadly, Savalas' part is cut short far too soon, but he is consistently a scream during his all too brief screen time. Despite its potential for further scares and profundity, Horror Express certainly goes beyond what initial inspection might suggest, with a talented cast and intriguing execution making it one of the more memorable and enjoyable entries into the pantheon of 1970s horror B- movies. While a prevailing rare complaint is that the film feels oversimplified, not fully exploring its potential wealth of thematic material, as 90 minutes of enjoyable frights go, one would be hard pressed to find a more appealing prospect than Horror Express. -7/10 "},{"Title":"Quick paced and entertaining, get on the train!","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express is the twenty-second movie Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing starred in together. Lee is Sir Alexander Saxton, a British paleontologist that discovers an interesting frozen corpse in Peking. Thinking he has found the missing link he secures a ride on the trans-siberian express which Peter Cushing's Dr. Wells is also a passenger of. It doesn't take long to build an eerie tension as Rasputin-like Father Pujardon warns of Satan's presence surrounding the packed away corpse. When opaque-eyed bodies begin to pile up it is quickly learned that the frozen being is actually alive. A very nice twist is brought into this as the being not only can absorb all of the knowledge from his victims but that his origins are beyond the simple demon or vampire formula so often used. Telly Savalas appears for only about sixteen minutes in this movie as Captain Kazan. If his character is supposed to be of baltic decent then I'm a Chinese redhead. Horror Express has a little of everything from zombies to extraterrestrials. Peter Cushing has some very good retorts that you have to pay attention to since his delivery is flawless. The movie spends little time on expositionary scenes and gets down to business fairly quick. A lot of movies today could learn a few things from Horror Express. This is a fairly easy movie to find cheap and I recommend you give this a view. "},{"Title":"Lots of Crazy Stuff Aboard the Crazy Train","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Something of a combination between being a classic British murder mystery set on a train and Invasion of the Body Snatchers-style sci-fi/horror (with, perhaps, a touch of Lovecraft), HORROR EXPRESS is actually a very well-paced movie, with lots of action and genuinely frightening moments. Featuring classic horror icons Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing, along with badass gangster-type Telly Savalas, this movie is very much worth hunting down and watching.HORROR EXPRESS begins, of course, with the boarding of a train, when we are introduced to Professor Saxton (Lee) and Dr. Wells (Cushing). Professor Saxton is bringing on board a recent discovery of his a million-year-old fossil of a cross between an ape and a human. A freaky psycho-religious man, Father Pujardov (Alberto de Mendoza) gives grave prognostications about the mysterious crate containing the ape-man, does an interesting slight-of-hand trick with a piece of chalk (of course, nobody in the movie has a clue how he does it), and boards the train, watching whomever will put up with him. People turn up dead with solid white eyes, and the doctors on board come to discover that the dead folks' brains are being wiped clean by someone or something. Yes, the ape-man thing is alive and well, and bent on sucking the knowledge out of everyone's heads.The movie goes from being a creepy murder mystery/horror flick when Telly Savalas shows up as Captain Kazan. At that point, I think it became an action/gangster flick. Savalas' performance was most excellent, even though it was heavily over-acted. He's even scarier than the monster.HORROR EXPRESS is available on the Chilling Classics 50 movie boxed set, along with several other double-disks and smaller sets. Evidently it is a public domain movie (although I don't know for certain), so it should be available for free online for anyone interested. "}{"Title":"Doesn't hold up well on closer inspection but is still one of the most entertaining monster films of the 70s","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express doesn't hold up well on closer inspection but is still one of the most entertaining monster films of the 70s. The plot is full of holes and logic seems to be completely jettisoned. However, there are many intelligent themes to be found within this. Just like 2001 A Space Oydessy, this debates the issue of fundamentalist Christianity versus Darwinism. Plus, the dialog is very good and witty, the film moves at a good pace, and there are a few chills (not to mention some brief grisly moments).Ultimately what makes it work so well is the cast. As many horror fans know, Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing working apart is good, but when they from a team the film is even better. Both are great and have incredible amounts of class and dignity not often shown by actors in films such as this. Even better is the scene-stealing work by Telly Savalas as a brutal cossack. Hes over-the-top but completely bad ass and its a shame that hes only in the film for a short amount of time. The direction by Eugenio Martín is good also, providing the story with some scares and a foreboding and claustrophobic atmosphere (the only outdoor set is at the beginning). Horror Express isn't perfect but is a true horror gem, one which deserves more recognition. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Style and direction over gore and effects.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"      This has always been a favorite movie of mine.I just bought the dvd widescreen of this and enjoyed it this time around as much as i did as kid.  It's got a great cast and a great story, and while it has some flaws, it's not as stupid as other people who have reviewed it say it is. There is not alot of gore in the film but there is a great deal of tension and atmosphere, and the story is never dull. The science is not realistic and who would expect it to be. I mean it takes place way in the past and its a HORROR FILM! You would think from some of the other reviews that people have posted that they had never seen a horror movie before. You either agree to go for the ride and suspend your disbelief or you rent something else. It's a classic film that deserves a much better rating in my opinion.      If you want dead teens or massive effects don't rent this, but if you like hammer flicks and appreciate style and direction in your movies then this is for you. Dont believe the other reviews on here that say its a lousy film. Its a great little film that any horror film buff would love.  "},{"Title":"The unholy one is among us.","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Horror Express is a great old horror movie.  A crate filled with fossils is loaded onto a train heading through Russia.  Anyone who snoops about the crate mysteriously dies because, unbeknownst to the passengers, there's actually a monster in the crate that is a host for an ancient alien evil.  An evil that can take the form of anyone.  Sound familiar?  It should remind you somewhat of John Carpenter's The Thing.  Fans of The Thing should enjoy this film thoroughly because they are largely comparable.  A similar claustrophobic, icy setting, a monster who can take the form of anyone it comes into contact with, and a paranoia and tension building within the characters.  The cast is remarkable.  Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing, in a rare occasion, are actually allies, and yet still slightly at odds.  Lee does a fantastic job portraying a pompous, aristocratic scientist and Cushing is always a treat.  I'm not sure what purpose Telly Savalas serves in the film.  He's super cool, but I didn't see a need for his character.  The Monk character is also a plus.  Even with all these genre greats, I love the monk most of all.  He's creepy and so is his chalk scene on the platform  Where evil lives, there is no place for the cross.  The score is great and there is a haunting whistle that will be stuck in your head for days.  There's also very little special effects.  But the film doesn't suffer for it.  They achieved a very cool effect with little money by simply using white contacts.  There's something about white eyes that freaks me out.  If you're a fan of the Hammer horror films, I suggest you seek this one out (even though it's a Spanish effort).  Horror Express is a highly underrated genre classic. "},{"Title":"Excellent unsung horror movie","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1906 China Professor Alexander Saxon (Christopher Lee) finds what he believes to be the missing link frozen in ice. He gets it aboard a Trans-Siberian train with him to get it to London. On board he meets rival professor Dr. Wells (Peter Cushing) who is eager to know what Saxon has. After the train has departed the missing link comes alive and starts killing people--leaving them with white eyes and bloody. But who is this and why is it doing it? As the train moves on the bodies and complications pile up and Saxon and Wells join forces to battle the monster.On the bad side there's terrible dubbing, absolutely horrendous music, slipshod direction and far too many scenes of the train from the outside. All those debits aside this is a very good if outrageous horror movie. The acting is good all around, everyone takes the story seriously and there are many gruesome sequences of people bleeding from the eyes, nose AND mouth! There's also an brief autopsy which had me squirming. This is the rare horror movie that keeps adding plot as it moves along AND keeps getting better and better. Also Telly Savalas pops up an hour in and REALLY chews the scenery as an evil Cossak officer. I wouldn't dream of revealing what the monster is but it is ridiculous...but the movie is so good you won't care. The best part is seeing Cushing and Lee being allies for once and fighting together. Also both are relaxed and give great performances. Supposedly Cushing was still grieving over his dead wife but he's such a pro that it never shows in his acting. He also has the funniest line Monsters? We're British! A little known horror film that's well worth seeking out. Heartily recommended. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well preserved.","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lee, Cushing and Savalas all in the same film. That is terrible amount of talent in one small budget horror film, but there you go. Back in the day at least two of those three were quite regular faces in movies with little to no budget.Sir Saxton (Lee) is an anthropologist, who has located a fossil from the remote part of Himalayan mountains. He's traveling to Europe via Trans-Siberian railways when bizarre murders, a similar that happened even before the train leaves the station, begin to occur in the train. Dr. Wells (Cushing) is suspicious towards the fossil from the start, but Saxton wont hear a word of it, as he's suspicious, that the good doctor has his own intentions in mind.For such and old and clearly small budget film Horror Express has surprisingly good special effects. The creature looks pretty good considering the age and the glowing red eyes work very well.The biggest problem of the film is, that it is very rushed. The plot goes on with haste and sometimes pretty silly dialog don't help the case either.But none the less, Horro Express is quite enjoyable little horror film, especially for those, who enjoy their old school films over more modern horror. God knows, it's better than most genre films coming out today "},{"Title":"Serviceable but Loose","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made in a time where horror was arguably at one of its strongest points, Horror Express brings together several very talented actors -- two of which are justifiable horror icons -- to give life to the tale. Uniting several classic elements such as the inescapable claustrophobia of the cramped quarters, the inhospitable surroundings that make escape impossible, and the evil from the past, one would imagine going into this film that it could surely do no wrong.Certainly the film itself does a good enough job of building tension to a suitable point, although there are periods in it that falter and flounder slightly; the inclusion of the 'mad monk' character does little to really improve this, and while the 'religion versus science' clash is a classic theme of horror, he was just too much and not well enough played. It wasn't a fault of the actor, just nothing to do with a poorly-defined token character.The tension does rise significantly as the film continues however, and the inclusion of an adversary without a monstrous body per se does certainly make for very suspenseful viewing. Some of the tension is indeed highly effective, whereas other points may fail to evoke the expected scare, and some potentially interesting characters (and talented actors) are completely wasted in their ultimately insignificant parts.One of these is, regrettably, Telly Savalas, whose role amounts to little more than a glorified cameo. He chews up the scenery, he makes an immense impression and does an amazing job with his paltry part, and then he's unfortunately gone almost as quickly and suddenly as he arrived. His part, and indeed much of the plot, hinges on unexplained or unlikely occurrences that seem at times to come out of nowhere (and occasionally to go back there), which takes away from the film at times. I had described it as similar to a classic serial of the British science-fiction series Doctor Who, except without the titular character -- the plot moves for no discernible reason except that it is scripted, and there is no noticeable protagonist as such.Even with all of these things to pick at, Horror Express manages to be very watchable and even absorbing at times. Lee and Cushing, naturally, do an excellent job as always, giving charm and life to their characters. Cushing's one-line retort at the possibility that one of them might be the monster is absolutely hilarious, and it is so purely because of his ever-flawless delivery. No matter what the role or the circumstances, Peter Cushing manages to make his characters charming and easy to like, just as Christopher Lee exudes charisma even when his character -- as with most he's played -- would otherwise be someone unappealing. The two simply cannot help but be interesting and likable.The premise is somewhat dodgy and ill-defined, brought down by needless philosophical antagonism, but interesting enough to make one wish to know more. As unlikely at times as it may seem, the premise is an intriguing and horrifying one, and there are a great many more questions raised than answered. It at the very least does not condescend overly to the viewers, for which I was very grateful. Instead, it tends to address the viewer on the level of the characters, which made me feel more involved and intelligently so. It isn't just a plain 'monster movie', it's quite a fair piece more intellectual and psychological, which adds to its appeal. It is not easy to dismiss Horror Express as a mindless monster vehicle or a formulaic horror jaunt.Overall, Horror Express is quite good for what it is, and it uses its stars and story to the best of its ability. I was disappointed that the script was not better than it turned out to be, and at the waste of several very talented actors in roles far beneath them, but overall it was an intriguingly different take on something that has been done many times before and many times since. The high degree of coincidence and other things happening arbitrarily brought it down somewhat, but losing oneself in the film is easy, so forgetting the details is possible while one is in its thrall.Many horror fans would do well to give this one a viewing and see how, even in a less-than-perfect circumstance, truly talented actors, a good director, and a decent script can make for truly riveting viewing. "},{"Title":"Nice little horror film","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express is a about an archaeologist (Chrisopher Lee) bringing a fossil from China back to England. The fossil turns out to be a creature that came to earth millions of years ago and and transfers itself into its victims after its host dies through its next victims eyes. This way it keeps every victims intelligence and has seen everything in the history and prehistory of the earth.Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing are at their best and show no signs of just going through the motions after many years and films (both good and bad) together. There is also a wonderfully hammy performance from Telly Savales (pre Kojack fame) as a Cossack officer. I remember seeing this film as a kid on Creature Features and it has lost none of its appeal "},{"Title":"Pure old fashioned movie magic! A fantastically entertaining horror/adventure yarn with the Cushing/Lee team at their finest.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Possible spoilers follow...)Christopher Lee and the late Peter Cushing are fondly remembered by movie buffs around the world as one of the greatest duos in horror history. Closely associated with Britain's Hammer studios their finest pairing was in fact in this Spanish horror/adventure hybrid. A cracking old fashioned mixture of thrills, scares and chuckles, it is what Monty Python's Palin and Jones once parodied as a ripping yarn. 'Horror Express' however, despite its keen sense of the absurd, isn't a parody. It does require a healthy suspension of disbelief to really enjoy it, so modern audiences must leave their cynicism at the door. Lee plays Professor Saxton, a stuffy scientist at the beginning of the twentieth century who makes an amazing scientific discovery, which he transports via the Trans-Siberian train. On board he is joined by a wonderful bunch of eccentrics, including the wise-cracking Dr Wells (Cushing), rich gentlemen, beautiful damsels in distress, spies, an unbalanced monk, and eventually a bunch of cossacks, led by a scene-stealing Telly Savalas ('Lisa And The Devil'). The occupants of the train are soon terrorized by a mysterious monster that can wipe their brains clean at a glance, and the movie quickly turns into a terrific example of paranoia and claustrophobia. Lee and Cushing are wonderful to watch, Savalas has too little screen time, but really makes the most of his role, and the first rate supporting cast includes a wonderful turn from Alberto de Mendoza as a policeman, something he also played in Fulci's 'A Lizard In Woman's Skin'. (B-grade buffs may also recognize him from the mid-Seventies exploitation class 'Open Season'). 'Terror Express' is simply one of the most entertaining horror films of the Seventies, and one that is absolutely essential viewing for any fans of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing. It is a sheer delight from start to finish and cannot be recommended highly enough! "},{"Title":"Hammer Horror, Spanish Style","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror Express(1972) is an awesome and intellegent horror film that features a good story and some excellent acting.  This was another film that featured two of the biggest icons in British Horror in Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing.  In my opinion, Horror Express(1972) is the best of the Christopher Lee-Peter Cushing pairings.  Christopher Lee brings out a intellectual and strong presence as Professor Alexander Saxton.  The scene where the eye that photographs images is put on a microscope reminded me a lot of the machine that retains the last image before death in Four Flies on Grey Velvet(1972).Peter Cushing is unusually humaine and witty as Dr. Wells.  Telly Savalas runs the show when he's around during the final parts of the movie.  Horror Express(1972) is a lot like the Quatermass films with its interest in scientific curosity.  Julio Pena is diabolical and sinister as the Rasputin like monk, Mirov.  Horror Express(1972) is one of the best examples of the booming Spanish horror films of the 1970s and is a movie that becomes more and more popular with each passing year. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Horror Story","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror Express has a passable story, good actors and fine production values.  The story, about murders that occur on the Trans-Siberian express, is different enough to be interesting.  Telly Savalas eats up the scenery as a Czarist officer, in contrast to the low-key acting of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing, rival archaeologists who share a common interest in the pre-human find Cushing is taking back to England. This movie, the last to be shot at a Spanish studio about to close, has train interiors that look big budget.  The train model special effects are crummy, but the action at the movie's end justifies the title Horror Express.  The remastered Image DVD of this public domain movie is the best way to see this movie, a movie full of dimly lit train interior scenes.   "}{"Title":"Years Ago Before The Thing and Alien...","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1906, in China, Professor Alexander Saxton (Christopher Lee) discovers an ancient frozen fossil in the remote Province of Szechuan. He brings the remains of the being in a box to Shanghai and boards a trans-Siberian express, where he meets his acquaintance Dr. Wells (Peter Cushing). During the trip, a life force trapped in the frozen creature is released, killing and stealing the memories of the passengers.Horror Express is a good horror movie, and the story was partially copied at least in The Thing and Alien later. The weird and sinister Father Pujardov, played by Alberto de Mendoza, is scarier than the monster, and this movie is a great entertainment for fans of an original (in 1973) horror movie. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Expresso do Horror (Horror Express) "},{"Title":"Solid thriller proves good movies of this type weren't only from Hammer","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first searched for Horror Express on YouTube, the Cushing/Lee credits made me assume it was a Hammer film. But to my surprise, none of the usual Hammer names appeared in the production credits, and realized that this was actually something different. I decided to give the movie a chance, and was rewarded with a pretty good movie. Horror Express is interesting in that the scope and feel of the story and the ideas at play are somewhat more inventive than the typical monster film from the period. What starts out as a Yeti rampage turns into something quite different the thawed out fossil that breaks out of its locked coffin is more of a gorgon/basilisk than a killer ape, and its origins turn out to be extra-terrestrial rather than supernatural. And things get even more complicated when the creature is revealed to be able to possess minds as well as draining them - so it doesn't just kill its victims, it subverts and corrupts their very identities.And if it escapes from the train, it might cause untold damage at loose in the world...which raises the stakes even higher than just personal survival. Putting the whole story aboard an exotic train traversing the wilds of Siberia was a clever choice that reinforced the claustrophobia and isolation of the setting as well as interesting props and sets. Cushing and Lee are their usual excellent selves - how many actors from that era could discuss extra galactic intelligences with a straight face and make you believe it? And the rest of the cast keeps up. There's not a flat tire in the cast (although I think Savalas' accent. was somewhat jarring and out of place in this setting). IMO, Horror Express is one of the finest movies in its genre, and it is well worth hunting down and seeing if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"A horror that science and religion can't explain trapped on a train","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An enjoyable film with great leading actors. Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing lead he cast with Telly Savalas making a brief but strong turn towards the conclusion. Dr Wells (Christopher Lee) finds a frozen Neanderthal man while on an expedition. Boxed up and ready to transport it's bundled onto a train and kept locked up on a China to Russia trans-Siberian journey. Prof. Saxton (Cushing) is also a man of science and a fellow passenger on the train. He pays the luggage guard to take a peak inside the locked box to validate Dr Well's claims and this is where the horror starts. Instead of being a Neanderthal man instead it's some kid of alien entity which can absorb the life force and memories of anybody it wants to and in doing so can take on their shape. So how do you stop a shape shifting, life stealing alien when you are confined to a train? Well, that's exactly what Dr Wells and Prof Saxton have to do, while at the same time dealing with the other train passengers who range from eccentric snobs to a Rasputin like mad monk. This is a truly cult classic film in which Lee and Cushing silkily navigate the script. The plot is original and there truly is tension evident even years after the film was released. It's a (John Carpenter) The Thing style film at least 10 years before the Carpenter classic, and what is more amazing is that all the action and story takes place in the confinement of a train. The plot, while being enjoyable and tense, pitches religion against science while dealing with something that neither can explain fully. The camera work is really good for the time of production and John Cacavas score is chilling and fits perfectly. Although I have mentioned Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing the other stand out name is of course Telly Savalas, his inclusion is powerful and commanding but I'd was left wondering why he only featured at the climax of the film rather than earlier, either way his appearance signals a potential end to the troubles faced by the passengers. Freddy Francis has done a great job in directing this and I recommend it to anyone who likes a fun, tense, roller coaster of horror. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of our links is missing!","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's as nutty as a Dundee Cake is Horror Express, but a wonderful slice of horror it is. Boasting Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing as a twin elegant force that are fighting evil, pic is in safe hands. As the title suggests, story takes place on a train, a Trans-Siberian Express no less. Anthropologist Prof. Sir Alexander Saxton (Lee) has discovered a creature frozen during one of his mountain expeditions, and has it safely locked up during the train journey. Yeah, right! Pretty soon grisly deaths start occurring so Saxton and Dr. Wells (Cushing) must find out what the beast is and how to stop it - if it can be stopped that is...It's a splendid amalgamation of films like And Then There Were None and The Thing from Another World. Although it's often cheap looking, the modest budget actually makes the B movie roots engage rather than hinder. Telly Savalas' introduction late in the day doesn't make a lot of sense, and he hams it for all he's worth, but again there's a horror charm about it as the blood does flow and eyeballs do pop. While the revelation and modus operandi of the creature, the science aspects of it, contains good thought and doesn't insult the viewers in spite of the nuttiness of it all.Great fun, so go buy a ticket and get on board. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Horror oldie with plenty to offer.","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A nice classic horror movie which I was able to catch on BBC recently, some late night. The story combines an age old legend themed horror with some sci-fi elements. The combination struck me as pretty original - especially for its time... and I'm pretty much convinced I saw the prototype of The Terminator (yes, the 1984 one!) here...?!The story is one of many mysterious incidents and deaths and investigations on a moving train, with some scientists, a priest, some Tsarist Russians and miscellaneous victims ready to be mauled by the one who should never have been awakened... The horror elements are relatively convincing, though perhaps a little cheesy at the same time. The acting is pretty good, but with Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee ánd Telly Savalas you've got a good bunch. Ángel del Pozo played really well as the priest as well. Silvia Tortosa and Helga Liné were the designated female beauties to be gazed upon with delight. As I did.A good 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Good Underrated Horror","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie really is a bit underrated I feel and worth taking another watch. This may not be the best film that Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing & Telly Savalas has made but it is worth while viewing for their fans and for fans of horror films in general. I consider this film a diamond in the rough.Imagine living during 1906, finding what you believe to be the missing link - a prehistoric creature in ice, putting that creature on a train with you and the creature thaws out - coming back to life and wreaking havoc, killing the passengers on-board. There are not many places you can run and hide on a train. Well that is what this film is all about.This is a must see movie for Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing fans alike. Horror fans in general may find they too will enjoy this gem.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie, but, the dates aren't cyncroed!?!?","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really like this movie...BUT - What if one of you is the monster? MONSTER!?!? We're British! D That was Peter Cushing's reply to that question concerning himself and Christopher Lee. ) You see, normal laws of physics and physiology, nor, those of morality, sociology, and, foreign influence, ever applied to the British...hee-hee! DThe script 'did' get it right about the married Polish Royal couple - Count Marion Petrovski; and, Countess Irina Petrovska (the Polish feminine of such a name ended with 'ska,' and, not 'ski')...but, IMDb managed to get it wrong!?!?Then, there's the 'arrogantly-yet-cowardly-and-supposedly-tough' American' woman who takes a stand (against Captain Kazan - Telly Savalas)...but, then blames it upon another!?!? Very gutsy!?!? DThen, Telly has a Tokarev pistol...that didn't come out until the 1930s!?!? Maybe it was an American 1911 ACP .45 pistol that came out in 1911...this movie is of 1906. The synchrony is wrong!AND, BEST OF ALL...THERE'S THE DEVOTED FATHER PUJARDOV who wished to be so pious by opposing evil! He's God incarnate; devout to the scriptures and a follower of God...yet, he agrees to help the 'monster!?!? Typical of religious leaders, especially those who swear to celibacy, and, then, lay with little boys!?!? He's the BIGGEST HYPOCRITE on the train! I will teach to end pain; disease; hunger! Says the devout priest!?!?Moscow says to stop the train!?!? In 1906, wasn't St. Petersburg (later. Leningrad) where 'Russian' national/governmental orders originated from?Either way...WHO CARES? I like this movie, and, I just love Silvia Tortosa and Helga Liné the same as I did as a child...SO SEXY! I give this movie TWO STARS for scaring me as a child; and, FOUR MORE STARS for Silvia Tortosa and Helga Liné arousing me! ) "},{"Title":"A fun movie!","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this movie has a big cult to it because it seems to offer something for anyone's taste. It has cult stars Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. It has a kind of slasher movie theme for those who like slasher movies. It has a bad guy that is an alien for those who like sci fi movies. It almost entirely takes place on a train headed for disaster for those who like disaster movies. There is also blood, zombies, action, humor... I could go on and on, but I think you get the idea this movie has it all.If the movie has anything disappointing about it, it's the fact that the creature doesn't really have a chance to explain its motives and what its ultimate plan is. It would have been really interesting to show its intelligence and make it more than a creature that seems more interested in increasing its body count. But that's a minor quibble; the movie is still very enjoyable. Just be sure to look for a high quality print, since the movie somehow entered the public domain, resulting in many shoddy-looking editions that currently flood the market. "},{"Title":"Bizarre and Beautifully Shot B-Movie Mix of Horror and Sci-Fi","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Popular Horror Movie with Sci-Fi Undertones Featuring Chris Lee and Peter Cushing in a Non-Hammer Filmed in Spain. These Kind of Low-Budget Grindhouse Types are Usually Forgettable, Clunky, and Without Much Merit Except Camp. Not This One.Despite Ingredients that are Usually Forgettable Except on Half of a Drive-In Bill or Late Night Showings on TV (Public Domain for free), and in Bargain Bins at Wal-Mart's Fifty Horror Movies for $5, This One Defied Expectations and Rose Above the Refuse and Became a Cult Favorite for All the Right Reasons.The Cast, Including a Spunky Scene Chewing Telly Savalas in the Third Act, are All Super Serious Playing Interesting Characters, Aristocrats, Monks, Engineers, etc., and are All Professional and Believable Performances and Not Campy Stereotypes. The Story is a Wonderful Blend of Many Types of Genres and Somehow it Seems Plausible in a Playful Kind of Way.The Monster is Scary, the Effects are Low-Budget Good, and the Cinematography and Limited Sets are Excellent. Overall, Fully Realized and Bizarre, This is One that Screams Out for More Recognition and Thankfully the Plea is Being Heard and the Movie is Now Solidly Considered a Must-See Entry in Seventies Horror.Note...Again, beware all of those Public Domain Prints, this is now out on Blu-ray and is a essential for Horror and B-Movie Collections. "},{"Title":"Endearingly daft but imaginative","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hmmm. Still trying to puzzle over why the railway company who built the Trans-Siberian railway would build a switch line that ends right at the edge of a cliff! Very convenient for disposing of cosmic monsters, I guess! Horror Express is a movie I first saw on Christmas Eve on BBC1 in the 70s when I was a kid. It scared me then and it also entertained me - a sort of horror version of Murder On The Orient Express, mixed with The Thing and Quatermass. It instantly earns kudos for featuring Peter Cushing And Christopher Lee and even throws Telly Savalas in for good measure as a Kossack commander who seems to know the entire goings without any word being sent to him whatsoever from the train!In short the feisty Lee is carting back an old fossil from Manchuria on the express, and Cushing is trying to find out just exactly what it is his box contains. Well, Mr. Cush, try an alien energy being capable of absorbing the memories (a gruesomely well-done Brain Drain which is a shade overused) of anyone it encounters, killing them in the process. It appears to be seeking a way home, having been left stranded on Earth millions of years ago. So this is also an early version of E.T.! A film full of imaginative ideas that doesn't always make a lot of sense. It's entertaining, daft and fun, with some witty lines - Assistance? I'm not surprised at your age!, and of course the immortal Monster? But we're British you know! "}{"Title":"interesting-charming","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" a good idea, nice game of tension, perfect cast, admirable make of atmosphere. sure, price is a lot of mistakes - the fake image of Orthodox monk , new version of Rasputin and Renfield, simplification of society life details - but with little tolerance it is not a real sin.the story is beautiful and almost credible. the slices from Orient Express, zombies and SF literature are embedded in a suitable mount.Telly Savalas makes a real impressive stain of color in dark landscape. the crumbs of naivety, fruit of time passing, are reasonable and charming. the drops of science are good option. the most important virtue - measure in creation of each part. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable shocker about vicious pre-historic monster terrorizing the Transiberian train","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1906, in the remote Manchuria, professor Alexander encounters a long frozen corpse. When he smuggles it aboard the Transiberian train, then the monster is awakened and coming to life, breaking out, running rampant around the train and making a killing rampage. Meanwhile, archaeologist Alexander Saxton(Christopher Lee) knows to professor Welles(Peter Cushing). Both join forces against the weirdo creature. The movie depicts the havoc and killing that begin when the monster escape, lurk and terrorize. The bulk of action surrounds their attempts to chase and intent on killing this bizarre creature. Meantime, the passengers and crew run afoul, they're forced to fight their lives and pursued by the killer beast which is making a brutal slaughter.The picture packs atmospheric blending of eerie thrills and creepy chills combined with a terrific finale. It displays lots of guts and blood but it seems pretty mild compared to today's gore feasts. It's an unrelenting shock-feast laced with nice acting by the two Hammer genre's stars that deserves its cult status. Furthermore, magnificent Telly Savalas , pre-Kojak, as crazed Cosack commander. Lively secondary cast is frankly cool, formed by Spanish support casting, as Albert De Mendoza, Silvia Tortosa, Helga Line,Angel Del Pozo, Jorge Rigaud, among them. Bone-chilling musical score by John Cavacas. Lush photography with juicy atmosphere by Alejandro Ulloa, but unfortunately turns too much murky in some video print. Good make-up work by supervisor Julian Ruiz. The motion picture is well directed by Eugenio Martin or Gene Martin. He's a horror movies expert(Hypnosis, A candle for the devil, The fourth Mrs Anderson) and Spaghetti Western(Pancho Villa, Bounty hunter, Bad man's river). Rating  Above average, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"After Universal, These Guys are the Best","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite having a really bad print of this, I found it really enjoyable. Trains and ships provide a claustrophobic setting as they move on, no matter what is happening on board. A prehistoric monster has been discovered in the ice in Siberia and is being brought back for scientific research. The problem is that it is a host body for some extra-terrestrial entity that has plans of its own. It has the uncanny ability to suck the mental images out of the brains of whomever it stares at. It is a nicely done horror story with the great Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, and an interesting Cossack played by Telly Savales. It builds nicely as the thing makes its way around the train cars. Those most curious are victimized most directly. There is also a mortal quality to the thing that allows us to be hopeful as the forces that be try to get it under control. This is a pretty good monster movie. I agree with one of the reviewers that television has become so commercial that these old films never see the light of day anymore. That's sad. At one time the SciFi Channel used to show things like this. We need a new, less slick Science Fiction Channel for those of us who would like to live in the past a bit. "},{"Title":"A prehistoric humanoid thought to be the missing link turns out to be a deadly alien life form","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is very much of it's time. It's a 1972 Horror film staring Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing- both Heavies of the Horror Genre for many years.You might not give it a second thought, as it's own summery writes it off as a zombie film. HOWEVER, you'd be wrong my friend. Cushing and Lee may have spent most of their shared ventures trying kill one another in countless films (the Hammer Dracula films being the most notable)but this film gives the viewers the rare treat of them being allies.Lee is great in this, his piercing eyes and thunderous voice are matched by his character Dr. Saxon who refuses to tolerate any BS from anyone. Cushing offers a subtle and charming performance as Dr. Wells. The rest of the cast is good- particularly Alice Reinhart as Miss-Bojack727 Jones, Well's assistant. Telly Sevalez shows up to chew some scenery and get out some good one-liners.Yet, where it really shines is the story. It's not a zombie film, but rather a take on the John W. Cambell Novel Who Goes There (the source for The Thing.I've always had a soft-spot for monsters in Victorian/Edwardian settings. The film is clever, well-paces, and actually eerie (quite a feet considering it was done in 1973 in the midst of an ocean of horror schlock). The Creature of the film is done well too, and the clever viewers will be able to understand how it works.The film makes no real attempt to hide who is the creature... that would be pointless, the real fun is trying to figure out how the cast will discover him/her. There's a lot of thought in this and the idea of the creature amassing knowledge is cool.If you're willing to sit back and enjoy yourself, you'll like this movie, I sure did. It's fun to search for details. Also, it lacks the awful horror music of most films of it's time and chose to use a haunting main theme throughout. "},{"Title":"White Eye Balls","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an interesting film about an English anthropologist in the year 1905, who discovers an unusual fossil and as it arrives in the train station, anyone walking near this crated fossil manages to get real hard boiled eyes. The anthropologist is played by Christopher Lee,(Professor Alexander Saxton), Greyfriars Bobby,'05 and Peter Cushing,(Dr. Wells)Monster Island,'81 is a doctor who is assisting Prof. Saxton on the Express Train and encounters all kinds of problems with this changeable Fossil. There is a brief scene with Telly Savalas,(Captain Kazan),Pancho Villa,'72 as he boards this mysterious train with all kinds of strange deaths with White Eye Balls. Entertaining and a great film for Halloween viewing. "},{"Title":"This is a lost gem","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Telly Savallas' work is a hoot, he really shines here. Right in the middle of this thing Telly shows up and gives an improvised performance that has to be seen to be believed.How can anyone see this movie and not love it? Cushing, Lee... crazy science with aliens and devils and a zombie freakout on a train in Siberia... That's a recipe for fun city.This movie has some really chilling moments though surprisingly. It gets under your skin and the Sci-Fi/horror/religious bit is great because it never truly makes any sense at all but still is creepy as hell.Those white bleeding eyes still creep me out.The train is a big part of the film, so anyone interested in model railroads might want to check this out as well even if you are not interested in goofy horror films. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of the horror/thriller trash classics I have been watching lately this one is surprisingly good. Cushing and Lee are both men of science (1 Dr. 1 archaeologist) who are passengers on a train with the enigma. This movie has everything a cookbook horror movie should have - an irritatingly egotistical scientist, a inquisitive doctor Holmes complete with a female Watson, a maniacal monk, European nobility, local gang for flavor, and even precursors of Night of the Living Dead.If I have any complaint is that the movie ended with serious help from Plot Convenience Theatre, and the sound-tract tried to make every detail significant, but these could be over come with a plot that held your attention and got you thinking. Special effects were nothing special but got the job done better than your average 1973 movie.If you have an interest in classic horror genre then this is one that should be on your list. "},{"Title":"Too much a take off of an old John W. Cambell Jr. story","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not too bad. Like the Discussion Groups said - Not bad for a dollar from Wal-Mart. The basic theme seems to be lifted from 'Who Goes There? written by that classic Sci-fi writer and editor, John W. Cambell Jr., back in the 1940's. A movie was made in the '50's called The Thing. A little was changed in locale and mode, but the underlying concept of a creature from outer space whose genes live on in it's captives is straight from the short story. The greater horror of the story type was in the movie The Thing. None the less, it is worth watching and the Hollywood chant is, if it sells once, it will sell again. I'm glad I got it, but I would be disappointed to pay much more than a dollar for it. "},{"Title":"A Cavalcade of joy!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (maybe mild spoilers...) I originally saw this a couple of times, years ago and all I could remember was the very end and it being very dark/scary. I've just seen it again recently and I enjoyed it immensely!...and found it great fun and highly entertaining.It has a very strong setting- the train, the snow and the time all go together to create an eerie, un-placeable feeling, the music adds to this too. I thought the alien/sci-fi thing was a bit out-of-place, but on second thoughts I've decided it just adds to the whole mystique/atmospheric greatness of the piece.Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee spar brilliantly and are given solid support from the rest of the main cast (the monk, the inspector, the countess etc), plus there are some great one-liners thrown in there as-well. ...And just when you think things can't get any better!... Telly Savalas (& his gang of cossacks) jumps on-board and starts ruffing-everyone-up!- brilliant!, films don't get much better than this for me!...The whole film is worth-it's-weight-in-gold just to see an exasperated Peter Cushing saying Monster, we're British...- as Alan Partridge might say lovely stuff and Telly Savalas shouting We got lots of innocent monks- love it! ...and even then you've still got the double-whammy of an ending to come!!... Great Film 8.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Get on board and be TERRIFIED!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a fantastic piece of early 70's British Horror. Okay, so it may be Spanish in production, but for all intents and purposes it's just like a Hammer Horror. Cushing and Lee go through the motions, but even then, they are still incredible masters. The exquisite Telly Savalas spices up the final act with tremendous overacting; Who are the killers? WHO? Who are the trouble-makers?! The plot is well structured although light, and a few holes do creep in. In terms of horror movies, I would rate this film 8 out of 10. In terms of movies in general, I would give it a 6. You must see it though...far better then any horror served up today by Hollywood (They, Ghost Ship, Jeepers Creepers etc) "}{"Title":"AN EXCELLENT MINOR ENTRY","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got to take a look at this film last night at New York's Walter Reade Theatre in Lincoln Center (part of their current Scary Movies fest), and was reminded of what a fun experience it is. The film concerns an alien life force that has taken possession of a fossilized man-ape, and then thaws out while en route to Moscow on the Trans-Siberian Express. Hammer superstars Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing are on board for the wild ride, and theirs are always a welcome presence. This movie really is pretty well done, with an interesting story, good acting, decent production values, some so-so special effects, and some good shocks and surprises. I was a little disappointed at first when HERE COME THE SPOILERS the fossilized man-ape critter got killed so early on, but then the alien life force started to jump around, from the man-ape to the Russian police inspector to the mad monk, and that kept things interesting. (I'm still a little unclear as to just WHY the monk, who was so direly warning of the danger of the beast in the film's beginning, decided to go over to the dark side so suddenly, after watching one of its murders. Perhaps someone can explain that part to me...) Telly Savalas is just a weeee bit over the top as the Cossack inspector, but it's all in good fun. The scene in which Peter Cushing trepans the baggageman's skull to examine his smoothed-out brain (did I mention that the alien life force can suck the thoughts and memories out of its victims' eyeballs, leaving those orbs whitened and bloodied?) was a nice touch. Just the right amount of grisly fun, without being too much of a grossout. Besides the cool trepanning, we are also treated to multiple murders, two (2!) hot-looking redheads, and--shades of Night of the Living Dead--reanimated, bloody-eyed zombies running amok at the end. All topped off by a nice train crash and multiple explosions! Lee and Cushing are their usual suave selves. The movie is an excellent minor affair that makes one wonder why filmmakers can't carry off such feats today with all the tools at their disposal. The film has atmosphere and creepy charm, and that's something that I suppose all the $$$ can't buy. Horror talents such as Cushing and Lee only come along rarely; who do we have today to take their place? No one. It occurs to me that there are NO great horror actors today to speak of, for the first time, practically, since moving pictures began! Am I right? Who can you think of that is on a par today with Lon Chaney, Lionel Atwill, Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi, Evelyn Ankers, Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, Hazel Court, Vincent Price, Ingrid Pitt, Barbara Steele and so on? We've got NOTHING to compare! Perhaps that's one of the reasons why even a relatively minor entry such as Horror Express seems so good. The two leads are as charismatic as can be, and carry their horror history into whatever picture they decide to grace. Can you imagine this picture being made today with Brad Pitt and Mark Damon? Ugh! "},{"Title":"I saw this for the first time on the Saturday morning horror movies, and it creeped me out something terrible..those eyes!!!AAARGGHHH!!!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film had some of the the finest actors of our times, well there was Telly Savales, but even without him, this movie would not be the same..This movie gave me horrendous nightmares, and while I was just a kid when I saw it, I was pretty horror film savvy having seen HAlloween and Alien on the big screen...The atmosphere on the train i think was conveyed very well, the oppressive quality was unmistakable.  And of course the scary monster asian guy freaked me out..THey did a fine job with the eyes and the dripping blood..they used subtlety instead of over the top effects.One of my all time favorite horror movies.. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Horror movies ever made!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What more could a horror fan ask for? Theres fear, claustrophobia, a great acting team and a terrifying killer monk! This is without doubt my favourite of the Hammer Horror movies. Lee and Cushing work perfectly together and the music is fantastic. So what if some of the effects are a bit dodgy (the train that is clearly a toy) this is  gem of a movie. If you dont see it, may the Horror express stop at your house. "},{"Title":"A great horror movie for its time","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With a great cast including the horror greats- Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing. I think this horror movie was very great in the way that it took place on a train and on that train there was a terrifying monster that would suck the information and memory from the human brain leaving the victim's brain very smooth. This movie was enjoyable to the horror fan that doesn't take horror movies too seriously. The scene with the microscope was very intellectual and unique in its own way. I would highly recommend this horror movie. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A true masterpiece with an eerie atmosphere. The story is unique and personal, not stupid or lame at all, and the actors are terrific. The beginning really makes you want to watch this movie, and it just gets more exiting as the story goes on. The ending is also great, and it truly makes this film a complete experience. "},{"Title":"Definitive Cushing/Lee collaboration with wit,style and a sense of humour.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror Express is a notable film in that it captures the ethos and grandeur of Hammers finest films at a time when Hammer themselves were losing the plot with such low points as Capt. Kronos and Legend of the Seven Golden Vampires. The performances of Cushing and Lee are amongst their finest collaborations, and radiate the on screen chemistry that makes these two of Britain's greatest actors a joy to watch. Their mixture of self-deprecating humour and conviction gives the outlandish plot sufficient weight. Telly Savalas sticks out like an egg on acid and adds little but a buffoon like cameo. The rest of the cast are suitably manic and support the two Englishmen with gusto. The music is haunting and catchy, especially the Baggage man's whistle adopted by the monster, and is a superb example of how music should add to the atmosphere of a film. The claustrophobic setting of a transiberian express train complements this. Overall, the film holds up well, is exciting and, despite the gory scenes, has a subtlety usually missing in such films. The end builds to an exciting climax and a real cliffhanger. Dik Meyer just got it plain wrong and should really take better notes.Quote to look out for Its the baggage man!  "},{"Title":"A somewhat forgettable odd sci-fi thriller on a train","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1972, In 1906, an English explorer and anthropologist discovers a remarkable human like fossil in China. He believes the ancient strange humanoid is the legendary and exclusive missing link to man's earliest beginnings on Earth. The carefully crated mystery is taken aboard the train for it's long trip back to civilization and the train trip becomes a bizarre and horrifying voyage for the many passengers.*Special Stars- Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, Telly Savalas *Theme- Science and superstition can be confused about the facts.*Based on- Early 18 century anthropology and Russian religious views about man's origins.*Trivia/location/goofs- The film was shot in Spain. Goof Early in the film, a Chinese lock-picking expert's scenes are in close-up in a train station. While dressed in 1890's garb, you can clearly see his 20th century hearing aide behind his left ear. The commanding officer uniform for the Russian squad's at the train station is clearly Communist post-revolution with it's Red Star on his cap front, wrong era, sorry. Telly Savalas plays a Russian 'Cossack role of the famous Southern Russia horsemen with a clearly laughable American (non-Russian) accent. The crudely made red-eye alien/fossil transformation scenes are terrible by the use of bad creature make-up scenes around the actor's eyes. The main actors almost dropped out of this film project due to recent family member's deaths (wives). The alien/fossil bloody zombie make-up is convincing. The train miniatures in this film are of interest.*Emotion- A somewhat forgettable odd sci-fi thriller taking place on the famous Trans-Siberian railroad in Czarist Russia in the late 1800's. Rather mad casting and acted road/train trip movie consisting of international mega stars with an unusual science fiction plot twist. There's an interesting Russian Rasputin monk character in this film that is enjoyable to watch. I was reminded of all those spectacular Murder on the Orient Express mega films of similar plot and historic time periods. This film is a fun romp, not to be taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"Alien On The Trans Siberian","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That crowning jewel of internal improvement in czarist Russia, the Trans-Siberian Railroad is the scene of a really good horror film from that team of classic horror film actors, Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. And the film was not even done for Hammer Studios, it's a Spanish production.The plains of Spain stand in for steppes of Russia in Horror Express. Anthropologist Christopher Lee has unearthed in the tundra the frozen body of a creature he thinks is the missing link. But the link thaws out and he starts running amuck on the train. Then it turns out that this thing is not some link between man and ape, but some alien that landed here in our Cenezoic age and grafted with one of those apes. It absorbs intelligence from those around when killing them, but there wasn't much to absorb from the link between simian and sapien. Now it's got some good subjects to feast on for knowledge.Horror Express is a very good science fiction/horror mix with a couple of the best in the genre starring. We also get Telly Savalas playing a Cossack leader who stops the train, but of course has no idea what he's dealing with. The film holds up very well from 1972 and is a must for horror film fans. "},{"Title":"Careful of Those Eye Tests!","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A-grade British-Spanish production-- money does go a lot further in Spain. Note the colorful train station scenes at film's beginning-- no cheap-jack cost cutting here. Most action takes place aboard the claustrophobic Trans-Siberian Railway as anthropologists Lee and Cushing try to corner evil alien force that can migrate from body to body whenever the eerie red eye lights up. Sort of makes you want to skip your next eye test. Fine acting all around, especially Lee whose imperious manner commands the screen, and de Mendoza whose Rasputin-like mad monk could make non-believers of us all. Then too, Telly Savalas appears to be really enjoying life as a cossack chieftain, even without the Kojak lollipops. The cat-and-mouse aboard the train is sometimes scary, often bloody, and plain disgusting when the top of people's heads get removed. And when the dead arise only to get shot, I thought Night of the Living Dead. Can this evil force be stopped, and do we really want to since the history of the world, no less, is mapped onto his eyeball. Think what he could do sitting next to you on a history test-- just don't ask to see his left arm. Original, imaginative script with excellent production values and good acting from a largely non-English cast whose lines thankfully don't appear dubbed. However, the film's moral gives whole new meaning to Always look a person in the the eye when speaking. "},{"Title":"Many flaws but still a classic","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I live in Siberia, so naturally a horror flick about a trans-Siberian express full of white-eyed zombies stirred up my interest. And what we have here a great cast with Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing, Telly Savalas and Alberto de Mendoza, rusty special effects, atmospheric environment of the snowy Siberia, improperly chosen music, a dashing mob of cossack zombies and a life form from the outer space; in other words as much good as bad. The style of the movie and its atmosphere are rather even and strong may be even to make you want to watch it more than once but its special effects and the scientific base are ludicrous beyond dispute. Anyway, it's really worth seeing, fun and memories are guaranteed. Interestingly enough, the first part of the movie evolves around a frozen mummy of a prehistoric man which later causes all the curse-like mess -- I instantly remembered the rumors of the curse of Otzi, the real frozen prehistoric man discovered in 1991 in the mountains just like in this flick! "}{"Title":"Top flight horror","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of the thousand or so movies Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing made, this may very well be the most stylish. It's certainly very ambitious. Scientist Lee crates what he believes to be a frozen caveman via the Trans-Siberian Express only to have the thing thaw out and start killing passengers. The movie pre-dates ALIEN by seven years and it's easy to believe that it influenced that classic. Lee and Cushing are terrific and the production values are first rate -- it has a real feel for the early 1900s. The direction, by Eugenio Martin, resembles that of Sergio Leone's handling of the train scenes in ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST. One complaint Telly Savalas as a kooky Cossack. He and his band of goons appear to have come out of another movie! "},{"Title":"Very good movie for Lee and Cushing fans.","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a big fan of Lee and Cushing, I obviously gave this a higher rating than many people did. Also, the fact that they are isolated on a train in the middle of Siberia keeps it interesting. Basically Lee has discovered a cave man frozen in ice. After it is placed on a train, it thaws out and begins killing people. They way that it kills people is pretty interesting in the fact that it is actually an alien life-force inside of the caveman who can pass to other people through eye contact. As it leaves their bodies they die. The whole purpose is that the alien was left behind and needs a way to get home. As it passes through people it absorbs their memories, which conveniently there is a scientist on board familiar with physics and know some rocket scientists. However, Cushing being a doctor comes up with a test to determine what the alien is and who it it has possessed at the time. In order to kill, they have to drive the train over a cliff.Telly Savalas is also in the movie as a cossack. Kind of funny watching him slap a priest around without any guilt. "},{"Title":"Sublimely scary Hammer w/dynamic duo of Lee & Cushing","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" TERROR TRAIN (1972) *** Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing, Telly Savalas, Silvia Tortosa, Alberto de Mendoza, Helga Line. Sublimely scary Hammer Films B-movie classic with its chief import/export team of Lee & Cushing as scientific acquaintances aboard an intercontinental train of terror when Lee's paleontological fossil comes to life and begins to slaughter en masse via absorbing its victims minds (!) Spookily effective production design and its smorgasbord of international flavor with its cast of Italian, Spanish, German, and American thespians makes a spicy melange to the lurid storyline. Lee & Cushing as always excel mired in madness yet looking dapper and raffishly charming even when face-to-face with flame-haired hotties Tortosa (hoo-baby!) and Line as a Countess and stowaway respectively or confronting the glowing blood-red-eyed monster on hand! The wintry settings prove to be equally chilling as is Savalas in his glorified cameo of a role as a robust Cossack and scene-stealer de Mendoza as a mad monk a la Rasputin (and uncannily resembling Robert De Niro from The Mission (!!!) Directed with finesse by Spanish filmmaker Eugenio Gene Martin. "},{"Title":"The Horror Express gives an Entertaining Ride","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Chilling tale of a train traveling through Siberia with a most frightening and unexpected stowaway. How is it connected to the rare fossil specimen brought on board by Prof. Saxon? Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee(as Saxon) perform at their usual level of brilliance and we are also blessed with some very pretty leading ladies and a really cool monster-always a plus in an Horror film. I was surprised by how gory and modern this film is. Excellent atmosphere pervades this one making it an enjoyable ride. Feels like an odd mix of 70s Shock horror and 60s Hammer/AIP stuff. "},{"Title":"One of the best Cushing/Lee collaborations!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This horror film has all the main ingredients of an entertaining and engaging horror film - the presence of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee; an imaginatively scripted blend of science-fiction and horror; a claustrophobic atmosphere; and a singularly effective venue of a train, which emphasises an inevitable doom.To add to this, the film is kept going at a decent pace and does not suffer from the predictability that haunts many films its kind.  In fact, one is never quite sure what is going to happen next!An excellent film - thoroughly recommended, not only to fans of Cushing/Lee.  "},{"Title":"I am watching this right now.","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I find this mostly worth it just to see Terry at the end. ;) This movie is not great and it's not bad either. The scene with the constant puncture of the eyeball is worth seeing though. The brain examination is okay too. "},{"Title":"Scarier than given credit for...","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw Horror Express back in the mid-1970s; I didn't see it again until just recently.  It is very interesting to me to note that after all this time, the movie still inspires the same feeling of dread that it did years ago.  In the opening scenes, after Lee's fossil box has been loaded on the train, a low, deep-pitched growl sounds from somewhere.  The sound echoes as the bystanders look on, alarmed.  Suffice it to say it alarmed me as well, a feeling which the viewing of the rest of the film did nothing to alleviate. "},{"Title":"Blast From The Past","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express was another addition to my growing collection of Dollar Store DVDs, which is an addiction that I probably should seek professional help about. Nine out of ten times my dollar-DVD purchases turn out to be complete and total crap (see my comments on American VAMPIRE) but HORROR EXPRESS turned out to be a pleasant surprise. I had seen this movie on VHS countless times in cheap-video bins over the years but had never taken a chance on it till now. Anyway, HORROR EXPRESS stars British horror greats Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing (who, due to my coming of age in the '80s, will always be Grand Moff Tarkin from Star Wars, sorry) as rival scientists who find themselves on a cross-continental train trip in the early 20th century. Lee's character has unearthed a frozen fossil deep in the Orient of an early man which he is taking back to England with him. To everyone's surprise, the fossil isn't quite as dead as everyone thinks and it re-animates en route, where it spends much of the film grabbing unlucky passengers and sucking their brains out (I swear, you can't make this stuff up) until the survivors band together to battle it. The film has a rather surreal quality due to the hammy, over-the-top performances by all involved and a truly bizarre appearance (more like a glorified cameo) by Telly (Kojak) Savalas as a Cossack army captain who acts like he just walked in from a different movie. This one elicited more chuckles than scares but overall it was a cool, creepy, fun way to kill a snowy Saturday evening. You can't ask for much more than that for a dollar, can you? "},{"Title":"With these passengers, who'd need peanuts?","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fossil discovered by a scientist (Lee) in Siberia becomes a threat to a train full of people bound west.  Gory violence is a plus, but few moments are genuinely scary.  Cushing plays off Lee well, as usual, this time assuming the slightly more repugnant role for a change.  Savalas is on hand to steal the movie for the 5 or so minutes he appears in.  Some interesting evolutionary sci-fi adds an unexpected element to this fairly standard horror package, which appears to have been made by Spaniards in the Italian style (with British actors, of course). "},{"Title":"Well-paced action and solid storyline, more than compensate some eccentricities.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A decent horror which mixes themes and ideas, all held together by the heavyweight duo of Cushing and Lee.The plot revolves around a prehistoric fossilized man, being transported by train across Siberia. Many similarities to 'The Creeping Flesh' in tone and story - in terms of the snowbound isolated setting and the nature of the creature, a big nod must also be given to 'The Thing from Another World'.The evil in 'Horror Express' is a malevolent force from outer space which hosts itself inside living things, learning the skills of each by sucking out their brain powers - after killing a thief the creature is able to pick a padlock, for example.There is lots here for horror fans to enjoy - the isolation is used to increase the fear and tension with the train promoting the sense of being trapped, each carriage a separate cell - much as the different sections of a spaceship are used. The time setting and location of turn-of-the-century Russia work well, and allow for Telly Savalas to make a late barnstorming entry as a marauding Cossack leader. Horror films like this from the 60's and 70's, despite some production shortcomings, still trample all over the 'I Know What You Did Last Summer'-type drivel we are force fed with these days. "}{"Title":"Could have used more, but an okay film.","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The thing that really helps this movie is Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing.  If it weren't for these two the movie would not have been as good.  Having said that, the main complaint I have on this one is that I felt this movie could have been a lot better.  It needed more scenes like the end where many of the people killed by the monster came to life and attacked.  Being a zombie fan, if there was more of this going on I would have really enjoyed the film a lot more.  As it is, this story features a scientist who finds a creature in the ice and brings it aboard a train so he can unveil it to the world.  Unfortunately, the creature is somehow still alive and has the bizarre power to kill just by looking at its intended victim.  All in all an all right flick that has some good moments.  Telly Savalas is also in this one, but not for very long at all. "},{"Title":"I felt like there was something missing from this movie","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror ExpressI have try to watch this movies once or maybe twice before, i just could not get into at the time, So gave it another got yesterday.It did take me while to get into the movie, The movie didn't seem grab me me, when until we see the creature in the movie.I felt like something was really missing from this movie, I just can not put my finger on it! the rest the movie was good.i did not seem to find any of the scene creepy or scary, I did not think it fun movie!saying that but I found the ending to be a bit funny5/10 "},{"Title":"Count Dooku AND Grand Moff Tarkin? That's just instant win","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie #12 on our Chilling Classics DVD and for once, i can actually say that i was PLEASANTLY SURPRISED at this movie. Not only did it have some good stars, it had a very original plot, and the film showed you just enough to tantalize you but not overgorify you. For a horror movie, this was pretty good. For a Chilling Classics movie, it's AWESOME.So let's get into it. Christopher Lee (sporting a snazzy black moustache btw) finds a man in the ice and is going to have it transported with him on a train. There he meets Peter Cushing where they don't get along right away, but slowly people who go near Lee's ice man start to randomly die, with smooth brains and no pupils. Eventually we see the ice man escape and take over the body of the policeman before it dies. So the police man is now the new villain. Along the way it kills a whole bunch of people hoping to get knowledge on how to build a rocket to get back into space. Sorry buddy you're in 1907. you ain't going ANYWHERE.But eventually they discover it's the policeman, but then he transfers into a monk, and peter and Chris team up and beat him.I have to say that i really liked this movie. on a normal scale, it gets about a 6.5 to 7. on the Chilling classics scale, pfff. a 9.The only thing that annoyed me is that this is a brand new DVD set, and for some reason, the only DVD i had a bit of trouble with was for this movie. none of the other crappy movies stopped working to give me an excuse to stop playing them. nooooo only the good movie at it's climax! what crap.But yeah. Bad DVD aside, this movie is actually very worth the time. If you own the chilling classics 50 pack, for ONCE you're in for a treat. Pop it in. it's the way 70's horror movies should be made. Horror Express gets 7 white eyes out of 10. by the way, if you're squeamish about eye violence like i am, there's a couple of times when they use a needle on an eye to extract stuff. so yeah, (shudder) look away when that happens "},{"Title":"There's a stink of hell on this train.","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had to choose between a documentary and this film tonight. Well, it is the end of the week, and I can't imagine a better end that a Hammer Horror film with Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing.Now you really have to suspend belief for this one. Lee brings a 2 million-year-old ape-man fossil on the train, and it has the capability to pick a lock. Yeah, right. But, we soon find out how he did it. Amazing! Three people are already dead and now a beautiful spy (Helga Liné) gets hers. The ape-man meets his death, but he transfers to another (Julio Peña) before he expires. There is now a new creature aboard the train and the killing continues. It is obvious to the scientists that it is a being from space they are dealing with.Captain Karzan (Telly Savalas) boards the train with his troops and things get more interesting, as the crazy monk (Alberto de Mendoza) goes bananas.Ah, but it is not over yet as the blind zombies arise.Fascinating story. "},{"Title":"Better than average","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Hammer crew is on hand in this loose remake of The Thing, with their usual fine performances and not so fine special effects. Telly Savalas no doubt took advantage of the opportunity for a working vacation in Spain to appear as a Cossack with a superiority complex, but while jarring to see him with Cushing and Lee, it works. The movie is well-paced and builds to a nice climax. Because of the nature of the beast several people carry the acting load, making for more of an ensemble piece than usual in the Hammer world. The effects, well, they did what they could, all actors being attacked were splendid, and the director tried to keep shots of the monster to a minimum early on at least. I haven't seen many movies this side of Bond with two women as drop dead beautiful as the Countess and the Russian spy. That of course, never hurts either. Worth seeing especially if you like Hammer type productions. "},{"Title":"Standard 70's Low Budget Horror Movie","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's got Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing and Telly Savalas - so you know it isn't going to be a disaster. Having said that, it certainly isn't a masterpiece, either. What it has going for it - aside from the decent cast - is an interesting monster that you think is some sort of missing link come to life but actually turns out to be an alien being who inhabits other life forms, a pretty good set aboard a Trans-Siberian train that's used to good effect and a few good 70's style horror scenes. What it has going against it mostly is an obviously low budget that certainly has a detrimental affect on the overall quality of the movie. I also thought the heavy emphasis on the Rasputin-type monk aboard the train was unnecessary, as was the use of that character to introduce some hint of a satanic component into this - so that the monk gets somehow attached to the alien being and recites the Lord's Prayer, except changing it to Thy will be done on earth as it is in hell. That was a strange addition to the story, since the creature had nothing to do with Satan or hell - it was an alien from another galaxy; completely unnecessary and distracting to the plot. I didn't find this story to be gripping horror, but a pretty standard Christopher Lee movie from that era. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Alien Brainsuckers Invade Siberia!","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At one point in this ridiculous but joyous waste of 90 minutes, Peter Cushing does his wonderful Peter Cushing thing wherein he does a half-assed autopsy on a victim of the ancient alien-brain-sucker from Manchuria (say that three times as fast as you can--hah!) and he makes a pronouncement about how the creature kills his victims. Cushing is so believable and earnest in his Hammer-time pseudo-science (by 1973, he's had twenty years of experience!) that you don't even wince or grimace or even shrug. Of course! the creature assimilates the knowledge of the victim and stores the memories in the fluid of its eyes, or something like that, I guess.Not meant to be a comedy, but not taking itself seriously either, Horror Express is one of those delightfully awful goat cheese movies that fairly screams, Show me at a Drive-In, now! We get to see two wonderful old actors, Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing do what made them so famous for so long--serious and cranky scientist versus serious and charming scientist in competition with each other (until they realize that they are both up against some sort of prehistoric blob of Satanic energy that's been stuck in a cave in China since dirt was new; and if that doesn't make you come out, cranky as Hell, looking for brains to suck, buddy, nothing will!).Oh, this is just too much information. If you find this flick in the dollar DVD dumpster at Wal-Mart, pop for the buck, shut up, and accept that dollar movies are almost always worth exactly that.It's for giggles. "},{"Title":"Mindless horror/sci-fi fun.","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No one can honestly take a film called Horror Express seriously, and I don't think anyone intended it to be. Although it's not a horror comedy, 'Horror Express' doesn't take itself too seriously either.Hammer mainstays Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee star in this fun filled film set in the first decade of the 1900s. A scientist believes he has found the missing link in the theory of evolution between apes and man, the only problem is, he's also found a lot more than he bargained for.Some bad violence effects, some bad acting (except of course from Mr. Lee and Mr. Cushing) and an extremely dated feeling in the 2000s, doesn't dampen this film at all, and 'Horror Express' is recommended for all horror buffs, or even people just looking for a bit of fun. "},{"Title":"Great horror film!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very good movie that stars the actors legendary Christopher Lee, Peter Cushing, and Telly Savalas! All put on great performances. This is one heck of a film with a great and clever story, good music etc. I don not want to say anymore to spoil it but I recommend this movie to all horror and sci-fi fans!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like alien movies and/or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films The Thing from another World, The War of the Worlds, The Day the Earth Stood Still, The UFO Incident, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, John Carpenter's The Thing, Krull, Time Walker, My Science Project, Howard the Duck, John Carpenter's Starman, John Carpenter's They Live, Mac and Me, Explorers, Invaders from Mars, Total Recall, The Abyss, Communion, Suburban Commando, Fire in the Sky, The Arrival, Mars Attacks! Men in Black I & 2, Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Battlefield Earth A Saga for the year 3000, Impostor, Stargate, The Puppet Masters, John Carpenter's Village of the Damned, Independence Day, Life Form, The X-Files Fight the Future, Mission to Mars, Signs, Silent Warnings, Alien Hunter, Spaceballs, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, Predator & Predator 2, The entire Star Wars saga (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Return of the Jedi (Original and Special Editions!), The Phantom Menace, & Attack of the Clones), the entire Star Trek movie saga (Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, & Nemesis) and Stephen King's IT!  "},{"Title":"pretty decent","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  pretty decent horror flick is very watchable has some cool effects and great acting by Peter Cushing And Christopher Lee and has some gore too although slow paced it kept me interested so i do recommend this flick **1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Telly should've stuck to playing cops...","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite some of the more negative comments here, I would have to say this movie is actually pretty good. As someone pointed out, it was interesting to see Lee/Cushing on the same side against evil. However, Telly Savalas....well, I don't know who cast him in this role, but it was laughable. Perhaps if he had some semblance of a Russian accent, I wouldn't have minded, but...the New Yorky cop thing while dressed up in a red cossack suit was over the top. The Rasputin-esque monk guy didn't really fit in, either. But aside from this, I thought Lee and Cushing did a great job as the anthropologist/scientist team, the story line was interesting and the ending was decent, as well. There are some laugh factors, but overall not too shabby. "},{"Title":"Star Trek in Manchuria.","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An alien being is using its psycho-kinetic power to jump from human to human, killing the hosts in the process, while corpses pile up. Sound familiar? This is basically Kirk & co in yet another switcheroo episode, except that they aren't in space this time, and that Kirk is strangely absent.Christopher Lee is Mr. Spock and Peter Cushing is Dr. McCoy. Kirk is on vacation. He knew better than to horse around on the Horror Express.HE is a fairly enjoyable goofy little alien monster 70s adventure, nicely filmed and with a solid cast. There is no Kirk, but there is a Rasputin! The Russian monk is the only human whose mind the alien was hesitant to waste time on sucking in, due to it not being of any use. So I guess Sean Penn and Tim Robbins would have been safe on that train, too. (And I could certainly see Penn offering his services to the devious alien, just as pseudo-Rasputin did, that much is for certain.) The alien's behaviour is a little odd. There is no real reason for it not to jump off the train in order to re-group, organize, plan ahead (considering he'd been beddy-bye-bye in a cave for 2 million years), instead of rushing from one close call to the next, being stuck in the close quarters of a train with a hundred curious and bored humans. Perhaps it's too cold outside? Fair enough. But then why would he ask a bloody engineer about whether gravity can be neutralized. Certainly an alien capable of reaching Earth must know all the gravity-defying tricks in the book, or at least some of them, otherwise how else would he have come here? And even if he didn't know much about how to outwit gravity, he had billions of years of a conscious existence to think about it and figure out an answer. Hey, if a monkey can write a Shakespeare play on a typewriter.The alien even makes inquiries regarding a strong metal material a rich Russian has developed. Doesn't this alien know ANYTHING about spacecraft? He is actually desperately looking for hints how to build one to fly back home - and from early 20th-century humans. Duh. I was also amused and confused as to why this eternal being would insist on killing anyone who'd seen pictures of space through the eye of his previous host (which seemed to have been some sort of Yeti creature, of course). So they saw some space photos! Big deal. Get over it.And anyway, why does he suddenly want to leave Earth? He'd been on this planet since Sean Penn's ancestors crawled out of the ocean (the Penn-clan amphibians were kind of slow, they needed more time than the others to put one fin after the other), and now when he's got humans to study and analyze he wants to leave! Or perhaps he just came to Earth on a dinosaur holiday; he waited for them to develop, did some dino-watching, probably killed a few (or all of them - there's another great mystery solved) coz he's a bad-tempered alien, and then decided it was enough.Speaking of dinosaurs, there was a scene of them on the eye-projector, from 2 millions years ago. So the Yeti and the dino shared the same time and space? What wonders one learns from those 70s horror films!How do we know that either of you two is not the monster? &#x96; the alien, in disguise. Monsters?! We are British men! &#x96; says Cushing. "},{"Title":"Rich Atmosphere, Great Monster and Two Legends","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror Express (1972) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Horror favorite has Christopher Lee playing an anthropologist who discovers a missing link frozen. He takes the creature on a train and sure enough it soon thaws out and goes on a killing spree. With the help of a doctor (Peter Cushing) the two men discover that this isn't just a missing link but it also holds some dark secrets. HORROR EXPRESS has a lot going for it including featuring two legends and having a pretty good monster. With that being said, I don't enjoy this film as much as I did when I was younger because when viewing it today you can't help but question many things in the screenplay including it changing gears around the half way mark. I won't ruin what exactly happens but I think it was a mistake to take a simple horror tale and then try to turn it into something a little bigger and all you really do is take the monster away for way too long. It also doesn't help that the screenplay has several boring dialogue scenes that just keep going on and on. The best thing that can be said about HORROR EXPRESS is that the monster itself is great. There have been many films that features a killer ape but the monster here is among the best I've ever seen. I really enjoyed the make-up job and the creature really does have a realistic look to it. It's just too bad we don't get to see it more. Another major plus is that there's some terrific atmosphere running throughout the film as you always feel as if you're in this dark, dingy train with the creature. Of course, Lee and Cushing always did great work together and that's true here. The two do a very good job with their parts and that magical spark is certainly there when they're together. Telly Savalas doesn't come off quite as good but he does add some campy charm. HORROR EXPRESS isn't what I'd call a classic but fans of Spanish cinema and the two stars should find enough here to keep themselves entertained. "},{"Title":"Everything but the (blood-stained) kitchen sink...","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" HORROR EXPRESS (Panico en el Transiberiano) Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Mono1901 A renowned anthropologist (Christopher Lee) discovers what appears to be the 'Missing Link' - an ape-like creature - entombed within the vast Siberian wastelands, but it comes to life and escapes whilst on board the Transiberian Express and causes havoc.Eugenio Martín's extraordinary sci-fi/horror hybrid employs a genuine 'everything-but-the-kitchen-sink' scenario, incorporating religious mania, ghoulish mutants, alien beings, rampaging Cossacks (led by Telly Savalas!) and an army of murderous zombies! This entertaining smorgasbord features Lee at his most imperious, alongside frequent co-star Peter Cushing, the latter given to deflating Lee's pomposity with a few well-timed (and well-judged) lines of dialogue. Though set amongst the cramped confines of a high-speed train travelling across a bleak Asian landscape, the film uses period decor (courtesy of production designer Ramiro Gómez) and atmospheric cinematography (Alejandro Ulloa) to conjure a strange, otherworldly mood, and Robert Dearberg's snappy editing keeps the pot boiling throughout. Not as gruesome as some Euro horrors of its day, the movie nevertheless contains disturbing images of victims with blood streaming from their eyes, and the script - by Arnaud d'Usseau and Julian Zimet - refuses to spare even the most sympathetic characters from the monster's rampage (cf. the fate of Cushing's diminutive assistant, Alice Reinheart). Great fun, assembled with distinction, and played with authority by a game cast, including Alberto de Mendoza (A LIZARD IN A WOMAN'S SKIN), Silvia Tortosa (WHEN THE SCREAMING STOPS), Julio Peña (WEREWOLF'S SHADOW) and Helga Liné (HORROR RISES FROM THE TOMB). Martín's name is Anglicized to 'Gene Martin' on English language prints.(English version) "},{"Title":"Savalas steals the show in a thoroughly stupid film","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror Express is one of the most horrible movies ever made, but for some reason I am always glad to see it appear occasionally on late-night public television.  After analyzing the film, which really takes all of about three seconds, I have discovered that that reason is Telly Savalas.  While the other big-name actors -- Cushing in particular -- look completely ridiculous trying to play serious parts in a moronic movie, Savalas is the one element that seems to fit, just by doing his thing.  Although an attempt on Savalas' part at SOUNDING like a Cossack would have been nice, he certainly does a good job of ACTING like one -- pushing everyone around, calling them peasants, etc.  While he may come off as clownish to some viewers, I think his part in this film is a better one than Cushing's or Lee's.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Nonsense","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A seemingly supernatural thriller, which metamorphoses into a science fiction drama. Loopholes galore, with a Trans-Siberian train from Peking / Shanghai, going to Moscow in an overnight journey? Surprisingly, the train is full of Europeans and few Americans too, but no Chinese. What were these guys doing in China is never explained. A professor, Christopher Lee, is bringing back the frozen remains of a Chinese Piltdown Man, back to his University, for anthropological studies. Fair enough. But he takes no measures for the 'thing' to remain frozen.. and naturally it melts.. and comes alive. LOL. There are several people interested in the fossil, including a Chinese bozo, a priest resembling Rasputin, who is unable to decide whether he is on the side of God or the Devil, another scientist, who is an aged, anemic Cushing, a chess-playing 'engineer', a geriatric Count and his vivacious Countess wife, a ticket-less female 'spy', and several other inconsequential characters. There is also a brutal Cossack, Telly Savalas, in a wasted role and a 'police Inspector', played by Spanish actor, Julio Pena.The proceedings range from being piteous to plain ridiculous. For example, there are several deaths in the train.. and the 'Inspector' has the autopsies done on the train itself, with the obliging scientist and his female assistant, who is obviously a butch. The scientist has no qualms and moves around the train chatting, carrying out autopsies, dining, flirting with a woman 'spy', all night long. In fact, none of the passengers sleep during the night journey.. and spend time visiting each others' cabins, gossiping, and getting killed one by one. Plain stupid nonsense.That an extra-terrestrial being can lie frozen in a fossil, and be re-animated after centuries, is an interesting premise. It becomes nonsensical, however, when its starts 'sucking' information from peoples' brains, through their eyes. So the film can be called as 'interesting nonsense'. Better treatment would have ensured that the film remained as a credible science fiction story of its times. As of now, its just rubbish, with a host of Spanish actors going to a fancy dress party, in a train that's obviously going nowhere. "},{"Title":"mediocre mix'n'match pseudo-horror salad","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I usually like Cushing's movies very much and I praised THE CREEPING FLESH (which has moreless the same plot and situations ), but this movie is unconvincing... Sure, some Victorian atmosphere is well-preserved and scenes aren't bad, but it fails to deliver in the end. It is basically the same plot device repeated again & again. SFX are EXTREMELY modest and some funky 1970s music sounds really out of place given the historical moment portrayed. The mad monk/rasputin angle is completely out of place and Savalas obviously needed a paycheck. It assembles a few clichés that leave me cold, especially after watching THE CREEPING FLESH. All in all a low-card, decent movie. Not bad to watch, but I wouldn't recommend it. "},{"Title":"What would Telly Savalas do?","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well that was an odd film. It doesn't help that the DVD makes it look even quainter than it is, thanks to a full frame transfer with horrible picture and sound quality that makes it feel as though you're watching a third generation copy of something taped off the telly in the first place. But anyway strange monkey man from the dawn of time with a knack at picking locks (no, really) kills off passengers on a train whilst Christopher Lee looks stoically disinterested. Cushing hardly does anything in it except be there (though, for Cushing, that's enough to make him fantastic anyway), whilst Lee sports a terrible comedy moustache and at one point shows that he can punch, kick, fence, karate chop and use a rifle pretty much all at the same time, the cunning bastard.The film trots along going nowhere fast, and then all of a sudden Telly Savalas from Kojak (Who loves ya' baby?) appears with his own unique style of acting (basically, wander about like a queen being hip and cool whilst fooling nobody) and takes charge for absolutely no reason at all. And the ending is one of the quickest and most inept finales to a horror film I've ever seen. There's also some bizarre funky whistling music going on throughout, and some wonderful, if dire, dialogue (from memory) CUSHING Are you saying that a creature that's been dead for over a few million years came back to life, got out of that crate, killed the baggage man, put him *into* the crate, and then locked it all up again neat and tidy? LEE YES!!! Yes, I *AM*!!! And at one point the chief police chap tells the passengers that they must all stay on the train. Considering that there's a homicidal maniac on the loose, they're none too pleased and start getting a bit restless, to which the following duologue takes place POLICEMAN I will shoot anybody who tries to leave. RANDOM OLD MAN Shoot? Shoot! You stupid Russian! It's dire, and looks horrid, but has some sort of appeal. Wish I hadn't shelled out £8 for the thing, though.One of you could be the monster. Monster? We're British, you know. "},{"Title":"Nothing to special here.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sat down watching this with very little expectations in my mind, which was a good thing considering how rather average it is. While the rest of the actors in the film were a bit amateurish and cheesy, the delivery of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing most definitely made this film watchable. Too bad they didn't give Peter Cushing more lines, as I rather quite enjoyed his performance. My favorite line of his being Monsters? We're British!. As far as effects go, it's really hard to decide my true feelings. Some were good, but I'm really only referring to the scenes that showed a part of the monster. Those that showed the thing in it's full glory were utterly ridiculous. Overall, this is definitely not a must see film for horror fans; being that it contains a rather muddled down script, sporadic moments of good effects and only two great actors. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned Fun","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw HORROR EXPRESS when I was about 12 or 13 and thought it was a really great horror film but the second ( And last ) time I saw it was when I was about 26 or 27 and I was rather disappointed with it . I was able to notice the cheap production values like the train station at Vladivostok being a very obvious studio interior and the back projection used for the train when traveling through the Siberian countryside , and some plot holes in the script. But having said all that HORROR EXPRESS is an entertaining film in a very undemanding way , it`s the sort of film that`s scary to children without giving them nightmares and does include the classic line  But we`re British     "}{"Title":"that was 90mins of my life I'll never get back...","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, and I don't mean an enthusiastic wow either. This was just plain bad. There'll be no spoilers in this review just because I don't want you to have to read any more than you have to. When Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, Telly Savalas and a bunch of no named Spanish actors star in a movie together it can only mean one thing, they showed up for a paycheck.I think the only saving grace in watching this is definite plausibility that while this movie was being made, the actors were laughing all the way through it. More than likely saying things to the effect of..You mean we're getting paid for this? Trust me folks, skip this one and thank me later. "},{"Title":"Great cure for insomnia!","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I tried, tried my darndest to watch this movie without falling alseep, MULTIPLE TIMES, and never made it through without dozing off. I actually bought this movie for like $1.99 I tried to watch it 3 times and fell asleep. Not that there aren't worse movies, there are. It may interest people to check out Christopher Lee in this movie, I know Telly Savalas is in this movie too, I've just never have been awake long enough to see him in it. I also tried to watch a little of this movie on Svengoolie (only people in chicago would know of this late night show that shows bad movies) but even then I was unable to.Its basically just boring. Like I said might have some interest to see Christopher Lee, but thats about it. "},{"Title":"Oooh, please, give me a break","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cannot get past some of the stupidity of this movie. It uses pseudo-science in an attempt to validate the horror that is occurring. Why? There is a pretty good mixture, with potential for a classic horror. There's creatures, weird happenings, pretty women, two smart guys (Cushing and Lee) and a creepy priest.I watch a horror because of the reason I want to be scared. I don't want science and stupid, illogical ideas trying to explain the story. But this movie tries to explain itself as deep (in the end almost Space odyssey like).There are a number of other stupid things that happen, but its a 70's horror that my friend bought for $2. I was expecting stupidity.Anyway, it had some moments, some people will be horrified. I wasn't. "},{"Title":"What's with all the 10s?!","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On IMDb, the score of 10 has become so bastardized that mediocre and silly films like HORROR EXPRESS receive gobs of 10s. Folks, get a grip. This is not GONE WITH THE WIND or DR. STRANGELOVE! Classic this film ain't! Sure, it's okay if you like Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing together in a film. Great. Enjoy. But don't be ludicrous and give movies like this a 10! There are just too many flaws and silly plot twists to merit such a score. Horror films that deserve 10s are rare and should be reserved for such films as Dracula (1931), FRANKENSTEIN (1931), NOSFERATU (1922) and perhaps a handful of others--not low budget Spanish films with overacting like you see by Telly Savalas and a super-strange idea for a horror flick.Christopher Lee thinks he's solved the puzzle of the missing link when he finds some frozen primordial creature. However, unexpectedly, when the think begins to thaw on board a train, it comes alive and goes on a killing spree. Once killed, you'd think the movie would be over but somehow the creature transferred its consciousness into another and another killing rampage begins. It turns out that the creature is an astronaut from another galaxy! Despite having survived for so long living inside other creatures, it's apparently very easy to kill and the movie ends on a very anti-climactic note.Pluses for the film were seeing Lee and Cushing, though Lee did seem a tad illogical and nasty--too much really. And as for Telly Savalas, he did a walk-on that frankly didn't fit the film and he seemed about as Russian as Flip Wilson. Where was his accent? What was his motivation? What was his role in the film? Beats me, actually. Minuses, aside from Savalas, were the silly plot, the character of the monk (who made no sense whatsoever--none) and the terrible conclusion. Not a bad film, but certainly NOT a classic to anyone but the Kool-Aid drinkers who would think to score this film a 10! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wretched (and not in a good way)","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am somebody who normally enjoys bad movies. In fact, I got this as a double feature with Blood Tide in a low-budget B Movie collection.But this film was not only bad, it was one of the most annoying movies I have ever seen. I am stunned that it has gotten so many glowing reviews on here.I should have known it was gonna be a disaster from the annoying credits in the beginning. As I posted on the message board, I have never seen credits less artfully done, and that includes Ed Wood films. All throughout a blinding light shines at you, obscuring some of the names ,including (probably intentionally) the photographer. If one were an epileptic, watching the credits could result in a seizure. For me, it was just a headache.The film is really a 3-part disaster rolled into 1.The film starts off in cheesy Hammer-esquire mode. At first, I just relegated it to one of Lee and Cushing's less spectacular efforts. I was actually amazed that as late as 1973, something this bad, which had production values from the early and mid 60s, was able to lure stars into it.I mean, the camera-work was horrendous, the editing was choppy, and the scenes were ridiculous. For example, after 1 woman wakes up to find a man dead next to her (with eyes reminiscent of eggs over easy) she looks and behaves as if she had just lost at bridge. Death doesn't cause anybody to get all that hysterical. In fact, it doesn't cause any display of emotion whatsoever. Nope, they are all behaving as if they have been pumped up with Prozac. Didn't any of the professionals realize just how unreal (and spectacularly bad) this was? But spectacularly bad doesn't even begin to describe phase 2 of the movie, which I like to call the Kojak moment. Suddenly, for reasons that had to be contractual in nature, Telly Savalas enters the flick and we all enter a giant parody of something (what, I do not know). It was very, very bad camp. Savalas chewed up so much scenery it is amazing that the cause of his death wasn't by choking. But it was as if he was in an entirely different film. Very jarring. At this point, the overacting was just jaw-dropping and I started begging for the movie to end.But it didn't. It went into phase 3.Phase 3 is the Night Of The Living Horror Express phase when all the egg-over-easy zombies come after the living.Thankfully, the movie eventually came to the end of the tracks, both literally and figuratively.I suspect that there was something in the gaze of these ghouls to transform normally reasonable moviegoers into raving fools who then go on to laud the virtues of this atrocious flick.See it with the lights on. If you keep them off, you risk falling asleep. "},{"Title":"awful, awful, awful","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was so bad it was fun.  The premise is kind of neat, but they blew it big time.  My wife and I laughed so hard during the microscope scene!  Telly was very funny, although I don't think that was his intention.  This movie probably would have freaked me out as a naive little kid, but now it's just plain funny. "},{"Title":"Murder on the Trans-Siberian Express","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Horror Express' is a horror movie like they used to make them with it's no-nonsense title, low production values, ridiculous plot, appallingly bad pseudo-science and crude acting and characterisation, it certainly isn't 'Jurassic Park'. Oddly, once you make allowances for its not being any good, it's actually quite fun to watch. British actors Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing did a lot of this sort of thing, which I guess they wouldn't have done if they were really any good at acting Lee, in particular, though something of a cult figure these days, is wooden as a board. But if you like the sort of movie where the railway line conveniently has a branch running directly over a cliff just to add to the tension of the conclusion, then 'Horror Express' is for you. "},{"Title":"Boring horror schlock.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Schlocky, cheap-looking horror film that rehashes the monster-on-the-loose formula with little novelty or inspiration. All the murders are executed in the same monotonous manner, and two major horror stars, Lee and Cushing, are given almost nothing worthwhile to do. The film is thematically similar to their next collaboration, The Creeping Flesh, and it's equally overvalued and disappointing.   (**) "},{"Title":"Well...umm...it's got an interesting cast...","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And that's about all it has.An Italian film starring two Englishman (as Englishmen) and an American (as a Tsarist Russian), about a train journey from China to Russia.Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing are really wasted here...Cushing is basically just an ornament in the background for most of the film, and Lee plays his American scientist with all the pomposity that I assume other nations think Americans are full of.  Telly Savalas makes no attempt to sound or act Russian, other than prancing around like a barbarian without a Slavic accent of any kind.The story is just plain stupid...I groaned out loud when the scientists (Lee & Cushing) made their unique discovery about the monster's blood in their microscope.  The movie was a tad dull up to then, but then it turned incredibly lame.This movie is only for those Lee and Cushing fans who are completists and want to see their entire ouevre...others would be best warn to avoid it at all costs...unless you need an inexpensive and reusable sedative. "}]