[{"Title":"This is a very funny parody of pop sex-psychology literature&#133;","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film is entirely about sexual perversions, even though it is not technically erotic&#133; Allen has taken some of the most popular clinical treatments of sexual fetishes and has placed them into very unusual situations&#133; Gene Wilder, for example, falls in love with a sheep; Woody Allen plays a medieval court jester who gets his lance stuck in his lady's chastity belt while the king is off fighting in the Crusades; a giant breast is released upon the countryside; an Italian couple can only find happiness in public sex; and we are taken into the inner labors of a male human body as it tries to seduce a woman in a car&#133;Each individual scene is quite well done&#133; The tales are rapid filled with irony about the overly exaggerated importance of sex in our culture&#133; "},{"Title":"Hit & Miss, But What Hits Is Hysterical","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An uneven early work of Allen's, really just a series of sketches tied around the unbelievable popularity of the sex book Everything You Wantedto Know About Sex, But Was Afraid To Ask which in the early 1970's was THE book in popular culture. Many of the sketches are too long and peter out, but ALL of them have very funny jokes and insight, but two of the sketches are classics and are as funny as anything Allen ever wrote Gene Wilder's bit where he plays a man who is destroyed after a certain fetish is introduced into his life and the last sketch, where they show the inside controls of a man's body as he gets ready to have sex with a date Burt Reynolds and Tony Randall help run the master control room. This is brilliant and clever. Some times it's refreshing to just go back to Allen's early, silly films like Sleeper and Take The Money And Run, even though the man has gone onto important funny films with deep dramatic throughlines Crimes & Misdemeanors, Deconstructing Harry and Husbands & Wives. "},{"Title":"Rabbits, sperm, giant breasts and a woody!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Representing something of an early high point in Woody Allen's career, this scattershot spoof of David Rueben's highly popular sex-manual has become somewhat sadly overlooked in favour of the more mature and whimsical charms of 'Annie Hall' and 'Manhattan', but 'Everything you always wanted to know about sex' is just as enjoyable as his later works, if not more so.Although the overt intellectualism that many of Allen's detractors criticize in his subsequent work is already beginning to take form here, not only in the concept (seriously, who'd adapt a sex-manual?) but also in execution, which owes more to the high-brow Fellini and Godard than the low-brow Mel Brooks or John Waters, includes a great deal of metaphysical surrealism, bizarre camera angles and deliberately self-indulgent dialog.  Here Allen's filmmaking approach is more self-serving than ever before, casting himself as a medieval stand-up comedian, a heroic leading man and a sperm, yet still finding time to feature in a lengthy satire on early-seventies European cinema.  The reason it all comes together without succumbing to self-importance is down to the simplicity and stupidity of most of the set pieces.The more interesting segments come at the beginning of the film, and if seeing Woody trying hopelessly to unlock Lynn Redgrave's chastity belt and miss-quoting Shakespeare to form a condemnation of T.B. doesn't bring a smile to your face, then the sight of Gene Wilder in the throws of foreplay with a sheep will probably do little to convert you.  Humour for the most is juvenile, puerile and immature, but carried off with such hilarious comedic style, that the Farrelly brothers should really reassess their careers. Allen is as likable as ever in his many surreal incarnations -- appearing in fifty percent of the sketches -- his ultimate triumph being the oily, Italian play-boy causing a stir when he and his frigid girlfriend par-take of a little outdoor nookie.  And even if he is less confident when trying to be socio-satirical, as in the molestation game show, Woody still manages to inject a wit and ingenuity to the proceedings, always carrying off the gags to his trademark self-deprecating style.However, despite technical assuredness, the finished product borders on the same hit and miss territory that befalls most anthology films, however, it has to be handed to Allen for making a genuinely intelligent movie that basically celebrates boob-gags and outbursts of rampant misogyny.   The best policy with 'Everything you always wanted to know...' is to ignore the false starts of the later segments, and howl at the sight of Woody fighting a giant breast (Don't worry, I know how to handle tits).  Nevertheless, if your idea of sophisticated humour doesn't include bestiality, orgasms, transvestism, homosexuality, ejaculation, perversion or Burt Reynolds, then feel free to give it a miss.  "},{"Title":"When Woody Allen was funny","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ever since the mid-70s, I have had a nostalgia for Woody Allen's early films. Everyone needs to grow, it's just that I think Woody has grown in the wrong direction.  In the films that followed Annie Hall he seemed to be trying to be Bergman at times and Fellini at others, when I always thought he was better just being Woody.  Why?  Because he was funny, and this film is the funniest of them all.This is Woody at his zaniest, his most anarchic, his most irreverent, his wildest.  It is zany in the same sense that the Marx Brothers were at their height.  He isn't afraid to have segments that are just plain crazy and unbelievable.  I wonder if David Reuben realized that Woody was actually mocking his book when he sold the rights.  A classic.  8/10 "},{"Title":"EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX 3/4 stars.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex But Were Afraid to Ask is hysterical romp that makes the book look even more shameful.   The sketches are hit and miss but the ones that hit are brilliant and will have you laughing long after the film has ended.  For istance, the whole 2nd act with Gene Wilder having an afair with a sheep is one I won't soon forget.  And the most creative of the skits is the last one where we see what happens to a man before I night of sex.  Some skits will run on a bit long, such as the spoof of monster movies where a man and a woman and a man are being stalked by a huge tit.  This skit is done well, but it really isn't that funny. Another one that falls flat is the third skit in which a man keeps trying to bring his wife to orgasm.  This has a good opening but really just falls apart towards the end.  All and all this is some great Woody Allen work and I certainly enjoyed it.   "},{"Title":"Bad taste done tastefully.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everything You Always Wanted to Know... is frequently looked down upon as it fulfils its promise completely. That is, it contains a lot of sex.To downplay the film on such a level is to do it a disservice what may be overlooked is that, apart from the subject matter and the brevity with which such a topic is treated, this is shot extremely well.A notable example of this is Allen's technique of having actors speaking with their backs to the camera. A very European style of filming, and one which, understandably, is most brought into play during the third vignette, a pitch-perfect satire of continental cinema. Also look out for the grand-scale surrealism that occupies the last two sequences a 400-foot breast rolling down a well-shot hillside or a giant tongue may seem crude in context, but looked at solely for cinematic technique this is pure Fellini. This may seem to be overstating it, but never has a bawdy, slightly crass, comedy vehicle been so well conceived for the big screen. Even the opening sequence involving a multitude of white rabbits is shot with the screen in mind, a twitching nose and red eye the only objects punctuating an effective white counterpoint for the introductory credits.And so to the content itself, which doesn't match the quality of the production and sags in the middle. The first three sketches are quite wonderful, the third, as mentioned, is exquisite, and the scenes with Gene Wilder romancing a sheep may not be as sophisticated, but are probably the funniest. The first sketch sees Woody as a medieval jester paraphrasing Shakespeare, though the gags really don't get any better (or more tasteful) than T.B. or not T.B., that is the congestion. For this is a film that has no limits, and its content flirts with notions of bestiality, transvestism, the female orgasm, ejaculation and sex in public places. Not all of these are carried off particularly well, the transvestite sketch falling resolutely flat. There is also evidence of Woody's homophobia, casting himself as a sperm dreading being ejected during a homosexual encounter. In fact, an eighth sketch was filmed, which suggested homosexuality arises as a direct consequence of fear of women. This was cut not on bounds of taste but due to the fact that Woody couldn't think of a good enough punchline.Worst point of the film though, has to be the What's My Perversion? segment. While extremely satirical, this one leaves an extremely bad taste in the mouth as Woody seems to be going full-out to offend with this piece. While the basic idea could cause some amusement, seeing a panellist quizzing a contestant as to whether he's a rapist or a child molester is several stages beyond funny. Simarily, the sketch ends with a Rabbi's wife on her knees eating pork. An unnecessary addition to the film.However, it is of importance in terms of Woody's screen character. The rough edges, arrogance and pseudo-intellectualism of his mid-seventies work onwards has yet to emerge, and here we still have Woody very much as he was in Casino Royale - ie., a bit of a nerd and on the losing end of life. Amazing to think that in just two years time he was writing himself as a lothario who was exceptionally good in bed.In conclusion, then, a worthwhile view if you're a student of film or a fan of Woody's, but if you're watching this one for the comedy then it's purely hit-and-miss. "},{"Title":"Everything you wanted to know, indeed.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex' is a landmark, and of course a great exercise in comedy. Dividing the movie in 7 different segments (with some not including himself in the leading role) was the best Woody Allen could do, and this movie works better than his previous attempt (Bananas) and his posterior `Sleeper'.In a way, it's less ambitious and targets all audiences. All short films are hilarious, in a crescent order. My favorite is the last, which satirizes the humanly body functions during intercourse. A must see, for all generations of movie likers. Rate 5/5  "},{"Title":"Uneven but sometimes brilliant series of sketches about sex.","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While all the early Woody Allen films are funny and worthwhile, this is probably the most uneven to my taste.Allen took the famous, serious non-fiction book about sex, and turned it into a series of short comedy pieces. A couple segments are pure genius (inside the male body during sex, Gene Wilder falling in love with a sheep), a couple are pretty good (Woody as a medieval court jester trying to have an affair with the queen, who is locked into a chastity belt, a mad scientist creates a giant milk squirting breast that goes on a rampage) and a few are real duds. Also, of all the Allen films, this might have the worst DVD print/transfer quality. It's bizarre and disturbing is that a lot of Allen's brilliant early work seems to be going out of print. Hopefully this is just a temporary state of affairs, and better re-releases are ahead. But if you're a fan you might want to grab copies of this, Bananas, Sleeper, Take the Money and Run, etc now, while you can. "},{"Title":"Silly Allen is good Allen","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Everything You Always To Know About Sex' is probably the last time Woody Allen really fooled about and made an ass of himself with minimal artistic pretenses, and given the mediocre quality of recent disposable duds like 'Melinda & Melinda' and 'Anything Else', it's quite refreshing. True, this 1972 collection of extremely lewd skits isn't quite as impressive and thought-provoking as some of Allen's best works, like 'Annie Hall', 'Manhattan' or for that matter even the follow-up 'Sleeper'; yet there's an energy to 'Everything You Always Wanted To Know' that Allen has not shown for at least a decade, and in that light it's still entirely classic.If anything, the film is closest in its spirit to early Allen films like 'Bananas' and 'Sleeper', but it actually feels more like a British comedy, and is clearly influenced by shows like 'Monty Python's Flying Circus' and 'The Benny Hill Show', in it's chaotic and rude humor. Still, Allen's mark is all over the skits, even when he isn't in them. One of the best of the bunch, in fact, is the skit titled 'What Is Sodomy', which stars Gene Wilder. Influences of both Monty Python and Mel Brooks can be felt in it, but it's entirely Allen; and still, it's Wilder that makes it perfect. Even more Pythonish is the fabricated game-show 'What's Your Perversion'.The best and most memorable is the last skit, entitled 'What Happens During Ejaculation', in which Allen does a wonderful portrayal of a sperm, and we catch a glimpse of the action in the control room of a man's body during sexual intercourse. The skit is brilliantly satirical and ranks with Allen's best moments, nearly overshadowing the rest of the film. Still, it's not without it's unforgettable moments; other than Wilder, also worthy of special praise is John Carradine who is wonderful as the ultimate parody of a mad scientist, and let's not forget Woody Allen as a fool in the Middle Ages misquoting Hamlet and getting his hand stuck up the Queen's chastity belt, and his wonderful performance as an Italian Casanova.So no, it's not quite one of Allen's best films, but it's close. The humor is dirty, yes, but not childish; Allen's intelligence is there, but it's much lighter than 'Annie Hall' or other classics, and like a Monty Python or a Mel Brooks it bears multiple viewings. A movie that's funny as hell, essential for Allen fans, and recommended for all. "},{"Title":"A Woody Allen Must See","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a wildly hilarious comedy about sex and nothing less.  One of the very under rated skits is Gene Wilder's love affair with a lamb.  Of course, the one that can't be missed is the all famous medievil one with the fool.  It has some very low points, (let's face it, the giant tit was awful), but overall a ten!  Most people think that this movie appeals to guys, but I'm a girl and this is one of my favourite of Woody's films.  If you're anxious about talking about sex, or highly religious perhaps this movie will not strike your fancy. However, if you like romance stories, alot of shagging from different points of the world, and above all, Woody himself then this is your movie! ****/**** "}{"Title":"An uneven film that hits more than it misses","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most of Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex But Were Afraid to Ask works very well and most of it is hilarious. It's not a visually sumptuous film, but it is still assuredly made especially Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm? with visuals reminiscent of Michelangelo Antonioni and it's very inventive in the What Happens During Ejaculation? The music is slinky and nostalgic, and the dialogue has Woody Allen's writing style all over it, the Do Aphrodisiacs Work?, Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate? and What Happens During Ejaculation? being the most quotable segments. It's all strongly directed by Allen that is in keep with the very silly and sometimes rude feel without losing control of it, and the performances are fine with Allen giving the most memorable performance, Tony Randall does great playing it straight, Lynn Redgrave allures and gives the dialogue a Shakespearean quality and John Carradine is just delicious. As said, most of the segments work apart from two, Are Transvestites Homosexuals? is completely unmemorable dialogue and gags-wise and the ending may leave a bad taste in the mouth and What Are Sex Perverts? has a clever idea that completely runs out of steam quickly and is very tasteless. Do Aphrodisiacs Work? is too long, drags a bit and a touch forced at times but is very quotable, Allen is endearing even with his character's intentionally awful jokes and Lynn Redgrave is great. Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate? is conceptually outrageous (and understandably will be too much for some), does start off a tad slow and the giant boob looks poor, but again once the boob has a mind of its own and goes on the loose it is outrageously funny and you cannot go wrong with Carradine as a mad scientist. Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm? does fall apart a little at the end but is very neatly done with very funny dialogue, the part with the electric dildo is most inspired, and the Antonioni-like visuals and the Fellini-esque atmosphere makes it a likable segment overall. Allen and Louise Lasser work very well together as well. What Is Sodomy? is strange but is hilarious from the get go and has a terrific performance from Gene Wilder, one of his funniest performances. The sheep's adorable as well. The highlight segment is What Happens During Ejaculation?, it's the most quotable and most consistently funny of the seven and with its surreal quality is visually the most imaginative as well. In conclusion, uneven but of the seven segments only two are misses, the others are either ones with shortcomings but have enough to make them work or strong hits. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Woody both hits and misses here, but he saves the best for last","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex (But Were Afraid To Ask) (is this a long title for a movie or is this a long title for a movie?) is the most ambitious and expensive film that Woody Allen had made up to that point (1972) in his career. Here he gets his first (of many) casts filled with famous actors in big or small roles, there are special effects that hold up surprisingly well (especially in the laboratory sketch), and Allen experiments with all sorts of gimmicks from all-Italian dialogue in one episode to black and white photography and intentionally bad picture quality in another. However, Everything.... is also IMO the least successful of Woody's first films, at least in terms of laughs; it never comes close to matching Bananas. While there are some characteristically witty Woody lines here (like Before we know it, Renaissance will be here and we'll all be painting or Now we owe THEM a dinner!), there are also some crude and tasteless lines that crash spectacularly (I want to measure your respiration while they're gangbanging you), as well as idiotic pieces of comedy (pretty much the entire transvestite sketch) that are more at the level of Benny Hill than Woody Allen. Some of the sketches (including the notorious sheep one) are too one-joke even for their brief running times. However, the entire film is largely redeemed by the seventh and final episode, which takes us inside the brain - and body - of a man on a date; this sketch is so imaginative and daring that, once you've seen it, you'll never forget it; it ranks right up there with such classic bits of comedy as the cabin scene in A Night At The Opera. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Seven Hilarious Sketches","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After sufficient deliverance of merlot, I saw the movie I had not seen in a year. It is hilarious, however I had my least and most favorite stories. The Fool and The Queen as I call it, is still my favorite. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are characters I really care nothing about, although Woody's Movies mention them frequently. It is interesting to note here that unless you watch the movie credits of any Allen film it is almost impossible to disseminate the actual writers. The assemblage of short films is outrageous. Everyone has their favorite skits, and the the short film in this movies where Woody plays a Frenchman is contagiously hilarious. It looks like MGM spent a sizeable amount of money on the whole movie, but it was obviously worth it. The last two shorties are good examples, with the giant mammary glands run amuck. Then the machineries of joy in the very last story was an epicurean delight, but oh so much worth the financial debauchery invested in this classic humor overdose about the human sexual condition. She was worth all the trouble, I imagine. "},{"Title":"Allen at His Peak","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE PLOT This is a very loose adaptation by Woody Allen of the famous sex manual written by David Reuben, but given a comic spin like only Allen can do.THE POSITIVE This was made when Allen was at his absolute peak. Nearly everything is funny and original. Some of the jokes are outrageously over the edge even for today. Some of the highlights include Gene Wilder's incredibly long reaction shot after a Shepherd informs him that he has fallen in love with one of the sheep from his flock. Another highlight includes Allen trying to fight off a giant 'monster breast' by using a Crucifix and a giant bra. Cross dresser Lou Jacobi getting caught in a women's dress while visiting a friend's house is another classic as well as 'What's My Perversion' a very brilliant and inspired send up of 'What's My Line'. Of course the best may be, should I say, the climactic sequence involving the control room of the inside of a man's brain as he goes through ejaculation.THE NEGATIVE The second segment entitled 'Why some Women can't have orgasms' is a misfire. The joke of having Allen and Lasser talk in only Italian with no subtitles wears pretty thin pretty quickly. The only pluses from this segment involve seeing Allen in a pair of trendy glasses as well as watching an electric dildo catch on fire.THE LOWDOWN This may very well be Allen's best comedy. Just about everything works and it is all laugh out loud funny. Even the few things that don't are still creative enough to get kudos.THE RATING 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Allen when he was funny!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I sneaked into this R rated film when I was 13 thinking this film was something it was not. However I was rewarded with a truly funny film! At that time I got most of the jokes. In all that year I probably saw the film 10 times. We had a book of passes to the theater and were such fixtures we could get into any film, sans parent.I just watched it again on Encore. This was the first time I have seen it since I was 13 and I am amazed at how well the film still holds up. It was also amazing to see the amount of talent Allen had to work with in the film. Such as Burt Reynolds, John Carridadine, Gene Wilder, Tony Randall and the always great Louise Lasser. You can also see how some of the skits inspired Saturday Night Live which was to come years later.If you watch the film, and you should, you will be amazed at the look of the film. It looks as thought it was made much later than 72 but I guess Allen was ahead of his time. It may also amaze some people that Allen was actually funny at one time. With this film coming at the time of Bananas and Sleeper one could not ask for a better time for Allen to make this film. It also makes you think about Allen and his foster step daughter in the context of this film. Do yourself a favor and rent Bananas, Sleeper and this film. Catch Woody when he was funny. His one liners in this film are worth the rental price alone. "},{"Title":"Tasteless but funny","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The title comes from a silly sex book that came out in the early 1970s and was a big hit. Read today the book is hilariously naive and full of misinformation. Anyway, Woody Allen took some chapters from the book and came up with seven skits. The quality ranges from horrible to hilarious.In the first Allen plays a court jester who uses an aphrodisiac to seduce a queen (Lynn Redgrave). Unfortunately she has a chastity belt on! Very funny and we else can you see Redgrave wearing a chastity belt? The second has Gene Wilder as a doctor falling in love with a sheep! Don't worry--it's not explicit. It's OK. The third is a funny parody of foreign films (complete with subtitles) where Allen has trouble getting his wife (Louise Lasser) to orgasm. Good idea but it has no ending. The fourth is easily the weakest--it has Lou Jacobi who loves to wear womens clothes. The fifth is a parody of the old TV game show What's My Line. It's shot in b&w and is called What's My Perversion. It has a very young Regis Philbin in the cast! The sixth has John Carradine as a mad scientist (what else?) who accidentally invents a giant breast that roams the countryside drowning people with milk! The last is the best--it shows what happens in a man's body during sex. It has Tony Randall and Burt Reynolds in the mind and Allen playing a nervous sperm!Tasteless to be sure but even the bad skits have some great lines. The content isn't THAT bad--except for the breast there is no nudity but there is a lot of frank sexual talk. If you can deal with sex and laugh at it you might like this movie. Otherwise stay away. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"When it works it works fantastically, and only a few times isn't too funny","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex is a success for Woody Allen if only for him being able to go through a whole host of satirizing that is always, if not hilarious, cleverly crafted and impeccably cast. Certain scenes I would mark as some of the funniest I've still ever seen from Woody Allen. But like a Monty Python sketch movie ala the Meaning of Life, you may or may not get all of the scenes consistently on edge and classic. But in terms of experimenting with form, it is one of the very best that Woody has come up with, at a time when he was making his early, funny movies.The highlights for me include the climactic (err, maybe pun intended) end sequence showing the inner workings (with Tony Randall and Burt Reynolds present in the control room) of intercourse; the faux game show involving sexual questions (and yes, that is Regis Philbin) with a truly belly-laugh of a finale involving a Jewish mother; best is the Gene Wilder sheep scene, which was my favorite when I first saw the film as a kid. Interestingly enough, even when there are segments that aren't as funny as the others (the sci-fi spoof with the giant boob, or the opening segment sent in medieval times), it does become a little more humorous in future viewings. One that really did become funnier seen in my older years is the foreign film spoof where Italian mixes with god knows what, almost dead-on spoof wise.Is the film on the brilliance level of Manhattan or Deconstructing Harry? Maybe in spots, but on a very different level. I could almost see myself recommending the film to those who are new to the Allen filmography. It's unpretentious, and very keen on the subject matter at the peak of the sexual revolution, something that might've inspired the ZAZ team for their Kentucky Fried Movie. Or, at the least, have wondered what it's like when Wilder puts S&M garb on a sheep, it's worth a viewing (some of his dialog with the sheep is a killer every single time I see it). Cute opening titles, by the way. "},{"Title":"If Alfred Kinsey had lived longer...","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How much do you know about intercourse? Well, Woody Allen's wacky masterpiece Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex * But Were Afraid to Ask tells all. Whether it's the nerdy court jester (Allen) who wants to do it with the queen, Dr. Doug Ross (Gene Wilder) having an affair with a sheep, the most unusual game show, a man's experiences in transvestitism, the attack of the giant breast, or the epic tale of an ejaculation, the whole movie is a laugh riot. As you might imagine, there are some great lines, particularly in the medieval sequence.One thing that I've always wondered about is what in Woody Allen's life prompted to make so many movies like this. Granted, he grew up during the sexually repressed '50s, so when sex became an acceptable topic in movies, he was ready to show it. But still, how does he come up with these sorts of things? Oh well. The point is that this is one hilarious movie. "},{"Title":"One of Allen's most hilarious films","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The multiple skits which make up this film vary in their level of humor and cleverness; however, almost all of them are at least very funny, and some are downright hilarious.  While this may not be Allen's most philosophical or deep comedy, it certainly qualifies as, at least, a near-classic. "},{"Title":"Young, anarchic Allen","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS ALL AROUND ITAllen's a comic genius. That said from a man who has read at least seven times each one of his short stories books. And his early movies (specially Bananas), featuring the same nonsense and anarchic sense of humor, are also a great watch when you feel like laughing out loud. Of course the late Allen films, his consolidation as a filmmaker, are the also very funny but on a more mature level Annie Hall, Manhattan, Crimes and misdemeanors and Hanna and her sisters.Being a whole fan, then, both of the early and the mature Woody Allen, I find this picture good but not top quality. A very funny title scene with the music of Let's misbehave, by Cole Porter, followed by sketches that have their ups and downs. The Middle Age sketch, for example, is quite boring and predictable, with little great lines. Then comes the sheep sketch, great fun but way overlong. The one with Allen as an italian (reminiscent of Antonioni's style) is eccentric and great. Then comes the one with the man who dresses as a woman, hmm not so good. The one with the giant breast has hilarious moments and features a great parody of many movies. The top quality one with the TV show and the rabbi and, finally, the human body one, a classic. Well, at least he's jewish, says sperm-Allen before coming out of the testicles.Watch this only if you've already enjoyed other pictures by Allen, specially the absolutely wonderful Annie Hall. And PLEASE read the tales- you don't know what fun you're missing.SAY NO MORE "}{"Title":"This film made me love Woody Allen (his films perv!)","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very hilarious film. It's one of the funniest I've seen of Woody Allen films. I recommend this film to everyone. It's well worth it. "},{"Title":"Great early Woody Allen work.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is made into a number of segments that have a common theme but with different characters. All of the segments in this film are funny but some are unbelievably great especially the last one about how ejaculation works. There is also a crazy scientist whose laboratory explodes and a gigantic bosom escapes and starts to attack and kill people. The first segment have some great lines. The Gene Wilder segment is also funny. All in all, this is one film that I enjoyed watching. "},{"Title":"Or Every Screwed Up thing you never knew about Sex.","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What I remember most about this movie is that the whole family watched it and laughed their brains out.  Oh come on now, you know that can't happen, but why not have a killer boob running the country or men fighting over sheep.  Or what about that woman who can only be satisfied in strange places.  If you have ever read the book, you know there is no correlation to this movie.  Wonderful comedy that oozes the stupid stuff that makes old Woody Allen movies so hilarious.  And then of course there is Tony Randall and the whole brain scene.  So is there anything to that remark about girls from New York?  Oh well, I'll have to add this movie to my collection so that I can chuckle every time I think of a killer boob.   "},{"Title":"Allen's real breakthrough","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, it's quite interesting to watch this classic. The title of the film itself really catchy. Every segments of the film is different, although it's related on sex issue. It's like been done by several directors. Here in Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching Orgasm? segment you can see Allen doing homage to Antonioni and Fellini. The scene of giant boob in Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research Accurate? is so wacky. The only Allen's movie that depicting clearly and hugely female breast and it's tits. Fall in love with a sheep? That's lunatic! You can see it on What is Sodomy? segment. The 'What Happens During Ejaculation?' segment is the finest and the climax. It tells that even a single sperm have consciousness to afraid being ejaculated. Although the story is not from Allen, it's Allen's movie with his wildest imagination.It's his real breakthrough. "},{"Title":"Some inspired moments","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I quite enjoyed the format of this, and Allen managed to make short self-contained stories that fit nicely with a theme and each other. Some of the shorts were better than others, but none of them stuck out as very much better (or worse) than the rest. The highlights were certain inspired moments, that I am sure was the ideas that the whole shorts were built around. In one of the shorts, Allen plays a sperm cell, and the pick of song they sing before they're off was brilliant.But it wasn't all good. I feel that shorts like these are more skits than anything else, and the premises for skits were all good and memorable - but most of them were a bit too long to keep the steam going. The one with the goat was fun, but at one point you know pretty much know where it is going. The one about transsexuals felt like an episode of Curb your enthusiasm, but without a particularly satisfying pay off (though the discussion in the end at least provided some more substance to it).Perhaps it is due to this movie being over forty years old? That nowadays we want everything to go faster, so this feels dragged out? Either way, it was not a big problem, and this is still a solid (and strange) movie that's worth checking out. "},{"Title":"An extremely funny anthology film","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Inspired by the bestselling 1969 sex manual of the same name by Dr. David Reuben, this is an extremely funny anthology film. Generally speaking, the film is very well written by Woody Allen and there are many wonderful lines. Some of the segments work and some don't but that's the nature of the beast, really. His direction is likewise very good, particularly given that he experimented with numerous different styles. The film begins as it tends to go on with the Cole Porter classic Let's Misbehave playing over footage of a field full of rabbits.Do Aphrodisiacs Work? - This is a very effective parody of British costume dramas in which Allen plays the Fool who uses a love potion procured from the court's sorcerer to make the Queen fall in love with him. However, he runs afoul of her chastity belt. Allen himself is very good in this segment but Lynn Redgrave steals the show in a rare comic turn as the Queen, who is at first repulsed by the Fool but becomes rather taken with him as the potion works its magic on her. There is a very funny sequence in which the two hear the King - played in a suitably blustery fashion by Anthony Quayle, one of the last actors that I expected to see in an Allen film - approaching while the Fool's hand remains stuck in the chastity belt. The King is not best pleased when he eventually finds the Fool in his bedchambers.What is Sodomy? - A bad idea, amongst other things. This is my favourite of the seven segments, though only because it is incredibly funny before anyone asks. It tells the story of a doctor named Doug Ross - no, not the one from E.R. - who engages in what Clerks II would later describe as inter-species erotica with a sheep named Daisy. At first, he is appalled and disgusted by Stavros Milos' claims to have fallen in love with the ewe in question but he is smitten with Daisy as soon as he lays eyes on her. This marks the beginning of an unconventional romance between man and sheep, during which time Dr. Ross treats his barnyard conquest to grass in fancy hotels. The reason that it works as well as it does is because Gene Wilder plays it completely straight and treats the scenes with Daisy as if he were romancing a woman. The scene in which he compliments Daisy on her performance as they lie in bed together is as hilarious as it is disturbing.Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm? - This is a spoof of Italian films of the era and, as such, is performed entirely in Italian. Fabrizio is depressed when he discovers that his new bride Gina, played by Allen's ex-wife Louise Lasser, seemingly cannot reach orgasm in spite of his best efforts and tries several solutions, all to no avail. It turns out that she can only have an orgasm in public and they waste no time in putting that to the test repeatedly and with gusto. This is a funny concept but, unfortunately, the execution seldom lives up to that promise. However, I did love the fact that Allen cast himself as Fabirizio as he is rather far from the Italian lover type.Are Transvestites Homosexuals? - This is certainly the slightest segment and my least favourite. It involves a middle-aged man named Stan Musgrave who dresses in women's clothes when he and his wife are visiting their daughter's future in-laws, which leads him to become involved in would-be hilarious hijinks. A man wearing women's clothes is a comedy idea which long predates cinema but, like most things, it can still be extremely funny if the material is good enough. Unfortunately, that was not the case in this instance. What's My Perversion? - This is an absolutely hilarious parody of 1950s game shows such as What's My Line?. The sequence in which the panel tries to guess the sexual deviancy of a guest, which turns out to be exposing himself on the subway, is great but it reaches another level of hilarity when an elderly rabbi / bondage enthusiast named Chaim Baumel, played as a kindly old man by Sidney Lumet's father Baruch Lumet, is tied to a chair by Pamela Mason and spanked by a model pretending to be his governess while his wife sits at his feet and eats pork.Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate? - This segment features a researcher named Victor Shakapopoulis, played by Allen, and a journalist named Helen Lacey, played by Heather McRae, visiting the mad scientist Dr. Barnardo who is conducting a variety of unorthodox sexual experiments. Things eventually take a bizarre turn when a giant breast runs amok in the countryside, which was probably bound to happen. The perfectly cast John Carradine is a laugh riot as Dr. Barnardo, a brilliant spoof of the sort of scientist characters who populated the Universal Monsters films in which Carradine could often be seen.What Happens During Ejaculation? - In the final segment, we are treated to a demonstration of the amount of work that the little men who live inside a man's body put into making sure that he has a satisfactory sexual experience. Tony Randall plays the Operator who runs a tight ship in the brain which his team includes Oscar Beregi, Jr., Burt Reynolds and Stanley Adams. Allen plays a very nervous sperm who is afraid of what will happen to him when he is discharged and I don't mean from the army. Much like his next film Sleeper, this segment parodies sci-fi films of the era very successfully as well as the parachuting scenes featured in many a Second World War film.Overall, this is a great film that made me laugh for most of its running time. "},{"Title":"Woody's Wackiest Early Effort","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ADAPTATIONS OF ANY literary work is usually a complex transition from the print medium to that of the screen. By necessity, moving an established work from one medium to another will, by necessity, inevitably leave many details out. Even worse, rewriting for purpose of adaptation often leads to the horrors of R-E-V-I-S-I-O-N!! WITH THE COMING of this Woody Allen film, only the title remains. Topics that were subject of chapters of American Physician, Dr. David Reuben, were transformed into a series of episodic vignettes patterned on and titled by the particular chapter subject matter. This format's visual realization results in what could best be described as series of disparate comedy shorts that only are bound together by their subject matter (S-E-X!!) and the film's writer/director/performer, Woody Allen.BEING ONE OF Mr. Allen's true fans of his earlier work, we rank this very high on the list of his movies. It may have even come at the period of time when he was at his cinematic best. It was then that he gave us titles such as THDE SLEEPER, BSANANAS, TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN and LOVE AND DEATH. OUR FAVOURITE SEGMENTS are those which featured Gene Wilder, John Caradine and Woody (himself) as a para-trooping sperm cell. "},{"Title":"varying degrees of comedy","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is seven segments of weird stories about sex. They are basically extended skits and with varying degrees of success.1.Do Aphrodisiacs Work? Woody Allen is a court jester and Lynn Redgrave is the Queen with a chastity belt. I like this one for Woody and Lynn. They have some fun together.2.What Is Sodomy? Gene Wilder and a sheep is a one joke skit. It runs out of steam and don't go anywhere truly surprising.3.Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm? The Italian is funny for about 5 seconds. Then it becomes style over substance. Other than a malfunctioning dildo, I don't think any of it is particularly funny.4.Are Transvestites Homosexuals? Sam Musgrave (Lou Jacobi) is a middle-aged married man trying out women's clothes. It's dated and it's also missing Woody. I can only imagine Woody trying to hide his cross dressing.5.What Are Sex Perverts? It's a black and white parody of the TV game show What's My Line? It's a bit weird as if in a surreal alternate universe.6.Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate? Researcher Victor (Woody Allen) and reporter Helen Lacey (Heather MacRae) are going to Dr. Bernardo (John Carradine), a former colleague of Masters and Johnson. He's got an assistant named Igor. It's classic Woody dealing with a madman. Carradine is hilarious as a Frankenstein-like character.7.What Happens During Ejaculation? This takes a look at a man's body like a NASA operation with many characters controlling him. This is the best segment and has the iconic sperm-Woody. This is by far the funniest. Woody left the best for last. "},{"Title":"An uneven collection of sketches mixing superb comedy with a dated feel","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the late 1960s one Dr David Reuben released a book entitled EVERYTHING YOU WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX *BUT WERE AFRAID TO ASK. Woody Allen's 1972 movie adaptation uses the questions of Dr Reuben's question-and-answer format as the titles for 7 comedic sketches all on sexual themes. This was Allen's third conventional film, and his growing importance in Hollywood is evident from the film's all-star cast.The opening Do Aphrodisiacs Work?, set in medieval times, has Woody Allen as a court jester who seeks to seduce the queen. Most of the humour here consists of anachronism the jester's jokes are too bad for even a borscht belt comedian, and the dialogue consists of Elizabethian stylings mixed with sexual terminology and crude slang from the present.The following sketch, What is Sodomy?, is for many viewers the very best. A New York City general practitioner (Gene Wilder) is visited by an Armenian shepherd who begs the doctor to restore the magic to his relationship with a cherished sheep. What ensues, with the doctor descending ever deeper into madness, is made hilarious by Wilder's committed performance and the dialogue is immensely quotable. Another high point of the film is Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm?. Shot in black and white and with an Italian dialogue, the segment is Allen's homage to the cool ambiance of Antonioni and Fellini. Allen plays a suave, sunglasses-wearing film director who cannot manage to satisfy his wife, played by Louise Lasser, until they begin having risky sex in public places. The fun comes not only in the challenges the man must face in making his wife happy, but also in Allen's ridiculous accent while speaking Italian.In Are Transvestites Homosexuals?, Lou Jacobi plays a man who sneaks upstairs while at a dinner party in order to wear his hostess' clothes, and subsequently gets himself deeper and deeper in trouble. It's humorous enough, but one wonders if this segment were stronger when the film was first released. Judging from its high frequency in big Hollywood films of the 1960s and early 1970s, cross-dressing must have once been a much funnier concept in that era. The following What Are Sex Perverts? is a parody of the game show What's My Line? where a panel of minor celebrities try to guess the perversion of a contestant, who wins $5 for every wrong guess. This is quite funny, but far too brief, as the concept could have been stretched out a bit more.Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate? is a Frankenstein parody where Allen and Heather MacRae play recently acquainted sex researchers who meet a great sexologist (John Carradine), only to discover that he's a diabolical madman. The first half of this segment is pretty funny, as Allen and MacRae make their way through the doctor's castle of horrors. But the second half, when the pair seeks to defeat a giant breast ravaging the countryside, is some of the lamest humour I've seen in some time.The characters of the last segment, What Happens During Ejaculation?, are personifications of the organs as a man goes on a date with a woman. The brain is depicted as a NASA mission control, with Tony Randall and Burt Reynolds struggling to coordinate bodily functions. They call down to the stomach (men carting off a newly-arrived load of fettucini), and the genitals (blue-collar joes working an enormous pump), as well as other places. Much here will make you chuckle, such as the captured saboteur of the man's sexual ambitions, his conscience, depicted as a priest in a Roman collar, and Allen's performance as a sperm cell terrified of making the leap into the unknown. All in all, however, I find this quite dated as well.While my overall impressions is that EVERYTHING YOU WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX is quite dated, it's funny enough, and the portions with Allen as an Italian lover and Wilder as a befuddled doctor make it worth seeing at least once. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable Woody Allen sketch-based sex comedy","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex, But Were Afraid to Ask is a sketch-based sex comedy from Woody Allen's so-called 'funny period'. Unlike the films he would subsequently make, this one is an adaption of a book, a very loose adaption of the, then famous, sexual reference book of the same name. It's actually quite a good joke in itself; I mean who would ever think it obvious or logical to make a movie based around the content of a sex manual? It's divided into seven segments based around questions or erotic enquiries if you prefer. Perhaps unsurprisingly, some parts work better than others but like anthologies in general the lesser moments don't hang around long enough to cause a problem and a funny moment is never too far away. At this point in his career Allen was notable for mixing clever and stupid humour together. This film is certainly a showcase for this.Do Aphrodisiacs Work? &#x96; In this one, Allen plays a court jester in the middle ages. What makes it funny is that he plays this character as a medieval stand-up comedian and his utterly inappropriate New York accent simply adds another level of absurdity and humour. In it he tries to woo the Queen by use of a love potion and inadvertently gets caught in her chastity belt, which is armour plated.What is Sodomy? &#x96; This segment benefits from starring one of the all-time greatest comedy actors, Gene Wilder. It's a short story about a doctor who falls in love with a sheep. Bestiality has never been the most common topic of comedy but it's handled here in a very amusing manner.Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching Orgasm? &#x96; This one is a parody of Italian art movies, the likes of Federico Fellini and Michelangelo Antonioni were making throughout the 60's. It's about a playboy who discovers his frigid wife can only achieve orgasm in public places. While it's bizarre to see Allen deliver a performance in Italian and it is quite an accurate homage, it suffers in terms of content. I reckon Allen just wanted to pay tribute to those stylish Italian films he loved so much and wrote a rudimentary gag into proceedings. While not entirely successful, it's strange enough to ensure it's interesting.Are Transvestites Homosexuals? &#x96; This segment has a middle aged man inadvertently exposing his love of wearing women's clothing in a very public manner. This feels closest to a British sit-com and it goes for the approach of a farce. It's kind of negligible and only half thought out to be honest.What Are Sex Researchers Actually Accomplishing? &#x96; The most notable aspect of this episode is the veteran horror actor John Carradine playing a spoof of himself. In it he is a mad scientist who conducts insane and immoral experiments into human sexuality. Carradine gets to spout a lot of utterly incongruous sexually oriented lines of dialogue that are funny mainly because he is the one who is uttering them. He is very good in a rare comedy role. This sketch has the most atmosphere and is the most comically surreal or the film. And it basically boils down to Allen battling with a huge rampant tit.What Are Sexual Perversions? &#x96; This segment is based around a fictional TV game-show called 'What's My Perversion?' where a panel of celebrities are tasked with trying to guess the erotic secret of a guest. What makes it so funny is that it is played so deadpan and truly resembles an actual show. The humour is quite risqu here with the panellists asking the guest if he is (a) a rapist or (b) a child molester! The inappropriateness of this just makes it funnier still.What Happens During Ejaculation? - This final sketch takes places solely within the body of a man as he tries to seduce a woman. His various body parts are peopled by staff who work tirelessly to try and achieve sex. It's possibly most famous for featuring Allen as a nervous sperm, played like a parachutist about to be dropped into a war zone. This whole sketch is the most complete and perfectly successful of the entire movie. It pulls off the trick of being very clever and utterly absurd at the same time. It remains one of Allen's best executed ideas in his whole filmography.In summary, while this is uneven, it's mainly a lot of fun. It's bursting with ideas and showcases the early funny style of Allen very well. "}{"Title":"Allen's invitation to misbehave ... an offer one can't refuse ...","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1972, two of the most memorable best-sellers from 1969 were finally adapted into film and became instant classics, although one of them holds a 'slight' edge over the second in terms of cinematic recognition.I was talking of course of the soberly titled The Godfather from Mario Puzo's novel of the same name, and the overly explicit Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask). The title was so lengthy that I thought it worked quite well as a gag, until I realized it was the title of the original book, written by Dr. Reuben. Woody Allen didn't have to work hard to find a proper title, this one worked perfectly... now, to say that the film delivers its premise is a matter of opinion.It's also worth noticing that the film was released in 1972, a breakthrough year for movies rich on sexual content, whether intriguing, disturbing or hilarious. From the ill-fated Ned Beatty forced to 'squeal like a pig' in Deliverance to the infamous 'butter' scene between Marlon Brando and Maria Schneider in Last Tango in Paris, from the first animated pornographic movie Fritz the Cat to the no-less graphic milestone Deep Throat ... the three letters had been so involved in movie-making that we can talk of a before and after 1972.And since sex stopped to be a taboo in the middle of the New Hollywood wave, and people got accustomed to the sight of bodies voluptuously expressing their mutual love, what more efficient weapon than comedy to trivialize what was left from sex mysteries? And who was more gifted than Woody Allen to make a movie about sex and getting away with the most outrageous and irreverent aspects without even shocking our eyes or falling in a voyeuristic trap? Especially considering that if the educational value doesn't work, it's still a good way to spend 80 minutes laughing.I guess I minimize the pedagogical effort because the 'You' refers to a 1972 audience, and forty years before, it's a fair guess to assume that sex wasn't as abundantly exposed as today (one word Internet). The film seems almost innocent in its approach of sex as it features some cute-looking rabbits in the opening credits sequence. But when you watch a slut whipping a rabbi while his wife eats pork to fulfill one of his pervert fantasies, you know it's a Woody Allen film and the tone is less innocent than what it seems, 'rising above vulgarity' if I might use this quote from Mel Brooks.The movie is a kaleidoscopes of many issues involving sex aphrodisiacs, transvestites, frigidity, one hilarious spoof of What's my Line transformed into What's My Perversion, science, bestiality etc. and the film reaches its paroxysm of hilarity through the final segment a sexual act recounted from the perspective of a NASA mission where everything is operated from the brain, a la Fantastic Voyage with a nice teamwork between Tony Randall and Burt Reynolds, this is one of the highlights of Woody Allen's zany period and the sight of all the little sperms waiting like paratroopers for the orgasm and wondering what awaits him on the other side, makes me laugh just thinking about them.You got it; gags are the film's reason to be, while sex is only the set-up of Allen's sketches. One involves an unfunny court jester who, like Hamlet, (TB or not TB, that's the congestion) meets the ghost of his father and is ordered to bang the queen (Lynn Redgrave) he uses a magic love potion, but meets the chastity belt as an unfortunate obstacle. The following segment recounts the affair between Dr. Ross (Gene Wilder) and an adorable sheep named Daisy. There is no logic in Woody Allen's sketches, but the actors seem so involved in their role that it works. As crazy as it is, the film is one of Allen's most brilliantly cast.I won't enumerate every segment because one of the film's delights is to get from one to another with only sex as the common denominator. The last one was my favorite for its brilliant metaphorical depiction of erections, guilt, and emotional struggle before the act, but I also have a soft spot for John Carradine's role as the mad scientist and his crazy experimental situations. The 'tits' part includes a succession of hilarious lines; the correlation between excessive masturbation and going into politics made me burst into tears. The part is a great homage to 50's B-movies, with a giant tit as a blob-like monster, like a clever satire on the feminist revolution in march swallowing everyone attempting to block its path.The segments aren't equally hilarious, a nice parody of Italian movies lacked a punch-line, but this never hurts the film as the main purpose is to us about the taboo-ness of sex through laughs. Sex is such a serious thing one should make fun of it after all. I mentioned Mel Brooks earlier, I guess the film is to sex what Mel Brooks' The History of the World Part I is to history, but the Allen touch exists within the script, the zaniness and the little ounce of wisdom popping us between two outrageous lines. It's not the best of Woody Allen, but it's fantastically creative and entertaining and constitutes a summit of his crazy period, and I'm pretty sure the last segment carries half the film's classic status.Now, do I know better or not about sex? I don't think so ...but the film tackles some of its aspects with a mixture of derision, tenderness and wisdom that would have made me want to 'know' more, even what I knew. But I wondered how Woody Allen would have covered these subjects today ... but I guess we know so much anyway that sex lost this little touch of mystery that could make such creative gags work. Not that the film lost its relevance though. "},{"Title":"Is this what they call a cinematic orgasm?","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every Thing You Always &#x85; etc is a sort of anthology movie, composed of seven different fragments sharing one and the same general theme, in this case (semi-)embarrassing sexual inquiries. The funniest thing about reading user-comments on anthologies, even more so than with regular long-feature films, is the diversity in people's opinions. Even when people reward the film with the same overall rating out of ten, you still read stuff like segment #3 is inarguably the best part of the film in the one review and sketch number 7 towers head and shoulders in another. Fact simply remains that tastes may vary, but general consensus at least confirms that this early Woody Allen effort is a fantastically entertaining &#x96; albeit wildly uneven &#x96; comedy achievement, with an original basic concept, a truly imaginative structure and several downright hilarious and unforgettable sequences. Also, and this is speaking from a more cinematic point of view, this is a brilliant film because nearly every separate fragment successfully parodies other and entirely different genres of filmmaking, like B-horror movies, Shakespearian plays, Science Fiction and talkative European sleaze flicks. Personally, I'm not the biggest expert on Woody Allen movies and I have yet to see the vast majority of his repertoire. But I don't plan to do so, as I already know that his newer work doesn't interest me that much. His earliest work, on the contrary, I find perplexing and utmost versatile. The ideas behind movies like What's Up Tiger Lilly, Bananas and Sleeper are sheer genius. Every Thing You Always &#x85; etc is also like that. This movie is actually based on an existing educative book from a prominent doctor, but then made into a slapstick format, allegedly as some kind of revenge because this doctor used a Woody Allen joke during a lecture without mentioning the source. So the questions raised at the beginning of each segment are genuine, but the responses are obviously fictional and illustrated through the most incredibly grotesque situations and absurd characters. The query whether or not aphrodisiacs work, for example, is told through the tale of a clumsy castle jester who successfully seduces the queen with a love potion, but then literally bumps into her chastity belt. Or, in what is perhaps the most ingenious comical sketch ever scripted, we receive an answer to the question what happens during the ejaculation? through portraying the human brain as a NASA-like headquarters where engineers and switchboard operators instruct workmen to generate an erection and sperm cells to dive into the unknown. Call me biased, but inventing situations and one-liners like these requires absolutely brilliance and extremely talented writing skills. The younger Woody Allen had it. My own personal favorite episodes (since I don't feel entitled to label them as best) include the aforementioned What happens during the ejaculation? and also What are sex perverts? The latter is presented in the shape of a prototypic 1950's TV-show, complete with black and white photography, inferior picture quality and truly doesn't avoid any taboos. And since I'm primarily a fan of old horror and cult movies, I also worshiped the episode Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate? in a mad scientist &#x96; played by John Carradine &#x96; accidentally unleashes a gigantic and monstrous female breast upon a rural community. Honesty obliges me to state that sadly not all segments are equally terrific. The story with Gene Wilder, as a doctor falling in love with an Armenian sheep, is definitely courageous, but also quite tedious and not that laugh-out-loud funny. The Fellini parody is also interesting, but outstays its welcome as well. Woody Allen himself stars in four out of seven episodes (most notably as the petrified sperm) and he could also count on a strong supportive cast, including Lou Jacobi, Burt Reynolds and Lynn Redgrave. The film is an absolute must in case you seek out all legendary comedy classics. "},{"Title":"Let's misbehave!","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wonder what Woody Allen thinks of this movie now. I cannot believe he is proud of it, seeing how his later films were the antithesis of his earlier work. 'Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex * But Were Afraid To Ask' started out as a serious book by Dr.David Reuben, which became a runaway bestseller at the start of the '70's. Woody acquired the film rights, but decided to make it into a bad taste comedy. It takes the form of seven sketches, each named after a chapter in the book, including 'Do Aphrodisiacs Work?', 'What Is Sodomy?', 'Are Transvestites Homosexual?', 'What Happens During Ejaculation?' and so on. Woody appears in several; in the first, he is a medieval Jester who has the hots for 'The Queen' ( the late Lynn Redgrave ) and so slips her a potion designed to make her horny. Then we see him as an Italian man whose wife 'Gina' ( Louise Lasser ) cannot orgasm unless they are making love in a public place. He then resurfaces as 'Victor Shakapopolis' - the character he played in 1965's 'What's New Pussycat' - who encounters a mad scientist ( John Carradine ) conducting bizarre sexual experiments such as taking the brain of a lesbian and putting it in the body of a mail-man. Finally, in the most bizarre sequence, set inside a man's body, Woody plays a sperm! The sensitive, thoughtful comedy of 'Annie Hall' and 'Manhattan' is nowhere to be seen, instead the tone is one of smutty snickering throughout. Woody is like an eight year old school boy fascinated by sex who cannot wait to grow up and do it. At times, the film feels more like Monty Python. This is no more evident than in the scene where Woody is chased across open countryside by a gigantic female breast which spews jets of milk! Some interesting guest stars include Gene Wilder as a doctor infatuated by a sheep, Tony Randall and Burt Reynolds ( of all people ) as the operators of a man's brain, Lou Jacobi as a middle-aged Jewish man who loves dressing up in his wife's clothes, and the cast of 'What's My Line?' in a clever spoof called 'What's My Perversion?'. The role of the 'girl' in the final scene was played by Erin Fleming, Groucho Marx's girlfriend ( even though he was in his eighties at the time! ).Not an Allen classic, but worth seeing. Like his earlier movies, the humour is hit and miss, but the on-target gags are well worth waiting for. My favourite has to be 'Dr.Bernardo' ( John Carradine ) declaring he has finally established a link between excessive masturbation and going into politics! "},{"Title":"Woody Allen goes educational","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not really.Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (But Were Afraid to Ask) from 1972 isn't exactly an educational film about sex.No, it shows seven zany stories about sex and matters related to that.The first sequence, where Woody the court jester wants to make love to the queen, is funny.In the second, another funny one we see a doctor, played by the hilarious Gene Wilder, falling in love with a sheep.A sexual relationship between a man and a sheep is a taboo that Woody Allen wasn't afraid to use in this movie.Also, seeing Lou Jacobi in drag is, not really a taboo but funny all the same.What's My Perversion, hosted by Jack Barry with panelists such as Regis Philbin, could find a wide audience today.Let's mention a few other actors I haven't mentioned in this review.There's John Carradine playing Dr. Bernardo (in the one with the giant tit).Louise Lasser is Gina, who can reach orgasm only in public places.Anthony Quayle is The King while Lynn Redgrave plays The Queen.Tony Randall and Burt Reynolds are The Operator and Switchboard inside a man's brain.Sidney Lumet's father, Baruch Lumet, plays Rabbi Baumel with a perversion.The movie starts and ends with Cole Porter's Let's Misbehave.The movie is based on Dr. David Reuben's book of the same name (1969), that I have been afraid to read.This movie is often hilarious, sometimes mildly amusing, but nevertheless classic Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"Sex is fun, according to Woody","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dr. David Reuben wrote a book, a manual if you want, that served as a guide for sexual behavior, something that, at the time, was a sensation in America. Published in 1969, the book had quite an impact for the frankness expressed in it. Woody Allen, whose career as a director had started to good notices, seemed to be the right person to bring this guide to the screen as a satire.The film is divided in seven sections. Some are better than others, but watching it again, after having seen it years ago, brought some laughter. Actually the DVD copy we watched had a faded look, but the viewer can still find pleasure out of watching the film. It is from another period of the director's life, when all he appeared to want was to give his audience a fun time at the movies.The first chapter Do Aphrodisiacs Work? brings the action to the England of Henry VIII era in which the Jester tries to give the Queen a love potion that turns out to work, although he was going to be surprised when he found the lady in question was well protected against intrusions.The best segment is titled What is Sodomy in which a Doctor Ross, a physician, is visited by a man, a shepherd by profession with a strange dilemma he is in love with one of his sheep. To illustrate his point, he introduces the animal to Dr. Ross, who is quite taken aback with the situation being presented, only to fall under the spell of the sheep, himself.The last vignette, Mission Control is one of the funniest sequences in the movie. It involves a couple that are in the throes of love making and behind of the simple act, we are taken to a sort of station where preparations are being made for the consequences of what will ensue. Who can ever forget Mr. Allen as a sperm?Mr. Allen gathered quite a lot of talent to enact this hilarious take on sex. Aside for participating as an actor, Mr. Allen directed with the style that is never offensive, even though some of the material is not exactly for children. There are amazing performances by Mr. Allen, Gene Wilder, Lynn Redgrave, Tony Randall, Louise Lasser, Burt Reynolds, Lou Jacobi, and the rest of the great cast. "},{"Title":"Answers some questions ewe may not have even asked.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Taking some chapter headings from the book by David Reubens, this is a lighthearted and often hilarious look at some aspects of the world's favourite hobby. Once again, Woody Allen directs, writes and stars (though not in every section).Not for the easily offended, this may seem tame by modern standards but it's still quite enjoyably racy adult comedy. We get such varied sketches (and they ARE sketches in feel and structure, for my money) as a court jester trying to seduce a queen and being hampered by a chastity belt, a doctor (Gene Wilder, in top form) falling for a sheep, an amorous Italian couple who find that the woman can only be sexually satisfied . . . in certain conditions, a middle-aged transvestite taking quite a risk, a panel show asking the panel to guess someone's perversion, a hilarious mad scientist skit (featuring the great John Carradine) and the workings of a sexual encounter from inside the body.Where else could you see a man being chased by a 40000X lone breast? Where else would you laugh at Gene Wilder's growing affection for lambswool sweaters? Indeed, what other movie features a rabbi being lightly flogged and scolded while his wife sits by his feet and eats pork? It's a movie full of unique, bizarre moments but it's also full of some more great zingers in the script department too.Some people complain that the movie is inconsistent and too patchy. On the contrary, I personally find it consistently hilarious (even the untranslated Italian sketch is great to view as a homage to that style of film-making) and think it deserves to be rated as highly as Allen's other comedies from this era. And hey, it has Burt Reynolds in there for no real reason . . . . . . but you get to smile and think ha, there's Burt Reynolds.See this if you like Sleeper, Bananas, Take The Money And Run. "},{"Title":"Diverting Woody Allen Comedy","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gee, what a cast Woody Allen was (and still is) able to muster for his movies, even though none of them is paid blockbuster wages since Allen's movies tend to draw in a selective audience. None of his productions have performed like The Sound of Music. Here we have too many recognizable faces to mention, but Burt Reynolds, Tony Randall, Lou Jacobi, and Gene Wilder were at the zeniths of their careers in the early 70s.It's an episodic movie, and each episode has its own title and is independent of the others. There are seven segments all together and their titles are as silly as the title of the book they were drawn from, David Reubin's Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex * But Were Afraid to Ask. The best-selling book was a kind of Sex For Dummies and the movie dispenses with its contents entirely. Instead we get fantastic stories of Medieval Fools and giant mammae. Some of the episodes are parodies of established genres -- the horror film, the Italian sex comedy -- and one is a parody of television quiz shows.How funny is it? There is more within-episode humor than between-episode humor. That is, some parts of each skit are more amusing than other parts, but the total number of laughs is about the same for each skit.Some of the laughs don't require much of the viewer except a firm sense of the absurd. Transvestitism has Lou Jacobi trying on the dress of a woman at whose house he is a dinner guest, while Jacobi's wife and the hostess' family sit in the living room below, wondering what's taking him so long to go to the bathroom. He winds up crawling out the window and dropping to the sidewalk where his purse is stolen, passers-by stop to commiserate, and the police arrive and demand to know what happened. It's funny as hell to see a fat, bald, mustachioed guy like Jacobi prancing around in ladies' gear but it isn't challenging.Other gags, mostly buried in the dialog, demand a little more attention. In the Medieval sketch, Allen manages to introduce a parody (within a parody) of Hamlet's encounter with the ghost on the tower. Then, without any tidy explanation, he gets into Hamlet's soliloquy TB or not TB. That is the congestion. Consumption be done about it? Of cough, of cough. And later We'd better hurry up. Before you know it, the Renaissance will be here and everybody will be painting. If you don't find that worth a smile, you may be in the wrong ball park.I usually find the Giant Tit sketch more outrageous than the others. John Carradine is the mad scientist who is conducting experiments on subjects like, oh, premature ejaculation in the hippopotamus, and transferring the brain of a lesbian into the skull of a man who works for the telephone company, and who is inventing a forty-foot diaphragm, Population control for an entire country -- all at once! Carradine has a hunch-backed assistant named Igor who hobbles around and mumbles like Quasimodo. I gave him a four-hour orgasm, Carradine explains. Oh, he had fun -- but he turned out like this. The giant breast is the size of a zeppelin and is mobile, traveling around the countryside killing people by squirting them with Half and Half. It's finally captured when Allen lures it into a giant brassiere.I suspect Allen was taking advantage here -- more than he had before or since -- of the newly relaxed regulations regarding the depiction and discussion of sex and violence on the screen. It seems a little raunchy today. But it's good natured and should leave you in a better mood than you were in before you saw it. "},{"Title":"An Educational Documentary For Children And The Elderly","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of Allen's best in my opinion, not all laugh out loud funny, but all smirk enducingly absurd, Burt Reynolds on the inside of the body during sex is my personal favorite. There's also a fifty foot breast, and a Rabbi indulging his fetish of watching his wife eat non-kosher food, and parodies of Italian films, American sc-fi, and games which are pretty spot on.The only slight mis-step in the film or at least something I've always wondered about the What Is Sodomy? section? Because in this film Sodomy is synonymous with Beastiality and either Allen is telling some kind of joke about how people know nothing about sodomy and incorrectly identify it, or somebody needs to buy him an anatomy book...actually the scene in question with Gene Wilder (that's Willy Wonka to most) and the sheep he's come to love is priceless. One of Allens best comedies, a minor classic. "},{"Title":"Visual gag in Gene Wilder segment","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I especially like the gag at the end of the segment with Gene Wilder, the doctor who has an affair with a sheep. He's shown on skid row, drinking Woolite from a brown paper bag.Also Carradine's mad scientist who brags that he was the first to discover the correlation between masturbation and political careers (how true)!And Woody as a court jester-as-stand-up-comic It's great to be back here at the Palace.Not one of Allen's best, but it has its worthwhile moments once you get past the concept. "},{"Title":"Before you know it, the Renaissance will be here and we'll all be painting.","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Following the commercial success of Dr. David Reuben's 1969 non-fiction sex manual, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask), actor Elliott Gould and producer Jack Brodsky were quick to purchase the film adaptation rights. They didn't know what to do with it. After the options were re-sold to United Artists, a young Woody Allen &#150; fresh from the moderate successes of 'Take the Money and Run (1969)' and 'Bananas (1971)' &#150; raised his hand to film a seemingly-unfilmable work of non-fiction literature. Borrowing chapter headings from the book, Allen wrote seven brief vignettes, each dealing with prominent sexual questions using exceedingly absurd scenarios. The format of the film is most closely compared to the Monty Python film, 'The Meaning of Life (1983)' and, as was the case there, the different segments achieve varying degrees of comedic success. The director himself appears in four of the stories, allowing him to further develop the famous neurotic, ashamedly-Jewish persona that would bring him such success in later years.It goes without saying that, had a respected name like Woody Allen not been attached to the project, I would never have bothered watching 'Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex&#133; (1972).' Comedies concerning such a topic often have a tendency to be vulgar and disgusting, and, though it has its occasional moments, Allen's film generally exhibits a respectability that tastefully explores material that would ordinarily be deemed distasteful. Take, for example, the peculiarity of Gene Wilder's segment, where the hilarious comedy actor portrays a doctor who inexplicably falls in love with a sheep. In any other hands, I have no doubt that this scenario would have been almost cringe-worthy, but Allen delicately treads the line of cinematic decency, and what results is a comic farce that is genuinely more entertaining than it sounds and I imagine that the Allen must have searched extensively for the most adorably-feminine sheep that he could find.Another interesting vignette is a surprisingly mature tribute to Italian cinema, particularly the works of Fellini and Antonioni, as Allen portrays the husband of a woman (Louise Lasser) who can only perform sexually when doing it in a public place. The film's most brilliant segment comes at the very end, as the viewer is offered an inside view of the workings of the body in the lead-up towards a sexual climax. As a man works towards scoring with his dinner date, the organs of his body are buzzing with activity inside his brain, a NASA-like control room (featuring Tony Randall and Burt Reynolds) frantically attempts to prepare the other required body parts; the soldier-like sperm (one apprehensive individual portrayed by Allen) prepare to be dispatched paratrooper-style into the female body, though Allen's sperm fears that he'll end up somewhere unexpected. "}{"Title":"It'll show those fools who called me mad!","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though it is all about sex, Woody Allen's EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX* (BUT WERE AFRAID TO ASK) is really all about movies. Taking Dr. David Reuben's book, a pop culture phenomenon of the late 1960s, Woody uses it only as a starting point for indulging in his second greatest passion, film-making. Indeed, he tosses aside most of Reuben's self-help, non-fiction sex manual and only quotes chapter titles as inspiration for his various vignettes, each designed to parody some aspect of our pop media. What the book and the movie do have in common however is that they are products of their time (post-sexual revolution, pre-politically correctness) and as such their outlook on their common topic is a bit dated.SEX, the movie, is best thought of as being seven individual short films; a few that are hilarious or at least clever, and a couple that just fall flat. The ones that stray most from the movies as their source come off worse. For instance, Are Transvestites Homosexuals? is second rate sitcom Middle-aged man is caught trying on dresses while visiting his daughter's new in-laws. It is a one-gag skit, though burly Lou Jacobi makes the most of the material as the giddy crossdressing poppa. Meanwhile, What Are Sex Perverts? begins with a clever concept, but is defeated by its own awkward attempts to be outrageous. Staged as a 1950's TV game show -- grainy, black-and-white images and all -- What's My Perversion? looks authentic, but tries to trivialize sexual deviancy for dubious comic effect. Scattered throughout Woody's filmography are tossed-off asides trying to find snickers in wisecracks about rape or child molestation or incest and other sundry unfunny sexual tragedies, and invariably such unnecessary pseudo-ad libs land with a resounding thud. What's My Perversion? is made up mostly of such discomforting quips and builds to a joke about a rabbi getting off by watching his wife eat pork. I think Woody is the only person who ever finds such cheap jabs at rabbis even remotely funny.Fortunately, the rest of he skits come off much, much better. The vignette Do Aphrodisiacs Work? makes fun of Shakesperean dramas and other similar costume epics; while simultaneously paying homage to one of Woody's screen idols, Bob Hope. Like Hope, Woody contributes wisecracking anachronistic one-liners as a lustful Court Jester with the hots for his Queen. The bit isn't well written with Woody relying far too heavily on intentionally awful puns, but playing Allen's low camp humor about chastity belts off the high-toned pomposity of Elizabethan drama somehow makes it work decently.The two best vignettes also work well because Woody plays them close to the style of their inspirations. Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research Accurate? mimics cheesy, grade-D, drive-in horror movies of the sixties with mad scientist John Carridine hamming it up gleefully in a calculated self-parody. The absurd premise involving a giant mutant female breast terrorizing the countryside (The cream slowed him up and the milk killed him!) builds to the most awesomely silly climax in any Woody Allen movie. The segment is topped however by What Happens During Ejaculation? which takes the phrase mechanical sex to its most logical extreme. The segment mimics the Kubrickian coldness of contemporary sci-fi, portraying the male human body as a giant, and not-particularly-coordinated, space station on a carnal mission to boldly go where other men have apparently come and gone before. With Woody taking a small role (literally) as an anxious sperm awaiting for his first and only mission, the segment is silly, yet true enough to almost be worthy of inclusion in a basic biology class.Yet, from a somewhat a different perspective the remaining episodes might be the most intriguing. They are What is Sodomy? and Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching Orgasm?; the former being about a doctor (Gene Wilder) who has an affair with a sheep and the latter about a woman (Louise Lasser) who is aroused by sex in public places. Both are amusing in their own right, but the added consideration is that Woody uses them to parody the types of films he would soon eagerly try to imitate. Sodomy, though hilarious in its deadpan way, is not all that different in stilted tone or pretentious theme from Allen's later efforts like INTERIORS, ANOTHER WOMAN or HUSBANDS AND WIVES. And as such, the aloof ennui that he mimics from Bergman and Antonioni for Orgasm would reappear with deadly earnest in those same films. It is curious that Woody would eventually embrace stylistics that he had first found so easy to ridicule. Maybe that is why he so ardently avoided any trace of humor in those later films, he realized just how easily they can lapse into self-parody.With its leering, bawdy approach to sex, the film reflects little of Reuben's glib, simplistic text and instead has more in common with the pseudo-sophisticated raunchiness of the Playboy magazine of the era. Yet in its juvenile way, there is something almost innocently naughty about the movie that makes it almost quaint -- especially when compared to today's standards of vulgarity. As such EVERYTHING YOU HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX* is something of a period piece, reflecting a time when being outrageously tasteless was something unique and not something tiresomely routine. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just before Woody Allen began his march towards huge critical acclaim with Annie Hall and a definite move towards more serious work he put out this. It is a greatly interesting film as it challenges very interesting sexual boundaries in an irreverent manner without ever feeling too outrageous. The only one criticism I could having is that it is slightly uneven in choosing to display 7 different sketches answering seven different queries about sex as sometimes this feel as though the flow of the film is lost. However it is full of laugh out loud moments, especially What is Sodomy and the second last sketch, and stand out performances from Woody Allen, Mia Farrow, Gene Wilder and John Carradine. The other impressive factor about this film is that it still has a capability to be pretty close to the bone despite being over thirty years old despite not being anywhere as near explicit as predecessors which have covered sex during the following thirty years. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"fairly funny","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Four episodes out of the seven in this collections of skits stand out for me Lynn Redgrave as a horny Queen with a chastity belt, and Woody Allen as the Fool trying to remove it; Gene Wilder and his affair with a sheep; the 'What's My Perversion?' TV programme; and, best of all, the final sketch where Woody is a sperm about to be fired into a woman on a first date. Space age copulation with a control room and everything.Overall it is a funny film, but lots of it misses the mark and hasn't held up well over the years. It is less cerebral and more starry than many of Allen's later movies (for a start it has Burt Reynolds who was hotter than hot in 1972). It tries too hard to be clever but does manage to cover most of the fascinating spectrum of human sexuality, and to make it fun. "},{"Title":"something for everyone in this varied and inconsistent early Woody","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" SPOILERS Before Sleeper, long before Annie Hall and prior to any of his other major films, comedy genius Woody Allen adapted, directed and starred in this series of sketches about sexual taboos. Consisting of seven varied stories, the film has sadly dated badly and is inconsistent in it's humour. Still, whatever your tastes, there's something here for everyone.Based on the chapter titles of the book by David Reuben, the seven different tales of this film all feature a wide selection of actors in unique surroundings. Whether it's Woody himself as a sperm or as a court jester, or Gene Wilder falling in love with a sheep, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex takes it's characters on one long ride of jokes and humiliation. All whilst trying to explain all those questions we want answers to, but 'were afraid to ask'.Unlike his later work, or even Sleeper from the following year, this early Woody is an unfortunate piece. Showing signs of talent, the truth about this film is that some pieces are hilarious, whilst others are flawed. Some find that the film suffers when Woody Allen isn't involved, some find the extreme perversion quiz show to be over the top. There are many different views about the film and it's hard to really know what someone new will think.In fact, there is only one major truth about this film and that whilst some stories don't have the emphasis that others do, they do all possess signs of Allen genius. All contain brilliant one liners and all can provide a joke or two. It's just a shame that some are consistently funnier than others.As an early work, there are definite signs in this film of Woody Allen's future potential. Sadly though, with a film which has not aged well and which is not regular enough in it's humour, this is not one of Allen's finest films. Watch the following year's Sleeper instead, it's much more entertaining. "},{"Title":"first skit worth the price of admission","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't find EVERYTHING that great overall.  Most of the skits seemed highly outdated, especially the one with Gene Wilder and his mysterious infatuation.  Nevertheless, the first skit Do Aphrodisiacs Work? was a pure gem.  One of the funniest things I've ever seen in my life.  Playing a court gestor, Woody Allen is hilarious and should inspire everyone to attempt medieval stand up.  "},{"Title":"The Dr. Bernardo sequence - a satire of W. Reich? (possible spoilers)","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     What got me about the rampaging boob segment of the film is that it seems to be both a satire of the monster movies John Carradine made (especially The Unearthly) and Dr. Wilhelm Reich's Organon research facility in upstate New York, or a combo of both. In both cases, we have men who are shunned by the scientific community for their interesting theories (Reich believed in bions, subatomic particles that increased a person's health, esp. through sex, and created devices to collect and utilize these particles), build institutes far from cities (Organon is in the countryside), and are destroyed by their work (Reich died in prison for selling his devices; Bernardo is crushed by his monstrous mammary gland.)   Or maybe I saw WR Mysteries of the Organism too many times... "},{"Title":"PURE GENIUS!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVE Woody! This movie states his great genius, his wonderful ability to play with characters, dialogues and situations. Each episode is a unique proof of genius, until the last one, which I could place at the highest steps of cinema just for the idea! A masterpiece. Maybe actors are not always particularly exciting and the directing skills are still under development, but it deserves a 10 for the pure display of genius! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one makes you laugh even if you don't want to hilarious from tip to toe, its segmentation works perfectly and makes us want to see more at the end. A perfect comic timing and clever jokes make this one a winner, with unbelievable performances, characters and stories. My favorites are the italian story and the episode in the inside of the human body. Truly great! "},{"Title":"It's worth it just for the control room sequence","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Burt Reynolds and Tony Randall in charge of the apparatus required to make a pass on a date, with Woody as one of a thousand soldiers make the rest of the movie worth the wait.  The more times I see this, the more I also enjoy Gene Wilder's bit as an unusual doctor with an odd sense of compassion.  If you like intelligent-zany this is for you. "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My girlfriend and I rented this one expecting a lot of fun and hilarity about sex and relationships ala Annie Hall... and ended up with a movie filled largely with unfunny sketches.  It wasn't long before we started hoping that the next one will be funny and it really never was all that funny.  The main reason for renting the film was what I had heard about the final sketch about ejaculation.  While I admit that bit was pretty hilarious it certainly wasn't worth sitting through the rest of this to see... if only we'd fast-forwarded through the first hour or so... "}{"Title":"Uneven But Enough Laughs to Make It Work","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every Thing You Always Wanted to Know About Sex *But Were Afraid to Ask (1972) *** (out of 4) David Reuben's bestseller features seven different episodes all dealing with various aspects of sex, which as the title suggests, some people might be afraid to ask about. Whenever you deal with any film that tells various short stories you can expect it to be uneven because each episode is going to be varying quality. This film has Woody Allen writing all the episodes but even with such a talent things are up in down in terms of quality. Some of the episodes are just downright bad including the one where a father goes to meet his daughter's boyfriends family and ends up cross-dressing and getting involved with the police. The Italian-sex episode really isn't the strongest in terms of laughs but I thought Allen did a good job poking fun of not only the genre but Italian films in general. The film starts off with one dealing with Allen playing a joker who plans on sleeping with the King's wife and while there aren't any big laughs to be had here it at least sets up the rest of the film. One of the most infamous episodes has Gene Wilder playing a doctor who falls in love and starts having sex with a sheep. Again, this episode isn't all that funny but seeing Wilder fall for the sheep is at least something you're not going to see anywhere else. I think the best episodes are the final two because it seems this is where the screenplay has the most to work with and just lays it all out on the line. John Carradine steals the show as a mad scientist doing all sorts of strange sexual experiments including making a giant boob, which eventually breaks free from his laboratory and goes on a killing spree. Fans of Carradine will know his countless horror roles where he played a scientist and the actor is clearly having a great time playing the kinky side of the role. The final sequence features the like of Allen, Burt Reynolds and Tony Randall and is a sci-fi spoof set inside the male body as he's about to have sex. The writing here is just downright terrific as the inside of the body is performed like an assembly line trying to get the finished product out (in this case the sperm). Overall there's no question that this film is hit and miss and there aren't nearly as many laughs as you'd like but there are still plenty of funny moments and the two final episodes are good enough to make the entire film worth sitting through. "},{"Title":"String of sex gags proves entertaining, but lacking Allen's much needed usual psychological complexity","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If there were any filmmaker to make an introspective film about sex, one would be hard pressed to find a more promising candidate than Woody Allen. After touching upon sexual habits and practices in just about every one of his early films, the prospect of an entire template bared for Allen to strictly explore the act of sex and sexuality in general for the course of a film was ripe with possibility. Unfortunately, it appears such was never Allen's intention, as he delivers one of his least complex films, eschewing his trademark psychological character analysis and musings in favour of a series of patchy, often single joke gags pertaining to various unconnected sexual issues and situations. While this atypical effort is hardly a poor result, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex *But Were Afraid to Ask does fall short of its potential, the daring, challenging and hilarious cinematic exploration which might have been instead culminating as enjoyable, cute, and often very funny, but never fully satisfying throughout.It becomes clear that Allen seized the concept of the novel as a loose framework to string together a series of punchlines, making the overall feel of the film appear overly patchy to properly gel together, even for a series of unrelated short narratives. Such a lack of cohesion would be more forgivable were the skits themselves not so hit and miss in terms of quality. There is no question that when funny the film is at Allen's most memorably zany and inspired his homage to Italian film-making, dealing with exhibitionism is hilarious and effortlessly stylish, a send up of campy science fiction showing a giant breast rampaging the countryside is gleefully hysterical madness, and his legendary final sketch, detailing the inner workings of the brain and sperm during sexual intercourse is a masterpiece of comedic cunning and genius. However, these sketches would be far more enjoyable were they not punctuated with just as many comedic duds many, such as the opening, with Allen's medieval 'fool' attempting to seduce a queen and the 'What's My Perversion?' game show, though brilliant premises, are far too drawn out, mirthless and shockingly unfunny. It is disconcerting to see such amateurish storytelling coupled with the sporadic comedic genius, giving the impression of the shorts being shot over a period of several years with Allen cinematically maturing in the process. As this was not the case, the film as a whole suggests a disconcerting lapse in the shrewd cinematic awareness which subsequently defined Allen as a filmmaker. This fluctuating quality makes Allen's touching upon sensitive subject matter a precarious matter one skit, dealing with the thrill of cross-dressing, ends with it being classified as a serious mental illness in a fashion likely intended to be satirical, but in the absence of quality screen writing, the moral stance of the piece becomes uncomfortably questionable. This may expose the crux of the film's problem - given that Allen's comedic strength generally lies in his witty, perceptive dialogue, the severe lapse of confident screen writing may explain the film's inability, even during its most classic sequences, to truly satisfy. Nonetheless, it remains a testament to Allen as a director that even with such a potentially disastrous cinematic undertaking, even when severely flawed, such a daring undertaking remains irrepressibly enjoyable and memorable - it is just a shame that enjoyable is as far as the film reaches, considering the comedic depth and psychological resonance a more confident, present Allen could have mined from the subject matter.Performing his four roles, Woody Allen himself demonstrates his greater confidence as a performer than filmmaker in his early days, each character (from aroused jester to wary Italian to nerdy sci-fi hero to neurotic sperm) being charming and irreverently clever enough to instil enjoyment into even the shoddiest sketches. While the rest of the cast deliver enjoyable performances, they fail to ignite with the awareness and comedic confidence present in most of Allen's other works. The main standout is an outrageously tender and absorbing performance by Gene Wilder, as a good hearted doctor who happens to fall in love with a sheep. This sodomy sequence could have failed miserably, were it not for the complete conviction and commitment Wilder devotes to the role, having the good sense to play it straight rather than overly goofy, and in the process, capturing the viewer's sympathies and hearts with his earnest, idealistic eyes to an almost alarming degree. Apart from these two, Lynn Redgrave delivers pseudo-medieval babble warmly and charmingly as a subtly seduced Queen, John Carradine masticates scenery viciously as a crazed mad scientist, and Lou Jacobi is delightfully trod upon during the cross dressing skit, but otherwise few memorable performances emerge.Despite the potential inherent in the film's premise, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex *But Were Afraid to Ask restricts its aims to entertaining and playing mildly upon public perceptions of various sexual practices and situations, offering little in the way of complexity or resonance. While the film can hardly be faulted for attempting to entertain, there is a constant sense of what it which plagues the film, the lack of Allen's usual neat coherence and introspective overtones stunting even the most uproariously enjoyable sections from truly hitting home.-7/10 "},{"Title":"Woody Allen, Mel Brooks style.","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a pretty crazy comedy, divided in 7 segments, all concentrating on different aspects of sex. It's a completely silly, over-the-top done comedy, made in about the same comical style as the early Mel Brooks films. This means that the movie is filled with some crazy characters, hilarious crazy situations and fast jokes, also with its dialog. It's perhaps Allen's most comedy like comedy.The title might make the movie sound as if it has some educational value but let me tell you, it has none. The situations and characters as portrayed in this movie are way over-the-top for that and basically the only thing the movie offers is some fun entertainment. For instance, one segment is about a giant breast that's on the loose and on a killing spree. Another segment is about a doctor who falls in love with a sheep. This sort of tells you how this movie is like.Because the movie is divided in 7 totally different segments, the movie has both some great moments and just not as great moments. But anyway, none of the segments are long enough to make you go bored or loose interest just because you don't like one of the segments. And besides, every segments has its fun and at times completely hilarious moments in it to really make you laugh.Most of the movie is done in one and the same style but some of the segments really differ from the others, such as the Italian segment called 'Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching Orgasm?'. This perhaps doesn't really make Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex * But Were Afraid to Ask one of the most consistent movies ever made but I for one don't really mind that all segments differ somewhat from each other. As a matter of fact, while watching this movie I was wondering if the movie wouldn't actually had been an even better one if each segment was being directed by a totally different director, each with their own personal style and approach.Lot of fine actors show up in this movie. Allen himself plays 4 different roles in 4 of the segments and not always in the lead role. He however lets others play the main role in the others, which works out fine. I think it would had made the movie all the more incoherent when Allen would had played the main lead in all of the different segments. Other actors that really draw your attention in this movie, also because you just don't expect them to see in this movie and in the roles they play (such as Burt Reynolds) are Gene Wilder as the doctor who falls for a sheep and also John Carradine in a crazy scientist role, also no doubt as a fun homage to his horror movies past, from mostly the '40's.A movie you just have to enjoy.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Very uneven, sometimes funny, sometimes boring","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is a bit of a strange beast by Woody Allen. Rather than being one continuous story, it's actually seven different vignettes bound together by the theme of sex (theoretically based on the book). The vignettes range from silly, to ineffectual to rather amusing and many take on genre parodies pretty well. The opening vignette is part Hamlet parody, but mostly about a tragically unfunny court jester's desire to get into the royal pants. Overall, while some of the visual comedy is amusing, this one didn't really impress me.The second piece, featuring Gene Wilder and a sheep is a great setup and part of what I like about it is that it's played so sincerely and straight, despite the crazy premise. The third piece appears to be part homage to Italian filmmakers and I loved the visual references, but the comedy itself was kind of weak. I was amused to hear the dialog done in Italian.The fourth piece was about a transvestite and is very weak. While the piece gave off a slightly Python-esquire vibe, the silliness failed to really pull any laughs and the impact of the story was nill. The fifth piece is a parody of old game shows, featuring a game show called What's My Perversion?. While the concept wasn't bad and the presence of guests on the show as themselves was fun, the actual sketches themselves failed to elicit any meaningful comedy.Things get better in the sixth piece, which turns out to be a horror parody and leads into a story about a giant breast ravaging the countryside. It's wonderfully silly, once it picks up past the first half. The final segment is a very amusing work that details the inner processes of a man seducing a woman, but the processes all get personified and some of the visual images, such as the workers working mechanisms to hoist a penis or the sperm/paratroopers waiting for their jump into the unknown are quite funny.All in all, this is a hit and miss affair and it's hard to say that the hits fully justify the misses. But if you like Allen's comedy, then you might find something worth watching here. Otherwise, you can probably pass on this one. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Under appreciated, if imperfect, Woody Allen gem","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's sex comedy hasn't been well received, and that's a shame because it's actually quite good; one of Woody's funniest films, in fact.The film starts off with a segment called Do Aphrodisiacs really work?, and it is without doubt the best segment of the film. It features Woody at his neurotic, comic best and keeps itself alive with an almost constant stream of giggles. After this, the film never reaches that high again, and some of the tales are rather hit and miss. The segment involving Gene Wilder falling in love with a sheep is one such miss - on one hand, it's surreal and the idea is sort of funny; but it's only an idea and the lack of gags means that it fails to generate any real laughs (and that's what the film is going for - laughs). There's a couple of other misses; the euro-style sex short is one (it's good in idea, but poor in execution) and similarly the game show; What's my perversion is surreal, and again kind of funny; but it never really goes for the money shot (another bad pun, I'm sorry) and that makes it unsatisfying on the whole. However, when it works, it really works!As I've mentioned, the first segment is the best; but Woody's sexual take on the classic B-movies of the 50's isn't far behind at all. Imagine it; Woody Allen being chased by a giant...tit. It sounds great and it is; the scene where Woody goes into a police station to report it is hilarious. The transvestite segment borders between hit and miss, but it's a hit on the whole; it's one of those sketches that has you cringing and the only thing you can do is laugh, and it works because of that. The sketch that this film will be best remembered for is, of course, the sperm sequence, which is both hugely inventive and surreally funny. I knew of this sequence before watching the film, and I was afraid that Woody might not have been able to carry it off, but now I really don't know what I was worried about; Woody is, like in the first sequence, at his best in the scene. He plays...a sperm. His musings in this role are hilarious, in a way that only Woody can be; and overall this is one of the funniest scenes of the movie.As I said; the sketches are hit and miss, and some of the sketches fail to penetrate, but overall this film is a big hit for me. The humour is very juvenile, and it wont appeal to some of the more mature fans of cinema; but this film should be appreciated for what it is; a real good time. Even the sketches that do miss the mark are more than funny enough to carry the film on, and this film therefore comes with a huge recommendation to anyone that enjoys this brand of silly humour. "},{"Title":"There Are No Stupid Questions....Just Stupid People That Ask Questions.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best film titles the cinema has ever experienced makes for one of the better Woody Allen films we have ever seen. Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex * But Were Afraid to Ask is a compilation of seven short films that each have to do with a sexual taboo in society. That silly Woody Allen style is always on display and he pokes fun at corny American society of the 1950s and 1960s here. The free love movement that was so prevalent by the early-1970s is used as a way for Allen to make expressions about love-making and tackle sexual subjects that the American cinema had shied away from before this picture. Allen is in four of the seven short subjects, but it is Gene Wilder as a doctor who falls in love with a sheep (no kidding) that steals the show away from the rest of the notable performers. John Carradine, Anthony Quayle, Burt Reynolds, Lynn Redgrave, Jack Barry, Tony Randall and Louise Lasser also all make what end up being cameo appearances. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Hilarious for the most part","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody's adaption (I use the term very loosely) of the book of the same name is typical of Allen's earlier work in it's outrageous content, but this one is far more vulgar than anything else he had previously done. But really, how can you satirize sex and NOT make it dirty? This collection of sketches is hit or miss at times the Italian film spoof is a noble but ultimately lackluster effort. Other sketches, including the much talked-about final segment, are quite hilarious. My personal favorite is the middle segment with Gene wilder as a doctor who falls in love with a sheep. Probably when you get down to it this is the sickest portion of the movie, but Gene Wilder's brilliant performance keeps it strangely dignified. It's a shame he and Woody Allen didn't work together again-the coupling of Woody's wit with Gene's brilliant comedic timing could have been a sure-fire bet for big laughs. At any rate, if you haven't seen this one yet be sure and check it out. "},{"Title":"The Dr. Bernardo sequence - a satire of W. Reich?","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     What got me about the rampaging boob segment of the film is that it seems to be both a satire of the monster movies John Carradine made (especially The Unearthly) and Dr. Wilhelm Reich's Organon research facility in upstate New York, or a combo of both. In both cases, we have men who are shunned by the scientific community for their interesting theories (Reich believed in bions, subatomic particles that increased a person's health, esp. through sex, and created devices to collect and utilize these particles), build institutes far from cities (Organon is in the countryside), and are destroyed by their work (Reich died in prison for selling his devices; Bernardo is crushed by his monstrous mammary gland.)   Or maybe I saw WR Mysteries of the Organism too many times... "},{"Title":"direct hits and misfires all rolled into one","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll be brief - enough people have commented already.  But I concur with those who say that this film has moments of brilliance surrounded by a few bits of minor humor and stretches of misfires.   It almost reminds me of the Kentucky Fried Movie, which had great moments as islands surrounded by long passages of weak or no real consistent humor.All the same, there are enough laughs to make this worth a rental.  But I wouldn't suggest buying it... "},{"Title":"Everything you need to make you laugh","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is funny as hell, it's 1999 and I don't think it's dated at all. This movie is not so uneven, either, as you might have heard.  It's only uneven if you're not a particularly well-rounded individual- don't blame Woody Allen if he expects more from you than you are willing to give-  I laughed like a lunatic- it's one of those you really laugh at, they are called bellylaughs- a rare form of laughter heard frequently in the 70's but petering out in the early 80's with so-called comedy films such as Beverly Hills Cop.Many critics make a point of telling you this film can be rather baudy. It's amazing anyone can be surprised at this with the word sex and afraid in the title.  But don't be afraid- this one's a winner.  "}{"Title":"Weird but original concept! 4/10","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Review I really did have high hopes for this movie, but it just turned out to be another Woody Allen movie that I wasn't that impressed with. The whole film is based around a few mini stories which were all to do with sex, but I only found the last one, which was based on sperm, remotely interesting or slightly funny. The concept was original but the movie extremely dated and the story of the Wilder falling in love with a sheep, was totally strange but funny in a weird type of way. I think it was Gene Wilder's unique style of acting that made the sketch funny because I can't think of anyone else that could have pulled it off. Anyway, on the whole, the movie seemed like an excuse for Woody Allen to get his leg over some beautifulwomen, except for the last sketch, but you can't fault it on originality for it's age. Weird Humor!Round-Up After watching quite a few of Woody Allen's movies, his journey hasdefinitely been a strange one. All of his films involve a woman in some way and after witnessing his strange personal, you can't help thinking that he has some deep rooted personal issues. This movie was totally based around sex, even with the sheep, so you can't help thinking that his mind is totally devoted to the opposite sex. He also plays on the Jewish religion a lot but he doesn't ram it down your throat. I still have a few of his earlier movies to watch so I'm yet to see his complete journey in film, but so far I am enjoying my mission to find out what he is all about.Budget $2million Worldwide Gross $18millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies which are based around sketches with a sex concept, in some way or form. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Is it my imagination or do you always smell of lamb chops?","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen wrote, directed and co-stars in this groovy comedy, an in-name-only movie version of Dr. David Reuben's best-selling sex encyclopedia, with episodes spotlighting aphrodisiacs, sodomy (or rather, bestiality), orgasms, transvestism, et al. Predictably a hit-or-miss affair, although the large cast (familiar faces, comedic hams and cut-ups--and a few very talented actors who are game to be cut-ups) appear to be having a high time. Allen can't seem to keep a good gag going, and so almost every chapter loses steam after a promising beginning. Still, the look of the picture (and the super soundtrack) helps to compensate for some of the dead weight. Allen wants nothing more than to be naughty and lascivious--not provocative--with jokes and slapstick taking the place of eroticism. It's just a doodle, a lightweight piece of fluff, yet one with Woody's customary wit and sense of burlesque. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Early Allen","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Typical for Allen's earlier films, this is a collection of some burlesque episodes on former sexual taboos. Some of them are really great, some rather poor but on the whole they all have some good gags. I particularly liked the episode with Gene Wilder and the sheep and the last one, where Woody Allen himself (who appears in four episodes in different roles) plays a neurotic sperm. Watch it, but only once! "},{"Title":"Allen in a seminal role","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is based on the popular sex instruction manual of the same name. It is in seven sections, with titles such as What is sodomy? And What happens during an orgasm? The  humour is immature Allen and remains mainly at the schoolboy level. Particularly excruciating are the episode about a chastity belt with Allen playing the court jester  and Allen in a  Frankenstein spoof featuring a giant breast that bounces across the landscape smothering its victims and squirting them with milk. The episode called What is a transvestite? is also embarrassing but in this case the story makes you squirm because it seems so sad and true. There is a television quiz game called What's my Perversion? that, apparently, uses the real chairman and panel of the American version of What's my Line?. There is a more successful Antonioni spoof with Italian dialogue and subtitles in which Allen marries a beautiful but frigid woman. The scenes of them having sex in shops and at a garden party are reminiscent of Bunuel's film on the same theme L'Age d'Or, Of the successful episodes one, What is sodomy? features Gene Wilder as a doctor who is consulted by an Albanian shepherd who has been having sex with a sheep. The best episode, What happens during an orgasm? has Allen in a seminal role as a sperm dressed like a white-uniformed paratrooper waiting to be ejaculated with other sperm from what looks like the inside of a troop-transporting plane.  "},{"Title":"Silliness to the Nth Degree","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" David Reuben's book was a pop phenomenon, delving into things (in the mainstream) that were taboo for many people. He made it acceptable to carry this book around. Along comes Woody Allen, who take a series of vignettes (that really had nothing to do with the book) and puts it all out there. Fetishism, masturbation, you name it. He puts his putzy character into every role possible and draws in some great character actors as well. We have Gene Wilder who loves sheep, on the street drinking from a bottle of Woolite. Everything that goes on is pushed to its ridiculous limit. One of my favorites is Allen as a sperm paratrooper with all his fellow sperm, sitting in a bench on a plane (ala World War II) waiting to jump into an unknown kind of D-Day. Also, there is a giant breast which parrots the earlier monster/horror movies, chasing Allen and squirting at him. Like his other earlier offerings it's anything-goes humor and if it doesn't stick, something else will come along. This isn't one of my favorites but there's enough to keep it going. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Back in the days when the Victorian attitude towards sex was finally starting to loosen up a bit ie. the 1960s, the book Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex (But Were Afraid To Ask) sold in lorryloads. Hollywood being the greedy, acquisitive machine it still is, snapped up the film rights and then discovered that what was essentially a fairly serious self-help book, aimed at enlightening Joe Public about areas where he was interested but which simply hadn't ever been talked about until now, was essentially unfilmable.Enter Woody Allen. Operating at the top of his game (his initial game, that is, humorist par excellence), Allen plucks 7 of Dr Reuben's chapter headings and, for each of them, constructs an illustrative sketch.I say illustrative, but of course they are no such thing. I have three images which remain indelibly imprinted on my brain from watching this film 40 years ago. One is a gigantic independent breast escaping majestically across the countryside, another is gene Wilder (in possibly the best performance of his career) falling in love, at first sight, with a sheep (and someone else's sheep, at that), and the last one is the chaos in Mission Control as the paratroop sperm jostle for position in order to make their one and only leap into action.It's insane. It's clever. It's very very funny. "},{"Title":"I already knew all that!","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought the bit about Gene Wilder and the sheep was mislabeled, and should have been bestiality. But I looked up sodomy, and it turns out the movie was correct. Beyond that, don't plan on actually learning anything new about the mysteries of sex from this film.Did I say mysteries? How quaint. What a difference 40 years and Internet porn videos make, though it is still hard to find the hard stuff featuring beautiful Armenian sheep. Speaking of animals, the real star of Everything is that white bunny in the credits who keeps twitching his nose in perfect rhythm to Cole Porter's Let's Misbehave. He's mesmerizing! I wonder if they were playing the music for him? Woody Allen knows his music, especially old jazz, and his selection of this number, using a very old recording, was perfect. To understand why, you might watch De-Lovely 2004 starring Kevin Kline as Cole Porter. Porter wrote some of the most brilliant, outrageous sexually suggestive lyrics ever, and he did it nearly a century ago. Yes, they had sex back then!I liked the sketch with Woody Allen speaking Italian with this really fine looking blonde Italian girlfriend. I kept wondering when Louise Lasser was going to show up, and then I suddenly realized this must be her! I never would have guessed. She looked great! So what you had was an Italian parody of Woody and Louise's relationship in Bananas. The bit with the dildo shorting out and catching fire was a classic! The last sketch with Woody Allen as a timid sperm was particularly interesting in light of the subsequent history of sperm-related cinematic comedy. I speak of The Meaning of Life, and particularly of the song, Every Sperm is Sacred. Given that both this and Everything were anthologies of sketches, this seems to be the common link, suggesting an influence of Mr. Allen upon the subsequent work by Mr. Monty Python. Of the two, Life is infinitely more amusing, but Sex blazed the trail.Woody Allen used to be a comic genius, until he turned serious, shortly after Sleeper (which featured Woody fondling a futuristic orgasmatron orb). Everything is not his best work, but it's still pretty good. There's been a ton of movies and TV since then that has covered similar ground far more outrageously. It's not a must-see, but it's not a must-avoid. I think it might make a good ice breaker to watch with a girlfriend, or for a parent to discuss with an adolescent -- it would make sex education, the real thing, a lot less traumatic.I do have one remaining question, though Hey, Woody, how'd you get your name? "},{"Title":"essential comedy! true comedy","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say this is the first Woody Alen film I got to watch (what an embarassment!). He is quite different. Look you're propably not gonna burst into laughter, but I did, especially in certain scenes.This is a film that serves its tile right, 4 or 5 different short stories about sex. Especially the two of them are hillarious!!!Not your usual american stupid comedy, but something different. It reminded a bit of the Pythons, but maybe this is just me.  "},{"Title":"no longer up to date","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I gave this one a vote of only 4. Don't get me wrong, I really like Woody Allen movies and it doesn't bother me that it is old, but the jokes are poor, seeing it from todays perspective. I can imagine that it was really good at that time, but talking about sex and perversions  nowadays doesn't startle anyone. "},{"Title":"Some work, some don't","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In a series of sketches Woody Allen looks at aphrodisiacs, bestiality, cross dressing, perversions, sexual experiments and the functioning of the body during intercourse.  All this answers key questions about sex that perhaps we were all to afraid to ask.Woody Allen apparently just noted down all his comedy thought about sex and decided to make them into a movie.  The end result is a strange beast &#150; like sex it has bits that are fantastic and bits that aren't quite as fun but you gotta do them to get to the good stuff!  The questions that are asked in subtitle are never actually answered and several times are barely relateable to the actual sketches themselves &#150; so don't expect to learn very much but get ready for some laughs &#150; but not as many as you'd hope.Allen's comedies are either surreal quick fire comedies or witty plot based things.  This is one of the former, or at least wants to be.  Some of the sketches are very imaginative and very funny &#150; what's my perversion, the experiment and the innerspace look at sex are all funny.  However some others are mildly amusing or totally pointless (the cross dressing one doesn't really work).That said it is still quite funny despite the lapses.  The cast are good &#150; but I wanted to see Woody more as the weakest sketches were without him and needed his influence.  Faces like Lynn Redgrave, Carradine, Tony Randall, Burt Reynolds, Barry etc are all good but only really serve to distract.Overall fans will enjoy this example of his `earlier funnier work' but for others they may find that too many of the jokes don't hit as hard as you'd want and some just plain misfire.  The hits only just outweigh the misses but it's still work a watch. "}{"Title":"The Good, The Bad and The Indifferent","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen is sometimes regarded as one of America's more eccentric filmmakers, and his decision to acquire the film rights to David Reuben's sex guide Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask) must, at first sight, have seemed one of his more eccentric ventures. I mean, just how do you make a film of a sex manual, without turning it into pornography? Allen, however, clearly thought that the title was too good to resist, and his solution was to make the film as a series of seven sketches, a structure influenced by the Monty Python style of comedy. (The Python's first feature film And Now For Something Completely Different, also made as a series of short sketches, had come out the previous year). Each sketch is given the title of a question from Dr. Reuben's book.As with a number of films of this type (a later Python film The Meaning of Life being a good example) the individual sketches very enormously in quality. The good- What Happens During Ejaculation?. This seems to be the sketch that most people remember the film for. I am not sure whether there was any direct inspiration, but the central conceit, namely that the human body is actually controlled by small humanoid creatures living inside it, seemed very similar to that of The Numskulls, a cartoon strip from a British comic. The sketch depicts what happens to the owner of the body during a sexual encounter with his girlfriend, and stands out for the contributions of Burt Reynolds as a brain cell and Allen himself as a sperm. The joke is that spermatozoa form a crack paratroop-style military unit who have sworn an oath to fertilise the woman's ovum or to die in the attempt. They all have the sort of gung-ho personalities familiar from war films, all except Allen's character who is cowardly, nervous and self-doubting. (But then, what Allen character isn't?) The most brilliantly funny part of the film.What Are Sex Perverts? This section, filmed in black-and-white, features a game show called What's My Perversion?, an obvious parody of What's My Line?. The humour comes from the incongruity between the mood of the show and its subject matter as the four panellists discuss in the cheerful, breezy tone typical of fifties and sixties game shows whether the seemingly respectable middle-aged contestant is a rapist or a voyeur. (It turns out that his perversion is Likes to expose himself on a subway). Some have criticised this sketch as tasteless, but a bit of tastelessness is needed for a film like this to succeed; no-one ever made a successful sex comedy by scrupulously observing the canons of good taste.These, however, were the only segments that I really enjoyed. The indifferent- Do Aphrodisiacs Work?, or the story of a mediaeval king's jester who attempts to seduce the queen, but is foiled by her chastity belt. Nothing particularly original in this, despite attempts to work in references to Shakespeare's Hamlet, but there is some humour to be derived from seeing the standard Woody character, the angst-ridden 20th century urban intellectual, transported back to mediaeval Europe.Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm?, which deals with a woman (played by Woody's ex-wife Louise Lasser) who can only become sexually aroused when making love in public. This section appears to have been designed as either a parody of, or affectionate homage to, the Italian cinema of the fifties and sixties, and is entirely in Italian with English subtitles. This struck me as a bit of a gimmick, although those who are more familiar than I with the back catalogues of Michelangelo Antonioni and Federico Fellini might find something to enjoy.And finally the bad- Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate? This was obviously intended as a parody of cheap fifties horror films, but Woody clearly had difficulty integrating this particular concept into his overall scheme of making a series of sketches on the theme of sex. The central character is, ostensibly, a Kinsey-style sexologist who turns out to be a Frankenstein-type mad scientist, complete with an assistant named Igor. The scenes of a gigantic breast bouncing across the countryside are a feeble attempt at surrealism, like something from one of the most contrived Python sketches.Are Transvestites Homosexuals? and What is Sodomy? I bracket these two segments together because both share the same fault; neither is in the least funny. The first, predictably enough, is about a man who likes to dress up in women's clothes; the second, perhaps less predictably, is about a doctor who falls in love with a sheep. (In normal usage the word sodomy refers to anal sex, not to sex with animals; perhaps Dr. Reuben's book did not deal with the subject of bestiality). Perhaps in 1972, in the early days of the so-called sexual revolution, it seemed daring merely to mention areas of human sexuality which had previously been taboo.(It is impossible to imagine a mainstream Hollywood film of this nature being made in 1952, or even 1962). Woody seems to have imagined that all he had to do was to refer to these two subjects, without bothering to treat them with any wit or humour, for people to start laughing. That might have worked in 1972 (although I doubt it); it certainly doesn't work today.Five bad or indifferent sketches out of seven is not a very good strike rate, but I have given this film an above-average mark, largely because I couldn't stop laughing at the sperm sketch. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Maybe the Only Film in History to Feature a Giant Rampaging Boob?","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's two previous films, Take the Money and Run and Bananas, had comedy-skit feels to them already, and in Everything You Always Wanted to Know.... he borrows even the comedy-skit format and breaks this film into several independent vignettes, each revolving around the topic of sex. Like any variety show, some of these skits are funnier than others; the movie overall is pretty uneven, and isn't one of Allen's best efforts. My favorite skits were those depicting Allen himself as a neurotic sperm nervous about the voyage ahead, and a mad scientist spoof in which a giant breast escapes the laboratory and terrorizes a countryside, captured only when the townspeople manufacture a giant bra to catch it.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Not Great, Not Horrible.  Frankly, it's a take it or leave it kinda thing.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have no idea why this work has the following it does. It definitely does not deserve such loyalty among the masses. It's not horrible by any means, but it also is not intelligent, witty, or entertaining. It is, at best, amusing.As a Gene Wilder fan, I realized this was one film he had a good sized part in, which I did not own. I purchased it for the Wilder collection. Unfortunately, aside from the amusement derived from his sketch, there is very little else worth preserving in this work, and even this one sketch is questionable.I do have to say that the nature of the topics touched upon here are done so with a tasteful (if sometimes low-class) sense of humor rather than lowering itself to outright raunchiness.All in all, it's OK. It's certainly not horrible, but do remember that this is a series of sketches rather than one solid work.It rates a 5.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Hits and Misses","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Any movie divided into segments is going to be uneven, whether the genre is comedy or horror (which is the genre normally given anthology treatment).  Woody Allen's movie is no exception.  Several of the segments are side-splitting, a reminder of Woody's previous triumph with Bananas.  Others are boring.  At its worst, the comedy is totally desperate, with bizarre ideas given too much screen time (the giant breast spewing milk, for example).  But there are certainly enough laughs in this film for Woody Allen's diehard fans (I would not recommend it for anyone else).  Woody's obsession with sex, of course, takes center stage, although he does mix in his other favorite topic (death) when he appears as a sperm in the body of a man about to have intercourse.  Other bits, like a spoof of TV game shows called What's Your Perversion, are a bit too much. "},{"Title":"Hit And Miss","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX isn't really based upon the best selling book , the movie just uses the format for a series of sketches involving sex with captions like ...Do Aphrodisiacs Work ? 1 or ...What Is Sodomy ? 2 or ...Why Do Some Woman Have Trouble Reaching Orgasm ? 3 etc etc etc Some of the sketches work very well like the idea of a body being ruled by lots of other little beings , or the bad taste love story involving Gene Wilder's Doctor , some work okay like a mad scientist creating a giant breast or a court jester having an affair with a princess and only one really fails namely the Italian art house movie As a sex comedy it may seem rather tame now but by the same logic it's rather inoffensive which isn't actually a criticism The answers to he questions are 1 - Yes as long as the aphrodisiac is green and has a $ on it2 - It's when a living creature has a guilty conscience and their partner is unable to sit down because of it 3 - When's the last time you saw a road map with the town of Orgasm on it ? "},{"Title":"A total waste of time and energy. A few okay sketches + a whole lot of rubbish = a short film, a home movie, a TV special - not a feature length film!","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its supposed to be ironic - a joke at the expense of self-help books, that they aren't any help at all. The great joke in this is that each segment has a title straight from the self-help book it is based on, and a skit which is about that in a satirical, abstract way, but doesn't answer the question.But that's on a global level - the actual skits themselves are pretty bad. Not a single funny joke here - just a whole lot of toilet and undergraduate humour. 1) I always think its a bad idea for a writer to write about not being able to write, but i think its probably even worse for a comedian to make jokes through someone who can't tell jokes, because all you really have are bad jokes. That's what i felt about the first segment, where Woody plays a court jester who seduces a queen.2) Gene Wilder is great - but his segment, of a man in love with a sheep, was just too twisted for me.3) The segment sending up tacky italian movies is pretty good - maybe the best thing here.4) The segment with the giant boob is many people's favourite. Woody meets a girl on the road, we go to a mad scientist's mansion, hunchback assistant included, where all kinds of one-liners and visual gags abound, around his various creations... one of which is a giant breast, which goes AWOL!The cross dressing segment is one joke, and didn't justify an entire sketch. The last segment, where the action takes place inside a man's body, is inspired. It reaps quite a bit of material, and is really the only thing of quality here.3/10. Below-average sketch comedy. How much did this cost to make? Was it really worth it? It cost me thirty five dollars - i bought the DVD having not seen it - and i deeply regret losing THAT amount! "},{"Title":"the most wildly uneven of Allen's early films","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is amazingly uneven--with some of the absolute funniest and stupidest (this isn't meant as a complement) segments all in the same film. The film is broken into various episodes--funny, just okay and rotten.The funniest segment, by far, stars Lou Jacobi as a middle-aged cross-dresser! His wife doesn't suspect, but when she's not around he simply can't stop himself from wearing her clothes! Well, they go out to dinner at the home of their adult child's in-laws. Lou excuses himself--saying he must use the bathroom. EXCEPT, he sneaks off to try the lady of the house's clothes! Through a series of bizarre coincidences, he falls out a window and then has his purse stolen! The neighbors and police come quickly to his assistance--during which time he struggles hard to convince them he is a lady!! It is absolutely hilarious and one of the funniest moments I have ever seen on film. While not quite as funny, the take off on the Fellini film with Louise Lasser is good for a few big laughs.There were some segments that weren't particularly funny or bad, such as Gene Wilder playing a guy who is having an affair with a sheep. It's sick and mildly funny at first, but loses steam FAST. The game show isn't terribly great. The Court Jester sequence also isn't all that funny, but isn't exactly bad. The same that can be said about the sequence that shows the inside of a man who is having sex (complete with Woody as one of the sperm). It's funny but not tremendously so.The one sequence that stands out in my mind as being just plain stupid is the mad scientist skit starring John Carradine. It's so juvenile and unfunny--with a giant scientifically created booby chasing Woody and his girl. It's crude but just not funny to anyone except 12 year-olds.So, in summation, the film is wildly uneven. It's worth seeing for a few sequences but keep your hand on the remote to skip past the many slow parts as well. "}]