[{"Title":"The most underrated movie of the 1970s?","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"46 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bob Rafelson and Jack Nicholson's creative relationship began because of The Monkees. Rafelson directing and Nicholson writing their weird and wonderful psychedelic cult classic 'Head'. After that the two teamed up for one of the early Seventies best loved movies 'Five Easy Pieces'.  A couple of years later they did it again with 'The King Of Marvin Gardens', though inexplicably it doesn't have the reputation or the high profile of their previous collaboration. I really fail to see why. File it under great lost 1970s movies alongside 'Scarecrow', 'Bring Me The Head Of Alfredo Garcia', 'Tracks', 'Fingers' (and add your own personal favourite to the list). Marvin Gardens features a really strong and controlled performance from Nicholson in the lead role, an introverted DJ with a show in which he spins true tales. But even better than Nicholson is Bruce Dern, a wonderful actor who never became a superstar like Nicholson, Pacino or De Niro, despite a long career of consistently good character roles in movies by Hitchcock, Roger Corman, Walter Hill, Hal Ashby, John Frankenheimer, Elia Kazan, Sydney Pollack and many others.  Dern is absolutely wonderful as Nicholson's brother, a dreamer and Mob hanger on. He comes back into his brother's life with a nutty get rich quick scheme which ends up going horribly wrong. This is one of the very best performances by Dern I've ever seen, and his scenes with Nicholson make this essential viewing for any 1970s buff. Added to that are excellent performances from Ellen Burstyn ('The Exorcist', 'Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore') and newcomer Julia Anne Robinson (her only movie role - too bad!) as the women in Dern's life, and nice bits from legendary musician/actor Scatman Crothers ('Black Belt Jones' and appearances in no less than four 1970s Nicholson movies) and the underrated John P. Ryan ('Runaway Train', 'It's Alive', 'Class Of 1999'). 'The King Of Marvin Gardens' is a slow and thoughtful movie, but once you get into the rhythm of it, an extremely rewarding one. One of Nicholson's best, and Dern is just dynamite. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A great and unusual film","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A truly great film and sadly overlooked and under rated, following up Five Easy Pieces and showing Nicholson at his most awesome.  A far better take on Atlantic City than the Louis Malle's film of that name.  Incredible acting from Nicholson, Dern, Burstyn... great direction and cinamatography.  The movie is set in a pre-casino Atlantic City, sort of Coney Island perfected. A real actors film that we rarely see anymore.  Perhaps difficult to watch because of that yet immensely rewarding.  A film that perfectly captures the time and place.  Dern plays an over the top hustler while Nicholson, of all things, plays an intellectual radio dweeb.  Go on... see it...  no one reads anymore... "},{"Title":"Excellent character study.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a brilliant little character study from the fabulous team that brought us the classic Five Easy Pieces. If this last reviewer didn't get it (and obvious he didn't), than that's his problem. The detail, the beautiful photography, and the incredible use of Atlantic City locations make this film all the more worth while. Shot when Atlantic City was a dying resort town, it is used as a metaphor for this strange symbiotic relationship between two very different brothers. Nicholson as the intelligent David, and Bruce Dern (never better) as the scam artist Jason, out to make a quick buck. Do yourselves a favor, and check out this little gem. "},{"Title":"Under-rated Rafelson flick!","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought this superior to CARNAL KNOWLEDGE and am a bit surprised by the reaction to it at time of release. After FIVE EASY PIECES and before STAY HUNGRY this '72 film was thrown aside and dismissed. I guess Nicholson wasn't using his eyebrows enough for public taste. Bruce Dern gives a superb performance as his shyster-dreamer brother with big plans. Ellen Burstyn is paranoid justifiably and gives a lovely performance. The young girl Julie Ann Robinson is terrible. A 7 out of 10. Best performance = Bruce Dern. Throw in Scatman and John Ryan and you have a fascinating mood piece. What happened to Bob Rafelson? "},{"Title":"A quiet masterpiece","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A classic from of the New American Cinema The King of Marvin Gardens is one of the most underrated films of the 70. The film stars Bruce Dern and Jack Nicholson (cast against type as an introverted depressive) as a pair of estranged brothers reunited in Atlantic City to try to get scam artist Dern's ill-conceived property development dreams off the ground. Ellen Bursten rounds out the cast as an ageing beauty queen struggling with the realisation that her young protégé, played by the previously and subsequently unknown Julia Ann Robinson, has surpassed her. Shot in a bleak, wintry Atlantic City that contrasts sharply with Dern's vision of a happy ending for the quartet in Hawai'i, the film is a compelling and meditative character study that doesn't shy away from or glamorise the problems of the people who inhabit it. The three leads give superb performances as characters who are all in their disparate ways seeking redemption. Made in the brief period of the 1970s when the big American studios were hoodwinked into financing films that were singular, intelligent, and challenging, The King of Marvin Gardens is a must see for any fan of the cinema. "},{"Title":"Dark, hidden, dirty gem of a film","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's ironically indicative of this movie's theme and the relationship between American culture AND this film that the vast majority of IMDb raters have given this a 6 or 7 (out of 10). Most Americans that actually watch this film will be confused by it. Very strange, maybe, in that it is a truly American movie American cast, American production, American themes, American sets, American problems, American answers. But, tell me--how do you rate yourself when you look back at that nude in the full length mirror right after you get out of the shower? If you're feeling generous (and you're only rating for yourself), you might get a 6 or a 7, right? Rafelson's early (funnier...haha, couldn't resist that), more critically successful Nicholson vehicle, FIVE EASY PIECES, has some really GREAT moments (like the toast-ordering scene), but ultimately, the pacing is off. There's just not enough there, there. Not so with King of MV. WOW, this is one helluva emotional roller coaster. The much, much underrated and underutilized Bruce Dern gives one of his best two or three performances as Nicholson's manic (American through and through) salesman brother. This riffs on Arthur Miller and all the best dramatic pitchmen roles from the 1st half of the 20th Century. Ellen Burstyn is spot on, as is the other female interest. But the real focus is on the guys. (And just a word about the late, great Scatman Crothers--so so excellent and iconic in this.) And now we get to Jack... ...I think this is arguably his best performance. It is one of the very very few where his eyebrows were nailed down, anyway. His character is so weary, so defeated, so human, you're tempted to think he's a Russian or a Jew or maybe even a Russian Jew. But no, he is a through and through Willie Loman American. And one we so rarely see on the stage or screen--though we all know/have known them. They are that vast minority of reasonable, intelligent, sensitive, fairly strong and honest and wise individuals who just can't take it or who just don't think it's worth the trouble having seen too many people taken advantage of or getting their teeth knocked out. They are sick of what they've seen; they are sick of not being able to toe the mark--even though they know that those expectations are unreasonable. Rare stuff, indeed.BTW, this is NOT a happy movie--fair warning.Bless you, Bob Rafelson--a brilliant, brilliant film that should rest on the shelf next to Renoir and the very best of the 50's British Angry Young Men cinema. "},{"Title":"about as low-key as 70s movies get (that's a compliment)","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The King of Marvin Gardens was Bob Rafelson's experiment at doing a film where the leads are switched around- the actors playing them, anyway. You rarely get to see Jack Nicholson in the role of the quiet, observant, and really more intuitive characters in any film, and to see it in his prime in-between doing films like Carnal Knowledge and The Last Detail is a revelation. Every once in a while he pulls out a performance that is attuned to a sensibility that is surprising, even if the film is not. One of those that worked best was About Schmidt. But this time in Rafelson's vision, he plays second fiddle to the more personable, idealistic, talkative, pushy, and far more conflicted brother played by Bruce Dern. For Dern this is also a somewhat different role, as he often could play roles with a good deal of dialog well, though with also a lowered guard. Here he plays a guy with lots of ideas, and those of which he really wants to impress upon his more detached but not too unresponsive brother. It's a mix that works, though it's very understandable why I've only seen it once, and not only do I not really desire to see it again, it's not too much of a wonder why its still one of the real underrated films of the 70s.Keep in mind it's not just the men to see here, but Ellen Burstyn too, in one of her other great parts of her real prime, as she plays Dern's depressed, loopy, over-the-top girlfriend. She has her counterpart too in Julie Anne Robinson. Her character is maybe a little more like Nicholson's, though not really as withdrawn. These are all characters who are estranged, if not from themselves then from each other, and amid the big plans in the (correctly chosen) sights of dreary Atlantic City they're cast against a glow that just poses a kind of nothingness for them. And in the end, when tragedy strikes, it finally comes when the emotional cork gets pulled completely off. And bookending the film are Nicholson's monologues on the airwaves to his listeners, whomever they may be, and they're some of my favorite scenes I still remember from the film. If it's less than really memorable and affecting like the best of 70s subversive cinema, it's because its content in its low-key ways. It's a smart movie that isn't really at the heights of Five Easy Pieces- Rafelson's masterpiece that's also low-key in its way but reaches higher in psychological hang-ups- but it does come as close as anything the director's done since. Most noteworthy is the challenge of reversing the roles for Nicholson and Dern pays off in that independent-film way. Look for Shining co-star Scatman Crothers in some scenes late in the picture. "},{"Title":"One more comment about the great King of Marvin Gardens","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As many others stated here, this a criminally overlooked artistic triumph that deserves a larger reputation. I want to make an observation that I think has passed by almost every reviewer and critic of this film There is one moment, and one moment only, in the film when there is soundtrack music. This occurs as they ride out of the stadium following their mock Miss America pageant. Why do you think this occurs? My theory This is the thematic high-point of the film. The highest level of achievement they've managed to make of their dreams. From then on, a harsher reality intrudes on the fantasy. If you follow this, then you begin to see how remarkably constructed the film is as a whole. It's a masterpiece of form. "},{"Title":"Weak and painful","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The King of Marvin Gardens is an ensemble piece that turns on the collision of four dysfunctional people. Jack Nicholson plays a perennially depressed, bookish straight type opposite the dynamic and goofy Bruce Dern. Ellen Burstyn and Julia Ann Robinson play, essentially, a mother-step daughter team of hookers. None of these characters is compelling and all of them become quite grating in their various ways; Bruce Dern takes the prize as being the most annoying and tiresome of the bunch.The movie is set in Atlantic City and makes frequent use of the more lurid, campy or bizarre aspects of that location. Unfortunately, the antics of the four main actors are mostly forced, mannered and flat. I found myself cringing at the strained quality of the movie as it reached toward inspiring in the audience some sort of artsy, reverse-chic epiphany it was nowhere near attaining.There really is no plot, and almost any scene could be deleted without affecting the remainder of the film...except for the happy outcome that the thing would be that much shorter. I sat through most of this mess but at a certain point I finally succumbed to my urge to walk out and... walked out. It felt really good to say goodbye to The King of Marvin Gardens. "},{"Title":"The beauty of decay","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can watch this movie without sound, you can watch it in the English original without understanding a word &#150; it is still a great experience. The actors and their surroundings merge into a whole, which has one aim To show the beauty of decay. Atlantic City (in its state in the early seventies) is shown as a dead end, a city to die in. In The King of Marvin Garden Rafelson used Atlantic City like Italian director Luchino Visconti used Venice in some of his movies. This is one of the very few genuine, serious colour movies I know. It is a delight to see just how much care was taken with the actor's wardrobes, the set design and with the appearance of the sky in each scene. Ellen Burstyn (really one of the great American screen beauties) shines. Of course the should symbolize the beauty of decay. Well, there is more beauty than decay in this case, Burstyn looks gorgeous however hard she tries not to. "}{"Title":"Great Cast, Quirky Treat","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can see how many might look at this film in the light of Five Easy Pieces, considering the prior collaboration.  But taken on its own merits, this piece is driven by the interesting, passionate, and sometimes manic performances by Nicholson, Dern and Burstyn.  Julie Anne Robinson does a credible job in her only big screen credit, but this vehicle is driven by the big 3.  If you are looking for meaning and logic from this film, you have come to the wrong place.  But if you enjoy a voyeuristic peek into the lives of people who undoubtedly swirl around us daily, unnoticed, this one's for you!  Plus the on location shots in old Atlantic City P.T. (pre-Trump) add murkiness to the angst we see.  All in all, one you'll think about!  "},{"Title":"There's no there there.","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read the reviews and comments that seem to indicate a deep and insightful movie. I guess I am just a simpleton, but I simply don't get it. It seems a quiet character study type of film. It contrasts the two brothers, played very well by Jack Nicholson and Bruce Dern, one as the shady hustler, and one as a semi-realist. It contrasts the two women, also played very well by Ellen Burstyn and Julia Ann Robinson, one of them nearing the end of her time wielding sexual power over men, and the other, the step-daughter, just coming into her time. It seems to compare the bleak Atlantic City winter with the age of the older woman, and the dreams of the older brother. And what's up with all the black gangsters? No, I just don't get it. "},{"Title":"Ameican Dream","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was the 3rd movie that i've watched from Rafelson in his golden 70's era (after Five Easy pieces n Stay Hungry).I found it brilliant. it could be named as Five Easy Pieces,part ii. all of director's elements are present herethe story of frustrated Americans in 70's, their alienation from their families(i just reminded that poetic sequence in the final of  5ive Easy Pieces,where jack talks to his handicap father n the symmetric sequence in Marvin Gardens is at the beginning when Jack narrates a fiction story about his grandfather).the movie truly criticizes the American dream and Rafelson is definitely 1 of the first directors who dared to create the story of this disillusioned generation with poetic n compelling structure.i am afraid that i'll remember Marvin Gardens by one sequence n 1 quote the scene where two brothers arrange a show to elect(!) Miss America. that's a fantastic satire about opportunism-like evaluation of American dream.and the quote in near final where Jason (Dern) says if everything don't work out for you like magic,then it's all a mirage... "},{"Title":"This movie is a hidden gem!","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What can I say about this film? I may not have given it 10 out of 10 but it is definitely one of Jack's better films. It is so different to anything else he has done before, in my opinion, that some people may not know how to respond but all in all they should watch it anyway, because, more than anything else, it's impressionable and very, very interesting.The character of David Staeblar (Jack Nicholson) comes across as your average, slightly middle-class male, seeming settled in his usual daily routine of life and living comfortably with his grandfather. When he meets up with his ambitious older brother, he seems somewhat disdainful of his pathetic dreams of success in Atlantic City. You never quite understand whether David is dismissing these pipe dreams because he doesn't believe they can happen or because he is slightly jealous of his brother.The film, above all, highlights the relationship between four people, and how they react to each other. The two brothers and the two women. Between the brothers you can sense there is a love there but there is also an underlying current of bitterness and regret, almost as though they were never that close in childhood.Sally (Ellen Burstyn) is clearly in love with Jason but she is also terrified that his 'upcoming success' will leave her out in the cold and, despite coming across as independent and feisty, you can see she is desperately trying to cling on to a stability she craves with him. She wants people to think she's okay but really she craves security. There is anguish and real suppressed emotion there. She was considered beautiful in her day but her looks are fading and she's not getting any younger. She's constantly reminded of that when she looks at her stepdaughter Jessie. I think Ellen Burstyn played this role beautifully and truly think she deserved to win an Oscar.Both the direction and screenplay on this movie were impeccable, and I would strongly suggest to anyone who hasn't seen this film that they rent it or buy it because it is definitely not one to be missed. "},{"Title":"Solid Cast, Decent Film","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jason Staebler (Bruce Dern) has gone directly to jail, lives on the boardwalk and fronts for the local mob in Atlantic City. He is also a dreamer who asks his brother, David (Jack Nicholson), a radio personality from Philadelphia to help him build a paradise on a Pacific island, asking him to believe in yet another of his dreams, yet another of his get-rich-quick schemes.While this story is good and the direction is fine, it is the cast that really sells the movie. Especially Dern and Nicholson, who had previously worked together. Nicholson and Scatman Crothers subsequently co-starred in Milo&#x9A; Forman's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) and Stanley Kubrick's The Shining (1980).To give a fair review, I would need to see the film again. So, until then, this is just a place holder. "},{"Title":"A downbeat character study","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written by Bob Rafelson and former movie critic, Jacob Brackman, 'The King of Marvin Gardens' was the fourth film released by BBS Productions (i.e., Bob Rafelson, Bert Schneider, and Steve Blauner) during its all-too-brief existence (1970-74). King dwells on the vexed relationship between two brothers David Staebler (Jack Nicholson), a depressive Philadelphia radio personality living with his grandfather, and Jason Staebler (Bruce Dern), an always-scheming hustler and petty crook who works as a front man for Lewis (Scatman Crothers), a black mobster in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Breaking a long spell of silence, an excited Jason phones David to summon him to Atlantic City to take part in a get-rich-quick scheme that involves buying an island resort near Hawaii&#x97;with Lewis's money. Jason is, of course, deluded but David lacks the moral clarity or ego strength necessary to challenge his older brother's venal fantasies. Further complicating the situation is the fact that Lewis has had Jason thrown in jail on trumped-up charges. David eventually succeeds in springing Jason from jail but Lewis won't drop the charges unless Jason abandons his island real estate scheme. Adding to the turmoil is the ambiguous, sexually fraught relationship that prevails between Jason, Sally (Ellen Burstyn) his aging, mentally unstable girlfriend, and Sally's nubile stepdaughter, Jessica (Julie Anne Robinson). David and Jason fall prey to Jessica's feminine wiles and disaster ensues. Short on plot, 'The King of Marvin Gardens' is primarily a character study/mood piece/acting tour de force shot on location in Atlantic City, especially at the huge, decaying Marlborough- Blenheim Hotel at Park Place and Boardwalk (which was torn down in 1979 to make way for Bally's Casino). References to the Monopoly game abound; unsurprising, given the film's setting and its implicit critique of American Dream ideology. VHS (1994) and DVD (2000). "},{"Title":"The Last Gasp of Hope for a Dying Nation...","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Alienation and disconnection -- the uncomfortable mood gripping the nation would soon degrade into deep malaise and acute paranoia as America was stunned and traumatized by revelations of the government's deceptions and lies about the failing war in Viet Nam and then soon enough the vaudevillian scandal of Watergate. This film strives to capture the infinitely subtle drama of when innocence isn't so much lost as it's cynically packaged and sold. Dreams may die hard, but delusions usually expire with barely an audible whimper, and there was no more epic delusion expiring at that moment in our history than the vainglorious belief in the USA's infallibility. God, himself, had ordained this vast land exceptional and anointed its multitudinous inhabitants, or so we'd been told. Like the crumbling, decrepit, musty seaside resort town which plays host to this tragicomic farce, America was not living up to its slogan as the Shining City on the Hill. Atlantic City in the early 70's not only manifested the startling decay of so much of this nation's urban spaces, but also poignantly symbolized the inner decay of our national psyche. And while it's certainly sad and scary to witness the gruesome, slow, writhing death of the Great American Delusion, it's also somehow comforting and reassuring to know that just beneath the still warm corpse germinates tender seedlings incubating the merest wisps of hope for our nation's future. Amidst the emphatically strained and tortured metaphors which comprise this modest cinematic tragedy lurks genuineness and sincerity and psychological resonance. It's an awkward, peculiar little picture story that will haunt your psyche, if you're not already dead, or too delusional. "},{"Title":"To dream of baboons and periwinkles","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A 1972 film by Bob Rafelson, The King of Marvin Gardens stars Jack Nicholson and Bruce Dern as a pair of brothers. Dern plays a fast-talking idealist, Nicholson plays a morose realist. The two gather in Atlantic City, where Dern attempts to convince his brother that an audacious business venture will prove profitable. Nicholson doesn't believe him.The political and social events of the 1960s and 70s eventually became catalysts for disillusionment. Within the space of a few years, a generation of Americans shifted from optimism, hope and idealism to disenchantment and distrust. The King of Marvin Gardens, its title an ironic reference to one of the more exclusive properties on the Monopoly board game, captures this Zeitgeist well. Virtually every scene features our duo battling a landscape which refuses to actualise any and all dreams, before the film ends with a bloody climax in which our dreamers get shot down. This makes for grim viewing, but Nicholson's quietly engrossing, and Rafelson constructs a number of strong, surreal scenes.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Go Go Tales. "},{"Title":"Has some great pieces, but they don't add up","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Rafelson's followup to Five Easy Pieces. It's a fascinating film that really does not succeed. Jack Nicholson stars as a late night radio personality who receives a call from his estranged brother (Bruce Dern) to bail him out of jail in Atlantic City. After he does so, Dern invites him in on a major real estate deal, buying up a small island in Hawaii. There's not much plot from there. The film progresses into a series of vignettes whose relation is often difficult to determine. Basically, Nicholson, Dern and Dern's two girlfriends, Ellen Burstyn and Julia Anne Robinson, hang around Atlantic City doing weird stuff. Each scene is entertaining enough by itself, but the film doesn't really build, climaxes with a typical 70s bummer and, sort of like Five Easy Pieces, ends on an evocative bit. Here, though, it doesn't have any real meaning. Everything about it seems like a really good movie, but it just doesn't add up to be anything in particular. "},{"Title":"An unusual vision of American pessimism","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's hard to imagine Jack Nicholson appearing in a film like 'The King of Marvin Gardens' today. The movie is a story of an introverted broadcaster and his hustling brother; there's an air of seediness to the portrait of a run-down, early 1970s, east-coast America; of doomed hopelessness about the the huckster's implausible vision; and of a terrific sadness in the way that the broadcaster finds a touch of glamour and excitement in hanging out with his brother for a while, although the two of them have nothing in common and surely nothing is actually going to turn out right. I've heard it said that Saul Bellow's 'The Adventures of Augie March' is the great American novel because of its optimism; but this is another side of America, post-Vietnam war, a world of fraudsters, impossible dreamers, and those just hunkering down to survive. As a film, and certainly as entertainment, it's weaker than Nicholson and director Bob Rafelson's earlier 'Five Easy Pieces', primarily because Nicholson's character here is fundamentally less interesting it's a correctly restrained performance from Jack, but playing a man who has little capacity for change, and constrained by a story that's low-key painful, rather than exciting. Yet even if this is not a fun movie, it's a telling one. Pessimism, like optimism, remains part of the American landscape, as it is in every country; but it's a shame that it's been written out of the contemporary Hollywood vision. "}{"Title":"Nicely Understated, But A Little Too Bleak & Disjointed","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bleak might be the best word to describe this typically-low life early 1970s film. There were a number of these kind of grungy films made in that decade, and this is one another of them. It's also another example of a critics' favorite that bombed with the public. People generally do not want to see depressing stories like this, but Hollywood producers/directors will crank them out anyway to please their peers. How many films did that period did we see that were upbeat and took place in Atlantic City? Probably none. The city was a perfect setting dingy stories about losers.The movie does feature a good cast, is nicely understated and features a bunch of character stories, but I never really found out where it was going. It wound up being a slow piece about unappealing people. Can you say disjointed? Is it any wonder this film was another dud at the box office, despite the cast?SOME GOOD POINTS - It was refreshing to see Jack Nicholson playing against-type with the role of a introverted radio monologist. He didn't play too many introverts for a long time! Bruce Dern is interesting as always and if you want to see a new face, check out actress Julie Ann Robinson as Jessica. This was her only role. "},{"Title":"Monopoly Money","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The casting of a young Jack Nicholson is very much against type and the opening monologue is impressive. Lesser actors would had been blown off course from there.Bruce Dern is also cast against type, playing the loud, showy role as his conman older brother with big dreams and a real estate scam which he ropes Nicholson in, Nicholson being the glass half empty kind of guy is rather negative about it all. Not helped that he is also a depressive.Tagging along with Dern are an older and younger lady who help him hustle and Scatman Crothers plays a type of Mr Big that Dern has seemingly upset.The setting is Atlantic City, before it got knocked down and redeveloped with casinos. In that sense we are seeing a decaying city from the past. The acting is top notch, the story has some surreal elements and part of it is hard to follow. What exactly is going on with the women that Dern has, why did one of them think she was now over the hill and burn all her clothes and the passed the baton to the younger one. It was as if scenes were cut out so you cannot follow the story properly. "},{"Title":"Surprising considering the leading men.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You would probably expect a film starring Jack Nicholson and Bruce Dern to be emotionally charged and rather exciting. Oddly, the film is the opposite. It's very, very slow and about as exciting as a documentary about cheese making--at least the first 75% of the film. Then, things heat up--but by then, most of the folks watching this film probably will have turned it off.The film begins with Nicholson playing David Staebler--a rather dull man who has a Public Radio sort of show in Philadelphia. Out of the blue, his brother, who he hasn't heard from in over a decade, contacts him and tells him to come Atlantic City for some 'big deal'. Once there, the older brother, Jason (Bruce Dern), tells him about some sort of casino that he's going to be running in Hawaii--but the details are very, very vague. Most of the time, however, instead of working on this deal, Jason just hangs out in a decrepit old hotel with two women--Sally (Ellen Burstyn) and Jessica (Julie Ann Robinson). As the film progresses, the deal seems more and more vague and Jason keeps making promises to David to get him to stay--all the while Sally's mood is incredibly unstable. What comes of all this, eventually, is a bit of a shocker--but not enough to make slogging through the first 75% of the film worth your time. It is interesting to see Nicholson play such a quiet and 'normal' person but other than that, there isn't much to recommend here. "},{"Title":"An uncommon and out of place role for the legendary Jack yet still a good film of a brother conflict that ends tragic.","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The King of Marvin Gardens certainly isn't a Nicholson gem because his character he plays is so uncommon and laid back when Jack mostly took roles of the anti-hero, and rebel types, yet the film is interesting enough with conflict to be interesting. Nicholson is David Staebler a Philadelphia radio announcer who has a talk show in which he does monologue only to one day get a call from his slick and crooked brother Jason(Bruce Dern) who's been jailed. The film then shifts to the boardwalk of Atlantic City, NJ where the two brothers bond and plan new directions with hopes and dreams of money thru scams and mob business all to buy hotels, casinos and live on an island. The conflict of two different brothers David who's like light and Jason like dark really carries the film just enough to keep it interesting. Ellen Burstyn does add a little style and spice as the aging beauty caught between the two brothers. In the end the film takes a tragic turn and David returns to his talk radio in Philly. Really this film isn't a 70's classic in my opinion it moved a little slow and Nicholson's character though not boring seemed out of place, I'm use to seeing Jack having more complex and different roles. To sum it up it's still worth a watch the scenes of A.C. are great and the film gave pretty good sight into the 70's mob culture of gambling and casino business. "},{"Title":"One of The Unseen Films of the  70's","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a two sentence summary Great Story and Great  Acting  This Movie is Great, Go Rent It. In more words,  When you think about all that Nicholsen's done, This is not up there but it should be, its a great character piece circling around the great Bruce Dern and also centering on Jack Nicholsen and there quest....But there is one roadblock, the lovely Ellen Burnstyn who makes this movie a little better with each outburst she and Dern have.. Good movie, only problem is some editing errors, good scenary and I love those glasses Jack "},{"Title":"The King of Naught","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ever see a movie where you didn't like any of the characters? This movie is one of them. I know that in the early 70's, when it came out, I probably would have thought it profound. In those days antinomianism, angst, the nihilism of the post-war nuclear threat, were still chic. The plays of Samuel Beckett were still fresh. And Hollywood was at the zenith of its profound era. I have re-viewed many movies from that time--movies I thought were so deep--and found them pretentious and wanting. I didn't see King of Marvin Gardens then, but I felt the same as during a recent viewing of The Deer Hunter, the first 2/3 of which were yawningly--guess I'll get a beer-- profound. I won't see it again. So much of Nicholson's early work is so acidic I can no longer stand it. Five Easy Pieces? What a load of self-indulged artsy-fartsy hooey the Nicholson character is so talented that he, like Zarathustra, comes down from the mountaintop, becomes a roughneck, takes up with a proletarian woman, and later selfishly says the hell with them both. (Sometime in the mid-80's I wrote him off until About Schmidt, where does a bang-up job.) In King of Marvin Gardens, he sounds like he's on the same bad pot-high, during his radio monologues, as he was in the camping scene in Easy Rider talking about Venusians or...huh?. As for the rest of the cast Bruce Dern, would do better in construction than acting; Ellyn Burstyn, really should have concentrated on organic gardening and psychoanalysis. The movie's real star was the backdrop of Atlantic City, then on hard times. All those old hotels and faceless old-folks who, no doubt, still remembered its heyday, were wonderful. They kept me through it to the end. "},{"Title":"Someone owes me 103 minutes of my life back!","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How can this movie have a 6.5 star rating? It's bloody awful! If it weren't for the talent of the cast it'd be completely unwatchable. I'm dumber for having watched it. Here it is in short People acting as if they're stoned, dialog, dialog, dialog, something dumb happens, dialog, dialog, dialog, someone gets shot, movie over. I don't think it's the director's fault. I don't think anyone could have made this disaster screen worthy. The only reason I watched it in the first place was for research of Atlantic City's boardwalk. I can't write enough about this movie to make the review stick. Who decides a review has to be at least ten lines of text anyway? This is almost as dumb as this movie. "},{"Title":"for Jack fans only","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My wife is a Jack Nicholson freak, and so together we have been working our way through his early work, which ranges from the sublime ('Five Easy Pieces') to the ridiculous ('Hell's Angels on Wheels').'The King of Marvin Gardens' falls somewhere in between.  The film reunites Nicholson with director Bob Rafelson, whose work together on 'Five Easy Pieces' established both actor and director as major new talents.  Sure, Jack had already made 'Easy Rider,' but 'Five Easy Pieces' established him as a real actor, more than just the eyebrows and the rakish grin.Rafelson's direction in 'The King of Marvin Gardens' carries a quality of understatement reminiscent of 'Five Easy Pieces,' and he shows unusual trust in his actors to get the film's subtext across.  Unfortunately, the screenplay is so vague and ambiguous that it leaves the actors swinging in the wind.  Nicholson's long opening monologue is profoundly affecting, but at its conclusion, we learn that the story he's telling is a fiction the character, David Staebler, is a writer who, having determined the written word to be a dying medium, has turned to spoken word storytelling as his means of artistic expression.  Nicholson portrays David's emotional disconnection and misanthrophy with the brilliance we've come to expect from him, but the nature of the character makes his motivations somewhat inscrutable without more help from the script.  Bruce Dern, as David's second-rate con-man brother Jason, is engaging but similarly difficult to comprehend.  The film seems to be interested in portraying the depth of the bond between the brothers and David's willingness to believe in Jason's fantastic schemes, following him down the road to disaster out of filial love, but neither character is really meant to be likeable, so it's hard to get emotionally committed to their downward spiral journey.  Ellen Burstyn steals the show as Sally, Jason's girlfriend, fellow hustler, and occasional prostitute, who is devoted to Jason but grows increasingly hysterical as she begins to see herself aging and being replaced in priority by her step-daughter, the beautiful and relatively innocent Jessie (Julia Ann Robinson), whom Sally has raised to be a whore and con-artist like herself.   The world the characters travel in is sordid, and it's pretty much guaranteed from the get-go that things won't end up well--the climax is shocking (I won't give it away here), but after the initial reaction wore off, I found it on reflection to be somewhat lazy, as if writer Jacob Brackman was a college creative writing student on a deadline and just had to come up with an ending for his story.The film is a good example of the 'dirty realism' typical of American filmmaking and literature in the 1970s (it feels very much like something that might have been written by Hubert Selby or Raymond Carver), and is credited as having influenced a host of more highly regarded and well-remembered realistic dramas.  So if you're a budding film historian, you should probably see it.  Certainly, 'The King of Marvin Gardens' showcases Jack Nicholson's acting in a more subtle, subversively expressive role.  Most of Jack's most famous movies either have him typecast as the fun-loving rake ('One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,' 'The Last Detail,' 'Terms of Endearment') or the borderline pyschopath ('The Shining,' 'A Few Good Men,' 'As Good as it Gets'), and lately he seems to be asked more often than not to play himself ('Something's Gotta Give').  It's well-worth stepping back to see him in such a quiet, complicated role. But this movie is no fun at all.  It's stark and sad and you just know things are not going to work out for the characters, who are in many ways too despicable for us to care what becomes of them.   "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As others have stated, when you consider how darn good Five Easy Pieces was, this was a terrible attempt at a reprise. I like dreary. I mean, I liked Atlantic City , I liked Chinatown. I like dreary. However, just like a similar attempt Nicholson made with The Five Jakes, this was disjointed, confused, unclear and, well, just dreary. The shooting scene was ridiculous. The best part was Nicholson's monologue at the beginning and even that was somewhat inane but it shows you how Nicholson can make bad stuff sound good. "},{"Title":"Hailed as a great film, a lot is lost.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Five East Pieces is one of my favorite movies, I waited nearly 20 years to see Bob Rafelson and Jack Nicholson's reunion in the next movie, The King of Marvin Gardens. When I finally saw the film, thinking the scuttblebutt and reviews were potent to my standpoint, I was sorry to say that this was actually a disjointed and very disappointing effort.Bruce Dern and Jack Nicholson play brothers, one is a radio personality, and the other is a criminal. radio personality Nicholson sinks deeper into crooked Dern's underworld, etc.,etc.,etc. Formulaic storyline. I was waiting for something to happen. Superficial this is, Interesting it isn't.The best part of this movie was Jack Nicholson's monologue at the beginning. After that, the film devoids into senseless, pretentious, nosense. "}{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Staebler (Jack Nicholson) is a late-night DJ who delivers rambling monologues that are presented as truth but which are really false. His brother, Jason (Bruce Dern) is a low-ranking mobster with grand plans to open a casino on an island near Hawaii. Jason summons David to Atlantic City to support him in his scheme, and he arrives to discover Jason embroiled in a strange relationship with fading beauty Sally (Ellen Burstyn) and her stepdaughter, Jessica (Julia Anne Robinson).We have here Bob Rafelson, Jack Nicholson and the early seventies, so I suppose we don't get anything we shouldn't really expect. Rafelson's career and reputation had not yet descended to the point where he was directing with increasing infrequency 'artistic' soft porn and he still had a reputation as someone to watch; Nicholson was enjoying his new-found standing with a tendency to appear in 'serious' and 'intelligent' work instead of playing himself in every film as he has done for the past ten to fifteen years, and the early Seventies were the last great period of Hollywood movie-making in which films were green-lighted on consideration of criteria other than the their ability to appeal to the lowest common denominator. They were good times for movie-making in America, but there was a downside &#150; over-indulgent and pretentious tosh like this.David Staebler is a dull and repressed character who does nothing other than occasionally twitch his nose like a rabbit. He observes things and he talks into his tape recorder but he plays little part in the events that take place on the screen. Even when he does eventually do something it changes nothing. His brother, played by an energised Dern, is the exact opposite where David's feet are planted firmly on the ground, Jason's are floating up there in the clouds, and he is forever hustling. Jacob Brackman's flat and unconvincing screenplay spends the film's entire running time emphasising this disparity between the brothers to little effect. The character of Sally, played with real tact and sympathy by Burstyn, and her odd relationship with Jason is more interesting for the viewer, and the metaphor between her ageing beauty and the fading grandeur of the Atlantic City location is impossible to miss. As pointed out by other reviewers, however, that ending is a real cheat &#150; it's cheap and unimaginative and is only a notch or two above the 'he woke up to discover it was all a dream' cliché &#150; and it's no small wonder that Brackman's film-writing career failed to go anywhere.This isn't an overlooked classic, it isn't under-rated and it doesn't deserve to be rediscovered. It's pompous, pretentious, self-important and largely meaningless. Only the good work by the first-rate cast gives it any merit to speak of. "},{"Title":"gamble it up, gamble it down","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having scored a triumph with Five Easy Pieces, Bob Rafelson and Jack Nicholson reunited for The King of Marvin Gardens, a convoluted look at tension in Atlantic City. Nicholson is noticeably more subdued here than he was in FEP - meaning no stick it between your knees scene - but still does a good job, as a Philadelphia DJ summoned by his brother (Bruce Dern) to help with a scheme. Also starring is Ellen Burstyn; I'm still trying to figure out the meaning of that scene where she cuts her hair.All in all, TKOMG isn't any kind of masterpiece, but worth seeing. Sort of a precursor to Louis Malle's Atlantic City, the movie truly gives one the feeling of urban decay. Jack Nicholson sure looks strange wearing glasses. Also starring Scatman Crothers, a few years before he and Nicholson horrifically co-starred in The Shining. "},{"Title":"Leonard Maltin hit the nail on the head.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  His summary of this film was perfect, brilliant and completely absorbing account of a concerned sibling (played by a young Jack Nicholson, excellent then as ever) attempting to discourage his disc jockey brother's outrageous and irresponsible financial schemes.Ellen Burstyn stands out as an aging beauty (and for an old badger, looks pretty damn good in her brief topless scene), but the entire cast contributes heavily, including Bruce Dern as the shady sibling.  Look for frequent Nicholson costar Scatman Crothers in a bit part.***1/2 out of ****.MPAA Rated R for brief strong violence and a brief scene of nudity. "},{"Title":"One of the greats.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The opening to this film is one of the greatest i've seen. If you don't know anything about this film, i suggest you keep it that way to fully enjoy the first few minutes, up to and including the opening credits. Sure, the rest of the film is not so great but i'll always remember it for making me ask questions immediately, hooking me within seconds. "},{"Title":"monotony monopolized","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jack, Bruce, & Ellen. How can you go wrong?Here's how with a script that's made up of actors' 'show' pieces, a treasure-trove of monologues for the self-indulgent, earnest Thespian. The performances can't really be faulted, but performances aren't enough. The script's not nearly as profound, tragic, or interesting as it thinks it is.During a rambling and aimless movie I often have a dread feeling that the action (what there is) will come to a head in violence... That may in fact be a pitfall of the rambling and aimless, but in drama is one of the hallmarks of the lazy writer. I had that suspicion here, and the movie delivered on that promise.Supposedly Rafaelson was proud of casting against type. If you've ever wanted to see a whole movie of Jack clenching a pencil between his cheeks, by all means enjoy The King of Marvin Gardens. "},{"Title":"Good drama,great actors!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Good drama with great cast and better than average production.The pace is deliberately slow and un copromisingly greared towards an audience that understands the hustler's lifestyle.Also,to like this movie,one must be a big fan of the drama genre.True fans of the lead actors will also like this film.Could have been better if this film had  higher quality screenplay.......   "},{"Title":"I'd like to have seen role reversal","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am only giving this film a 6 as I found it rather dull, and having never played Monopoly the inference to the game went right over my head. Instead I found myself wondering what the film would have been like with Jack Nicholson playing the extroverted Jason, and Bruce Dern as David. As a primer for actors, which is what the movie seemed to be, more than an entertainment for an audience, it would have been interesting to see a back-to-back version with the roles reversed.Certainly, the film had the same downbeat theme as The Last Detail which I thoroughly enjoyed, and the setting of the off-season seaside town added to the bleak atmosphere. There is nothing more depressing than a sea coast resort in winter. I kept wishing that David would tell his brother to get lost and go back to Philly. The characters, a petty crook and two women of no fixed abode were pathetic losers and, with the exception of David, living in a fantasy of their own making. At least David asked some down to earth questions once in a while. The bullying user, Jason, really got on my nerves - his everyone else is there to serve my needs attitude made me cringe, especially the way he turned on people who did not share his vision. "},{"Title":"Great to see a young Nicholson, but the movie disappoints.","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David and his older brother Jason are completely different as adults. David is thoughtful, cautious, somewhat reticent. Jason is a born hustler, impulsive, charming, but has no concept of reality. This movie, which could easily have been a stage play, examines the dynamic between the brothers. The setting is Atlantic City for the Monopoly game references, but it in fact could have otherwise been set anywhere.The movie opens with a close-up of Nicholson as David Staebler, talking, and we soon learn that he is telling one of his stories on his overnight radio show in Philadelphia. Of his granddad who loved to eat fish every Friday, not for religious reasons. And the time when his granddad expired after choking one final time on bones. A very well told story but, when David gets home to granddad, who simply coughs at him repeatedly, we realize that David's stories are only partly based on fact. Such is the artist. We first see Bruce Dern as Jason Staebler, when David is called to Atlantic Cty to find him behind bars, caught in yet another minor scam. Jason has big dreams, great big dreams, and the latest one is a deal to buy an island off the Hawaii coast and build a casino and hotel. The trouble is Jason has no real plan, just trying to talk someone, anyone, into financing his venture. David is constantly puzzled by his brother's behavior, by his seeming inability to see a real world perspective of what is going on. Or not, as the case may be. All this is complicated by two hangers on, Ellen Burstyn as 40-something Sally and Julia Anne Robinson (never made another movie) as Sally's stepdaughter Jessica. MAJOR SPOILERS. In the end, as it becomes more clear that Jason's deals will not come to fruition, and as he treats Sally with disdain, she grabs a gun and in anger shoots and kills him. The movie ends as David is seeing a pine box onto the train for the trip back to Philadelphia. "},{"Title":"A disapointing move!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this on Bravo a couple of weeks ago and boy did it suck.  Bruce Dern plays an ex-convict who appearently has a secret stash of money hidden away. He plans on sharing the wealth with his brother, Jack Nicholson, some girl, and the girls Crazy step-mother.The movie itself made no sense and put me to sleep half the time.  The films only saving grace was Scatman Crothers.  He was probably the only good actor in the movie.  He even out-SHINED Jack Nicholson.  Unfortunately, he was only in two scenes.I personally recommend you stay away from this movie.  Instead see The Shining and One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest (both movies featured Nicholson and Crothers).  *(the movie would've earned a zero if it wasn't for the presence of Scatman Crothers) "},{"Title":"The King of Marvin Gardens","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Quirky Bob Rafelson/Jack Nicholson collaboration set in Atlantic City with Jack playing it low key as Bruce Dern's stolid brother who is constantly exasperated by his sibling's schemes and delusions.  "}]