[{"Title":"An amusing WIP film parody with Grier and Haig at their best","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the third women in prison (WIP) movie produced by Roger Corman's New World Pictures within just two years, beginning with THE BIG DOLL HOUSE and WOMEN IN CAGES, both released in 1971. In spite of the similar titles, there's no narrative connection between BIRD CAGE and DOLL HOUSE, though the films were later shrewdly retitled `Women's Penitentiary I' and `II' by distributors who hoped each film would capitalize on the other's popularity. Director Jack Hill, who also helmed DOLL HOUSE, says Corman hired him to make a sequel, but since the WIP genre had already become formulaic and predictable, Hill played up the humor and delivered a parody instead. Like DOLL HOUSE, the film features Pam Grier and Sid Haig in prominent roles and was shot in the Philippines. This time, Hill makes much better use of both actors as well as the beautiful locations.Perhaps the movie is best remembered as the screen debut of Anitra Ford, the exotically beautiful model who turned quite a few heads as well as price tags on television's THE PRICE IS RIGHT game show. She plays Terry, an American tourist visiting a Central American banana republic where her indiscreet flirtations with the prime minister get her in trouble with the governing party. She's sent to a bamboo shack prison for women staffed exclusively by gay guards and centered around a towering, archaic-looking sugar cane mill, the `big bird cage' of the title. The warden (Andy Centenera) designed the structure himself and is more than willing to sacrifice a few of his charges now and then to keep it in working order. At one point, an unfortunate prisoner is crushed to death when she's forced to crawl under the contraption to reposition a gigantic, misaligned cog.Prisoners who lose their wits are permanently confined in a cage for `crazies' while those who attempt to escape are tracked down by attack dogs. Regardless, Terry makes a run for it and nearly gets gang raped in the process. When the effeminate head guard Rocco (Vic Diaz, who has been called `the Peter Lorre of the Philippines') catches up to her as she's being molested by half a dozen local men, he dryly comments, `Why doesn't that ever happen to me?' As punishment for her attempted escape, Terry's left hanging from a rope tied to her long, dark tresses. Talk about having a bad hair day!The other inmates are the usual batch of rag tag stereotypes. There's the butch top dog (Teda Bracci), the sex starved nymph (Candice Roman), and a pathetic new kid (Marissa Delgado) who's befriended and championed by the heroine. The most original character is an Amazonian lesbian (Karen McKevic) who's supposedly so violent she must be chained to her bed, though she looks more like an unusually tall anorexic. She seems to have been included strictly for laughs in one especially silly scene, she smears chicken fat over her body hoping to slip past her other cell mates so she can get her hands on a teasing tormentor.Curiously, the most entertaining parts of the film don't involve the prisoners but rather a nearby group of revolutionaries led by Blossom (Grier) and Django (Haig). Neither actor has ever been more appealing in any role and they work brilliantly together.  In the opening scene, they pose as musicians in a local band to burglarize a seedy nightclub and Grier actually sings on the soundtrack. Later, they wrestle in the mud before kissing and making up. As they noisily make love in a hut, another bandit ruefully comments, `What an army we could raise if we only had a lot of women.... Where could we find so many women to steal?' Thus are the unlikely seeds of a prison break sewn!Haig is hilarious in the scenes where Django `camps it up' flirting with the guards to weasel his way into the prison staff and Grier leads the eventual riot with her usual gusto. The film features lots of action including a fiery finale. There's also quite a bit of nudity, though unfortunately only a few brief glimpses of foxy Ms. Ford in the buff. She shows a bit more skin in her next two films, INVASION OF THE BEE GIRLS and STACEY (both 1973).  "},{"Title":"Easily the best Pam Grier women in prison movie. Great fun!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jack Hill's follow-up (but not a sequel) to his earlier 'The Big Doll House' is a much more confident and enjoyable movie. Hill wrote as well as directed this one and I think that makes a world of difference. The basic model of the earlier film is followed but Hill shrewdly saw that the handful of scenes between Pam Grier and Sid Haig in that movie showed plenty of potential, so this time round he casts them as singing Revolutionary lovers (yeah baby!), an inspired move that really makes this one something special. The foxy Anitra Ford ('Invasion Of The Bee Girls') plays a sassy character who crosses their paths early in the film during a robbery. Super cool Django (Haig) takes a fancy to her but before he can do anything about it she is arrested and sent to a brutal prison. (I should point out that even though this movie, like the others in this short-lived 1970s cycle, was filmed in the Philippines, it is set in some nameless Banana Republic). Before too long Grier also finds herself in the same compound, which is dominated by the bird cage, a strange contraption the women are forced to work on as punishment. Django cooks up a nutty plan to save her by pretending to be gay to ingratiate himself with one of the camps (very camp) guards Rocco, played by Vic Diaz, who later reunited with Haig and Grier in 'Black Mama White Mama'. This is a fantastic piece of entertainment overall and a guaranteed hoot! Personally I would say it is only rivalled by 'Caged Heat' and 'Chained Heat' as far as women in prison exploitation movies go. Highly recommended fun. "},{"Title":"Pam, Sid, and Anitra - Now that's a threesome!","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the jungles of some unnamed banana republic sits a women's prison. The inmates are treated as slaves and forced to work in the sugar cane fields. A nearby band of revolutionaries comes up with an idea to recruit additional soldiers &#150; they need women to attract more men. The prison offers them a ready made supply of women. But how to get the women out? Most WIP films I've seen are, in truth, very downbeat and depressing. They present scene after scene of women being tortured and otherwise humiliated. The Big Bird Cage is something of a change from the standard formula. Sure, the movie features some of the same torture scenes, gratuitous nudity, and violence, but much of it is done with a sense of humor that worked for me. Watching Sid Haig do his over-the-top queen shtick may be un-PC, but sign me up for sensitivity training because I found it very funny. It's a novel idea for a WIP film to have gay male guards to keep them from falling for the temptations of their prisoners.The plot makes little sense if you stop and think about it. The plan the revolutionaries come up with to get the women out of the prison makes about as much sense as skydiving without a parachute and has about as much chance for success. It only serves to get Pam Grier into the prison to work from the inside. The film works best if you ignore the implausibility of the situation and just enjoy.I love watching Pam Grier, but to be honest, her delivery is often stilted. This is especially true in her early films. The Big Bird Cage may be the best of her early work. For the most part, she's more natural sounding. She and Sid Haig have a real chemistry that works in these movies. I would love to see someone reunite the pair in a new movie. The cast also features Anitra Ford, who may not be the best actress in the world, but she's definitely easy on the eyes. "},{"Title":"Women's prisons have never been this much fun!","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite the fact that women in prison films are famous for sex and sleaze (two of my most favourite things to see in movies), I have to say that I'm not a big fan of the genre overall and it's mostly due to the fact that these films are often very similar to one another. The Big Bird Cage cuts down on both of these two elements, but replaces them with a bucket load of fun and good humour; and the result is a film that sets itself apart from most of the rest of the genre. The film is made up of two parts; on the one hand, we have a women's prison ruled over by the usual assortment of sadistic guards, and on the other hand; we have a band of revolutionaries lead by Sid Haig and Pam Grier. After a robbery in a bar, a young female socialite is captured and wrongly imprisoned in said women's prison, where the inmates are forced to work inside a huge wooden structure known as 'The Big Bird Cage'. It's not long before one of the revolutionaries comes up with a plan involving the liberation of the women at the prison camp in order to attract more men to their regime...This film features three standout performances - from Sid Haig, Pam Grier and Anitra Ford. It's Haig and Grier's screen time together that is the main highlight, and we get treated to things like Haig slapping Grier with a wet fish! Of course, the film is really rather stupid with several silly decisions taking centre stage; but this all just adds to the fun! One of the best things about the film in my opinion was the gay prison guards - quite a difference to most women in prison films! The setting also sets this one apart from most of the rest of the genre - gone are the damp and dirty insides of most women's prisons and it's replaced by a rather more sunny setting and it's certainly a very welcome change. The plot really doesn't make much sense and is often played more for laughs than anything else - but personally I'm completely fine with that and the film really is very funny - Sid Haig's infiltration of the camp being a big highlight. The film is constantly entertaining throughout and manages to keep this up until the climax - although the ending does represent something of a change in tone. Overall, The Big Bird Cage is an excellent film and undoubtedly one of the best women in prison flicks ever made - don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Grier rules the roost; Haig ruffles some feathers; Ford flies the coop.","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When it comes to Women In Prison movies, I usually want 'em to be as sleazy and as violent as possible, but director Jack Hill's WIP flicks look set to be an exception to this rule The Big Bird Cage, his second foray in the genre (after The Big Doll House), is a gloriously camp exercise in trash cinema, occasionally tasteless but presented with such a goofy sense of humour that it proves to be far less offensive than many of its contemporaries and almost impossible not to enjoy.Set in an unnamed 'banana republic' (but shot in the Philipines), the film opens with beautiful brunette social climber Terry (the belly-licious Anitra Ford), a close personal 'friend' (i.e., lover) of the president, being abducted by revolutionary Django (Sid Haig) during a daring robbery. To avoid capture by the law, Django resorts to leaping off a bridge, leaving poor Terry to be apprehended by the police, after which she is accused of being an accomplice in the crime; this presents the authorities with a convenient opportunity to rid themselves of Terry, a potential embarrassment for the government, by shipping her to a high security camp where unruly prisoners are forced to do dangerous work in a towering, wooden sugar mill&#x97;the 'Bird Cage' of the title.Meanwhile, Django, his feisty woman Blossom (busty Blaxploitation queen Pam Grier) and their revolutionary pals continue to plan their political uprising. Concluding that their cause would benefit immensely from the recruitment of more gutsy females like Blossom, they put into motion a scheme that involves Blossom getting herself incarcerated in the same establishment as Terry, and Django going undercover as a camp guard (and I do mean 'camp'&#x97;all of the guards are homosexuals so as not to tempt the prisoners).With his tongue firmly planted in cheek, director Hill delivers everything one might expect from such a set-up&#x97;umpteen cat-fights (some in mud), the lesbian inmate, a sadistic warden, the camp informant, the tragic deaths of several prisoners, and an eventual uprising&#x97;plus, of course, lots of lovely women wearing very short shorts (I like short shorts!) and ill-fitting garments that frequently expose their breasts. All these lovely ladies AND Sid Haig as a hot-blooded revolutionary who must pretend to be gay to save the day = an unmissable treat for WIP fans! "},{"Title":"Amazing Fun","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the 70s, a popular exploitation sub genre known as women in prison produced low budget schlock after low budget schlock. Somewhere in the shuffle, there were a few enjoyable gems. Pam Grier (The L Word, Jackie Brown) seems to have a lock on these, as her Women in Cages, The Big Doll House, The Arena, and this one, The Big Bird Cage all seem to be the most fun. I'm sure Roger Corman is to thank for these hilarious movies as well.There really isn't much to the plot. A bunch of broads are in a prison and used as slave labor. They are trying to get out. They have some in fighting and it usually involves mud. The guards are gay stereotypes. Pam Grier doesn't take any crap. Sound like your cup of tea?If you go into this movie expecting The Godfather, you may not enjoy it, but if you are looking for an enjoyable flick to catch, this is the one. Pam Grier and Sid Haig(The Devil's Rejects) steal the show here, as their over the top performances anchor the rest of the mostly there to exploit, but serviceable cast. If you like your women in prison exploitation films to be more bouncy fun and less disturbing torture, I highly recommend you start here. If only they still made flicks like this. "},{"Title":"You can't keep these birds caged!","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Hill is back again (a year after 'The Big Doll House'), to write and direct another low-budgeted drive-in Roger Corman produced women-in-prison joint in the tropics of the banana republic. This second run-of-the-mill dig is meaner, snappier, sweatier and is a lot more accomplished technical production, but I really do have a soft spot for rough-around-the-edges, but enjoyable 'Big Doll House' that sees me actually favour it over this particular effort&#x85; plus it had the feisty blonde buxom Roberta Collins! Nonetheless Hill competently engraves the prominent staples (even adding few new novel ideas) and patterns one hope for from its exploitative subject matter, which is handled in a brightly lit manner than truly beating it down with despair. Sleaze, violence, profanity and a whole lot of socking personality all rolled in one. There's no better to deliver it&#x85; a lively Pam Grier and charming Sid Haig come to the show with such an electric chemistry. When they go missing-in-action, you simply crave for them to appear again. Vic Diaz is delightfully amusing as camp gay prison guard and Anitra Ford adds brazen class, but seems to be struggling to keep a straight face. Saying that it seemed more comically daffy, as the script holds a cheeky edge amongst it harden dialogues. In the latter half it became insanely humorous and hysterical. Hill confidently executes it with a little more briskness and latitude, concentrating not only on the posing drama at hand, but detailing the exotically open locations with crisp photography work despite the limitations. The story can open up a notable can of worms, but it's in-your-face and well-rounded flavor made it hard not to simply enjoy. "},{"Title":"Fairly amusing for a WiP flick...","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I got a hold of this one mainly for the presence of Pam Grier.  Needless to say, I was surprised at just how amusing this one was.  Although it contains its share of exploitation elements, large sections of this film are really tongue-in-cheek and pretty damned funny actually. Sid Haig and Pam Grier are great as revolutionaires, and there are a sprinkling of decent character actors that round out the cast for a decent outing.  The ending is chock full of early 70's combat sequences and wonderfully photographed burning buildings.  Actually, I was also impressed by the director's good use of scenery; I hate to admit it, but the backdrop (jungle and mountains) were actually breathtaking in parts. "},{"Title":"Fun for fans of the genre.","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Writer / director Jack Hill follows up his Women In Prison classic The Big Doll House with this savvy send-up of the genre. It's fast paced and consistently amusing entertainment with everybody in fine form, including Hill and his winning actor combo of Pam Grier and Sid Haig. It's appropriately trashy stuff as we get an eyeful of our attractive female cast members and get generous doses of sex and violence.The stunning Anitra Ford (Invasion of the Bee Girls) stars as Terry, a promiscuous young woman who's been with some important men. She gets caught up in a robbery staged by Blossom (Grier) and Django (Haig), and is assumed to be in on the whole thing and sent to prison - a typical prison for this sort of thing with sadistic guards and a maniacal warden (Andres Centenera) and a towering wooden structure (the big bird cage of the title) in which the prisoners are forced to risk their lives as they process sugar. Soon, however, Blossom and Django infiltrate the prison in an ambitious attempt to help the convicts break out.This is highly enjoyable stuff, and the sense of humour helps make it go down very easily. The actors are a treat to watch, especially sassy and sexy Grier and the always entertaining Haig. The ladies playing the prisoners include Candice Roman as the tough talking Carla, Teda Bracci as comedy relief character Bull Jones, Carol Speed as the feisty Mickie, and Karen McKevic as the Amazonian fighter Karen. Lovers of Filipino cinema will also relish the appearance by Vic Diaz (a very familiar face in this sort of thing) as one of the guards.Hill and his editors keep the movie moving along nicely, and building towards the inevitable big breakout sequence which is wonderfully rousing. Our hottie inmates are people we can root for while we also enjoy hating the villains. Along the way there's time for mud wrestling and some great laughs as Haig pretends to be gay in order to get close to the guards. The most ridiculous but riotous scene has McKevic smearing chicken fat over her naked body so she can slip past people in order to get her hands on Speed, who's been teasing her.All in all, this is a real hoot of a movie, and a refreshing artifact from a time when filmmakers weren't about to worry about being politically correct. Highly recommended to anybody who loves Pam Grier, Sid Haig, Jack Hill, and Women In Prison pictures in general.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Immensely enjoyable send-up of 70's chicks-in-chains exploitation fare","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Haughty celebrity Terry (a delightfully brash performance by slinky brunette minx Anitra Ford) gets arrested and sent to a brutal women's prison work farm. Gutsy revolutionary Blossom (robustly played with splendidly sassy aplomb by the one and only Pam Grier) decides to engineer a break out from the outside in. Ace B-flick writer/director Jack Hill relates the entertaining story at a constant quick pace, stages the action set pieces with real flair, and maintains a winningly easy'n'breezy tone throughout. Moreover, the eager cast have a field day with the wacky material Carol Speed as the scrappy Mickie, Teda Bracci as raucous top con Bull Jones, Candice Roman as sex-starved strumpet Carla, Karen McKevic as fearsome and predatory lesbian Karen, Andres Centenera as the strict and sadistic Warden Zappa, and Marissa Delgado as the fragile Rina. The always terrific Sid Haig is in fine lively form as merry bandit Django while legendary Filipino sleaze movie mainstay Vic Diaz almost steals the whole show with his hilarious turn as mincing gay guard Rocco. Better still, this film covers all the pleasingly sleazy grindhouse bases a group shower scene, torture and degradation of women, a sizable smattering of tasty bare distaff skin, fierce catfights, and an exciting last reel revolt and subsequent escape. However, it's Hill's trademark sly humor that really gives this movie an extra uproarious lift (Django has to pretend to be a flamboyant homosexual in order to get hired as a prison guard and poor Rocco winds up being raped by the ladies during the thrilling climax). Philip Sacdalan's pretty polished cinematography does the trick. The funky score by William Loose and William Castleman hits the get-down groovy spot. An absolute blast. "}{"Title":"The Big Bird Cage","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In one of those jungle prison camps, females are forced into hard labor, working within the bird cage of the title, an elaborate sugar mill. Sid Haig and Pam Grier are revolutionaries who rob from societal fat cats, soon finding themselves within the prison labor camp causing a revolt against maniacal warden(Andres Centenera) and his host of homosexual male guards(..including a hilarious turn by Vic Diaz).The center of my attention was the incredibly yummy Anitra Ford, a stunning beauty whose character has a reputation notorious for her sexual involvements with various political leaders..she's deemed a threat whose knowledge is a threat. She seems to have no fear or nervousness about her current situation due to her confidence in getting out of captivity. While Pam Grier is recognized as the star, she often plays second fiddle to Ford because her role doesn't really make a certain impact until getting herself purposely put in Zappa's(Centenera)labor camp, where she forges the girls together in a planned rebellion, tired of their superior's tyrannical ways and slave labor. Teda Bracci is the leader over the girls until Grier challenges for authority / supremacy and secures the role. Candice Roman and the statuesque Karen McKevic supply extra eye candy as other white girls who found their ways into this camp. Carol Speed is the feisty(..she has a mouth that often gets her into heated situations where she runs and squeals when potential harm could come to her)token black girl of the bunch until Grier comes along..her fate when the mill breaks down, in regards to needed repairs, is horrifying. Marissa Delgado is Rina, a nutty prisoner Ford befriends and helps along the way.The mill is essentially a tower with a wooden skeletal frame, gears moving in proactive fashion, the girls keeping it running through blood, sweat, and tears...in the shape of a bird cage, this was designed by Hill's father. You get everything the women-in-prison genre offers in unique ways. There's the shower, cat fights, explosive finale with shootouts and violence, sadistic bonkers warden constantly shouting(barking orders), women yearning for the touch of a man(..poor Vic Diaz gets balled at the end!), attempted escapes, torture towards our heroines, and grim conclusion(..few make it out alive).Haig and Grier are superb together and have marvelous chemistry(..they're mud fight where Haig hits her across the ass with a dead duck is hilarious). Haig's posing as a gay man to gain access inside the labor camp, actually getting hired as a guard because Diaz wants to ravage him, had me in ribbons. The beautiful Phillipine locations compliment the lovely women quite well..and, best of all, the girls are outfitted in short shorts and shirts tied off above their wastes, so that we can lustfully gaze at their impressive figures throughout. "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all, I would like to say that I find Leonard Maltin's review of this film rather inaccurate. Amusing SPOOF of prison films? Calling The Big Bird Cage a spoof is like calling Die Hard a spoof of action films because it contains some wisecracks and comic-relief characters. That said, I found this film inferior to its predecessor in pretty much every aspect. It is more exploitative, the direction has no pace, the characters are not as strongly drawn and Roberta Collins is sorely missed (Candice Roman is a pretty blonde, but not as pretty as Roberta). Pam Grier's dominating presence (especially in the scene where she proclaims herself the leader of the prison camp) is not only the best, but one of the few things that this film has going for it. (**) "},{"Title":"Fast, funny, Filipino exploitation","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A sequel of sorts to the previous year's THE BIG DOLL HOUSE, this is a cheesy slice of women-in-prison nonsense &#x96; filmed in the sweaty, jungle confines of the Philippines where the mad warden has constructed a huge wooden machine to help in sugar processing. The WIP genre is a notorious one amongst genre fans, who can frequently expect ample offerings of nudity and violence that go hand in hand with the tasteless plots and diabolical scripting. Yet THE BIG BIRD CAGE is something different, a film that actually focuses on the (surprisingly successful) comedy inherent in such a situation. Exploitation king Jack Hill knows exactly what he's doing and he makes this film with his tongue firmly in his cheek, offering laughs a-plenty as the unbelievable shenanigans play out.Headlining the cast is '70s black starlet Pam Grier but her prominent role on the advertising is actually a misnomer as she isn't actually in it a lot, just taking part in a couple of machine-gun wielding action scenes. More prominent is the pretty-but-wooden Anitra Ford, a glamorous model best known to US audiences for her long-running appearance on TV gameshow THE PRICE IS RIGHT. A bunch of exploitation stalwarts fill out the cast, and a couple of the best turns come from a hilarious Sid Haig as the laidback revolutionary and the Filipino Peter Lorre, Vic Diaz, given a more prominent role than usual as a gay prison guard! The plot twists and turns are predictable and there's the usual run of in-fighting, mad women, women in cages, unpleasant death and inevitable escape. There's a lighter tone than per usual for the genre and the sex and violence is definitely turned down for this one &#x96; it never gets anything near gritty. Things chance for the action-oriented climax where things take a downbeat turn at odds with the rest of the movie's playful atmosphere. At the end of the day, THE BIG BIRD CAGE is nothing new but it does manage to be fun &#x96; something that can't be said for a lot of these genre movies. "},{"Title":"I never had one like that before!","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pam Grier and Sid Haig; what a combination. They are revolutionaries, and plot to get into a women's prison to get recruits for their cause. Lots of fighting; even mud wrestling.While Grier works inside the prison, Haig pretends to be gay to get next to the head guard (Vic Diaz).This women's prison had a male Warder played by Andres Centenera. He is a real character.Anitra Ford(Invasion of the Bee Girls) provided another interesting character as a nymphomaniac actress, which the government wanted out of town - so they locked her up.Lots of action especially at the end. "},{"Title":"Pam Grier Kicks Ass In Another Fun WIP Exploitation Flick","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Hill's The Big Bird Cage of 1972 is another highly entertaining Women's Prison Exploitation flick, starring the wonderful Pam Grier and exploitation badass Sid Haig. Director Hill, who has proved himself to be a master of exploitation cinema, as he directed blaxploitation cult flicks Coffy (1973) and Foxy Brown (1974), both starring Pam Grier as the sexy and vengeful heroine, is furthermore one of the pioneers of the WIP (Women In Prison) sub-genre, having directed The Big Doll House in 1971 and this The Big Bird Cage in 1972.Somewhere on a dictatorially reigned tropical island, American actress Terry (Anita Ford) is taken hostage by revolutionary Django (Sid Haig), when he pulls of a heist on a bar with his girlfriend Blossom (Pam Grier) and other fellow revolutionaries. While on the run from the police, Django leaves Terry back, who is mistaken for his female accomplice and brought to a jungle prison camp for women...Pam Grier, the sexiest, coolest and most charismatic heroine in Blaxploitation cinema, is great as always in her role of the badass female revolutionary and Sid Haig is the epitome of coolness as rebel leader boyfriend Django. Sexy Anita Ford also fits in her role very well. The Big Bird Cage has all the typical WIP flick elements, such as shower scenes, lesbianism, catfights and a fair amount of violence including cruel punishments, as well as some special curiosities, such as two fat and disgusting gay wardens (one of them Vic Diaz whom WIP/exploitation fans might recognize for his role as the sadistic drug-lord in Black Mama, White Mama) and a huge lesbian inmate.All things considered, The Big Birdcage may not be an exploitation highlight, and it is terribly cheesy in some occasions, but it is also a great fun flick that doesn't take it self seriously. Highly sarcastic more than once, this is not to be missed by fans of 70s exploitation cinema and Pam Grier. "},{"Title":"Bird Brain","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Exploitation is the key word with this flick with many scenes including degrading actions of the women being mistreated by the male guards of the camp. There are more than a few shots of female nudity with female prisoners in the showers, and the obligatory 'cat fight' with women mixing it up in the pressure-cooker of the prison, along with good scenes of women shooting automatic weapons, everything to make Quinton Tarantino tingle with delight.In a Philippine night club a buxom torch singer Blossom (Pam Grier) works the crowd until her accompanist Django (Sid Haig) whips out a machine gun and the two rob the patrons. When patrons shoot back and Police close in Django narrowly escapes with a beautiful hostage Terry (Anitra Ford) whom he abandons because he touts his criminal actions as a support of a political revolution, and because she is considered the plaything of all the dignitaries of the country and below his respect. Terry is arrested by Police as an accomplice of the robbers and because of her high-profile relationship to government officials she is packed off to a women's prison in the countryside and Django learns from his band of criminals that they plan to overthrow the prison and kidnap the women so they can have happy families. Blossom and Django infiltrate the prison and plan an escape that enables Terry to lead the captive women to freedom but at a high cost.One might argue that without director Jack Hill the actress Pam Grier might never have reached stardom. Hill was on a roll in the early 1970s, starting with Isle of the Snake People, and The Incredible Invasion, both in 1971. He followed with The Big Doll House in 1971 and the break-through for Pam Grier, The Big Bird Cage in 1972. The Blaxploitation hits Coffy (1973), and Foxy Brown (1974) put Grier on the map as the new representative of the black American urban persona that was taking on the rampant crime of the big city and eliminating them for the safety of the innocents living everywhere.The most intentionally humorous moments in the flick, playing the delicate balance between comedy of manners and adventure, come from Sid Haig who clearly gets it. He plays every scene with a wink and a nod to the camera not unlike what Alan Hale used to do on the TV show Gilligan's Island. This lifts the film up from real bathos as the jokes all center on sex and the relationships between men and women.Anitra Ford is the central character in this film despite the fact that Pam Grier gets top billing. This probably because it was basically Grier's vehicle and with her hot looks and her ethnicity she was the selling point for the flick- every male wanted to see this woman in all her voluptuous glory on the big screen.Anitra Ford is the polar opposite of Grier in physical attributes and acting. To say that Ford underplays her part is an understatement &#x96; she is easily the most somnambulistic of actresses, with never any tension in her body or voice. She is ostensibly the sympathetic character in the movie and the one the audience is led to identify with. Ford is NOT an actress and the camera loves her.The Big Bird Cage is definitely one of the purest examples of 70s film genres that pushes the envelope in terms of female nudity. It's no wonder that Tarantino mines the decade for all its banality and kitsch pseudo humor. "},{"Title":"A Bit Disappointing","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While on a date at a night club Terry (Anitra Ford) is kidnapped by revolutionaries after they rob everyone of their valuables. The police chase one of the getaway cars which has Terry in it and when the leader of the revolutionaries named Django (Sid Haig) realizes he can't outrun them he abandons the car leaving Terry behind. However, rather than being freed Terry is falsely accused of collaborating with the revolutionaries and sent to a prison deep in the Phillipine jungle. When she gets there she finds that the warden is physically abusing the female prisoners and working the women to the point of death on a dangerous sugar mill he calls the Big Bird Cage. What follows next is the general Women-in-prison scenario which typically includes a mixture of nudity, abuse, drama and action. However, this one has quite a bit of humor as well. Unfortunately, the humor seemed to get a bit old after awhile and tended to detract from the other elements which define the genre. Likewise, some of the scripts and scenarios were rather weak and disjointed which made the entire film seem to lose its focus. Along with that, some of the actresses, particularly Candice Roman (as Carla), weren't utilized to their fullest potential. In essence, what could have been an outstanding addition to this genre turned out to lose its sizzle by the end. Frankly, I found it to be a bit disappointing. Accordingly, I rate this movie as slightly below average. "},{"Title":"Too heavy-handed and dreary.","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was the one of the first, of the 70s women-in-prison film genre. This movie was incredibly violent, with lots of sadistic torture being inflicted on the inmates. The film takes place in the Phillipines, which looks like a horribly ugly country. No doubt, the producers used this factor to their advantage, to emphasize the gruesome situation that the prisoners were in.Blaxploitation movie queen Pam Grier, has the starring role in this movie. She plays Blossom, a renegade who gets thrown in the vile women's prison, on trumped-up charges. Her boyfriend, played by Sid Haig, tries to rescue Blossom. He and Blossom are part of a political guerrilla faction, and Blossom's incarceration was orchestrated by the corrupt, Phillipino government.Pam Grier and Sid Haig, stand-out amongst the otherwise lackluster cast. The film itself, put way too much emphasis on violence perpetrated against the prisoners. Their captors just used them solely as objects of their sadism. This got boring real fast. This movie could've used more interesting plot-lines, and subtlety. This is not one of Roger Corman's better pictures. The many women-in-prison films that followed this one, were much better all around. I'd recommend The Big Bird Cage, only to Pam Grier fans. "},{"Title":"More Laughs Than Exploitation","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Big Bird Cage (1972) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Jack Hill directed women-in-prison flick has Pam Grier and Sig Haig playing revolutionary lovers who kidnap a woman (Anitra Ford) who ends up going to a brutal prison ran by a sadistic warden (Andres Centenera) and a bunch of homosexual male guards. Soon the two lovers decide to get into the prison and free all of the ladies. THE BIG BIRD CAGE is a fairly entertaining WIP flick but at the same time you might also call it one of the tamest to come from this era. Yes, this still more graphic than most Hollywood films that were out during this period but when compared to other films in the genre this one here puts comedy first and exploitation second. I was really surprised to see how much comic relief was here and it's really too bad so much attention was given to it because the majority of it doesn't work. The first twenty-minutes of the movie seems to be nothing but comic relief and there's really nothing overly funny going on. The biggest laughs in the film come from the homosexual male guards who are constantly hitting up on each other and not looking at all the beautiful women that surround them. This leads to some funny scenes towards the end with Haig must pretend to be gay in order to seduce the male guards into getting him in the prison. Yeah, as you can tell this could only be from the 70s. While there's nudity here most viewers are probably going to be shocked at how little there is. Even the violence really doesn't happen until the end of the picture and there's no lesbian scenes, which is another rare thing for the genre. Grier is sadly wasted as she's not seen enough in the film but whenever she's here it's certainly the highlight of the picture. Haig appears to be having fun in his part and Vic Diaz is a blast as the main gay guard. At 96-minutes the film runs way too long as I'm sure ten or so minutes edited out would have helped the pacing. "},{"Title":"Typical","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the typical women prison movie.  I thought the women were very sexy and the outfits were great.  All the camera did was focus on the women and the women were always in provocative poses for the camera and they were always scantily dressed(which I loved).  This is your basic prison/breakout movie of the 70's.  All I can say about this film is that it's extremely cheesy, but the women are gorgeous and their butts are great! "}]