[{"Title":"A well-done movie about an often ignored subject.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":"  Buck and the Preacher was the first movie I ever saw about the black experience after the civil war that was centered on their migration west. I've seen this movie three times since it was originally shown, and have enjoyed it as much each time, while Buck, a no-nonsense Wagon Master played by Sidney Poitier takes his responsibilities very seriously.  Naive ex-slaves are putting their very lives and fortunes in his hands in their attempt to find the American Dream after slavery.  A subtly that many non-blacks do not understand about the relationship of blacks with each other is the historical mistrust and scheming that happens within the culture and still goes on today.  That is what makes the meeting of Buck with the Preacher, played by Harry Belafonte Jr. so poignant.  They are at opposite ends of the cultural trust scale, but they are forced to team up against a common enemy to secure their individual survival.The Preacher, shiftless and scheming, and the only stereotypical character in the movie, is very well known to blacks, and not really as funny to blacks as non-blacks may sometimes think.Buck and the Preacher was one of the first modern movies about black people to provide any depth to the characters, and also to present characters and subject matter that are not normally associated with the black experience. I found it entertaining as well as informative.  A well-done move about an often ignored subject. "},{"Title":"Poitier plays a wagonmaster who never gives up.","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":"  Poitier plays Buck, one of few blacks who are qualified to be wagonmasters. It is after the Civil War and he is helping escort former slaves into the west. This is not an easy task. They face nature, bounty hunters, racist settlers, robbers, and Indians. The movie is brutally honest with the hatred that these brave men and women faced, but the film has a strong sense of hope. They are not quitters, they raise money workers for sharecroppers along the way. Harry Belafonte has the most colorful role as The Preacher - a reformed thief who befriends Buck when given no one else to trust. The movie is bleak, yet hopeful, well-acted, and exciting. It deserves to be remembered with the best of westerns from that era. Much more historical importance than its predecessor, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid with its sappy, happiness and handsome boy wonders. And Poitier rivals George Roy Hill as a director any day. Cool folksy-jazz score. Recommended to anyone who enjoys a fresh, historical angle with their westerns.  "},{"Title":"the anti-blaxploitation","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" Sidney Poitier made his directorial debut with Buck and the Preacher, in which he played a wagon-master leading freed slaves across the Old West. The whole time, they have to battle night-riders trying to return them to slavery in Louisiana. But then, Poitier joins up with Harry Belafonte, a reformed thief spreading the Gospel across the Old West, and they figure out a way to protect the freed slaves.Probably the most important aspect of this movie was that it came out around a time when Hollywood was releasing many blaxploitation movies portraying African-Americans as kick-ass brothers and sisters with hearts of gold. This one focused seriously on a part of black history in the United States, and did a very good job at it. I certainly recommend this movie. Also starring Ruby Dee and Denny Miller (a character actor who appeared twice on Gilligan's Island). "},{"Title":"This ain't Louisiana. Now you walk soft in my town.","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" Buck and the Preacher is directed by, and stars, Sidney Poitier. It's written by Ernest Kinoy and Drake Walker and joining Poitier in the cast are Harry Belafonte, Ruby Dee and Cameron Miller. Music is by Benny Carter, with notable contributions from Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee, and cinematography is by Alex Phillips Jr.The Civil War was over and by law the slaves were freed. But when the promise of land and freedom was not honoured, many ex-slaves journeyed out of the land of bondage in search of new frontiers where they could be free at last.They placed their hopes in the hands of the few wagon masters that knew the territories of the West.None of this came easy, for not only did they have to overcome a hostile wilderness, but night-riders and bounty hunters were hired by persons unknown to hunt them down and turn them back to to the fields.This picture is dedicated to those men, women and children who lie in graves as unmarked as their place in history.Quite an opening statement that, a real attention grabber, then the throat grabbing ups still further as we land in a camp of African Americans, freed from slavery, ready to travel West for a better life. This harmony is shattered by the arrival of a night-rider gang led by DeShay (Miller), who promptly murder anyone who moves, not even the swine and poultry are spared. As the camp burns and the distaste in the throat refuses to leave, we feel we are in for something special with Poitier's directing debut, a peek at a part of history rarely shown in the movies.Sadly the film never hits these heights again.... In some ways it feels like kicking a man when he is down, for Buck and the Preacher is well directed, very well acted, expertly photographed by Phillips (Durango, Mexico and Kenya standing in for Kansas Territory) and features a very untraditional, but pleasing, score by jazz man Carter and blues men Terry & McGhee. But Kinoy (Roots) and Walker have failed Poitier in the writing, badly trying to blend off beat comedy with serious racial thematics, while what little action takes place after that barn storming opening, starts to feel off kilter with the slow pace of the picture.Such a shame, I mean who better to direct and star in such a thematically potent piece than the graceful Poitier? With Belafonte providing great chemistry as well, whilst gleefully stealing the film from his more illustrious acting brother, there's still much for the Western fan to feast on here. There's the unusual but much appreciated sight of the Indians painted as saviours, a dignified and intelligent race riding in cavalry style, the chief (Enrique Lucero) negotiating with Buck (Poitier) like a royal master of his creed. But this ultimately ends up as not being all that it should be.I'd urge Western fans to see it, but I can't guarantee you wont be frustrated come the end credits. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not a comedy","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" I don't understand how someone could classify this film as a comedy. It did have it's comedic moments, but no more than any other Western or Drama. Then that false comment ends up on the front page of the IMDb? Weird. This was a first rate Western by any standard. At a time when Hollywood had no interest in making such films. Blaxploitation films and comedies were the rules of the day. Poitier makes a great cowboy and fine director here. I suspect the reason this film is/was not more popular is that there were so few good guys of the White persuasion. The one fair and honest White man was the town Sheriff, who was quickly killed off by another White man for this very reason. "},{"Title":"Well done film, but underwhelming by today's standards","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" We tend to forget that in 1972, in the heart of the whole blaxploitation movement, that the very idea of casting African-Americans in traditional white roles was daring in and of itself. As such, Buck and the Preacher, starring Sidney Poitier (who also directed) and Harry Belafonte in the titular roles must have created quite a stir upon its release. The story is pretty standard for a western--a wagon train heading west, led by a tough-as-nails trail guide, is harassed by outside forces (usually bandits or American Indians), but in this case, the settlers are all freed slaves, and the outside forces are hired guns by the south, bend on stopping every black settler group, destroying their supplies (and murdering a few of their people), thus terrorizing them into returning to the plantations. Former military sergeant Buck (Poitier) will have none of that, and the slick-talking con man Preacher (Belafonte), whose initial intentions may seem questionable, mans up and does the right thing, joining forces with Buck for a typical final showdown. A fun western, to be sure, but if you're looking for deeper social commentary that what has already been described, you won't find it. A traditional western with an African-American cast is daring as it gets in 1972, but don't let that keep you away. The original score by Benny Carter, heavy on the mouth harp and that weird pig-sounding instrument they use on Green Acres, will annoy the hell out of you yet stay with you for days. "},{"Title":"A Lot Better Than Your Average Western","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time on Turner Classic Movies tonight. I had heard about it, but missed it. It's just another shoot-'em-up horse opera, but this time with a difference. It's one of the only westerns ever made that is a story about black people in the Old West, with black actors in the lead roles. Harry Belafonte is excellent as the Preacher. Sidney Poitier is also very good, and although the story contains the full compliment of standard cowboy movie clichés---shoot-outs, posse chases, bank robberies, whining ricochet sounds, etc.---, it's very entertaining. The vast majority of Hollywood westerns are exclusively white, and feature virtually no black people at all. Indians are almost always featured as pidgin-speaking cigar-store cartoon characters, with white actors usually in the speaking parts. Some idiot composer came up with the pounding tom-toms, descending minor theme music played by trombones and low brass whenever Indians come into the picture. It's unbelievable how ridiculous this music is. Hollywood has a lot to answer for in its racist treatment of minorities throughout its early history, which has never been fully addressed. So it's great to see a western like Buck and The Preacher that is different. As a result, it's a lot better than your average western, even though it milks the same old clichés. "},{"Title":"Unusual Theme, but otherwise ordinary western","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" This might possibly be the first Western to feature two black leads with white characters largely relegated to peripheral roles &#150; or stereotypically villainous parts. Sidney Poitier &#150; who replaced Joseph Sergeant as director one week into the shoot &#150; and Harry Belafonte play the leads. Poitier is Buck, a former cavalry man now acting as a wagon-master guiding former slaves to a new life in the west. Belafonte is the preacher, a semi-reformed con man who briefly considers betraying Buck and his charges to the evil nightrider Deshay (a squinting, cigar-chomping Cameron Mitchell) before throwing in his lot with him.This being a film of the early 70s, there isn't much of a moral code here. The good guys steal from one another and rob banks, a character defect shrugged off with the explanation that the town folk &#150; who are pre-occupied on a posse-ride to catch the duo as they rob the bank &#150; deserve to be robbed. The film is presumably supposed to be a semi-comic action film but it isn't particularly funny and the action scenes are few and far between. The film is also light on dialogue with lengthy spells played out in silence. This was Poitier's directorial debut and it shows in some glaring narrative gaps and a strange kind of painstaking attention that somehow transmits itself onto the screen so that the film rarely seems to flow the way it should. Poitier never really convinces as an actor either, although Belafonte is a standout as the sneaky, morally dubious preacher. "},{"Title":"buck and the preacher","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" this movie goes down as one of the best westerns.. ever produced... buck(sidney poitier) helps a group of black settlers.... move west... from louisiana... from the get-go.. he meets up with... a con-man... the preacher(harry belafonte).... as they show displeasure amongst each other... the plot thickens.. when the settlers are being forced back home..... Buck has other ideas... as the indians... are on his side and pave the way,.... there are casualties... and solid acting amonst poitier-belafonte-ruby dee and cameron mitchell... the setting is the late 1800's after the civil war... and tells a chilling story.... this movie will make you both laugh and cry.... and has 10-written all over it.... both poitier and belafonte(very funny man).... excelled in this flick.... stay with it... you won't be disappointed... some solid music also helps the movie along... kick back and enjoy... i have.. many times!!! "},{"Title":"I'm here today and I could be there tomorrow.","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" For a while into the movie I thought it might be an all-Black cast Western but that changed when the night riders showed up. There actually was a series of all-Black Westerns back in the late Thirties starring cowboy crooner Herb Jeffries, who's singing sounded as good as guys like Gene Autry. My favorite Jeffries flick is Two Gun Man From Harlem but I haven't seen them all yet. One name I was surprised to catch in this film's credits was that of Clarence Muse as the old black fortune teller Cudjo. He had a lot of roles portraying dignified black characters in the Thirties and Forties, and since I brought it up I had to take a look, but he didn't appear in any pictures with Herb Jeffries.Sidney Poitier and Harry Belafonte team up in this one following a less than friendly first impression between their characters. Poitier is wagon master Buck, leading freed black slaves across the West to destinations they might call home following the end of the Civil War. Preacher Willis Oaks Rutherford is more of an opportunist than a Man of God, but he did have the Bible thing down pretty well when he needed it. Who was going to argue with the Reverend of the High and Low Order of the Holiness Persuasion Church.As a revisionist Western this one works to show a different side of the Old West experience though it doesn't set any new standards by my estimation. The inclusion of the Indian tribe on the side of the black settlers was an interesting element, helping them out in the final shoot out against the night riders even after stating they wouldn't get involved. After that, the wagon settlers make it to a fertile land completing their Westward trek, but done in such an abrupt fashion that one wonders if the ending had any kind of thought put into it. "}{"Title":"Even with so-called freedom, former slaves couldn't find peace.","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"5 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":" There's a combination of tragedy and triumph here as Sidney Poitier and Harry Belafonte combine their light-hearted personalities into emotional drama with this story of two men who, at first on opposite sides of the spectrum, find a common cause in fighting against bigotry. Poitier is a former Northern soldier who has been helping newly freed slaves go west with little help from the vigilantes hired by plantation owners in getting what they still believe their property back so they can continue living their right way of life. The vigilantes are horrible white men who have no qualms in destroying an entire camp, killing men, women and children, in their efforts to scare these people back into slavery. It is almost like a modernized version of The Ten Commandments in that sense, with this group of men the equivalent of Edward G. Robinson's Dathan, and Moses being seen in the forms of Buck and his reluctant partner, a traveling preacher who initially agreed to be informer for the white vigilantes.There's a lot to like about this moving drama with a western setting, and when Ruby Dee, as Poitier's long-suffering wife, reveals how she longs to raise her children far away from even any memory of slavery, you really feel what the millions of slaves must have felt after they were allegedly freed but could not get what was promised to them, still facing adversity for decades after the end of the civil war. Poitier and Belafonte make such a great team and give such a light-hearted performance that at times, it doesn't seem like they are acting. There's a lot of sadness in the light-hearted structure of the story, including the attacks on the innocent people striving to find a new land and their dealings with the Native Americans who are fighting their own struggle against the racist white men determined to steal everything from these people that they can get their hands on. Nita Talbot, usually comical as an Eve Arden type wise-cracker, plays serious here as a madam, and Cameron Mitchell out-does the villainy he had played decades earlier in Carousel with a character so vile that you can't wait to see him dispatched. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Western","Review":"  I remember my parents taking me to see this film when I was 11. I loved it. I still remember there's a scene with Harry Belafonte and Sidney Poitier, and I think, a snake...along with Car Wash, Uptown Saturday Night and others of that era, it is one of the funniest films I've ever seen as a child...Brava! "}]