[{"Title":"Best British film EVER","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"58 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie has EVERYTHING!!!!! I'm serious. Does it have musical numbers? Yes, it does. Beautiful costumes, fabulous sets, serial killers, witty dialogue, burlesque striptease, opera and aristocracy, romance and insanity, jealousy and drama, comedy and theology? Yes, yes, yes!!! Oh, why couldn't there be more films like this? In a way, it reminded me of The Ninth Configuration although that movie lacked humor. Peter O'Toole is just gorgeous, as well. My father (psychiatrist) says that this film is just about the only accurate film representation he's seen of MANIA, but when i asked him about it, he didn't recall the musical numbers. So i suppose it's got something for everyone. I could write about THE RULING CLASS for hours and hours and compare it to everything in the entire world but i don't want to give anything away. This is an absolute MUST-SEE for anyone with an interest in film, England, mental disorders, or dancing the Varsity Rag.  "},{"Title":"One of the best black comedies ever to come out of Britain... a side-splitting indictment of their class system.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  British `dark comedy' was possibly as its zenith with this rich Peter O'Toole offering by director Peter Medak. O'Toole is Jack Gurney, the youngest and `somewhat eccentric' heir to the House of Gurney.  He suddenly finds himself being forced by his late father's will into taking up his role in British society - assuming the family seat in the House of Lords.  The biggest problem is not that the late Earl of Gurney has just accidentally hung himself wearing a cocked hat and a ballet skirt, or that Jack has just released himself from `hospital' where the doctors were treating his `nerves.'  No the biggest problem is that, on a good day, the new 14th Earl of Gurney thinks he's Jesus Christ and, on a bad day, he thinks he's Jack the Ripper!And if that mix of the macabre doesn't make you chuckle, try this unexpected twist.  At several poignant moments throughout the film, the cast will suddenly break from straight-faced dialogue into a full-blown, song and dance numbers, some of which would make Busby Berkley proud.  In one case, the tune of `Connect 'dem Bones' is ushered up to punctuate a scene with O'Toole lecturing the local gentry about the need for capital punishment. Herein lies one of the big reasons why this film is so off-the-wall and refreshingly funny.For my money, this is one of the most original, thought-provoking and honest critiques of the British class system ever to be put on film.  O'Toole is simply mesmerizing as he juggles Jack's multiple personalities, the funniest of which is Christ or, as he prefers it, `J.C.' It's hysterical to watch the cumulative effect of J.C.'s `touched' outlook on the members in his stuffy, conspiring family who are out to get Jack committed permanently.A true `Must See Film' for anyone who enjoys a juicy, sardonic, intelligent black comedy, especially when the topic focuses on the silly pomposity of the British upper classes.  "},{"Title":"The insanity doesn't matter... but proper behavior does.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Peter O'Toole has often played characters who are obsessed and even a bit mad. But in The Ruling Class he is utterly over the top crazy, and it's a bit disquieting how naturally he slips into the role.  Yet this is a comedy, a wonderfully bizarre, often black comedy that deals with acceptable and unacceptable behavior -- insanity, and morality, being irrelevant.  It's characters mostly belong the English elite, but they simply stand in for all those whose power and prestige demand that appearances be kept up.  So this isn't a film for everyone.  And some may not like the way it swings from the very flippant to the very dark.  It requires a wide range of humor to enjoy it all.  Unfortunately, I hear that enjoying it all may be impossible.  It seems that all home versions are cut several minutes from the theatrical release, sometimes much more.  The longest length available is apparently 141 minutes, so that is the one to get.   "},{"Title":"My name is Jack!","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" A scathing and profoundly witty attack on Britain's social and political institutions with Peter O'Toole on his best ever form as Jack, the Son of an English Earl who inherits his Father's estate when the old man accidentally kills himself via auto-erotic asphyxiation. The only problem for Jack's relatives is that he's a paranoid Schziophrenic who thinks he's Jesus and they're quick to move for his indefinite committal when he starts to talk about the relinquishing of material possessions and tolerance toward all men. The Ruling Class is a film of two halves. The first is some of the best character comedy you'll ever see. As JC who wears glasses because he's cold, O'Toole commands every scene benefiting from some superbly written monologues and one liners, the standout being his pre-wedding speech on the cross and he's assisted by the creme de la creme of British character actors, Arthur Lowe a standout as the newly liberated Trokskyite Butler Tuck with a blatant contempt for his old masters. The second half however, is dark stuff indeed - jet black in fact. Apparenty 'cured' after an arranged confrontation with the AC-DC messiah, Jack dresses as a Victorian gentleman, talks about capital punishment and superior breeding and concerns no-one, the fact he believes himself to be Jack the Ripper going completely unnoticed by his peers who prime him for his climatic accession to the House of Lords. The conceit is milked for all its worth and the final scenes with a hallucinatory Jack looking at his fellow peers in the House as decayed corpses is a particularly chilling postscript to the story. Subtle? No way but its sledgehammer to the concept of patronage and privilege as a criteria for governance and influence. Like the best satire its savage, angry stuff - possibly overlong and too conscious of its theatrical origins but ultimately no less caustic or inventive for it. Class indeed. "},{"Title":"An Excellent dark comedy with biting social commentary.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is an excellent movie, but don't watch it expecting it to be purely a dark comedy.  There is a lot of humor in it--often very bizarre humor--but it is primarily a very powerful statement about what can happen when, for the sake of social acceptability, a human mind is forced into a mold that doesn't fit.  In my opinion, the British ruling class was chosen to illustrate this point only because they do have very rigid rules about what kind of behavior is socially acceptable and what is simply not done. It's statement about the dangers of excessive self-repression apply equally to us all. "},{"Title":"A moving and disturbing critique of our sets of belief systems.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The Ruling class is a disturbing commentary on the nature and necessity of our whole belief systems. It both highlights the extreme fragility of those beliefs, and takes gently mocking aim at us for our dependency on them. Viewed in that light, the film succeeds 100%. When viewed merely as a satire on the British ruling classes, of course it doesn't. It goes far deeper, becoming also an essay on our tendency to manipulate others for our own benefit the characters' collective idiosyncrasies serve as punctuation for that essay. Brilliantly acted, often hilarious but always profoundly moving, it is a genuine classic of its kind, notwithstanding its undeniable, though relatively minor, flaws. I'd love to have it on DVD! "},{"Title":"Jesus Christ or Jack the Ripper? Or Just Peter O'Toole?","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" No other actor has had a career filled with more idiosyncratic roles than Peter O'Toole, and his role in The Ruling Class is perhaps the most idiosyncratic of them all.O'Toole plays the heir to a British House of Lords who dies accidentally (and bizarrely), leaving his family to hash out the estate. The family is much disturbed by the fact that O'Toole is the heir -- understandably so, since he believes that he's Jesus Christ. Much wackiness ensues, until O'Toole has a change of perspective and decides that instead of Christ, he's Jack the Ripper. More wackiness ensues, the film gets darker and darker in that way that only British films can, and the whole thing may leave you scratching your head but will no doubt also leave you gloriously entertained.For O'Toole fans, this is a chance to see him single-handedly carry a delirious mess of a movie on his shoulders, and make a rousing success out of it. Much of it doesn't make a lot of sense, but it's all a hoot, especially the impromptu musical numbers peppered throughout the film. There's some scathing satire aimed at the British class system, but it's nothing you haven't seen before, and the whole film has the feeling of being the pet project of an undisciplined director. But I highly recommend this, because you've never seen anything quite like it, and it's a chance to see one of our generation's greatest actors strutting his stuff like the pro that he is.Grade A "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Biting Classic","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Mind blowing, superior satire on the class system in Britain, with a once in a lifetime cast (Peter O'Toole, Alastair Sim The Zambeesi Missions, Arthur Lowe Alexi Kronstadt...Revolutionary!, Coral Browne, William Mervyn and so forth). Cinematically, the British have long proved that no one has a better sense of humor, or is as self critical of them, than they themselves. Perhaps, as the saying goes, It keeps the old girl honest. This scathing comedy takes no prisoners, whether engaging in outlandish situational dialogue or performers suddenly zipping out in a song and dance routines. There are too many individual gems of dialogue to count (although a personal fave is O'Toole's talk with Mrs. Piggot-Jones and Mrs. Treadwell). The performances are delivered with just the right amount of relish and timing. A modern classic. Highly recommended.    "},{"Title":"Two Movies With The Running Length Of Three","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Back in 2001, The Criterion Collection saw fit to add The Ruling Class (1972) to their catalog; which means there is now a good print available in the correct aspect ratio, one that includes the entire original release running time of 154 minutes. It also means that The Ruling Class is now regarded in film circles as a significant movie. Of course almost any film student will tell you that significant is not necessarily synonymous with entertaining, critically acclaimed, or well-made.So if you are considering a purchase or have just had a confused post-purchase viewing experience the following discussion may prove useful. This is a British film, one I originally watched on the BBC a few months after its release. It was neither a critical success (mixed reviews) nor a box office sensation and hitting the BBC so soon after a theatrical release back then was not much different from going direct-to-video today.It was a counter-culture film, and much of my original enjoyment came from the obvious tweaking of certain cultural and political institutions. Much of this stuff has lost its power and appeal over the years.It has a lot of expressionistic and allegorical elements; this sort of stuff was (and is) relatively rare in an English language film and probably accounts for much of the current cult status of the film. The black comedy aspect of these elements has held up very well and you will understand the film better and enjoy it more if you don't take it literally.Jack, the 14th Earl of Gurney (Peter O'Toole), has recently inherited the family title and a place in the House of Lords of the British Parliament. The story actually begins with a cheerfully provocative black comedy sequence as his father, the 13th Earl (Harry Andrews), accidentally hangs himself while performing what is apparently a long-standing self-pleasuring ritual.Jack believes himself Jesus Christ and his family believes that they can get their hands on the estate once he produces an heir. Their idea being to have him committed and then become guardians of the child. Carolyn Seymour plays his uncle's mistress who is brought in to marry Jack. Her character throws a wrench in the works by falling in love with her new husband. Other than Jack, Seymour's character is the only one that undergoes any real change during the course of the film and she sells this transformation quite nicely while also providing one of the best striptease sequences you are likely to stumble across in a mainstream movie.As already noted the running length is 154 minutes, that's about the length of two movies and if the film were being produced today I suspect that it would be done as two separate films. Indeed it is really two stories with each having an entirely different tone. About midway through the film, the Jesus version of the 14th Earl is replaced by a Jack the Ripper version. In the process a farcical and relatively light-hearted black comedy is instantly transformed into a much darker story. Black comedy gives way to dark fantasy and hallucinations as the wheels fall off the story until a visually stunning ending.The 1972 theme being essentially that being forced to conform to the ritualistic practices of upper class British society produces a monster. That not being able to do your own thing unleashes a monster on the world. Unfortunately the basic cause and effect of this whole process is glossed over and one is left wondering why the film you have been watching has been replaced with something entirely different and far less entertaining.O'Toole underplays his two characters, don't expect a lot of Gary Oldham type excess. Jesus is more a mild narcissist than a booming holy roller. Jack (the Ripper) is much better mannered but obviously smoldering beneath his polite exterior.The laughs mostly come from the discomfort of Jack's family and from Alastair Sim's apoplectic bishop and Authur Lowe's collectivist butler who abuses the family with a Benson type frankness.There are two great musical sequences, a hunt club performance of Dem Bones (a homage to The Prisoner) and the climatic scene in the House of Lords (a surreal montage of decay to the music of Pomp and Circumstances and Onward, Christian Soldiers).Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Outrageous, flawed masterpiece.  O'Toole is unforgettable.","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" 'The Ruling Class', released in 1972, is a farce on the British aristocracy, and (at least from this distance), you have to wonder if it is much less relevant today than when it was made. There is still a House of Lords, and it has taken the intervening 32 years to have fox-hunting almost banned.Briefly, the Earl of Guerney dies in a ridiculously fetishistic manner, and leaves his estate to his son, Jack, much to the outrage of his family, since Jack has been a voluntary mental patient for the past 8 years. A plan is hatched to marry him off, get a mail heir, and then through diverse intrigues, gain possession of the estate.Unfortunately Jack books himself out and shows up. Jack, who believes himself to be God, is played by Peter O'Toole, resplendent in Jesus hairdo and varying hilariously between Biblical sounding pronouncements and schizophrenic word-salad nonsense. Generally he is entirely manic, except when he is sleeping on the huge wooden cross, in full view of anyone who walks into the manor.This was made two or three years before O'Toole literally almost drank himself to death, and one gets the feeling that they didn't so much write this part for him as set him loose on the set and tell him 'Be yourself'. This isn't meant as an insult. O'Toole is utterly magnetic, whether making Shakespearean pronouncements, running madly about, or as his even more insane incarnation as Jack the Ripper after he is 'cured'.The film lurches from hilarious satire to very dark humour, containing scenes which are genuinely alarming if not outright terrifying (again, mostly thanks to O'Toole). Other standouts include Arthur Lowe as the long-suffering Communist butler, and Alistair Sim as a hilariously doddering bishop.The film itself is all over the shop. Even at the most unexpected moments, the cast is likely to suddenly break out into a musical number. Another schizophrenic patient is wheeled in who proclaims himself to be the 'High-Voltage God', and who can shoot 10 million volts from his fingertips (whether the lightning bolts crackling from his fingers are imaginary or real, who knows?). It can lurch from lunacy like this to genuinely chilling scenes including brutal violence and murder. Generally speaking the second half of the film, after Jack's 'cure' is much darker.The flaws? Well, I think the second half is definitely unnecessary long. My VHS copy is 156 minutes, and if the current version is 141 minutes, that could be an improvement, if they carved some of the later scenes out. Basically it out-stays its welcome a little. Having made its point, it rather harps on it.All the same, there is nothing really like this in British cinema (except perhaps the even more obscure, and even more mad, but rather less scalding 'Sir Henry at Rawlinson End'). The cast is uniformly terrific, some of the dialogue is priceless, and it has some of the funniest scenes from 70's British cinema. You do need to be able to roll along with the changing mood of the film though, because what for the most part is a hilarious satire develops into a very, very black comedy. "}{"Title":"Classic British Black Comedy At It's Best......","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  From the first time I saw the film on it's initial cinema run it has remained one of my desert island films.O'Toole and Sim at their truly wackiest best.The great problem these days appears being able to view an intact version of the film.Contrary to various published version's running times I seem to be in possession of a 153mins videotape version lifted from a TV print in 1981.(This beggars the question just what was the original running time).The chequered path of Avco-Embassy product falling virtually into the public domain and the ready availability of the original negative hasn't helped anybody issuing a definitive print.But if ever a film cried out for the Criterion Collection treatment and a cinema re-release in a remastered print it is this.I hope somebody does something before O'Toole & director Peter Medak are not around to contribute.(Most of the remaining cast have unfortunately left us in the intervening years).  "},{"Title":"A Giddy, Surreal Treat","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I found The Ruling Class to be nothing but a treat from beginning to end. The story of a deluded aristocrat, Jack, who believes himself to be Jesus Christ (all to the great consternation and puzzlement of his relatives), this film is an entertaining blend of dark comedy, drama, romance and even a musical. All of these diverse elements are held together by a quirky sense of the surreal society ladies burst into song right smack in the middle of the parlour, a hunting party cavorts about the grounds singing about dry and disconnected bones, and lovers sing opera and dance across suddenly empty--but previously quite cluttered--rooms. This use of sporadic, vaudeville-type songs is a giddy, irreverent, and delightful show.Ultimately, however, these montages take on an air of melancholy, adding poignancy to Jack's disturbing, almost pitiful transformation into the stuttering, obsessing Jack the Ripper during the second, darker half of the film. As the film draws to its close, one can't help but remember those scenes of frolicking merriment with a bit of sadness, recognizing that, in saving Jack from his harmless delusion, his family and doctor have cursed him to a life of loneliness and misery instead. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I have heard about this film from one of my teachers in high school and when I saw it yesterday in a video club I immediately recognized it, since I remembered that the protagonist thought of himself as Jesus. Peter O' Toole is so good in this movie that he made me think the unthinkable, that Lawrence of Arabia is not his best role ever. This movie is black comedy,musical, farce, political satire , parable all in one. It has some terrific moments as the one where the hero and the representative who came to see whether he is insane or not, sing together the Eton boat song-I remembered Churchill in Great Contemporaries who wrote of a British political personage who died singing the Eton or Harrow boat song- I can not recollect this detail. Anyhow for someone who has an idea of British class conventions derived from reading, papers and films as opposed from actual experience this movie is a rare treat.The scene where the House of Lords is presented as a house full of corpses and skeletons through the eyes of the protagonist is a haunting scene, not at all comic, although it is ironic.The scene with the two Gods in a room is also brilliant.I wonder if the Tatler for example could present such a character for an interview, when it presents representative samples of British socialites.I think that someone must be very sure of his strength in order to produce so savage satire and criticism. I wonder if we could see equally successful representations of American WASPS or French Enarques.This movie has everything and I can not classify it. I also have not seen or read the play which I am going to buy in order to form an impression although a written text is not the same as a live performance.Still a society that produces such self-criticism must be very sure of itself. "},{"Title":"Low, hard, dark, nasty - and brilliant!","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" You couldn't make this film today. They wouldn't let you.And by they I don't only mean what remains of the film's archetypes, but their 21st century successors the politicians, broadcasters, pundits and columnists; the do-gooders, moral guardians and the political correctness lobby. Our new alleged betters, who believe that the country would be so much better if they were the only ones running it, and who're convinced that what the world really needs is a steady diet of anodyne intellectual rice pudding; otherwise, they'd be either be risking (shock and horror!) offending someone or actually making people think about the situation they're in - at the risk of upsetting their own privileged positions. Before I saw it, I'd never even heard of it or the original stage play. But now more's the pity that I'll probably never see both.When the first five minutes of anything features an unfortunate death involving a cavalry sabre and a tutu, it's a reliable indicator that snooks may be cocked in any given direction, and the following film doesn't disappoint. No establishment institution is left unsullied by the cast's sardonic touch &#150; and the production is all the better for it. Any punches being pulled would've instantly rang hollow and seemed false in a production with this much raw, snarling energy.This wasn't comfortable viewing and I don't think it was meant to be. I don't agree with the majority of views expressed in the film and I don't think I was meant to. It's like peeping into Bedlam and wondering what the inmates will do next &#150; an image made all the more powerful by the liminal sense of time used to ram the mothballed banality home. There're only a few scenes when you can remind yourself that this film is set in its own time, rather than any period over the last few hundred years. But, ye gods, it was some of the most compelling viewing I've ever seen. I can't vouch for whether or not it was a perverse sense of schardenfruede to peep at the seedier underbelly of my own nation's largely sacrosanct and untouchable upper classes, or just an urge to see how far the film would go before it reached its grimly inevitable, tragic conclusion; but once it started, I couldn't even bear to hit the pause button.O'Toole's performance is nothing short of mesmerising and magnetic, evolving Jack's character and treading a fine line between sympathy and revulsion in the emotions he provokes.My first thought upon seeing some of the monologues involved in Jack's role was that if this man didn't get an Oscar nomination for this role, he should've done &#150; so it's a relief to've found out that he did, and more's the pity that he didn't get the win he deserved. The emotional range and energy involved owns the screen in every scene he's in. The cast are almost all recognisable, mesh well and visibly give their all, even if any fan of 'Blackadder II' may have difficulty not picturing Patsy Byrne in a cow costume.Arthur Lowe's bolshie manservant provides many of the more blatant, straightforward comic moments as his masters' opposite extreme, but still comes across as a three-dimensional, dramatic and even unashamedly dark character &#150; the latter being an undertone that even the cleanest of sight gags can't fully temper. Almost all of the principle cast members &#150; and quite a few of the minors and extras &#150; can also hold a note and get the opportunity, in the biting musical numbers. Or at least, if they're dubbed, then the dubbing team deserve additional praise for pulling off the illusion so smoothly. The songs vary between classic and contemporary. The likes of opera and music hall mingle to convey the cavalier attitude of the characters to often murky or distasteful subject matter, adding a further layer of perky surrealism. And yet none of this mixture of genres, mise en scene, times, places and imagery seems overly forced. This sort of alchemy of genres and use of the cinema as a platform for outspoken statements used to be something that really could attract the cream of the acting profession, rather than have to be left to unknowns and independent production teams because no studio or star would dare to risk the bad publicity and drop in revenue and/or credibility.When I initially began attempting to write a summary of this film, I felt that there was no way that I could possibly cram everything that I feel about this film into a well-ordered 1,000 words. And I still believe it. I'm normally capable of far more ordered reviews than this, but I just don't know how to put everything I should be foregrounding into any sort of prioritised order without unjustly diminishing some of it.I could carry on explaining, but I doubt that I could do this film justice in the space allowed. See it, and find out for yourself. "},{"Title":"A quirky fantasy becomes a turgid polemic over 2.5 hours","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" What a sorry mess! The Ruling Class begins as full of promise and with wit and an irreverent willingness to defy convention and slowly (glacially!) mutates over its 2-1/2 hour running time into a directionless screed against Britain's aristocracy. Never willing to let the audience grasp their intentions on their own, again and again Peter Medak uses hamfisted characterizations and plot devices to convey author Peter Barnes' view that the titled in Britain are superficial, hypocritical, incestuous, calloused, categorically corrupt and evil, congenitally insane, the personification of Satan, and Jack the Ripper himself! And the members of the House of Lords? Why they're a bunch of stuffy old corpses. No, really! NO, REALLY! Every time you say to yourself Yeah, I get it, the Two Peters reply Oh, no you don't; not by a long shot! and then proceed to tell you the same thing over and over and over and over and over again. Peter O'Toole is pretty good (although led down by comically bad make-up and wigs), but O'Toole is much better elsewhere. Unless you're an O'Toole completist, save yourself 2-1/2 hours of having tabloid-level editorializing rubbed in your face. "},{"Title":"The Ruling Class rules!","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This hilarious indictment of England's aristocracy gives Peter O'Toole what was probably his best role. Playing insane earl Jack Gurney - who believes himself to be Jesus Christ - O'Toole makes the most of the role. The Ruling Class not only goes all out in ripping at the class system, but also shows how he can get away with anything (after they Jack him of believing himself to be Jesus, he believes himself to be Red Jack Jack the Ripper).Anyway, this is a movie that I recommend to everyone. It just goes to show that as long as England has it's monarchy and aristocracy, England will always produce some hilarious movies. Certainly it shows Peter Medak (happy birthday, Peter!) to be a great director.Accidental suicide while wearing a tutu. Ha! "},{"Title":"Disturbing film often quite funny, ultimately tragic","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This 1972 English movie was based on a 1968 stage play by a left wing playwright, and was completely misunderstood ,( and misleadingly promoted by the distributors), as a comedy ,when shown in American theatres.Partly ,this was due to a lack of historical and cultural awareness by most Americans of the old traditions of British society, and most of the satire went over the heads of the American audience.The genuinely disturbing shift in tone and action that occurs after the deluded Earl's cure is too jarring for most viewers ,and leaves a real sense of sadness, that the lovable lunatic who thought he was Jesus has gone for good. When I found a copy ,several years ago, of the original Peter Barnes play, and some biographies of Peter O'Toole, things began to make more sense. There are scenes and dialogue not included in the movie, which would have clarified the actions much more. Also, the anything goes, farcical musical comedy style of song and dance would have worked very well on stage. I found it quite revealing, that after O'Toole had seen the play, he wanted to make a film version ,and was told by playwright Barnes himself that Barnes didn't think it would work very well as a movie. Reading the text of the original play, I was struck by the very political and highly intellectual content, and that in fact, the play, though using elements of black comedy for effect, is, in fact, a savage, bitter attack on the English ruling class, and would have seemed shocking and in bad taste to the 1968 British public. That ferociously angry and merciless sense of disgust felt by a working class playwright toward England's upper classes is simply beyond the ability of the average American to understand. I feel therefore that the movie is ultimately unsuccessful as either satire or comedy, because the fierce political overtones simply don't come across in the film, and it's way too disturbing to work as a simple comedy, no matter how black. That said, I think the film is often quite funny, and O'Toole's performance is simply staggering. From his gentle, quietly humorous Jesus, to his cold, nasty aristocrat, he is astonishing in this challenging role. When I watched the movie again, many years after it was in theatres, I was struck by how truly vulnerable and insane the character is. It is a tribute to O'Toole's acting that he really seems like an insane person. There is something absolutely heartbreaking in his naivete and innocence during the wedding night scene, and his terrified reactions to his horrendous cure. One feels so sorry for this poor soul, and appalled by the evil character he is transformed into, that the last part of the film becomes incredibly difficult to watch. Any movie with this powerful an effect on someone complaining about it must have something going for it! Ultimately, I find the character of poor, manipulated Jesus/Jack to be so heartrending ,that I cannot bear to see O'Toole's performance, which is perhaps the highest tribute I could pay him. "},{"Title":"Ecce Homo!","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" There is no denying it Peter Medak's film of Peter Barnes', The Ruling Class was, and still is, as highly unique film in every regard and it never shirks its controversial pathway, all the way to its truly unexpected and mortifying conclusion.The critic, Ian Christie's concise essay is right on the money about the context of the film ... beneath the veneer of modernization , very little had changed in Britain. And this is something that I doubt many American critics or audiences of the time - or even now - understood, at least to any deep degree. The so-called, Swinging Sixties, much like all 'revolutions' didn't alter the political paradigm or power structures in Britain - it was all illusion. Grinding poverty remained throughout the 60s, 70s, 80s, in which we saw recession, deunionization, significant unemployment, a meaningless war on an island near the Antarctic and all the while the idols remained strong, nary a crack appearing, whilst the masses diverted their attention to a flimsy pop culture, fashions and New Age gobblydegook and ultimately the atomization of Society, and it was even being articulated bluntly and shockingly by the PM, Margaret Thatcher There is no such thing as 'Society'. But all the while, the ruling class has remained, though they have had to camouflage themselves in various colours over the last 40 years - with one of the few unabashed public rituals remaining the Fox Hunt, which continues to causes hysterical incredulity in an age of terrorism, health service meltdown and possible apartheid between secular anglo-saxons and Muslims. Earlier in the 70s, there was a film called, The Rise and Rise of Michael Rimmer by Peter Cook, John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Kevin Billington and the in that film, we have in Peter Cook's Michael Rimmer - Tony Blair, it's uncanny. Normally, socio-political films for before the 90s - British films - date very badly, but there have been a few that haven't and The Ruling Class is one of them, but it has such an oddball aesthetic and attitude that it never really remained in peoples' minds as such.The Ruling Class has an energy and personality all of its own and it is a shame that it isn't appreciated as much as it deserves to be. Yes, it is probably too long, but it barrels along beautifully and the second viewing is incredibly satisfying. It was a film that for many, broke too many rules in its day and even now when comparing it to other films of that period, it stands out as a black sheep, though the following year, we saw Lindsay Anderson's, O, Lucky Man! and Ken Russell was just getting into his stride. O'Toole's performance is electrifying and truly unforgettable and to think that he wasn't paid a penny for the role. He truly deserved to win the Oscar, but The Godfather was a huge smash and Brando was on a comeback, while The Ruling Class was for all intents and purposes, an unknown movie to Americans in 1972-73. A shame. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and heavy handed ...","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" 'rich knobs and privileged a***holes can afford to be bonkers &#x85; 'The first 10 minutes or so of this film are quite interesting, with a good cast of British eccentrics (especially the splendid Alastair Sim and Arthur Lowe). I quite enjoyed the gathering at the start with the reading of the will and the arrival of the new Lord (and even the subsequent surreal song and dance routine with the ladies organising the local fête) &#x96; but it then descends into a complete pretentious mess. Very disappointing considering the talented actors deployed here. I nodded off just after Peter O'Toole had stopped thinking he was God and decided he was Jack the Ripper instead - this was partly because I'd had some wine with my meal, and not entirely down to the reactions this film provoked in me. The odd sequence at the end in the House of Lords reminded me of the final 2 episodes of the TV series 'the Prisoner' made 4 years prior to the release of this film. "},{"Title":"Movies can't get any greater.","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Despite this film's age (38 years and counting) when I saw it last night this was the first time I had ever seen it. I immediately added it to my list of the greatest movies of all time. Its mixtures of genres while highly unusual are not unrepresented elsewhere Dr. Strangelove, Monty Python, Rocky Horror, etc., would seem to fill in its category with other examples of the combination of social satire, psychological horror, off-the-wall musical numbers, etc.But what really makes this film so special is of course Peter O'Toole himself. This has to be his greatest role as an actor and would have been the same for any other actor who might have succeeded in bringing it off so brilliantly as O'Toole did. Could anyone else have done it? Peter Sellers? Richard Burton? Laurence Olivier? Perhaps the latter had O'Toole's versatility to be able to go from one bizarre attitude to another without incongruity or the slightest skip of a beat. But I don't think Olivier was ever offered such a marvelous actor's showoff role as this.But among the fifty or so critiques of this incomparable, stunning, and never-to-be-forgotten film which I read on your site, none referred to the very possible antecedent to Peter Barnes' play and movie, the celebrated Italian playwright Luigi Pirandello's play Henry IV, which also posited an insane monarch imagining himself to be a character out of history and the attempts of the monarch's relatives to cope with the situation. "}{"Title":"What a HOOT! See it as soon as possible!","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Finally caught up with this little gem about a week ago and have watched it twice since. If you enjoy pastiche, satire, black humour and just plain awesomeness then this is the film for you! It would be almost impossible to describe this film without giving something away but I'll have a go... The Ruling Class in England is nominally the peerage and they do tend to have their little peccadilloes. (The opening scene makes me wonder whether Michael Hutchence had watched it just prior to his death.) To say that the family depicted is a little nuts is like saying that Charles Manson was a little extreme. The whole plot revolves around the aristocracy actually running the country while clearly being crazier than a sack full of ferrets on speed. The acting (particularly by Peter O'Toole) is amazing. To say it was over the top is to denigrate the performance - let's face it - to act crazy you hafta BE crazy! The writing is flawless - subtle yet cutting, farcical yet funny, twisted yet dripping with reality. Arthur Lowe's character is a real hoot! UP THE WORKERS! Then there are the musical bits... What's that? Is this a musical? Well...no...and yes. It's a musical in the same way that Monty Python & The Holy Grail might be called a musical. It is simply insane. If there is one small grievance I have it's that it changes too quickly from insane to superinsane...the mood quickly goes from farcical to rather sinister. This may well have been the intent but it jars slightly. To sum up If you think that there are no films left to leave your mouth hanging open in disbelief and then make you laugh like a loon then you are wrong. This is possibly the best piece of social satire ever made for the big screen and is thoroughly recommended. **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"An Uneven Comedy about Keeping Up Appearances","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" People who've only seen Peter O'Toole in his dramatic roles may find it hard to believe he's just as talented in comic roles. In The Ruling Class he plays Jack Gurney, the 14th Earl of Gurney, who returns home to take over the estate after his father dies in a ridiculous role-playing sex game. Trouble is, Jack's a paranoid schizophrenic who believes he's God, so his uncle tries to have him married to get a healthy heir or institutionalized for the sake of appearances. For as the movie shows, it's not the eccentric behavior that's troubling, for every character in this movie is clearly off his mind one way or the other; it's keeping up appearances in society that matters.As it is, The Ruling Class is a sharp, ruthless and darkly funny indictment of British high society, wasteful, irresponsible, prejudiced, living in a world apart and yet presiding over the future of all citizens.The movie is based on a play by Peter Barnes and displays the Brits' usual talent for wit, dark humor and world play. Some scenes are unforgettable gems of humor. It also has several musical episodes which disturbingly fit the mood of the movie.However I don't think they manage to sustain the humor evenly throughout the movie, and there are some dull bits and others not as funny as they should be. With the movie clocking in at 154 minutes, it's difficult to keep the jokes great for so long. Nevertheless it's a satisfying movie with a great ending. Any movie that ends with Peter O'Toole thinking he's Jack the Ripper is clearly special and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Two-and-a-half hours of (mostly) pure joy!","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" It's too long and sometimes rather obvious, but this black comedy musical is an utterly unique experience; mad, eccentric and often hilarious as it sticks the knife deep into its target &#150; the mad, eccentric English aristocracy. Peter O'Toole is totally magnetic throughout as the lunatic 14th Earl Of Gurney who thinks he is Jesus Christ, and Arthur Lowe delivers wonderfully dry comic moments as the loyal but offensive communist butler.The mood varies between wit, slapstick and savagery (the latter a taste of Peter Barnes' original stage play), with plenty of memorable lines, and the odd crazy song-and-dance routine thrown in for good measure; but in the second half it becomes darker and the message clearer. The comic veneer only serves to emphasise the depth of Barnes' feelings towards the British establishment.I have two editions, but the Momentum DVD (though more easily available and cheap in the UK), is of poor quality, panned & scanned to 43, has low sound quality and, worst of all, only runs to 124 minutes despite the cover claiming it is full-length and full-frame.So I took the advice of earlier reviewers and sought out the Criterion edition. Get this one if you can - it's of superior quality, full screen and runs the full 154 minutes - it's worth the extra cost. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"O'Toole at his Peak","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Peter O'Toole specialized in playing mad and gifted men in movies from Lawrence of Arabia through Becket, Lord Jim, and Lion in Winter, to The Stunt Man. In the middle of this run came The Ruling Class (1972), an oft neglected film, but as as dark and brilliant a comedy as they come. In the lead role of Jack Gurney, he garnered one of his, so far, eight nominations for an Academy Award. The movie is a scathing and vicious satire of the British Ruling class.Jack is confined to a loony bin by his father, Harry, the 13th Earl of Gurney. Sadly, the senior Gurney&#151;an abusive privileged, wog-hating, Old Empire Tory bastard&#151;has his own psychological issues, including auto-erotic asphyxiation in a silken hangman's noose whilst sporting a tutu, a regimental red coatee and a saber, which, in Act 1, Scene 4, leads to his accidental demise. So, unexpectedly, Jack becomes the 14th Earl of Gurney and chief beneficiary of his father's will. Jack, however, believes he is Jesus Christ, Son of God, which will not do for a proper British Lord. As a result, his family immediately begin plotting ways to get him put away again so they can get the estate into their own hands.Crazy or not, Jack is by far the most charming of the bunch, and, as the God of Love, is the source of mirth, provided no one pushes too hard on his delusional system. When asked how he knows he is God, he replies with the classic line, When I'm praying, I find I'm talking to myself. Prancing around the estate in a white linen suit and sneakers, spending nap time hanging from his own cross, singing The Varsity Rag,&#151;how can you not love the guy?As he's not presentable for guests and keeps on talking about giving away the family fortune to the poor, the family enlist his former psychiatrist for assistance. His final solution is to bring in a patient with an even more powerful delusional system. So, Jack's psychiatrist produces the AC-DC God, an Old Testament thunderer who thoroughly trumps Jack's New Testament God of Love. Ripped free of his delusions, Jack blinks and looks well, saying I'm Jack. Could all be well at last?Not in this movie.Unfortunately, he's not Jack Gurney, but Jack the Ripper. And, as Jack the Ripper, he fits right in. Cutting a figure in dark suit and bowler, he defeats his scheming relatives and is seated in the House of Lords to applause all around. But, instead of a pleasantly and charmingly delusional Jesus, he becomes a tortured, murderous soul who kills family and friend, ending the movie with one of the most piercing screams every committed to film, which segues into a darkly jolly rendition of The Varsity Rag as the credits roll.Though, perhaps, overlong by today's standards, it is still a peerlessly black and savage comedy, eviscerating the British upper class and the class system in general. Peter O'Toole gives a performance only outdone in Lawrence of Arabia. Its blasphemous subject matters keeps off most of the cable channels, but a full length version is readily available on DVD. It's worth the price and worth repeated watching.www.drdreg.com "},{"Title":"Peter O'Toole's Greatest Moment","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Could there be a film crazier than Marat/Sade (1966)? Yes, it is the O'Toole/Medak/Barnes collaboration from 1972, 'The Ruling Class.' One could be forgiven in thinking this was a Ken Russell film, but it isn't like he was alone in making blistering-cinema during the late-1960s, early-1970s. We will probably never see an era in movies like this again, it was so free and unfettered by the studio system that it pushed-the-envelope forever (only to have what is acceptable in commercial cinema recede again). Many viewers would say this kind of film is overindulgent, but that is entirely the point. It was originally given an 'X' rating in the UK in the 154-minute cut, but was released with 20-minutes removed in the American PG-version. The 2001 Criterion edition is the first-time the film has been widely-available in this original-cut as it was shown at Cannes. There is no better edition, it is perfect, and a must-own for anyone who loves serious cinema.The story began as a successful 1968 play by Peter Barnes, and it was considered bizarre for its anti-naturalism, as well as the comments on the English-aristocracy. If I describe much of it, the effect will be ruined, but there are musical-numbers in a movie that is not a musical (similar to Brecht here). Similar to Artuad's 'theater of cruelty', the approach is to alienate the audience in particular-moments--sometimes throughout the entire piece! This was common in the cutting-edge cinema of the time, just watch A Clockwork Orange (1971), The Devils, or even Midnight Cowboy (1970). Barnes rewrote the screenplay with very few changes, but don't think that the O'Toole/Medak version is simply a filmed-play. It is not, it is much more than that. At once, a parable on the folly of belief-systems, it has much to say about the flimsy-glue that is the ruling-class anywhere. Some hierarchy is inevitable in this life, but do we want crazy-imbeciles running the developed-world? And what of psychiatry or academia? Both are beholden to their own class-assumptions, as The Ruling Class amply-illustrates. Oddly, it is all about the end of all belief, a hallmark of the time it was made in.The story is pretty-strange, yet plausible the 13th Earl of Gurney (Harry Andrews) has accidentally hung-himself in an act of auto-erotic asphyxiation, a monologue/prologue-scene that lasts over 15-minutes! It's riveting, nonetheless. With the old Earl dead, there is only one heir left for the Lordship of the Gurneys the Earl's crazy-son, Jack (O'Toole). Jack is completely-insane, and thinks he is Jesus Christ, messiah and savior of the human-race. The would-be Lord is a paranoid-schizophrenic. He is so insane, his speech-patterns betray him immediately. He has constant-tics, and flights-of-fancy that defy-words, and make this the finest-performance by Peter O'Toole in any film (it's his favorite of all of his film-performances). The performance was nominated for numerous awards in 1972. He really is a sweet-character in the first-half of the film, and shows some wonderful humanism that is lacking in the rest of his kin. His only conscience is the butler (James Villiers), a closet-anarchist! His character recedes as Jack becomes...different.With Jack insane, his uncle Sir Charles (William Mervyn) sets-out to get him declared by a German-psychiatrist he has hand-picked...or has he? It appears that his sister, the Lady Claire Gurney has had an affair with the analyst, and has other-plans for Jack and the whole-situation. But Charles has decided he can control Jack through a call-girl he has groomed as the heir's wife, a Grace Shelly (played by the super-hot Carolyn Seymour). They are eventually-married by the very-reluctant Bishop Lampton (the legendary Alastair Sim!), a distant-relative in the Church of England. In such an environment of intrigue, being a paranoid-schizophrenic would be a natural-reaction, so one is struck by the fact that being one of the 'Ruling Class' means to be eventually driven-mad by the role. The jokes are biting in this one, with some of the best-retorts I have ever heard! To sum-it-up, the factions are battling-for-control of the Estate through Jack, who is 'J.C.' in the first-half of the film. The German-psychiatrist finally decides he can cure the would-be Lord with a radical-approach he finds another madman (the 'High-voltage Messiah', an insane Scot played unforgettably by Nigel Green) who thinks he is God, and puts them in the same room together. It should be noted that Green died after the end of shooting from a barbituate-overdose.This approach of 'two-gods in one-room' actually has been attempted in psychiatry before, but it usually doesn't work (the delusions are impenetrable). The problem is, the High-voltage Messiah thinks he's the Old Testament God of Wrath and destruction, and it causes a crisis in Jack's version of Jesus, destroying-it utterly. You could say that both characters embody the Manichean-mythos, and that they hold a heretical-view of religion. The High-Voltage Messiah represents the 'demiurge', the blind idiot-god of gnosticism, while Jack represents gnostics who believe in the Christ-within. Previously, Jack denied his name as part of his illness, and he just wanted to be someone-else.This is interesting, since early-Christians often were given a new-name upon entering the cult. Unfortunately, this warmer Christ-personality is gone after the treatment, and all that is left is the Old Testament God, and so, Jack takes-on this role. 'I'm Jack, I'm Jack,' says the future-Lord, and the psychiatrist and the family think a cure has occurred. 'I'm Jack, alright...Jack-the-Ripper,' states O'Toole in a moment of hilarity and horror. Instead of the Prince of Peace, he's begun advocating bringing the 'noose back to England', and nobody in the ruling-circles notices him as odd anymore. It's really sums-up the tone of the film. "},{"Title":"There is a mustache is my soup!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time in 1982 and the very young age of 4! Seriously, I was shocked to find this movie at my local library when I had imagined I did not actually see this movie when I was young, but in fact dreaming if not having a nightmare!  Even after watching it again, for the first time in over 20 years, I still can't imagine that I just did! An over the top Peter O'Toole playing Jesus Christ and then Jack the Riper, a giant gorilla in a top hat and jacket, a burning cross, a gigantic scream, a cast of the most colorful yet weird characters set in a not so distance past or future, is all blended together to become one crazy story about The Ruling Class. What other film can you compare this too? One could not imagine another movie like it. It would be almost impossible to actually get a movie as original as this to be made for a factual audience. The Ruling Class has moments of comedy, horror, satire, and becomes a different genre of a film every five minutes. In the end, you are left saddened but still overwhelmed at what you just saw.A movie worth watching every 20 years. Anyone who has this movie as one of their top ten favorite should seek help and be forced to live in the colorful sections of the United Kingdom. "},{"Title":"One of the best dark comedies ever","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie certainly isn't for everyone, but if you like very, VERY dark comedies, The Ruling Class won't disappoint.  Have you seen Night of the Generals, also with Peter O'Toole?  He plays a very similar character here--and nobody does insanity like Peter O'Toole.  Absolutely brilliant.  "},{"Title":"O'Toole majestic, great cast, but it starts to draaaaaag...","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" 'Kind Hearts and Coronets' meets 'If...'.Peter O'Toole gives a masterclass as a well-depicted paranoid schizophrenic who thinks he's God, inherits an Earldom and is 'cured' by the superb Michael Bryant's psychiatrist, only to become Jack the Ripper in the House of Lords.The anti-establishment message is battered home with a 15lb sledgehammer, but the cast of English (and most of the Scottish) movie stalwarts at least have a good time. Partly stagey, partly like avant-garde television of the time, and partly 'Gosford Park', TRC is not to be watched for anything other than to see actors having a terrific romp.No story, no meaningful social/religious/moral comment, just great actors (and crew) doing a great job with a somewhat ropey playscript. Special mentions for Carolyn Seymour, Michael Bryant, Arthur Lowe, Nigel Green and of course Alastair Sim wiping the floor with the lot of them. Oh, and the quintessential James Villiers idiotic toff performance. "},{"Title":"Schizophrenic. . . in a good way!","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie is sometimes brilliant, sometimes silly, sometimes surreal, sometimes tragic, sometimes wickedly satirical, and always schizophrenic (which is the whole point). It's also the only film in which Jesus Christ does the Varsity Drag. Peter O'Toole plays the paranoid schizophrenic heir to an English earldom, and as his relatives try to either cure him or commit him, what we think is being played for laughs slowly becomes something far darker.O'Toole's performance is brilliant, bringing out this man's almost unbearable pain as he tries to hold his mind together by escaping into whatever fantasy world he can manage. Unfortunately, escaping into a world where he is God and everyone loves each other does not work for society, so his family has to snap him out of that so he can become acceptable. At its core, the film is about what kind of insanity (and what kind of god) is acceptable in upper-class British society, and it makes its points on that score very well. But unfortunately, it's far too long; there are so many supporting characters with their own subplots that it gets bogged down in many places. But if you can last through the slow parts, you'll be rewarded with some unforgettable scenes before the end. Seven stars. "},{"Title":"Not a bad premise, but it's overly long and rather indulgent.","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The Ruling Class is a film that is sure to offend--after all, the leading man (Peter O'Toole) thinks he is Jesus! Right away, this sort of idea eliminates many potential viewers who would just be too offended to see such a film--especially with scenes where O'Toole climbs up on a giant cross in his house in order to meditate or take a nap. Additionally, the film nails the final nails in the coffin of the traditional English class system--and probably offended quite a few tradition-bound Brits as well. As for me, I was less offended (especially in its skewering of the upper class) but more bothered because the execution of the plot left a bit to be desired. Specifically, it was overlong and overly indulgent.The film begins with the Earl of Gurney accidentally hanging himself while having a rant--during which he was wearing a tutu! Obviously, the guy was NOT in his right mind. However, his heir (O'Toole) is 100% bonkers--and thinks he's Jesus! Considering he's got a seat in the House of Lords the family thinks this is a serious problem! But they also want to have an heir and so they trick the new Earl into a marriage and a child is soon produced. Now that the heir is here, the family will either have O'Toole committed or cure him--they don't care which--they just know they can't have a loony representing the family in the House! The film has a lot to like. I love how, for absolutely no reason, the cast members periodically break into song and dance numbers. I also like the general premise that the monarchy has long outlived its usefulness. Finally, the Butler is wonderful, as once he inherits his fortune he doesn't care one bit about propriety and tells EVERYONE exactly what he'd been hiding all those years--and delivers some very funny lines. But, I also feel irritated that such a lovely idea is, at times, squandered because the film just goes on and on and on and on. Someone really needed to look at this film and make a few judicious cuts here and there or say 'enough' when it lost momentum because scenes were just overdone or lacked comedic timing. This is especially true near the end--a portion that should have taken about ten minutes but took 40! And, frankly, the Jack the Ripper angle was handled in a very, very unfunny way--and it could have been hilarious. Overall, an interesting and compelling failure.By the way, the Rorschach cards used by the psychiatrist in the film are two of the actual cards from this test. It's rare to see real cards in films or TV. "}{"Title":"No prisoners will be taken","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" THE RULING CLASS is one of the most ruthless satires on the class dictatorship of England that is available. Peter O'Toole stars as Jack, the 14th Earl of Gurney, who at the outset of this film believes himself to be the Christ. Maybe in earlier times, the Lords of England would hide these members of the family in the attic, but estate is estate, after all, and occasionally there are some tactical maneuvers that have to be pursued in order to assure that there will be a new heir to the title. And so it goes. The various members of the House of Gurney enter Jack's madness on the heels of song and black spirituals, and a breakthrough is accomplished when Jack realizes himself to be a mere mortal after all. But that's not the end of it. The mere mortal who Jack decides he is just happens to be Jack the Ripper. Not that it matters. All messes will be cleaned up, and the 14th Earl will assume his position in the House of Lords. It is vital that estate be retained, that business go on as usual, however broad or brutal the actual farce everyday life becomes. After all, it's not like anything is new in the House of Gurney. At the beginning of the movie, we see Jack assume his title after his s and m fetishist uncle accidentally hangs himself while wearing his tutu and ballet slippers in his fantasy imperial charge on the fuzzie wuzzies of the non-white world, saber at the ready. The work is a more ornate echo of Monty Python's lampoons of upper class twits, but it's just as caustic. Peter O'Toole leads a cast that includes veteran Harry Andrews, the late Coral Browne, Michael Bryant,Nigel Green, Arthur Lowe as the neo-Bolshevik butler Tuck, and Alistair Sim as a befuddled Anglican Church cleric. Here is a work of British satire in its most precise measure. No prisoners will be taken. "},{"Title":"Great film.  Want to find copy of original version that includes Peter's dance.","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" In the original version Peter O did a fabulous dance. As I recall, he was sleeping on his cross. Then, when he awoke, he leaped from the cross to perform the dance. He danced in and out the windows of the room etc. It was great. A fan of Peter's having seen many if not all of his films, I was not aware that Peter was even capable of dancing like that. For me that was the high point of the film. Typical of the film, the dance was almost humorous in flavor though a wonderful expression of his attitude at the time. In all versions I have seen since his jump off of the cross goes to a freeze frame and the dance has been cut. I am desperately searching for the original version that includes Peter's fabulous dance. If anyone knows of a source for the original I would certainly appreciate receiving the information. "},{"Title":"The Ruling Class is Brilliant and Charming","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" That idiot from DC- larcher who wrote that the film's only good up to the reading of the will is a complete goof ball. THe film is charming and splendidly done. Peter O'Toole is at his best and perfectly brilliant. Alistair Sim is hysterical. The play by Peter Barnes is also brilliant- the idea, for example, that for someone to become evil, evil has to be done to them, is played out in it; and it is hardly a satire limited to the specific ruling class of England. Besides the film is so entertaining in its side-items and so charming simply because of O'Toole that even if the play wasn't brilliant the film still would be. THe Ruling Class is also an original, there really isn't anything else out there like it. "},{"Title":"I put it in my pressure cooker.. zhiiiing","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" By 1972 filmmakers had thankfully determined that the puerile, 'zany' comedies of the swinging 60s (What's new Pussycat, The Party, a hundred others) were not the future of the form; and all concerned moved on to superior, humorous work like this. In The Ruling Class an utterly useless, upper class British family confronts the problem of lineage after the Earl of the family dies. The seat should pass to their nephew, but he's insane, believing himself to be Jesus Christ. A butler inherits part of the fortune, but stays on to antagonize his employers. The movie argues that British society is far more comfortable with a social predator walking around talking about breaking bones and blaming/punishing the downtrodden, than with some harmless flake spouting actual Christianity and denying the importance of property. Jack's outbursts and (later) conservative rants are classic. A brutal send-up of the tepid Church of England may be the mildest of the films conceits. The idle, risible title class receives the brunt of the criticism/satire. I first saw this back in the eighties and forgot how much time I spent laughing out loud. On a fresh viewing, there are scenes I'd forgotten that made me bust out all over again. (the gorilla in a top-hat, the electric messiah). It's a very unique movie; scenes arrive and before they've even had a chance to be funny I'm giggling. The outrageously demented opening has a Tory donning a tutu and accidentally killing himself via auto-erotic asphyxiation (...see 6 vestal virgins smoking cigars). Uptight characters offer absurd rejoinders when challenged. It's rare when you get to savor such a memorable, giddy performance as Peter O'Toole's J.C.. O'Toole has a lanky, bizarre body that looks suitably goofy when dancing or running.Because it was filmed cheaply it has an economy that the deluxe treatment would have probably ruined. The second half is less amusing but there are still some good laughs. The length is unfortunate and there are scenes I'd toss (so would an adapter who wasn't the author) i.e. The House of Commons scene which Kubrick borrowed for The Shining. Strucuturally every scene can be argued for but some are more crucial than others. There isn't a single laugh that comes from Dimmesdale, Claire and Charles idiot son. snip. snip.The Ruling Class is like a lost chapter between A Clockwork Orange and Rocky Horror both of which it resembles; including a bunch of freaks in a massive British castle, and a couple characters reminiscent of Charles Gray. "},{"Title":"My Favorite","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time.  It's starts off a bit slow and confusing but stick with it because once O'Toole arrives it's the best.  I first saw it back in the my experimental years, but whether you are wasted or not it's intelligently hilarious and definitely a classic.  The writing, directing, everything - impeccable.  If anyone ever remakes this, I will kill them.  There is no way it can be done better. "},{"Title":"Fine line between Poor(love) and Rich(madness)","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The Ruling Class balances on a fine line between sanity and madness, rich and poor. Yet, it steps over the boundaries with rude and crude intention, which can be as clear as the edge of a knife. The film gives a stereotypical image of the upper class (ruling class) with a Machiavellian feeling, and yet the ruling class lacks the ability of showing feelings. In addition, the Ruling Class provides a very macho image of men with an inherited title that stands with one foot in the grave. No wonder that Pinochet felt threatened and banned this film in Chile.  "},{"Title":"O'Toole and Barnes are big winners","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Peter O'Toole shines in this somewhat flawed, but delightful, adaptation of Peter Barnes biting satire which wowed the London stage. The piece demands an actor of boundless energy and physical and vocal panache. O'Toole, drunk or sober, had all of this and more, and he made much of this demanding role, an English Earl who first thinks he's Christ and then (after being cured by a psychiatrist) believes he's Jack The Ripper. Some flaws exist in the translation to the screen -- this is definitely a theatre piece -- but one can easily forgive them as not only O'Toole, but a stellar supporting cast (including Alastair Sim) bring this insane upper class British family to life. It's well worth the time and energy it demands of the viewer. "},{"Title":"Satire at its best.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is a tour de force in satire and film. Its one of the few comedies I have watched that made me laugh with gusto and soul. The stabs at the eccentricities of England's landed gentry and the House of Lords are masterpieces of thought and satire. I truly enjoyed the romp in the garden of the Gurney mansion set to La Traviata. Peter O'Toole's cobwebbed fantasies of the Upper House had me in stitches. The world needs for films such as The Ruling Class. "},{"Title":"How do you know you're God? ... I found that in prayer I was talking to myself.","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Gross, frequently tasteless satire, much as if Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove were transplanted to England's House of Lords and then played at the wrong speed. After the Earl of Gurney accidentally kills himself during one of his fetish games, the 14th Earl--son Jack--is groomed to accept the crown. Once mad Jack--who believes himself to be Christ--undergoes a mental transformation on the night of his son's birth and self-metamorphoses into Jack the Ripper, the plot (thin to begin with) becomes a dartboard for the one-liners (some of which are very funny and are a compensation). Peter Barnes adapted his play for the screen, the kind of material upper-crust audiences like to label 'savage'; he was reciprocated with a game cast and a fine director in Peter Medak, yet these nutty fantasies are merely clotheslines for Barnes to hang his maddening soliloquies on. Peter O'Toole (with cartoony strawberry-blond hair) has some terrific moments early on, particularly in the musical send-ups, but later begins to bellow and rarely stops. The film is too full of targets, and too nasty overall, for its extreme length...it doesn't even look good. ** from **** "},{"Title":"an all-time classic","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I'm an American, and have never been to England. However, The Ruling Class is one of my all-time favorite movies. The first time I saw it I was a college student. I've probably seen it twenty times, often sharing it with friends. Most of the guys I know who have good and twisted senses of humor also love it, but most of the women think it's bizarre. O'Toole was nominated for an Academy Award in the USA, though he didn't win. Too bad. He was so great in this movie. What amazing versatility! From Lawrence of Arabia to this! This film had me laughing from start to finish. I just never knew where the film was heading, one surprise after another. I've never seen a movie this outrageous and clever. By the way, in case one wonders what my tastes in other movies are, my other favorites are The Godfather. The Sting. Children of a Lesser God. Pink Flamingoes. Coming Home. The Graduate. Rainman. Forrest Gump. Citizen Kane. Psycho. "}{"Title":"good movie, interesting that it's rated","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  At first I wasn't sure if I should laugh or be scared!An hour into the movie, Peter O'Toole's character is a hero. In the end, well, it's really abrupt and surreal-I won't give it away. Disturbing but worth the watch. "},{"Title":"The only film I know that had it's premier in Galway, Ireland...","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The only film I know that had it's premier in Galway in the West Coast of Ireland.  The movie has some good moments is a bit uneven and tries too hard to make its point.It went over well with all the members of the Socialist Workers Party in town and it's general anti-English attitude made it a natural hit with all the locals.Peter O'Toole was living in Galway around this time and drinking heavily on one on the local bars...Peter O'Toole always had this very ambiguous attitude to the British.  On one hand he always great in any part as an English aristocrat but on the other hand he was an Irish boy.  This conflict always seems to compromise his career. "},{"Title":"Zealot","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Peter Medak's The Ruling Class stars Peter O'Toole as Jack Gurney, a nobleman who inherits a relative's wealth and estate. As Gurney's family are emblematic of Britain's ruling class &#x96; aristocratic, powerful, duplicitous and uncaring &#x96; Gurney undergoes a mental breakdown. Refusing to be complicit with the reality of the social class he was born into, a reality that he deems inhumane, Gurney starts believing himself to be Jesus Christ.As the adage goes, 'the ruling ideas of every epoch are the ideas of the ruling class'. Refusing to abide by this anymore, Gurney begins to embody values, principles and beliefs that are antithetical to those of his family (love, peace, equality etc). They find his virtues disgusting, he finds their world intolerable. The film climaxes with Gurney's family members restoring sanity to Gurney, at which point he believes himself to be Jack the Ripper. As a murderous madman, Gurney is embraced by the British establishment. Like most political, British, post-war theatre, the film thus aligns conservative, post-war capitalism to a goofy ruling class who specialise in crushing souls. Final act? Gurney murderously cutting ties with loved ones whilst communists (a butler who reads Marx, Lenin and Mao) are scapegoated by the rich. Final scene? Gurney applauded by his peers and standing at the heart of a British parliament populated with zombies. The symbolism speaks for itself.Like Heaven's Above! (1963), a similar British film, The Ruling Class finds two ideologies vying for control. On one hand we have what might be called Christian or liberal values, and on the other, more traditional, conservative values. In the film, these strands are incompatible. In the real world, beneath our civilised Jesus tends to lie The Ripper, and vice versa. More importantly, the latter can't get away with its crimes unless it perceives itself as anointed, sanctified and righteous.Based on a play by Peter Barnes, The Ruling Class is an overlong and at times dull film. There are nevertheless many interesting passages peppered about, some very good surreal moments, some wonderfully blunt/gross satire (evocative of Bunuel) and another good performance by O'Toole, whose role seems to critique the kings and rulers he played earlier in his career (Becket, The Lion in Winter). It's a shame that Medak's film isn't more focused, because he has very interesting material to work with.7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See They Might Be Giants and A Thousand Clowns. "},{"Title":"from a ludicrous farce to a morbid satire","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" A very dark and farcical comedy recounts a lunatic's rising in the British ruling class, it is an adaptation of Peter Barnes' stage play. Jack Gurney (O'Toole) is a paranoid schizophrenic man lived in asylum for 8 years, who thinks he is Jesus Christ, the funny thing is that he is also the sole heir of his accidentally self-asphyxiated father, the 13th Earl of Gurney, and to inherit the peerage, his return to his family villa does hinder his vile uncle Sir Charles' (Mervyn) plan to take possession of the family estates. Jack, who advocates to bring love and charity to the world, affectionately claims believe in me in loving goodness while anything unsavory is put into his galvanized pressure cooker and disappears, but in they eyes of Dr. Herder (Bryant), Jack's psychiatrist, he is a nut-case with a delusion of grandeur. While he deploys all the experimental methods to cure him, Sir Charles has his own plan to get the possession of the property, he marries off his mistress Grace (Seymour), who actually was going to marry Jack's father, to Jack and hopes they produce an heir, then he can fittingly put his nephew into an institution, so he can acquire the power. Wantonly, things don't go that way, though Jack successfully marries Grace, the ceremony is presided by bishop Lampton (Sim), whose predicament to officiate Jesus' matrimony is side-splitting to watch, and Grace delivers a son shortly. But Dr. Herder's persistence, partly incensed by Charles' wife Lady Claire (Browne), who sides with Jack to get redress for Charles' infidelity, finally works, a face-to-face encounter with another mad man McKyle (Green) who also believes himself to be Christ in a thunderous night miraculously cures Jack (with a little help from an imaginative gorilla in tuxedo), or not? Anyway, everyone is convinced Jack is back to normal, only his sporadic stuttering which Jack exerts himself to hide suggests otherwise.The film runs about 154 minutes, an unusual length for a play-turned-film, in the third act, Jack fancies himself as the notorious Jack the Ripper, therefore the film tones down its lighthearted and musical leitmotif and starkly mutates into a murderous drama, until the stirring end of a zombie parliament and Grace's shrilling scream. The tonal shift is deviant (particularly when characters precipitately start singing and dancing without any cinematic cues) but it does thrust a sharp-edged dagger into the putrid aristocracy rank and the top tier decision-makers, but Barnes' pungent script doesn't leave anyone else unscathed, the loyal but verbally transgressed butler Tucker (Lowe) is passed off as a whipping boy for the murder; the gold-digger Grace cannot win her husband's heart no matter how tantalizing her striptease is; more jarringly, Dr. Herder, a foreigner deeply believes in his scientific methodology, fails to grasp the situation and is driven mad by the appalling fact. There is dark humor galore, but so is the unbridled disdain towards the mundane sanity. This is one of Peter O'Toole's 8 Oscar-nominated performances, and it is not just a worthy one, in my book, he should win, it is the kind of physically taxing and mentally exhausting prototype which can daunt any Shakespearian thespian, but Mr. O'Toole is wholeheartedly invested in the before-and-after changeover, ranges from extremes like explosively maniac to perturbingly merciless, not counting his solemn imitation of Christ, constantly puts audience in a weird position doesn't know whether to laugh or cry. This ensemble piece is consummated with a handful impressive supporting performances from Lowe, Sim, Browne, Seymour and Bryant, each adds their own flair to this ludicrous and outlandish tall tale. As for the still-working director Peter Medak, browsing through his later career, his third feature might be his best,The most indelible line, also featured on the movie's poster, is when asked how he had decided that he was God, Jack nonchalantly replies, I found that whenever I prayed to God, I was talking to myself. And Dr. Herder should have realized that no sanity can be induced from that axiomatic logic. "},{"Title":"Very accurate historically","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Generally regarded as one of the best British horror films, The Ruling Class very nearly sank into obscurity shortly after being made.The film's distributors EMI disliked it so much that they wrote it off as a tax loss. Then Rod Stewart, who was married to Coral Browne at the time, allegedly tried to buy the negative so that he could have it destroyed - thereby preventing the public from seeing his wife in the nude. Fortunately, the film survived (though not in the way its director originally intended).The story focuses on a virginal 14th Earl of Gurney (O'Toole) who is exiled on a remote Scottish island. What he discovers, though, is he thinks he is Jesus Christ.It's a movie about religion, God, and the crisis of faith, with an ending that's either devoutly Christian (O'Toole's Jack Arnold Alexander Tancred Gurney continues praying right to the very end), or a nihilistic comment on God's absence from the universe.With such a colourful production history, The Ruling Class was always destined for fame. Yet its cult status actually has more to do with the film's content - there's a paedophile subplot, lots of occult rituals, sexual perversion, Alastair Sim in drag, and a resolutely downbeat finale that's as far removed from a happy ending as it's possible to get. And on top of all that, it's bloody scary.The Ruling Class is a movie that'll burn its way into your unconscious and give you nightmares for many years to come.The Ruling Class is also available in a 199-minute uncut version "},{"Title":"O'Toole is brilliant","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" They almost never show this on TV. Sad. It is a remarkable film and Peter O'Toole is simply brilliant as Jack.The fight scene between the two gods is wonderful. Almost makes me wish they made a sequel about the life of the electromagnetic god who has to recharge via an open light socket. Great fun and then downright chilling at the end. The butler is one of the better characters, as is old Alastair Sim as the Bishop. Why was he wearing a ballet skirt? Poor old dear. As good as Brando was in The Godfather, I still think O'Toole should have trumped him for Best Actor that year. I mean, Brando played a great character, but O'Toole ACTED in this, acted up, down, right, left, and sideways. He is not the same character at the end ... oh, no. "},{"Title":"Long but with some insanity to keep the cobwebs out. O'Toole is electric.","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" The Ruling Class (1972)This is a peculiar, long, hilarious and tedious movie, depending on your taste and probably your age. Parts of it have always made me perk up and laugh, but it works the same theme (of the exhaustion of the old British ways) to death.Peter O'Toole lets it all hang out here, for sure, as Jesus, and as a crazed new British Lord (including a famous final section where he gives a speech to the House of Lords, which is filled with cobwebbed skeletons). It's not really supposed to be haunting or scary, but it's slightly gruesome comedy is pointed, for sure. And funny. If you don't laugh or at least give a crooked smile to the battle between two men who think they are god--O'Toole as the Jesus God and Nigel Green as an Old Testament God, and the Electric Messiah (both). It's crazy and crazed and yet what else do you expect?Someone said it perfectly when they called it a comedy with tragic relief. O'Toole won an Oscar for his efforts (and he played his part for free). The American version of the movie has 6 minutes missing, though probably the wrong 6 minutes. A good editing might remove an hour and have a faster and more punchy movie. Still, it is what it is, and there's nothing quite like it. "},{"Title":"good movie, brilliant Peter O'Toole","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I found the movie peculiar, at times it was simply enthralling, at times; it was a bit underwhelming, which makes it difficult for me to form a decided opinion of it especially as somebody who's not that familiar with that age or society. The charismatic Peter O' Toole shines gloriously through the course of it however; both as the frowned upon schizophrenic who believes he is Jesus Christ and as the revered headstrong aristocrat who secretly believes he is Jack the ripper.The movie which gradually becomes more and more satirical as it progresses symbolically connects the indifferent ruling class to the rise of such evils as Jack the ripper. A commendable acting performance from Peter O'Toole makes this symbolism all the more persuasive. Also, it shows how all the scheming manages to turn a harmless buffoon into a psychotic serial killer to the detriment of the perpetrators and his well wishers alike and how, upon this transition, he ironically gains acceptance into the society which had ridiculed him earlier.I would not go ahead and say its a 10 on 10 for me for there were instances where I felt a lack of continuity in the storyline, though its difficult to recall such incidents in particular, overall the movie didn't leave me as awestruck as some other movies which I've voted as a perfect 10. Its difficult to say how much of it was due to my lack of knowledge of that age or society and how much of it was due to gaps in the storyline itself. That said, the movie is definitely worth a watch, in fact, a second watch would be worth considering for somebody from outside of Britain, you might just pick up the odd joke you missed in the first viewing. "},{"Title":"Bless Peter O'Toole! Bless the irreverent writer!","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" They just don't make movies like this anymore! This is a delightfully insane, smart and ultimately unpredictable black comedy with Shakespearian and surrealistic undertones. It's great to finally see a script that does justice to Peter O'Toole's singular talents. A short description of the plot would be useless however, since the movie practically defies classification. The harsh criticism aimed at British aristocracy is merely a pretense for a deeper analysis of&#x85; everything. Religion and freedom, love and happiness, normality and alienation, life and death, good and evil, society vs. the individual --- the human condition, basically--- everything is scrutinized and relentlessly exposed or challenged, with quirky humor, sarcasm, and - yes - compassion underneath it all. If you don't care for these topics, then kindly leave the stage, says the hero. The splendid Peter O'Toole simply shines in this unconventional and difficult role, playing it to perfection and beyond. His intelligently nuanced tour-de-force performance is hilarious, disturbing and touching all together &#x96; I'm being everybody, he says. Everything that comes out of Peter O'Toole's mouth has a Shakespearian ring to it. Everything about him has a distinctive elegance that is unparalleled to this day. The supporting cast is excellent; dialogs are cleverly built on multiple layers of symbolism; the music is fabulous. Each time you watch this movie, you'll pick up on something new. Well, there's much to be said, but&#x85; watch it and judge for yourself. Get the full-length version of the movie, form Criterion Collection. The Ruling Class is a must-see, one of the best movies ever - timeless, profound, moving and truly unique. "},{"Title":"A Marvelous Gallery of Grotesques","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I recently watched the uncut version of this film on Turner Classic Movies in the wee hours of the morning and thoroughly enjoyed the performances of all the actors in it with the exception of the lead character J.C./Jack played by the redoubtable Peter O'Toole. The plot of a mad lord(God knows that there are way too many of them by far in the House of Lords both in the past and present) who believes himself to be a benevolent, loving Peace, Man Jesus Christ who is subsequently driven by the scientific vile machinations of a crazed German psychiatrist(who ends up needing his own head examined)to become a sane Jack the Ripper, is buttressed by the superb performances of the supporting cast. Peter O'Toole's Tour de Force performance which for the most part lauded by the other reviewers here, is too over-the-top which works within the context of this film for his role but I found O'Toole shamelessly mugging and leering without restraint(indeed like a real madman) which again works accidentally within the context of this film. After O'Toole has been branded sane as Jack the Ripper there are several huge closeups of his wide staring eyes--I swear I thought I was watching Joan Crawford as Mommie Dearest glaring in her best Kabuki Mie-grimace before letting her Strait-Jacket axe descend for some satisfying mayhem. Harry Andrews as O'Toole's pater, the 13th Lord Gurney turns in a short but satisfying appearance in his rigid iron-jawed unpleasant upper-crusty sod who offs himself whilst wearing unflattering raiment, William Mervyn and Coral Browne play two of the Gurneys, the nastiest upper class scum dripping with self-importance and probably a leaky colostomy bag! Mervyn excelled in portraying snooty, stiff-upper-lipped pompous nabobs with their noses in the air though I presume he was not like that in real life; Coral was just doing what came naturally, playing herself, i.e., being a nasty, caustic-tongued man-hungry bitch who got her hooks into horror legend Vincent Price in reality as Vinnie's last wife, James Villers as his specialty, a gormless pathetic gangling twit, Nigel Green as an Electric Jehovah(Nigel offed himself after this role, his life imitated his F-art), Michael Bryant as the crazed unscrupulous German psychiatrist, Hugh Burden as the harried mousy lawyer(Mr. Reeder indeed!), Graham Crowden as a gimlet-eyed sanity officer who bursts into a lively duet of the Eton Boating Song with O'Toole, Arthur Lowe as the one sympathetic character in the whole film, the Bolshie old manservant who gets framed for the murder done by O'Toole, and last but not least, the great Alastair Sim as the doddering old Bishop, shaking and trembling in fear in the best Kierkegaardian manner. These supporting actors along with Kay Walsh and Patsy Byrne, all work very well together but O'Toole, purposely, I'm sure, strikes a jarring note in the whole film as the huge stinking turd floating in the middle of the punchbowl. You can't miss him but wish he were a little less noticeable! All in all, 10 Stars, Excellent All Around, even with O'Toole's shameless overacting, and chewing up the scenery, which I am sure was his original intent for the overall theme of this gem of a film. The director, Peter Medak(The Changeling, Species II, The Krays) does an absolutely rip-roaring job here and is to be highly commended for this film, which may indeed be his masterpiece! "}{"Title":"Rococco Comedy.","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Peter O'Toole becomes the 14th Earl of Gurney, head of one of the richest and most powerful families in England. He assumes the title upon the death of Harry Andrews. When Andrews is buried, the Reverend Alistair Sims comes to the family seeking reassurance that Andrews' having been found dead, hanging by a noose in his own bedroom, doesn't indicate suicide. After all -- burial in sacred ground and all that. Sims is told indignantly, good heavens, the man was wearing a cocked hat, underpants, and a ballet dress -- does that sound like suicide? The rest of the family carry on an intense discussion but every once in a while they're interrupted by a shriek from Sims, to whom realizations come only slowly, and one at a time. Cocked HAT? And, later, Underpants? And finally, BALLET DRESS? It doesn't help that the slightly nutty Andrews, who was in the habit of strangling himself while reciting patriotic speeches, is dead. O'Toole, as his successor, is downright loco.O'Toole believes he is Jesus Christ. He certainly LOOKS the part. He is given long flowing hair with bangs, and a short beard, and with his blue eyes looks exactly like a painting on a post card sold in one of those tourist shops around the Vatican.But if his appearance is bizarre, his beliefs are even worse. He thinks God is love. What an insane idea. In the end another madman changes O'Toole's engrams and turns him into Jack, his real name. Unfortunately he becomes the wrong person, Jack the You-Know-What. He gives a speech in Parliament praising capital punishment, torture, and so forth, and receives a rousing applause from the assembly. Love doesn't sell. Cruelty wins by a mile.O'Toole described this as a comedy with tragic relief, and that's about it. It presents a pretty shabby picture of human nature, beneath the laughs, or the attempts at laughter, which too often evoke puzzled frowns.Peter Barnes' play was staged in 1968 and presumably written a year or two earlier, a period when the voice of iconoclasm was heard throughout the land, as the 14th Earl of Gurney might have put it before he was electrified.The late 60s were a time of revolution, first outrageously irrational and then violent. The movie may look dated because it so accurately reflects that evolutionary path. Of course some of its zingers never lose their sting. How does O'Toole know he's God? Because whenever I pray, I find I'm talking to myself. Skewered here are class distinctions, snobbery, religion, love, and anything else you can think of, down to the roots of our cultural being. The problem is that it doesn't seem all that funny to me, not in 2010. There are so many shouts, so much gesticulating, dances that come out of nowhere, an immaterial sequence involving La Traviata, the cast breaking into old songs like My Blue Heaven, overacting generally, winks at an audience that already recognizes the joke.Since it's a whimsical, comic, tragic fantasy it needn't stick too close to reality -- actually, it mustn't -- and it doesn't. There's nothing at all amusing about paranoid schizophrenia, which is about the most terrifying form of the disorder. And if you bring together two patients who both believe they are Jesus Christ, you don't get the electrifying confrontation the movie gives us. The psychologist Milton Rokeach already brought THREE patients with the same delusion together and their eyes remained glazed. They were as emotionally flat as always when they were introduced. One commented, Oh, so you're a cemetery rerise? All the performances are fine. O'Toole's role is a difficult one but he handles it very well. Who can count the times he's played a madman? It's the would-be disturbing script and the in-your-face direction that keeps this from being the black comedy it wants to be. Sometimes subtlety plays better, as in Dr. Strangelove, a product of the same period with a similar structure. "},{"Title":"Absolute proof of Peter O'Toole as the greatest actor of all time.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I remember as a child this film being blasted by my family for it's irreverent tone and so now as an adult I sat down to view it.This film cemented an opinion I'd had since childhood,that Peter O'Toole is the greatest actor that has ever graced a stage or a film set.He displays the emotional gamut from sweet natured and very Christ-like, despite his character's harmless schizophrenia,heartbreak as his delusion is shattered by the absolutely fantastic Nigel Green as the Lord of High Voltage,to his utterly frightening final transformation into Jack the Ripper.His portrayal as Jack is the most unnerving frightening portrayal of a murderer I've ever seen,Forget Ted Levine in Silence Of The Lambs or Sir Anthony Hopkins for that matter.The image and sound of his psychotic,primal scream before his appearance at the House of Lords still makes my skin crawl. This film is truly great although definitely not for all tastes as my mom will vehemently attest.I love this film it is unlike anything else I've ever seen.The musical numbers are jarring but I love 'em,especially Dem Bones.I love bizarre what the hell moments and this movie is full of 'em, my personal favorite is the gorilla that comes crashing through when he is being cured by the Lord of High Voltage.If you love weird movies that send ridiculously sensitive people into apoplectic shock well buddy-boy, this is the one for you.There is so much in this movie that is great.This film is truly one of the greatest films I've ever seen.Then again,most of Peter O'Toole's movies from his pre- Caligula era were in my opinion, masterpieces.I could be slightly biased however. This film gets the highest possible recommendation,get it,watch it and keep it. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites from the 70s","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I was just checking on this because I just watched The Final Curtain, starring O'Toole in 2002 (or 2003). The other had the same type of really Bizarre black comedy and I really loved them both, though this one still remains a favorite and the other film was not quite an all time favorite, but well worth a view if you like this. It is interesting to see that he managed to keep the marvelous comic timing in spite of 30 years passing. The plot twists and turns and the interspersed musical numbers have great dramatic impact and the social commentary is really fabulous. It is a wonderful and fun commentary on the hypocrisy of classes then and now. "},{"Title":"An amazing film that is more profound in it's depths than on it's surface","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" Firstly I would like to say that i adore the way almost every aspect of this film. It is extremely witty (witness the oft quoted line from O'Toole about why he thinks he is God) and also very touching (Jack's joy when he marries his wife for example) and it's songs are great and very nicely integrated. The one area where I think it fails is as a satire against the ruling classes. The idea that the aristocracy is uncomfortable with non comformity or uncontrolled emotion is neither original nor reserved solely for that strata of society. This does not mean that the film lacks depth however and I found myself extremely troubled by the film's observation that the world is more tolerant of excessive coldness than excessive love. At times I feel that the film could work as a parable to the release of Barrabas and the crucifixtion of Christ. Perhaps this is to read too much into it but I urge everyone to watch the film and ponder it for themselves. "},{"Title":"Dashing O'Toole is the whole show in royal black comedy","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The Earl has just been found having hanged himself and wearing a white tutu. The closest heir is Jack (Peter O'Toole), who enters the castle and announces he's actually Jesus Christ. The family plays along at first so that they may live off his money forever, but soon his ''act'' wears thin - and they plot against him! Taut upper-class comedy gives us some very rich, well-defined characters. This isn't the most functional family in the world - these people are downright nasty! With adultery, murder, and snobbery available in copious amounts, there's hardly a limit to the comedic possibilities.But this is clearly O'Toole's show. His delivery of some very difficult - and very intelligent - lines made him worthy of an Oscar nomination. Remember him in The Lion in Winter as Henry II? Same regal arrogance, the kind of quality that will cause males to rise up in anger and females to swoon at his feet. Contrast O'Toole's performance here with the one he presents in The Stunt Man. Different setting, different character, but both seem to think of themselves as The Almighty - or a reasonable facsimile. This is O'Toole at his finest. "},{"Title":"Whoa","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" I didn't know whether to laugh, cry or panic. So I did all three. At the same time. Me, Jesus, and the Electric Jehovah. Fug! screamed JC, in addendum. As well he should've, all things considered.But there there remains this ladies, beware! If you find yourself in the arms of your lover, then suddenly in Whitechapel, there isn't much time. The poacher takes it in the bum for a reason, you know. As for the butler, well...see for yourself if he did it or not. The odds are not good for the little Bolshie; maybe that's why he drinks. The fox is jolly good, though, bladder and all.Yet...THE DAMNED KID WON'T SHUT UP! "},{"Title":"The Plot","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  A well made movie that packages the sometimes farcical processes within the aristocracy. The defining moment comes shortly after one of the musical numbers, The Varsity Drag, when the 14th Earl Jack (O'Toole) introduces himself to Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Treadwell as the new Earl, to which one of them gasps Oh! Well done! - the point being that the Earl has had to do absolutely nothing for his Earldom. Still, the estate is rightfully his according to the will left by his father, the 13th Earl. The remaining relatives don't like that, and trick Jack into marrying a floozy, the plan being to produce a male heir who would become the 15th Earl, whereupon they could have Jack recommitted to a mental institution and regain control of the estate until the 15th Earl's coming of age. But things did not quite turn out as planned!  "},{"Title":"THE STRIP TEASE","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  A member of the House of Lords dies in a shockingly silly way, leaving his estate to his son. Unfortunately, his son is insane he thinks he is Jesus Christ. He is cured of that affliction, only to become Jack the Ripper incarnate, blood thirsty Tory who is therefore sane and eminently acceptable to the House of Lords. An irreverant look at Britain's class system that peers behind the closed doors of the aristocracy.Yes, and it also contains one of the finest strip tease scenes ever to grace the silver screen. Carolyn Seymour certainly puts her all into a performance worthy of an Oscar nod. Makes the movie watching more than once. "},{"Title":"Nearly choked","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" .. that´s what I was, when I saw O'Toole in this fantastic role as the crazy heir! First in his cowl - believing he was Jesus, then as the elegant ripper (after the therapy) both the light and the dark side of personality were presented with such an intensity It took my breath away!Maybe O'Toole has once again done his thing too well to get an Oscar, because the film was made in the early 70s, and the stuff of Ruling Class was suited to provoke the whole society of the UK. Pity. On the other hand That´s why I love Ruling Class! "},{"Title":"Home of Lords","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":" For Americans this movie presents a comical picture of England in 1972. Trouble is the landed gentry are still fox-hunting here and carrying on like we have an Empire. Back in the shires they complain about that  awful Prime Minister who wants to stop all that foxhunting. Mind you somewhere on the East Coast of America there is an American elite called the Vanderburgs & company. Hopefully they are not as remote as the English elite who have so many titles they forget they are human. It would be interesting to know what Peter O Toole thought of the movie and the subject of class warfare in Britain. Note Our Deputy Prime Minister (formerly working classes) now says he is upper class, sporting his new country estate and two Jaguars. Carry on England! Is that why Americans come to England to see a real live aristocrat?Richard Bond London England        "}{"Title":"Doesn't Age Well","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The heavy-handed morality and the lack of subtlety (perhaps from cultural nuances that didn't make it across the Atlantic) ruined this movie. Jack's evolution from hippie-dippy Christ in a white suit to a death-penalty advocate/ murderer comments more on the politics of the filmmakers than convincing the viewer.The scenes that burst into 1920s Vaudeville numbers are bizarrely funny, but seem arbitrary and don't go anywhere. By the time Jack sings Dem Bones the novelty has worn off.The film's style screams Age of Aquarius... from shots of lovers romping in the garden to the freak out images of what Jack's POV... This is an unsubtle message shown in an unsubtle way. "},{"Title":"Half a dozen good bits","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  Half a dozen good bits do not a good movie make.  Many years ago, a friend of mine told me to leave the film after the Gravy Train sequence; he was wrong.  I should have left after the reading of the will, or possibly after the Varsity Drag.  Peter O'Toole is too old to be a young self-deluded image of Christ (or of Jack), the comedy is too forced, and worst of all the target of all this satire to too lame.  The English have a ruling class indeed; but it is not the poor sad titled families who dress up in robes and sometimes hang themselves.  This is just six or seven good farcical sketches stretched into a movie. "},{"Title":"Not as Clever as it Thinks it is","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Musical","Review":"  The story of an English Lord who thinks he's God, but is cured by is family is an odd film. I'm not certain what to make of it. Mostly I wonder why the filmmakers think his film is so special when its very obvious where its going.Don't get me wrong, this is a good movie. Its at times very very funny and pointed but there is an sense about it that everyone is being so much cleverer than you.I doubt very much that they are, simply because after a very compelling, non-predictable first half the film quickly becomes very predictable for the second.Should you see this?Yes. It has one of Peter O'Toole's best roles. Its, as I said earlier, very funny.6 out of 10.  "}]