[{"Title":"A blaxploitation classic! Possibly Pam Grier's best movie.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pam Grier made many movies in the 1970s, but 'Coffy' as much as anything, is the one role on which her reputation as the Queen of blaxploitation rests. After a bit part in a Russ Meyer movie (his classic 'Beyond The Valley Of The Dolls'), Jack Hill, former Roger Corman protege and director of the creepy cult favourite 'Spider Baby', discovered her and gave her two strong roles in his popular chicks-in-chains movies 'The Big Doll House' and 'The Big Bird Cage'. Then Hill wrote and directed 'Coffy', a hugely entertaining revenge thriller that really showcases Pam Grier's talent and charisma to the max. The movie was hugely successful and made Grier an exploitation superstar. Instead of a female James Bond character like Cleopatra Jones, Hill made Coffy a regular working class black woman (a nurse as a matter of fact), who must use her brains and looks to achieve her goal - revenge for the drug addiction of her kid sister. The movie crosses elements seen in the male blaxploitation classics of the period like 'Superfly' and 'Shaft' with the vigilante genre which would really kick off with the success of 'Death Wish' the following year (yup, 'Coffy' PREDATES 'Death Wish', so let's get that straight). Grier is sensational in this movie. She can act, she's tough, she pulls off the action scenes with credibility, and of course she looks great, and there is a fair bit of nudity. Grier went on to movies like 'The Arena', 'Sheba, Baby' and 'Drum' before the blaxploitation boom burst, but it's a pity that she only made one more movie with Jack Hill ('Foxy Brown') because they were a dynamite team bringing out the best in each other. 'Coffy' has some interesting supporting cast members including Allan Arbus (best know to fans of TV's 'M.A.S.H.') as Mob boss Vitroni, future 'Robocop' actor Robert DoQui as flamboyant pimp King George, and the brilliant Sid Haig as the sleazy Omar. Haig was a regular Grier co-star throughout the 1970s and Jack Hill's favourite actor ever since his breakthrough role in 'Spider Baby'. If you really want to understand why so many movie buffs from Quentin Tarantino on down worship Pam Grier then 'Coffy' is THE movie to watch. Arguably her best movie, it's a blaxploitation classic and still great viewing thirty years later! Highly recommended to anyone with an interest in 1970s exploitation or crime movies. "},{"Title":"She WILL cream you!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In hindsight I should have watched this before Foxy Brown, as this was the better movie.  However, it seems that Foxy is far more memorable, with it's over-the-top violence.  This one's pretty violent as well, and has all the Pam Grier scenes that you'd expect.  Coffy offing a drug pusher in the first few minutes, having a touching family moment, fighting a room full of women that results in everyone's top being janked off, some bad guys nuts getting blown off (literally, not figuratively), and, of course, Pam trading blows with at least 2 lesbians at once.  Still, this one has a little more integrity than Foxy, being that it was made first and was a little tamer. Check out Sidney Freidman from M*A*S*H as a sleazy bad guy! This movie passes the time quite nicely. "},{"Title":"Pam, Pam, Pam.  Blam.","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pure action film nirvana, Coffy has got to be one of the slickest pieces of entertainment ever created, not to mention a fantastic Blaxploitation cinema experience. It's a credit to everyone involved in the film that the story could be so gratuitously nonsensical and contrived and still seem completely logical while it's happening. It's like a comic book come to life.Pam Grier plays Coffy, a nurse who goes on a murderous rampage after her sister overdoses on drugs supplied by a pusher who knows that Coffy is sending her money. From the opening scene, where Coffy pulls a severely-sawed-off shotgun out of her macramé purse to blast a big- time drug dealer to hell, the frantic pace never lets up until the bitter, seething end. After making her first hit, Coffy's vengeance is further stoked when her do-good cop friend is taken out by the dirty dealers for not accepting a payoff. Coffy blows her top and takes some time off work to really go for the jugular, working her way through the city's drug cartel by posing as a Jamaican hooker named Mystique. It's not hard--she gets the vital information in a hilarious scene involving a woman named Priscilla, whose old man, Harriet, turns out to be more than Coffy bargained for.The genius in the film is in the way that Coffy manages to manipulate her way through all of these scenarios. Even the hardest criminals are putty in her hands, and she never looks more beautiful than when she is covered in scratches, grime, and wielding a shotgun. She has a seemingly endless bag of tricks, several of which involve weapons hidden in her astonishing afro. She's comfortable around a gun, but she'll use any old thing lying around to wreak her vengeance a broken wine bottle, a hypodermic needle full of dope, a makeshift shiv, even a convenient rock lying on the side of the road.By the time the climax rolls around, the film has become deliriously exciting, building continuously upwards until you think it might collapse in on itself. But it doesn't. Coffy stands tall, even over the strains of a closing song that tells us Revenge is a virtue. This film is perfect in every way. "},{"Title":"Pam Brier is a sensation!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  By 1973 AIP had struck paydirt many times over with Black Caesar and its sequel, the two Slaughter films, several black/horror hybrids like Blacula, and of course the jungle prison sleazies, and now their first black superchick flick Coffy went into production.  Jack Hill (The Big Doll House, The Big Bird Cage) was at the helm again, along with the tried-and-tested formula of Pam Grier and Sid Haig.  Coffy is a nurse by day and avenging angel at night, tracking down the dealers who got her sister hooked on the Big H. She opens the film blowing the head off a dealer with a shotgun, then follows the trail of dead bodies to a bald hood named Omar and her crooked politician boyfriend, who she shoots in the balls.  Revenge is a virtue, the soundtrack blares; critics applauded the liberated ballsy lead character while decrying the level of sex and sadism.  As revenge actioners go, Coffy don't come better.  Grier in her first lead role is a sensation.  Little wonder Tarantino tailor-made a film for her. "},{"Title":"the best Pam Grier movie!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  if you've always wondered what was so great about Pam Grier, and haven't seen any of her movies from the seventies, look no further than Coffy. Coffy has it all, violence, pimps, drugs, nudity, sex, and it's served up with some severe camp and crazy dialogue.  what sets this movie apart from other blaxploitaion movies is the excellent story and powerful performance of Miss Grier.  I don't think anyone else could have pulled it off, and despite the low budget ambiance and feeling the movie took about a couple of weeks to make, Grier gives a performance worthy of her cult reverence.the movie is a typical revenge story, with a not so typical hero-a black woman.  Coffy's sister is hooked on smack and Coffy vows to herself to destroy the people responsible.  Coffy works as a nurse by day, and prowls the clubs by night looking for the pusher who destroyed her sister's mind with drugs.  Her search leads her to a pimp, a mobster, the cops, and a politician.  In the end, she takes care of them all using her brains as well as her body, and damn do she have a body!  Pam Grier makes this movie believable despite the obvious flaws of the low budget production.  Her character never shows the weak side of femininity and fall into the ethos that women are at some point weaker than men.  Coffy never breaks down to cry for help, waiting for a man or anyone else to help her-she does it all on her own.  she kicks ass all over, and no other movie has done that with a female character, at least not anything credible.  Coffy makes Thelma and Louise look like Laverne and Shirley.Pam went on to make more movies of this ilk, but none were as popular nor as good as Coffy.   what about Foxy Brown you ask?  despite a better title, it doesn't compare to Coffy in either performance or content.  Coffy served to bring Pam Grier into the main stream, as much as any black actress could be, and make her a star.  all i can say is, thank you Quentin Tarentino for making Jackie Brown and proving her power and presence as an actress.  See this movie, then see Jackie Brown,  you'll see why Tarentino made it. "},{"Title":"One of the best exploitation films ever","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Excellently filmed, directed, and written.  One of the best action films of the 70s, equally as sadistic as any Italian or German S and M movies. Scenes of black man being tied and dragged by car make a modern audience VERY uncomfortable!  Pam Grier shows it all!  I dig the scene with her and the leather chick with the junky girlfriend.  Jack Hill should be praised for bringing us the gem of a movie! "},{"Title":"Coffy is the color of your skin!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pam Grier shines in this hilarious action-packed blaxploitation flick where she first got her name as a 'black pin-up queen' during the early 70's. It is apparent after watching this film that no one remembers this for the bad-acting and dialogue, but for Pam Grier herself as a mean mutha who can kick some a$$ when she has to!This movie SCREAMS 'early 70's', from the afro wigs to the awesome outfits Coffy finds herself wearing whether it be at a gala for call girls or when she's undercover to kick some drug-dealer's nasty behind!This brilliant film mixes comedy right in there with the action. From the campy catfight scenes when Coffy dumps a salad bowl onto a blonde girl's head, to when King George makes his first appearance and steps out of his car in his pimp outfit, complete right down to the feather in his hat!!! Just seeing Coffy smash a wine bottle on a table to defend herself against a crackhead wielding a knife is rioutous enough! Watch out for the scene where she puts razor blades in her hair!!!There is also a lot of unintentional comedy in there as well. Look for the scene where Carter frisks a male suspect who makes the mistake of putting his hands through Coffy's car window!The action is fairly consistent. There are a lot of guns firing off, endless catfights that result in each girl having their dresses ripped open to expose their breasts(!!!) and an awesome scene that results in King George getting tied up with a noose and dragged through an obstacle course behind a car.But every time Coffy appears on screen and you just KNOW that some bad stuff is about to go down, you know that you're going to be taken for a fun ride! As I mentioned above, no one is watching this movie for an Oscar-nominated performance or even a decent soundtrack (the Coffy theme sung by the Gladys Knight & The Pips-wannabes halfway through the movie is timeless!!!) - you're there to be entertained... and entertained is what you'll get, guaranteed. So invite your friends over for a good time - this is one movie where you don't have to be drunk to enjoy it!10/10!! "},{"Title":"Wham! Bam! Thank you, Pam!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a great film! After seeing Friday Foster last week which was a quite disappointment Pam found back to old qualities with this movie! The nerve-straining and tame political correctness of Friday Foster is fortunately totally missing, because Coffy follows straight up to some unwritten genre laws the white are the bad guys, black ones the good - that´s how the rules of blaxploitation normally function! The story is simple nurse Coffy takes revenge for her little sister, who was maltreated by the drug syndicate. Sometimes the film reminded me on Michael Winner´s Death Wish, however Charles Bronson is a little milk boy in comparison to the tough and sexy Coffy Pam shows her breasts every five minutes and when she doesn´t she kills a dozens of people instead. The scene when she blows away the head of an evil pimp is next to William Lustig´s Maniac the greatest headshot ever featured in a film! Loved also the hilarious girl brawl at the buffet! A great fun flick!! "},{"Title":"Pam Grier and writer/director Jack Hill in their prime in Coffy","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy may be no real masterpiece, but for its 'type' of movie it was going for, it doesn't get much better. Aside from Tarantino's Jackie Brown (of which not only did that filmmaker take license with the 'take no prisoners' style of Grier, but the best musical pieces as well), this is Pam Grier's finest turn in what some consider in the exploitation-movie world as the first 'black-exploitation' classic. But to say that everything in the film is exploitive of black culture might be a little far to say. While to be sure the film depicts some of the black characters with their flamboyant clothing (including things that are pretty funny today like King George's cape and one-piece suit with emblem), and it also keeps to the quasi-tenement of this wave of movies where practically all of the white characters are real drug kingpins or bad gangsters, there's the fact that Grier's character- through crime and revenge and all- is just trying, in her mind, to do the best thing possible. There's also her friend Carter, who is one of the (only) honest cops in this underground of drugs and gangsters. But then again, to take such a story to heart would be missing the point writer/director Hill is after.Because for its main center of a message, that pushing drugs on people who don't know any better (or do) is wrong to the point of having to take personal action (or standing up for the rights), this is not at all a preachy movie. If anything this is the kind of sexy, cool, violent, hilarious and just plain fun kind of movie-making that could've only come from this small corner of B-movie-making. Right from the start where the guy's head gets blown off, it only gets better with a logic that works like such- the more over-the-top, the better, the more stylish its more appealing, and for every ham-bone acting performance (albeit with a great deal of talent) there's an exciting action scene or fight. But also with this AIP mentality of having lots of hot bodied women (both white and black) in tow with dozens of breasts and other female parts, and the message covered around in stuff that's meant to be really for surface appeal, it takes itself seriously for what it's worth. Jack Hill is actually, for all intents and purposes, a very fine and under-looked genre-film writer and sometimes gives the dialog an uplift from the trash it could've been. His direction, while sometimes not given enough of what's needed (lights for one thing, just enough to get by it seems), gets the job done. And at the end of the day what most people will remember of the film- aside from the nude girls fight and Sid Haig sporting a red bandanna and a Hispanic accent- is Grier herself. She carries this character with enough appeal to make it known why her cult status is solidified; she's sincere when she's (occassionally) really being herself with what matters to her, but also very sensual, perfectly sneaky, and has that kind of other-worldly heroic spirit that almost makes her like some kind of comic-book hero or something. If for no other reason, Grier makes Coffy still something to check out 30-something years later, and more than just a curio for Jackie Brown fans looking for the roots of that film's success. A- "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the funniest, raunchiest, most enjoyable films I've ever seen. The screenplay is tight and well-structured, the pace is brisk, and the soundtrack is memorable. And Ms. Grier has never been better. Watch out for the razor blades in the afro!!King George...He's the King! "}{"Title":"A decent time killer","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although I found it to be an agreeable enough time-passer, there is nothing about this film that was particularly enjoyable, so I can't really recommend it.  The action is brisk and the performances are good, but this film suffers from predictability and there was nothing especially clever in the script.  It's basically just Pam Grier kicking butt for ninety minutes, and even though she does it rather well, a few twists and turns would have been nice.  This is the kind of film that is reasonably fun to watch, but then quickly fades from memory once the credits are done. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The prequel to Foxy Brown, Coffy is the better of the two and is a pleasant surprise. Thanks to Turner Classic Movies 'Rob Zombie Friday Night' features my husband and I were able to see both Coffy and Foxy Brown. Prior to actually seeing these films one had steered clear of the genre due to all of the terrible contemporary reviews. Now over 30 years later it was a sheer delight to see the beauteous and talented Pamela Grier in a gritty and electrifying portrayal. Coffy is simply a non-stop action thriller with humor juxtaposed to scenes of violence. There is not really any time to catch one's breath Hill's direction is frenetic and impressive. The marvelous Robert DoQui does his usual excellent work as King George, many may remember him in Altman's Nashville (1975)as Wade Cooley. The cast is wonderful, the acting is over the top and yet it all works together. The injustices of that era are now, sadly, all too easily recognizable and Hill's script is too spot on to be considered campy. The magic of Coffy is, however, Pamela Grier. This woman is simply a joy to behold. There is abundant nudity in Coffy and it is very apropos. Foxy Brown is a decidedly 2nd rate film by comparison. But it today! "},{"Title":"Pam is volcanic, the movie less so","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pam Grier's first blaxploitation film is far from her best, but it does show you why she became the queen of that genre--there simply just wasn't anyone else like her. Her acting wasn't all that bad--it's much better than most of the other women in the picture and a lot of the men, to be honest--and she had the revenge-minded, ass-kickin' mama persona down pat. What really makes her stand out, however, is her sexuality--she is absolutely explosive. Her frequent nudity is one of the film's saving graces, but it's not really gratuitous (not that there's anything wrong with that, either)--as another poster pointed out, her nude scenes seemed to be done on her own terms and not because the producer or director said, OK, baby, show us what you got. The scene where she's lounging by the pool in a bikini and first meets superpimp King George is astounding--how actor Robert DoQui restrained himself from leaping on her as soon as he saw her is a feat of self-discipline that's almost superhuman. The party scene later on, where Pam comes in dressed up as a streetwalker (and raises the temperature of the room 20 degrees) then shortly afterward gets in a knock-down, drag-out fight with several of King George's jealous girls, is another of the film's highlights.The picture does have its downsides, mainly in the performances (yeah, like you watch these kinds of films for the acting . . . ). Robert DoQui, although a very good actor generally, just isn't convincing as King George (his superpimp outfit is hilarious, though). William Elliot, as apparently the only honest cop in the L.A.P.D. and Coffy's friend who wants to be more than that, is bland and doesn't make any kind of an impression. Booker Bradshaw as Coffy's politician lover who, although she doesn't know it, is partners with the city's biggest pimp/drug dealer gives probably the worst performance in the movie. He plays his part with little conviction and you get the impression that he thinks this kind of picture is beneath him. He loosens up a bit towards the end, but by then it's too little too late.On the other hand, the action scenes are well done, and of course there's the great Sid Haig as a mob killer who gets a little poetic justice in the end. This is Pam Grier's picture, though, and she more than makes up for whatever shortcomings it has. Several of her subsequent films in this genre are much better than this one, but this will serve as a good introduction to the Pam Grier experience. It's the picture that made her a star, and it's easy to see why. It may be a bit choppy and somewhat primitive but it's a lot of fun, and Pam Grier is stupendous. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Coffy? I'll have mine hot, sweet and black.","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Quentin Tarantino's fixation with Pam Grier, the star of Coffy, resulted in him casting her as the lead in his 1997 movie Jackie Brown; QT's worship of the actress really comes as no surprise&#x97;she's a B-movie nerd's wet dream come true, a foxy, feisty, take-no-crap bad-ass mama with a body to die for. Grier's unforgettable performance, along with no-nonsense direction from Jack Hill and an excellent supporting cast (including Hill regular Sid Haig) ensure that Coffy is not only one of the best blaxploitation films ever, but also one of the best exploitation films of any type, period.The film combines all the trappings one expects from a pimped-out early 70s revenge thriller aimed primarily at a black audience&#x97;big afros (so handy for hiding weapons in), cool music, loud suits, wide ties, flares, pimps, hos, and drug dealers&#x97;along with the regular gratuitous violence and nudity one would hope to find in a standard low-budget grindhouse style flick of the era. In Coffy, every woman loses her top and all the bad guys meet suitably nasty fates (gruesome deaths including being dragged behind a car until a bloody pulp and blasted in the balls by a shotgun!); all this to the sound of a funky waka-waka guitar riff.Something for everyone, then. "},{"Title":"Pam Grier's amazing rack","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The main reason to watch this film is to watch Pam Grier bare all in one of her best outings. Coffy is a mix of blaxploitation and exploitation that revolves around a nurse going undercover as a hooker to avenge her sister's drug addiction and abuse. The acting is sub par and the soundtrack is definitely a time capsule. But the main reason to enjoy this film is for all of Pam Grier's amazing nude scenes. This has to be Pam Grier's best nude film and possibly her best 70's film before falling into supporting roles in the 80's. Pam Grier's breasts are amazing! Easily the greatest pair of breasts put on celluloid. Some of the violence is over the top and there's plenty of gratuitous nude scenes to enjoy. Greir became a go to 70's exploitation queen after this film and for good reason too. Her jugs are the most beautiful and erotic breasts ever put on film. Watch this movie for a great 70's drive in flashback or if you just want to watch Pam Grier unleash her bazookas...trust me. Her breasts are to die for!!!! "},{"Title":"very interesting movie","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Very interesting movie. Pam is very hot looking as always. I think she was the Black Pamela Anderson of her time, only that her body is all natural and smoking hot!! Very surprised to see one of the co-stars in the movie was Alan Arbus of MASH fame. What a totally different direction for him playing a really nasty character compared to his really soft but firm part he played as Dr. Sydney Friedman in Mash. Also was very surprised that Turner Classics showed that movie including the nudity and graphic language on cable television. Any way, I enjoyed this movie and recommend this film if you want to see some great action and one great looking woman with a pretty great plot, great music sound track and one fantastic looking female lead character. "},{"Title":"Coffy is a classic blaxploitation film.","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy is a classic blaxploitation film. Pam Grier stars as the title character.The plot Coffy is just a mild mannered nurse, but then her sister gets mixed with the drug trade and is hospitalized for contaminated heroin. She turns vigilante and vows to take down all the drug pushers and pimps.Like Foxy Brown, Pam Grier is at her best here. She is the perfect heroine Sexy and willing to kill. All the action sequences are well-shot and entertaining. Sid Haig plays one of villains named Omar. He does his usual professional work.Coffy is a fun and gritty picture featuring a killer performance from Grier. Highly Recommended! For more insanity, check out comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"This is The End Of Your Rotten Life, You Mother******* Dope Pusher!","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jack Hill's Coffy of 1973 starring the great Pam Grier could well be considered THE most important and coolest Blaxploitation classic out there. Another cult-flick, Shaft of 1971, directed by Gordon Parks may be equally genre-defining, but for me personally, Coffy is the ultimate, awesome 70s Blaxploitation experience. Pam Grier, one of my personal favorite actresses of all-time, plays her coolest role, as the super-sexy, super-cool lady-avenger Coffy, the Baddest one-chick hit-squad that ever hit town, as the tagline promises.The eponymous heroine, Coffy, is a nurse who gets vengeful, after her kid sister is hospitalized with an overdose of contaminated heroin. Coffy decides to clear her neighborhood of drugs vigilante-style, using both her sexy body, her clever mind, and merciless, brutal violence...As mentioned above, Pam Grier is, cool, sexy and just amazing as the heroine, maybe THE role that earned her the deserved reputation as an absolute cult-heroine. Apart from Grier, Robert DoQui is great in his role, the arguably coolest, most stereotypical and blaxploitation-style pimp, King George. Exploitation cult-badass Sid Haig who had already starred aside Pam Grier three times, in director Jack Hill'S very own WIP flicks The Big Doll House (1971) and The Big Bird Cage (1972), as well as in Eddie Romero's Black Mama, White Mama (1972), also plays a smaller role in this movie.I don't want to give too much of the plot away, but I can guarantee that any fan of cool 70s cinema is gonna love Coffy. Quentin Tarantino has once named this film as one of his all-time favorites, and it is obvious why. This movie has everything a blaxploitation flick calls for - lots of action, brutal violence, a fair amount of nudity and sleaze, funky 70s music, some of the coolest urban slang lines ever, and, above all, the greatest blaxploitation heroine ever, played by the genre's greatest star, the beautiful and incomparable Pam Grier. No lover of blaxploitation cinema can afford to miss this, and even if you decide only to watch one single blaxploitation flick, make sure to make it Coffy! Absolutely essential! "},{"Title":"King George","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is perhaps my favorite piece of blaxploitation cinema. The legendary Pam Grier stars as Coffy, a nurse whose young sister has fallen victim to drug abuse. Bent on revenge, she decides to clean the streets of the dealers that so readily make it available to children. Grier is awesome in this role; you can really believe the tough chick persona she puts on (if it even is a put on!) and her dramatic acting is not too bad for a low-budget exploitation flick! The dialogue is cool, the action is gritty and violent, as it should be, and there's no shortage of pillows in any scene really&#133;the catfight at King George's party is a hoot! Speaking of King George, you just gotta love this guy's entrance. He's a pimp, as his very own theme song informs us&#133;not that it needed to though; George is dressed in quite fitting attire, complete with gold-handled cane! It's just a hilarious scene! If you're a fan of this genre and haven't seen this one yet, be sure to get a copy soon. The Jack Hill commentary on the DVD is worth listening to also. "},{"Title":"Pam is great!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hilarious  action movie has Pam Grier trying to fiind her sister's killer. The best parts are the big catfight between Pam and the hookers. And when Pam is trying to get info out of a  woman and the woman's lover comes home. Hilarious! "}{"Title":"One of the ultimate Pam Grier/Jack Hill team-ups","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Coffy is a superior Pam Grier movie (far superior to Sheba-Baby) and one that typifies the best of blaxsploitation.  Grier avenges her little sister's near-fatal drug addiction by killing any sleazy monster even remotely connected with the narcotics trade.  The violence will satisfy aficionados a shotgun blast to the head, a brutal gangland execution in which the victim is tied up and dragged behind a car, and a show-stopping all-female brawl in which Coffy single-handedly takes on a crew of prostitutes at a party -- ripping the tops off of each one who comes within range and even hiding razor blades in her hair for the unlucky girl who dares to pull it.  Brilliant tag line Coffy -- she'll cream you. "},{"Title":"Murder, assault, grant theft auto and overall mayhem...but for a good cause","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A powerhouse performance by Pam Grier emerges from director Jack Hill's revenge thriller. Grier is a nurse bent on obliterating the drug pushers, pimps and crooked politicians responsible for getting her kid sister hooked on junk. The hokey dialog and noble underpinnings of the plot are easy to take given the exciting action packed into this film by Hill. It's all played out to a pulse pounding funk score by Roy Ayers. Grier gives a gutsy performance and the supporting cast includes William Elliott as a good cop, Booker Bradshaw as very bad politician as well as Robert DoQui as King George, a very flamboyant and very badly dressed drug pusher/pimp. Alan Arbus is a sleazy businessman with a lot of fetishes. The great Sid Haig is Omar. The cinematography is by Paul Lohmann, who went on to shoot some of the best films of Robert Altman and Mel Brooks! "},{"Title":"I ain't never screwed a congressman before.","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pam Grier plays a nurse named Coffy who goes undercover to take out the drug dealers who got her sister hooked. Sexy, violent, gritty blaxploitation classic. Pam Grier in all her glory is reason alone to check this one out. Sid Haig is one of the bad guys and is amusing in a scummy sort of way. The cheesetastic songs (Coffy, baby, sweet as a chocolate bar) are great. Love the cat fights! Lots of violence, coarse language, and nudity. Most of this is good fun but the death of one character in particular, a pimp named King George, is pretty rough to watch. Still, it's a good one. This would make my short list of must-see blaxploitation films, for sure. "},{"Title":"I Love Jack Hill","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A nurse named Coffin (Pam Grier) takes vigilante justice against inner-city drug dealers after her sister becomes their latest victim.Apparently, American International approached director Jack Hill to quickly make a movie about an African American woman's revenge and beat Cleopatra Jones to market. Hill wanted to work with Pam Grier with whom he had worked on The Big Doll House (1971). The film ended up earning more money than Cleopatra Jones and established Grier as an icon of the genre.Now, we might ask how Hill -- a white man -- ended up doing blaxploitation cinema. I have met Hill, and nothing about him suggests he would be the man for the job. And yet, he did that genre a great service by championing Grier and bringing his regular Sid Haig (playing Omar here) along for the ride. Karen Ross has written that the film allowed African Americans the ultimate escape to cheer on the heroine that fought corruption and crime as well as the white power structure. How ironic it was brought to them by a white man. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, sometimes intentionally silly, action-packed thriller.","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy (Pam Grier) is a nurse by day and avenging sexy woman at night. Coffy is bringing justice for the drug pushers, who nearly killed her young sister (Karen Williams) on drug abuse and beating up badly her police friend (William Elliot). She becomes an one-woman war on organized crime on Los Angeles.Written and Directed by Jack Hill (The Big Doll House, The Big Bird Cage, Foxy Brown) made an entertaining, action-thriller with sense of humour. Grier is fun to watch as the title character, she has some great dialogue and of course, she has an great body (Which she does appear topless at times). It is amusing to see Robert DoQui, who is best known for the RoboCop Trilogy as a pimp! and Sid Haig (House of 1000 Corpses and The Devil's Rejects) as a low-life criminal.DVD has an fine non-anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an decent Dolby Digital 2.0 Mono Sound. DVD has an fairly interesting commentary by the writer/director of the film and original theatrical trailer is also included. Coffy was an big hit back in 1973. Grier is certainly one of the sexy black woman's out there, certainly back in the 1970's, she was absolutely stunning. Coffy does have some flaws but it is an trashy enjoyable action flick to watch. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"all the girls involved have their breasts spill out one after the other","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you only watch one blaxploitation movie (and why would you want to do that?) make it this one. There is much fun to be had in many films of the genre, but here the central performance by Pam Grier is monumental. She may not be the greatest actress in the world, but what presence, and when the big boys fall for her at the wink of an eye, it is believable. Maybe at the end it is a little over the top, that on such a serious mission a guy would pause for a quickie, but then&#133;. This measured, involving and exciting. There is much violence, including the most wonderful massed cat fight, and much gratuitous violence. In fact during the aforementioned cat fight, all the girls involved have their breasts spill out one after the other. The dialogue is fine and scenes are not overlong as they can be in this genre. Also, the costumes have to get a mention and impressive as Grier's are it's the top bad boys that really come up trumps, as for the top pimp's jump suit, in yellow, what can I say? "},{"Title":"A blacksploitation classic, a balance between intelligent writing and very exploitable elements","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What impresses me the most about Coffy is that in addition to quickly paced drive-in thrills, it features a degree of intelligence. Jack Hill's movies always had believable characters and compelling drama, and Coffy is certainly no exception. Surprisingly for a blaxploitation flick, its remarkably free of the stereotypes and over-the-top excess that was inherent in later entries such as Dolemite. Those expecting a campy laugh fest will be disappointed. Also, the characters of Coffy and William Elliott are likable and surprisingly well developed. Jack Hill's direction is quite accomplished, and he makes the best of the occasionally obvious low budget. Grier's performance is revelatory, and while her acting skill wasn't as accomplished here as it later would be, she shows plenty of raw charisma and screen presence.However, drive-in fans shouldn't fret, because this is still an exploitation film. Its chock full of the seedy and tasteless elements we know and love. While Pam Grier is more restrained, many of the villains are amusingly overplayed, especially the scene-stealing Sid Haig (previously in Jack Hill's cult classic Spider Baby). There's plenty of sex and violence to keep us on the edge of our seats, not to mention one of cinema's most memorable cat-fight sequences. The film is very quickly paced and never dull. Its free of the filler sequences that often plagued this kind of film. Coffy is an exploitation classic for a reason. Its one of the drive-in cinema's most entertaining offerings. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Pam Grier at her finest","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I re-watched this movie this weekend after not having seen it for several years. I could only remember certain things about it, but quickly remembered why I liked it. Pam Grier plays Coffy, a night nurse whose out for vengeance. Dope pushers put her sister in rehab after stringing her out on heroin. Coffy's intent is to eliminate the dope rackets after an honest cop friend of hers is brutally beaten and left permanently crippled. She takes on a pimp named King George and the mob.The music is excellent in this movie (anyone who saw Jackie Brown has heard some of it). The acting can be hammy at times, but there are some very solid performances (look for Sid Haig playing a mob enforcer). The film was well scripted and it comes off rather well. This is a must see for anyone who is into the blacksploitation genre. "},{"Title":"How do you take your Coffy?","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" - Pam Grier is the undisputed queen of the 70s Blaxplotation films. In Coffy, she's a woman who wants to avenge her sisters overdose on some bad dope. Posing as a prostitute, she infiltrates the drug gang and starts kicking butt. Coffy is a little more serious in tone that some of the Grier's other films like Foxy Brown and, because of that, I don't enjoy it as much. Don't get me wrong - it's over-the-top, just not over-the-top enough. The highlight of the movie has to be the fight scene between Grier and some of the other ladies. It's a food-fight free-for-all with salad and punch flying everywhere. Sid Haig is also on hand to play one of the baddies. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Coolness personified.","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start on a primary level with this one.  this film is as cool as it gets. Watching this movie is an experience like no other. This is the kind of flick that's gonna make you wanna scream F***ING A!!Coffy is a feme blaxploitation flick .while many of u have probably seen foxy brown (another Pam Grier-Jack Hill combo   classic) ,which is a very fun film on it's on, it doesn't come close to this one..  If you wanna put it in some perspective then  Coffy's   is the female equivalent of shaft, taking matter (and the law) in to her hand, she's a bas ass soul sister who wont take crap from no one and wont stop until she'll get her  revenge. The plot is quite simple, Coffy is a nurse who's young sister was badly hurt due to a severe drug abuse. Now she  is out to get  those who're responsible to her sisters condition, and soon enough finds herself in a all-out war with the drug lords community..     Now some people complain about the movie's so call poor plot, but that's not the way I see it...A blaxploitation film is not about a complicated, full of twists and sophisticated  plot. No. to some extant  such plot would only diminish the film,  distract the viewer from what the movie is really about. Which is atmosphere, attitude, slick characters, cool dialogs, sexuality and a filling to the movie. Coffy sure has all that and more in it...for 90 minutes Coffy brings the-ghetto life-to screen.The energy in this movie is incredible; it has a kick-ass sound track giving the movie a great rhythm. jack Hill , B-Grade film master,   really did a great job on this one.. But the main reason why this movie  kicked  so much ass as it did is the wonderful Ms. Pam Grier's  performances as Coffy.  she is hot, she is tough, she is malicious she is  fearless, she is Vulnerable, she is fragile  SHE IS GREAT!!! Between one racial joke to another you will find Among others a fly pimp/pusher called King George, dirty cops, corrupt pollutions, the evil white man behind this all-Arturo Vitroni, Oh and just one of  the coolest check fight in film history...)  "}{"Title":"Great old-fashioned fun","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While dated, this movie is undeniable fun.  If you can see past the elements of the movie that are passé, then this movie will not fail to entertain. I admit, the dialogue, performances, costume and plot can lag at times, but overall the gratuitous and quirky violence and nudity more than save this film.  If you are in the mood for twisted black comedy, like Pulp Fiction, with a dash of porno film, you will be more than pleased with Coffy.  It is a fine example of the rarely appreciated blaxploitation genre. "},{"Title":"Need a wake up call?  Have some Coffy!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Blaxpoitation at it's most entertaining!  Pam Grier is the ULTIMATE Drug/Prostitution Ring Queen!  If you like kitsch and cheesy 70's camp, you have GOT to see this film.  It is the absolute epitome of campy delight. Be sure to stick around long enough for the King George scene though, the costumes and music will Blow Your Mind Baby!!!! "},{"Title":"Not Sure What I Think","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this film for the most part but was pretty let down after hearing so many great things about it. Don't get me wrong, I think was very good for a low budget blaxploitation flick but I can't say that I saw much more than that to it. But maybe there doesn't need to be anything else. I am pretty torn on this one.Pam Grier is great. The only other film I've seen her in is Jackie Brown and this performance was just as good. The other performances were, well, crappy. It was, however, interesting to see a very young Sid Haig, he wasn't so bad. The violence is definitely the best part of the film, that I have no complaints about. The story is weak but a revenge film doesn't need to have a deep storyline so it's alright. Overall, I enjoyed this one but probably won't be watching it over and over. "},{"Title":"the best blaxploitation","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is far and away the best blaxploitation film I have seen so far. The slapstick humor is top notch, the costumes are really groovy and Pam Grier is the queen. The soundtrack by Roy Ayers is also superfly. I love the scene where Coffy is trapped in the sauna and tries to hit her captor over the head with one of the sauna rocks!  "},{"Title":"Pam Grier's blaxploitation debut kicks serious ass!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Quentin Tarantino's JACKIE BROWN (my favorite of all his films), I knew I had to seek out more Pam Grier. COFFY was first, then FOXY BROWN, then FRIDAY FOSTER and SHEBA, BABY. Those reviews will soon come, but first, COFFY.Pam Grier's sister is comatose because of drugs, so Grier grabs a gun, poses as a hooker, and kicks some serious ass! While Grier hadn't really proven herself as an actress in this stage of her career, she still holds a powerful presence and is possibly the most beautiful black woman I've seen in cinema (Laura Gemser doesn't count, she's not black). Some great scenes include Grier blowing the head off a pusher, getting into a huge catfight with a group of hookers complete with razorblades in her Afro and crashing furniture over heads, and Grier enacting revenge on her gangster boyfriend by shooting him in the crotch. To my surprise, music from this film shows up in JACKIE BROWN! Director Jack Hill puts his regular Sid Haig to good use as a Russian henchman who drags a pimp to his death.I can't recommend COFFY enough, especially to those who haven't discovered Pam Grier yet or want a smooth excursion into blaxploitation cinema. Great music, great heroine, great story, and enough action to hold the viewer's attention. COFFY is awesome stuff not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Must-see masterpiece from the golden period of American urban action cinema!","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Over the course of my cinematic love affair, I have really enjoyed the few films I have seen, either starring Pam Grier, one of my favourite B-movie American actresses, or that were directed by Jack Hill. I can't get enough of especially the films of which they collaborated, 'Foxy Brown' and this, both of which I consider up there with the 'Shaft' trilogy and 'Super Fly' as masterpieces of the 'urban action' genre of the 70's. She, just 24 when she made this, certainly was one of the most beautiful and exciting women ever put on celluloid, and while I also love both Hill's short film 'The Host' and 'Switchblade Sisters' (viewed on one DVD as part of Quentin Tarantino's 'Rolling Thunder' reissue series), here his pacing and filming are on an entirely different level altogether.It's a shame for us cinephiles that he chose at such an early age, 42 and clearly in his filmmaking prime, to retire from the business to both write novels as well as explore meditation with his wife, but I'm thankful for the films he made. The soundtrack (and most particularly the killer title song) by one of my favourite jazz/funk singer/musicians of the period, Roy Ayers, is up there with Curtis Mayfield's for 'Super Fly' as essential listening for lovers of such music.Say what you want about him as a filmmaker, but I for one am glad that Tarantino has revived interest in both the actress (casting her as the star of 'Jackie Brown') and the director (through his aforementioned reissue series). It is an under-recognized way that Tarantino has significantly contributed to contemporary American cinema of all sorts, and has helped these unsung heroes from prior generations, who would otherwise be neglected and ignored unjustly from contemporary cinephilic attention. "},{"Title":"Old but entertaining...","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is two years older than me, and still it is only now that I get to see it. And for a movie this old, it actually still holds up its own. It does, of course, show that it is from 1973 in every aspect, but still well-worth a watch.Story-wise then Coffy is a straight forward movie that offers no surprises or twists along the way. And while you already know exactly how the movie will end from the very beginning, then it does still prove entertaining enough.The story is rather simple; a nurse sets out to seek revenge as she has found her sister doped up and a friend left brain-damaged. While guns are deadly, Coffy makes use of her most dangerous weapon of all; her seductive sexuality.As for the acting, well, I will say that people were doing good jobs with their roles and characters. Pam Grier was, of course, the star of the movie. I was more than surprised to see a young Sid Haig on the screen, and he was as devious as always.Coffy is not an overly impressive movie in itself, but it is interesting that it still passes as a movie worth watching alongside many other Hollywood productions today. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pretty good...and surprisingly so.A nurse, Coffy, is on a personal mission to avenge the death of her sister at the hands of drug dealers. Good story, solid direction and decent performances. All this is quite surprising as the movie is regarded as blaxploitation, and is one of the movies that started the genre. The term implies that it is a cheap, exploitative of black people, B-movie, but it is hardly that. Its production values are good and rather than being exploitative, it is empowering. Great, powerful performance by Pam Grier in the lead role. Good supporting performances.A seminal movie in the history of black cinema. "},{"Title":"like the drink, only not spelled the same, but plenty cool","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy was one of Pam Grier's lead roles back in the '70s. She plays a woman seeking to take down a drug dealer. The movie contains everything characteristic of the genre, namely the cool music. It looks like one movie that they had a lot of fun filming. The fact remains that the Me Decade saw what were probably the greatest exploitation flicks. It's no accident that Quentin Tarantino cites Coffy as one of his favorite movies, and he of course later cast Pam Grier in Jackie Brown. Anyone with even a mild interest in cult cinema can't afford to miss this movie.Yes, this is a movie that you watch just to enjoy, and there's everything to enjoy about it cool dudes, women in sexy outfits, and even a scene where Coffy does a little something with her afro to teach a lesson to anyone sticking their fingers in there.Anyway, really fun movie. As one of the taglines proclaims Her name is Coffy, and she'll CREAM you! PS Allan Arbus was the husband of photographer Diane Arbus. "},{"Title":"Full of fun, full of funk","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Foxy Brown, the unofficial sequel to Coffy, might be slightly better known thanks to Quentin Tarantino's reference-tastic Jackie Brown (also starring Pam Grier), but it can't hold a candle to this Blaxploitation classic. Jack Hill's 1973 original is so spirited, passionate, and deliberately daft that it's impossible not to be persuaded by its cool and its convictions. Grier is the titular wild cat from the tropical jungle, spitting her lines with thrilling viciousness, and wielding a gaze that promises pain. Yet Coffy isn't cold and immune, she's emotionally sensitive. Sentimental, even. She's also smart, confident, principled, and outrageously sexy. Choice theme lyric Coffee is the colour of your skin. Yes, the movie is fantastically dated; a true product of its era. It's lurid and ridiculous, yet boldly progressive. Other mainstream movies of the time might give us black pimps and junkies, but here we have black cops and surgeons, and it's the lascivious whites who run amok.Coffy is a nurse. She wants revenge on the perps responsible for her little sister's drug addiction. She starts with the pushers but gradually she finds the rot goes all the way to the top to the politicians who want to keep the common man (and woman) down, and who are just in it for the green. It's a conveyor belt of sin controlled by men. So Coffy preys on male vulnerability &#x96; specifically the sexuality of men, via her own seductive powers. In observing this sordid sacrifice, does the film indulge the very misogyny it purports to condemn? Here lies the essence of the exploitation genre in exploiting, it explores, and in exploring, it exploits. Coffy isn't a complex or subtle film. For a start, it's laughably moralistic about drug abuse. Saying that, there is some simplistic wisdom in its depiction of the drugs hierarchy the real problem is at the top, not on the streets. In Coffy's world, it's all about the System, and ultimately it's a System presided over by evil white men. One couldn't argue that a girl-fight in which every combatant has her top ripped off is clever satire; but at other times the satire does stick, such as when councilman Brunswick (Booker Bradshaw) slams the white patriarchy... and is immediately told off-camera by his honky PR man that he came off as real convincing. This is a great sub-plot, wisely promoted to the main game by the final reel, leading to a tense final showdown which cautions as to the dangers of playing a System that itself corrupts its players. The ending is also a fitting moment of gender reassertion, before we're given a classic final shot. With fabulously far-fetched plotting married to a knowing sense of humour (Coffy's Jamaican act is a keeper), punctuated by tub-thumping speeches and spasms of deeply significant violence (thugs beating a black cop; a lynching; a shotgun castration), Coffy is a hugely enjoyable and meaning-packed movie, and a milestone in black cinema. "}{"Title":"A Blaxploitation Classic","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Blaxploitation is so synonymous with the persona of Pam Grier that the subgenere may as well be dubbed as worthless trash when without her. Let's face it blaxploitation flicks are trash, nudie cuties stirred up with drug violence and gang warfare without enough acumen to make for anything besides low, low, art. For the most part, they consist of a few ticklish one-liners, a myriad of boob flashes, and a h*ll of a lot of gun shots, cocaine snorts, and shag carpets. Today, we're fond of their terribleness. They remind us of a time when films could be sleazy and unapologetic, bulletproof to critics because they catered to audiences looking for skin, slaughter, and post-Motown blackness.But Pam Grier doesn't, and never did, disappear into the background noise of better films. As of this moment, you probably can't remember what Tamara Dobson (Cleopatra Jones) looked like, how Ron O'Neal (Superfly) sounded when he was high on movie coke &#x97; but I guarantee that, in ten years, Grier will still be hanging around in your psyche, personifying the ever elusive film femme that was strong and scrappy but also feminine and sensitive. As Roger Ebert reminded us in his original review of 1973's Coffy, Grier essentially reversed the stereotypes strung together by the majority of blaxploitation thrillers. Most gave the man the duty to save the day while the love interest waited around in bed until he finally fixed things up and had time to make some water bedded love. But Grier, or perhaps, writer/director Jack Hill, in an honorably feminist mood, asked a question most left untouched what would happen if the woman saved the day, and didn't need a man to survive in a cold, hard world of drugs, cash, and hookers?As Coffy opens, its titular matron is p-ssed. Kills two drug pushers with a shotgun p-ssed. Is willing to slaughter more criminals p-ssed. Smacking the blood on her lips p-ssed. Why? Her sweet little sister, apparently not as precious as she thought, has destroyed her sacred life with laced heroin, laying sick and immobile in a hospital that would rather get rid of her than help her out. Coffy wanted her young sibling to have dreams, to dance, to let her hair down in a wholesome, Doris Day kind of way. So when those hopes are diminished, she decides to get revenge on the drug mavens who gave her the goods in the first place. After violent confrontations continue on in a vicious cycle, she finally sets her sights on crime lord King George (Robert Duqui), who seems to be behind all the street crud that has sabotaged her life. And when it turns out that her congressman boyfriend (Booker Bradshaw) also has a part in the corruption, she figures she may as well throw caution to the wind and go all out. Grier can do it all she's a terrific actress, as much of a presence as the mainstream broads that, more than once, stole her thunder, and she's a worthy exhibitionist, proud of her extremely (extremely) curvaceous body and more than happy to flaunt it. But she isn't much like a Russ Meyer girl with busty proportions and not much else &#x97; she is so commanding in her sexual prowess that, like Nicki Minaj (I'm going out on a limb here), we find ourselves as much titillated by her presence as we are unsure how to react to it. For Grier (and Coffy), sex is a weapon, and she knows how to use it.But Grier isn't so dependent on her chest that she forgets to act; she really and truly knows what the h*ll she is doing and makes Coffy's lame dialogue suddenly seem like urban Shakespeare. Other actors in the room don't even try to give Hill's lazy writing any sort of life; Grier, though, pretends she's reciting something the Academy would give notice to. She makes Coffy a superbly memorable character, not just for her physical presence but also for her craftiness, her sincere, empathetic hatred for the men that destroyed her sister's life.I won't go into details regarding the productional values of Coffy; everything other than Grier, and the funk obsessed soundtrack, instantly leaves the memory with its routine sex, drugs, and revenge plot. It's an average film with a too-good-for-her-material actress as its front-and-center. A shame &#x97; most never knew what to do with Grier after the blaxploitation era ended should she be a villain? A detective? A wise older woman? Thank God Quentin Tarantino swooped down to save her from further career monstrosities through 1997's Jackie Brown then and there was she able to prove that she was so much more than an icon of an otherwise trashy 1970s subgenre. She was also a leading lady with class, with major talent. Coffy is a showcase for her unique abilities that puts its brazenness aside in favor of a goddess of an actress. "},{"Title":"Better than most of the genre","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Having watched a lot of by the numbers 70s thrillers I was a little jaded by the time I came to watch this. Although at times it also falls into that trap there is enough here to elevate it above that level. I think it's unfair to call this Blaxplotation. It's just a thriller where the lead happens to be a black women.Most strikingly there weren't many women (black women at that) in the 1970s blowing criminals away with shotguns. Particularly ones who are completely self-driven. Frankly there aren't too many of those in Hollywood movies even today. Also I really like the the charm Pam Grier brings to the role whenever she's talking to good guys.There are bits of comic relief such as the scene where the heavy-hitters say to the former driver of the gangster they've just brutally murdered hey, why not come and work for us now? We're not bad guys really - all said in a totally irony free way. Or the scene where Pam Grier does a Borat-style Jamacan impression.There's some 'LA Confidential' style high level corruption shown, which again raises this above the usual standard of cheap 70s thrillers.If you like 70s thrillers this is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Blaxploitation Films of the 70's","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After witnessing the devastating effects heroin has on her younger sister, Coffy (Pam Grier) is determined to do something about the illegal drug trade which is wrecking havoc in her city. So, rather than leave justice to the corrupt politicians and police she decides to take matters into her own hands. One of her main targets is a drug dealer and pimp named King George (Robert DoQui) who is almost always surrounded by a bevy of young women. Anyway, rather than disclose any of the intimate details I will just say that this is probably one of the better blaxploitation films of the 70's. While it certainly doesn't have the popularity or notoriety of films like Shaft or Superfly it manages to hold its own considering the relatively small budget it had to work with. Likewise, because of the trendy nature of blaxploitation films made during this period it is clearly dated and suffers from jargon and fashions that have long since gone out of style. Even so, Pam Grier is exciting to watch under almost any circumstances and she doesn't disappoint this time either. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Pass the Popcorn review","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of Quentin Tarantino's favourite grindhouse movies, Coffy is a great example of blaxploitation film &#x96; a genre that emerged in the USA in the 1970s, created specifically for black people, that featured black casts and funk and soul soundtracks. It was a box-office hit and Pam Grier became the first female African-American protagonist of an action movie.Flower Child Coffin (Pam Grier), also known as Coffy, is a nurse whose little sister's life has been ruined by heroin. In the first scenes, Coffy finds the dealers who got her sister hooked on heroin and, pretending to be willing to do anything for a fix, goes home with them and kills them. Later in the movie, when two masked men beat up and seriously injure her police friend Carter in his home, while she's present, because he wouldn't be bribed, she decides to avenge him.Even though the main character fights what we could call a war against drugs, the movie's message isn't you shouldn't do drugs. As I said before, this is a blaxploitation movie &#x96; a movie that exploits certain themes. The story itself isn't very relevant. It's all about watching Coffy, often naked, getting her revenge by killing people and fighting other, often naked, women. And it is Coffy &#x96; or better, Pam Grier &#x96; who leads the movie. She is great in her performance, and truly believable whenever men fall for her, it's obviously because of her beauty and charms &#x96; she is sexy and she knows it, and she uses these qualities to get what she wants. Also, her relationship with her sister isn't developed at all, but we still take her (Coffy's) side in her fighting the drug bosses, again because of her amazing performance.Of course, this isn't an excellent movie, but you shouldn't expect much from the exploitation genre. It's just meant to entertain it makes people laugh &#x96; like in this movie, when Coffy gets in a fight with some hookers and throws a bowl of salad onto one girl's head -, shocks &#x96; the best example being the killing of a man by tying a noose around his neck, attaching the rope to a car and dragging him around town -, and features a lot of female nudity; but it has many flaws &#x96; to give just one example, some of the supporting actors' performances are bad, but in a funny way, and the movie is sometimes boring. So if you're looking for a somewhat silly movie that will mostly make you laugh and make you ask yourself the hell am I watching?, Coffy is the one for you!Rating 7/10 Read more at http//passpopcorn.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"Outrageous iconography a joy to behold","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Since impressing writer/director Jack Hill in his two previous films (The Big Doll House (1971) and The Big Bird Cage (1972)), the buxom and beautiful Pam Grier takes centre stage in this violent anti-drug vigilante drama. Grier plays a no-holds-barred nurse, known by many as Coffy, whose younger sister has been brought into the world of drugs, and is in hospital after being sold some bad stuff. She subsequently takes control of the situation, infiltrating the criminal world of pimps and drug pushers, using her sexuality to dupe the seemingly stupid and ridiculous criminal gangs. In the opening, she poses as a woman hooked on drugs, looking for her next fix, portraying herself as one of the many women that will do anything for drugs. This leads to a quite graphic scene in which Coffy blows the head off a dealer with a shotgun.Within an exploitation industry that played very much within the confines of misogyny, this particular blaxploitation film offers a more feminist approach to the subject. At the time black films were largely masculine in their output, with lead actors such as Rudy Ray Moore, who would treat female characters with seeming disdain, and they were fundamentally in the films as sexual objects. In Coffy, Grier obliterates the ideal of the passive woman, and gleefully attacks both men and women in her mission to destroy the illegal drugs industry. This inevitably leads her to areas of society formally thought to be justified; including a local politician who Coffy has been in a relationship with.Coffy is an interesting twist on the male dominated blaxploitation genre, and Grier is sensational in the lead - it is easy to see why she has endured where many other actresses of the decade have disappeared into obscurity. It does still have sequences of gratuitous female nudity (but that is simple symptomatic of the period), such as the party scene where Coffy attacks the harem of prostitutes under the control of the over-the-top, garishly dressed pimp, King George (Robert DoQui), whose collection of onesy outfits are spectacularly '70's. I find most of the charm of these low budget '70's films to be held in their outrageous iconography - the fashions and outlandish decorations are a special joy to behold. Unusually for the time, Coffy does not glorify drugs and the activities of the criminals, but does show the ubiquitous theme that authorities were implicit in pushing drugs into the black ghettos of America.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Fun and volcanic exploitation","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy is a nurse whose younger sister gets involved in drugs and is severely injured by contaminated heroin. She sets out on a mission of vengeance and vigilante justice killing drug dealers, pimps, and mobsters who cross her path. Oh yeah, right away you know what you are in for when you hear about the movie Coffy. It's a foxy and fun film oozing with cheesiness and greatness, topped with Pam Grier's fabulous performance. I loved her character so damn much. With Coffy, there is not much I disliked. This movie captured the true essence of an exploitation film, so to speak. There's great volcanic violence, sassy remarks, smooth music, and non-stop fun. The plot was decent and very problem free, and the intense action scenes put you on the edge of your seat. My favorite scenes were the climax and ending, and the fight scene between all the girls was unforgettable; I loved it! Good movie altogether, one I would recommend to people who know how to use it well. It has a great main character and I'm sure I'll show no hesitance in watching Coffy again whenever I want to. "},{"Title":"Foxy Lady!","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy (Pam Grier) is a nurse who wants revenge against the drug dealers who doped her little sister. Soon she will be against all the scum (including pimps, drug lords, corrupt cops and politics) trying to finish with their business.Coffy is, without a doubt, one of the most important and influential blaxploitation films made in the 70's. For me is a great, fun and pure entertainment. The plot is simple but very good, but definitely the best part of the film is the character of Coffy played in a great and very sexy way by Pam Grier. I really love this character, first because she represents that a woman can be really strong, just as Uma Thurman's character in Kill Bill Vol 1 & 2 made twenty and twenty-one years later. And second because she has two very different personalities, first as a lovely nurse who seems to have an excellent friendship with an honest cop but when she most deal with those very dangerous men she is a very strong avenger in consequence of the love to her sister and the rage she feels because of the injustice in the world. There is a dialog in which Coffy says something like I feel like i'm on a dream where kill you is not difficult to me, she says that to a corrupt politic who once were her love. So i really like that because in her dream she is a completely different person fighting against the scum of the world. Another Travis Bickle.The rest of the characters are not great but are the perfect complement to the memorable character of Pam Grier. But is all fun, with Arturo Vitroni (Allan Arbus) a gangster who reminds me Borat because of his funny voice and King George (Robert DoQui) the classic pimp. Also is really cool to watch a very young Sid Haig now more recognized thanks to Captain Spaulding, his character in Rob Zombie's first two films.And the music is a terrific aspect of the film, specially the song that appears before the opening credits; all composed by Roy Ayers considered the father of modern acid jazz. I haven't listen all the soundtrack but the songs in the film are really good.Conclusion i really enjoy this blaxploitation film full of crazy and funny scenes. I highly recommend this film to everybody who knows something about exploitation films and to those who are fans of Quentin Tarantino's Jackie Brown. Be prepared to this entertaining and funny ride with the biggest star of the genre, Pam Grier.Yes she is a foxy lady. 10 out of 10DVD I recently order this DVD because is impossible to find it in Mexico and i really wanted to watch the film. Is a single edition with just a comment by the director Jack Hill and the theatrical trailer. I really like it! "},{"Title":"This Coffy has plenty of cream and sugar","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As always, Pam Grier is as sexy and engaging as heroines get in this classic bit of 70's blaxploitation.Coffy's world is filled with a vast array of comic book villains, from pushers with Eraserhead-sized afros and pimps with mustard yellow velvet suits to ornery thugs who will gladly take a break from an execution for a chance at getting some lovin'. All of these malfeasants exist in this universe for the sole purpose of getting offed by our busy vigilantress, and we're only introduced to them long enough to find out how despicable they are, thus inducing even louder cheers when Coffy gives them their due.The plot in this outing concerns... oh, who really cares? All you need to know is that Grier spends half the movie undressed and the other half offing a rogues gallery of one-dimensional criminals in various nasty ways. If you're not sold right there, I don't know why you're wasting time reading this review.It seems silly to dissect this film under normal criteria, but it's worth pointing out that in Coffy's world, the good guys do as many evil deeds at the bad guys, and those who don't are destined to be deceased before the final credits roll. I'm not sure if this means anything, or if Coffy's creators even thought about it, but intentional or not, the it's bad to be square mentality seems to be hinted at here in the same way that the sex kills mantra subtly permeates many slasher films. However, to be fair, it's highly unlikely that there was any sort of sociological message in the minds of the film-makers, because judging by the fast pace and near-lack of character establishment beyond set-ups of carnage and carnality (even Coffy's romantic scenes with her man only serve to add to the viewer's thirst for revenge when he's later revealed to be a villain), the only underlining theme of Coffy seems to be that nudity, violence, and action forge an entertaining trifecta. Which, all things considered, isn't a bad premise to build a movie around.It's hard to know 30+ years later how much of the humor in the film is intentional, but there's plenty to be had. Beyond the one-liners, the simple absurdity of the situations (consider the brilliant Sid Haig's postponement of Coffy's murder when she suggests they should have a bit of nookie first) and the seemingly unintentional hilarity of some of the ribald dialogue add in elements that nearly push the film into the realm of comedy. Even the music, while as funky and delicious as you'd hope for, generates as much laughter as soul (actual lyrics King George... He's a pimp). And try to contain yourself during the film's absurdist high-point, when a shoddily-constructed dummy is dragged behind a car, I dare you.This is all irrelevant, surely. Whatever the film-makers were setting out to create, this is what they produced, and it's perfect in its own awesome way. Any slights levied against the film for the cheesy effects, the bad acting, or the silly dialogue can only be offered by critics who are woefully missing the point. If you want high art, this is clearly the wrong choice for you. But for those who love the simple and effective entertainment of classic trash cinema, Coffy is a superlative gem. "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Alert","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" You can say that all started with the (original) Shaft (in the 70s) movie! But Coffy is the female answer to that! You might have heard the term exploitation films (if not look for it on wikipedia or any other site you fancy/like) ... this here is the answer to the exploitation films, but blaxpoitation movies(as wikipedia says/states) -> were made that targeted the urban African American audience! Coffy stars Pam Grier (who later was casted in Jackie Brown by Quentin Tarantino, who's a big fan of her) ... as Coffy! A signature role for her, one that she reprised in other movies too. Besides Tarantino even musicians paid tribute to Pam Grier (one calls herself Foxy Brown, a movie Pam Grier made after Coffy)! I'm rambling about everything but the movie itself .... that's because there is nothing special and the term blaxploitation does say it all ... If you like what that does mean, than watch it! "},{"Title":"This Coffy is black and hot, but there sure as hell ain't no sugar in it","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Coffy is your typical 70's vigilante film, only that this one is done blaxploitation style. If there is anything to say in favor about this film it is that despite not being a film with big budget, the effects and gore elements have been made to look very real. Also one could say that despite the fact that there are no big names attached to it, the acting, the story and the directing all pass the test. The drawbacks to this action vehicle are the sometimes rather bad music and the lack of excitement, whose abundance should be essential to an action film. I guess what I am saying is that this is not bad for your average 70's film, but it's just a tad too slow does not have enough entertaining value to be enjoyed nowadays. The final list of crime/action film's from the 70's are Charley Varrick (7 out of 10), Foxy Brown (7 out of 10), Dirty Harry (The Enforcer; 6,5 out of 10), Coffy, Shaft (6 out of 10) and Paul Kersey (Death Wish; 6 out of 10).6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Makes a great double bill with Jackie Brown","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The beautiful Pam Grier stars as Coffy, a nurse out for revenge against the dope dealers who got her lil' sis addicted to smack...by posing as a call girl for a pimp named King George(Geroge...! George!... his theme song cries with awe). Just as sleazy, and just as fun as it sounds. The trailer is awesome! Dig those seventies taglines The meanest one chick hit squad to hit town!Although Pam has yet to cultivate her big, bad momma voice (used effectively throughout Jackie Brown, or as she would say Jaaackiiee Brown!), its her actions that let the essence of her character shine through. When she stands up to a local Godfather (Crawl on the floor, you piece of black trash! he shouts in what may be an Italian, Russian, or Castilian accent. I think it varies throughout)you want to call out in your best Showtime at the Apollo voice Get that motha*****, girl!Whatever defects it may have in acting, I must say this one has a better plot than I imagined. I'd say, except for the scene at King George's office and a few shots of, I must say, Pam Grier's AMAZING....uh,lungs, this plays like a pretty good television drama. Sympathy for a stone cold killer like Coffy comes surprisingly easy, since the only people she's setting up and bumping off are lowlifes like King George, and a two faced black governatorial candidate(a genuinely great performance).The ending is a bit abrupt, but that was the case for a lot of seventies era movies. All things considered, I don't think you can wrong with...COFFY! As the ads sayShe has a body most men would die for...and lately, THEY HAVE! Have fun, and don't forget to pick up Pam Grier's other classic Foxy Brown.TRIVIA The soundtrack for this movie is sampled throughout Jackie Brown. Quentin Tarantino loooves him his blaxploitation, it seems. Who can blame him though? "},{"Title":"In Your Face Action Vigilante Style","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This blaxploitation film is one of the best examples of the action hero genre. Pam Grier plays our heroic vigilante Coffy with her usual unforgettable style, charisma and punch. Coffy's definitely not someone you want to mess with--scum of the earth beware because she might come gunning after you. Mindless fun with one of the most exotic and beautiful women ever to star in film. But beware if you are turned off by excessive violence and gore as this film has plenty. "},{"Title":"Hot Coffy","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy is a classic low budget blaxploitation revenge flick. You can tell how Quentin Tarantino would be mesmerised by such as a Grindhouse type picture and the audience will be mesmerised by Pam Grier who certainly lays out her assets bare.Grier plays Coffy, a regular nurse with a boyfriend who is climbing the greasy political ladder. However her younger sister fell prey to drug addiction and she is out to get revenge but wants the kingpin not the minnows.The film has all the beats of revenge pictures. Coffy is doing well at first gaining vengeance but the tables soon turn as she is becomes a damsel in distress and then finds herself betrayed.Grier is sensational in her role. Sexy, tough and also vulnerable. Robert DoQui has a whale of a time as the super-pimp King George and Sidney Haig is sleazy henchman with the hots for Coffy.The film might now look dated yet its oddly progressive. Apart from an aspiring black politician, there is black cop, an old mate of Coffy who refuses to go on the take and puts his life at risk.There are better known revenge films from that era such as Death Wish. This is still a classic of its kind. "},{"Title":"Jack Hill's Version of The Birmingham Angel!","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In Fairmoor's tales of terror. The Birmingham Sunday event brought a nightmare that came in the form of a black girl with a lethal, 1957 Plymouth Fury powered by Mad God Chaos. By September to November, 1963; 60 white people & 8 African-Americans was killed by this unstoppable force & met her end at Garfield's Garage. The re-enactment of the Birmingham Angel's last stand was used in King's movie, Christine. In 1973, Jack Hill decided to have his version of Christine McKay. In the form of Coffy. And instead of going after Church Bombers, his McKay, takes after the drug trade that overdosed her 11 year old sister. Jack Hill used her sister for a stand-in for Denise McNair, one of the Sunday school girls killed on Birmingham Sunday. Coffy did better than Vincent Price did in Dr. Phibes & Theatre of Blood. In the two movies one victim survives. However the worst of the worst was played by now-gone actor named Booker Bradshaw & he gets it in the end. However Booker Bradshaw appeared in many stories & worked for Ruby-Spears outfit as voices for cartoon characters. As for Coffy & Christine McKay, they both wear white outfits & Coffy is a nurse & at her place of work she wears white. Christine McKay used a '57 Fury to run down people. Coffy used a hijacked, 1962 Chrysler to crash into the mobster's house & gets him. The actor who played the mobster was also Dr. Sidney Freud & was featured in episodes of M*A*S*H. The King George Character ended up dragged by his car & in Jasper, TX an re-enactment of the scene in 1998 is now termed as Hate Crime. But Booker Bradshaw did a good job playing the top villains who gets it in the end. Pam Grier gets them all. And I wonder where Pam Grier was when the events of September 15, 1963 in Birmingham, Alabama went down? By the way Coffy's real surname is Coffin. And at least Coffy didn't end up like Christine McKay did at Garfield's Garage, November 8th, 1963. Coffy was a good film & as the for the guys who bombed the 16th Street Baptist Church & were still free in 1973, perhaps had nightmares of Coffy coming to get them after she got the drug dealers. But we'll never find out about that. So this is Marcus Brainard, good day! "},{"Title":"She's a wild animal! I've got to have that girl, George! Tonight","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is real blaxploitation with breasts flying out of dresses everywhere. The biggest ones, of course, belong to Pam Grier, the Best of the Breast.Of course, there is also Lisa Farringer in her only nude scene that I am aware of in her too short 10 year career.There is a story here, too, as Coffy seeks to take revenge on all the dope-pushing scumbags that were responsible for her little sister getting hooked. A sawed-off shotgun to the face adds some action when breasts aren't flying.And, the wild costumes the pusher/pimps wore were are real hoot! "},{"Title":"My 8th Favorite Movie! The best blaxplotation ever!","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's the groovy 70s and Coffy's out to kill all the scum of the earth. Three things make this movie so good.1. The pure taste of 70's Cheese.2. The cat fight scene. The...simply... best cat fight scene... ever. I died and went to heaven it was so perfect. This could never be done again. It was a pure and simple miracle. The director (My God, Jack Hill) is perhaps, the BEST director ever. 3. The action packed scenes- Every other scene! In total, Coffy kills a good 10 (Maybe more) people. Each scene, each kill is great in it's own special perfect, perfect way. Shotguns, poisonings, stranglings, stabbings, explosions, hitting, It makes me so excited just to think of it! "},{"Title":"This Coffy is lukewarm...","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Poorly-made blaxploitation crime-drama aimed squarely at the black urban market of the early 1970s. Pam Grier stars in the title role, that of a nurse who becomes a one-woman vigilante after drug-dealing thugs make Coffy's little sister a junkie. Violent nonsense plods along doggedly, with canned energy and excitement; only Grier's flaring temper gives the narrative a jolt (she's not much of an actress here, but she connects with the audience in a primal way). Not much different from what Charles Bronson was doing at this time, the film was marketed and advertised as crass exploitation yet still managed to find a sizable inner-city audience. Today however, it's merely a footnote in '70s film history, and lacks the wide-range appeal of other movies in this genre. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Only Pam Grier makes Coffy worth watching.","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pam Grier stars as Coffy. She's a nurse who seeks revenge, on the drug dealers who got her sister hooked on bad heroine. Like any 70s Blaxploitation flick, you can expect to see the racist bad guys get their just desserts. There were scores of these films made during the 70s, and they were really demeaning to both black and white audiences alike. This is mainly due to the vicious racial hostility in these films, and the degrading, stereotypical characters. Especially the female characters. Other common threads between Coffy, and other films of its type, include brutal violence, corrupt cops, car chases, a generous abundance of nudity, and sex-crazed gorgeous women. Not to mention urban ghettos populated by drug-dealers, pimps, mobsters, and other criminal scum.Pam Grier, was the undisputed queen of 70s Blaxploitation heroines. She was magnificent, being both tough-as-nails, and drop-dead gorgeous. Like in her other films, Pam outshines the other characters, in Coffy. In fact, Pam is so charismatic on screen, that these sorts of films are unwatchable, without her as the main character. If you like Pam Grier, you're better off seeing her other films, like Foxy Brown, or perhaps Friday Foster. These films have much less empty sleaze, than Coffy does. Pam's character in Coffy, degrades herself way too much to get the bad guys. Pam's characters in her other Blaxploitation films, don't stoop as low to get revenge, as Coffy did. I'd say, only watch Coffy, if you're unable to see any of Pam Grier's other films. Otherwise, Coffy is a waste of time. Only Pam's talent as an actress, makes viewing Coffy bearable. "},{"Title":"Back when some actresses had it in proper amounts.","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Cheesy dialogue pervades but it can be a source of mild amusement occasionally. The acting is what one would expect from a B-movie, except that Grier comes off as a bigger amateur than the other lead actors; her it's obvious I'm acting line-delivery is a far cry from the professional impression she leaves many years later in Jackie Brown. But what does that matter? Pam Grier had other talents and they are well-proportioned and never disappoint, especially when they are allowed to see the light of day. There should have been more of that...I am tempted to write that Coffy is innocent fun, which of course it realistically isn't; a head gets blown off and a pimp gets driven around town being dragged by a noose around his head. Have we gone so far as to consider 70s exploitation fare as quaint? That's almost how I experienced this little film.Coffy might remind you at times of two true intellectuals of our time, the hyperactive nerd Tarantino and the talentless rapper Snoop Doggy Dog. Blood-soaked 70s camp is all Tarantino ever cared about, while Scoop Doggy Turd is heavily into flashy pimpin', as we all know.I don't know what to write... It's a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Violent and dated.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The one reason to see this movie is Pam Grier.  She plays a nurse out to revenge her kid sister's addiction.  She mostly wears revealing costumes and her ample chest is oft displayed.  In fact many ample chests were revealed during the movie.  The story is very dated and the dialogue is at times silly.  Robert DoQui as King George wears some pimp outfits that are ridiculously funny.  The film is a fine example of the genre but altogether is a rather silly movie.  Pam Grier is a babe though and she makes it worth watching. "}{"Title":"An entertaining genre film if you accept it for what it is","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy is a nurse in the local hospital and is not unaccustomed to seeing the damage done by drugs and crime. However when her own little sister is strung out she decides to take action of her own. Using her looks and body to get herself into the right places, Coffy takes out pusher King George before working her way up the supply chain to get bloody revenge.Although I do tend to perhaps be a little unforgiving towards some films, there are some occasions where you do need to accept the flaws of the genre you are walking into and that to criticise it for them is a little unfair because you really should have come to the film on its terms. This is not to say that you cannot have a bad genre movie but just that a film might not be any good but can still be good within the realms of its own genre. This, in case you hadn't guessed, brings me to Coffy &#150; a violent, sexual, sexist and silly thriller. I'll lay it all out first by echoing the comments of my girlfriend and fellow viewer when she said this is the most ridiculous film I've ever seen.She said this shortly after a cat fight where endless breasts tumble of dresses and after yet another violent exchange and what she said did have an element of truth to it. Because by normal standards Coffy is nonsense that aims for its target audience with few aspirations above the gutter. It is trashy from the start to the end with the nudity and violence being gratuitous and excessive throughout. Not only this but it does get to the point of being silly &#150; the cat fight in particular is absurdity and trashiness combined. However, I can (and will) also say these as things that make the film worth watching but most of these are essentially what the blaxploitation genre did at its cheesiest. Looking at it that way, the film is actually pretty good within the genre because the plot and deliver holds it mostly together and, surprisingly, it never felt cheap or tacky even when it was being trashy. The violence is extreme but the plot just about holds it in place and gives it a reason for happening. It doesn't really justify all the nudity but when it is Pam Grier I think it tends to justify itself.She is not a great actress and she shows it here; whenever she is given a scene where the centre is Coffy's centre, she doesn't really convince. However as a presence she is impressive and on the basis of this alone you can understand why she got famous from these films. The support cast are very much secondary but they are mostly OK, from Bradshaw through DoQui, Elliott and so on. Hill's direction is stylish and he captures the funk of the period well, weaving it through his film in the way you expect from the genre. His script is not brilliant but again the tough and street smart dialogue do make an impression (and credit too for at least trying to create characters and a story).Is Coffy brilliant? Well, no, of course not; it is silly and excessive with violence and nudity throughout. The fairer question to ask is, is Coffy a good genre film? The answer to this is yes, it is a great example of the blaxploitation genre &#150; funky, colourful, tough, sexy and cool; not a great film by any means but for what it is it is enjoyable "},{"Title":"Coffy doesn't cough up enough meat in it's too brief story","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Coffy came as a real disappointment to me, as happening across it, in the DVD shop. It's a more colorful version of Foxy Brown, both films aren't much different from each other, though Foxy more sting and purpose in it's tail. Again our fine looking Grier, representing female independence, and it's never been stronger, is avenging someone close who O.D'd. And again like FB, we see a stable of beauties, including Rolling Thunder's Linda 'tomboy' Haynes, A 70'S actress seen in far and sadly very few films. Coffy, a nurse, is out to infiltrate the drug cartels that take her on that same ride going undercover as a pro. Coffy's one good asset, is King George, his title song and lyrics, 31 minutes into the film as he makes his grand entrance, which too is hilarious, is hilarious. Coffy does have it's moments, one or two surprises, plus a good performance from an old 'Mash' identity, but I was sold short with this one. Could of been better. "},{"Title":"So bad that it's good!","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a film that can definitely be considered a guilty pleasure! On one hand, the film is very poorly made--with some terribly over the top performances and lots of gratuitous nudity and violence. On the other, it's so gosh-darn entertaining that you can't stop watching!! Pam Grier is the title character. She is on a private mission to kill those she feels are responsible for hooking her much younger sister on heroin. The first ten minutes of the film are probably the best--with an amazingly silly but highly entertaining pair of killings. Seeing the shotgun scene is something you WON'T soon forget! Also, seeing the cat fight scene is a real hoot--particularly Coffy's creative use of razor blades! However, just killing low level pushers isn't all that satisfying to Coffy, as she's determined to work her way up to Mr. Big. So much of the film consists of her doing undercover work so she can find and kill this man. Now here's the funny part--to infiltrate the mob, Pam Grier pretends to be Jamaican yet her accent is atrocious when she actually remembers to use it! Much of the time, she totally forgets and the director doesn't even seem to notice this omission--nor do the bad guys! The leader of the mob is a real piece of work. This White guy falls for Coffy but also takes great pleasure in demeaning her and treating her like garbage because she's Black--a great metaphor for the Black American experience that must have made quite an emotional impact on audiences of the time. However, before she can kill this creep, she is captured and it looks like Coffy is going to die. See the rest of the film to see the twists and turns and violent (yet satisfying) ending. After all, once she is captured, the film shifts into high gear and it doesn't let up until the frenzy of blood-letting is complete.On a totally non-intellectual level, this movie is practically non-stop action and seeing the slimy devils die is very satisfying on a very basic level--seeing bad guys die and lots of naked women will appeal to the Bevis and Buttheads in the audience! However, at the same time, there are bad acting, silly plot devices and a general trashiness of the film (with the rough language, copious amounts of very gratuitous nudity and silly dialog). This is a film you can enjoy but it still is essentially a stupid movie with practically no redeeming value.By the way, Pam Grier made three very, very similar movies in successive years--COFFY(1973), FOXY BROWN (1974) and SHEBA BABY (1975). COFFY is the best and the movies steadily declined in quality and excitement. "},{"Title":"Too much recent hype surrounded Grier for this 70s exploitation film.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Oh, what mercy! Pam Grier's so-called comeback in JACKIE BROWN still has us drooling our coffee! Even Quentin Tarantino has affection and desire with her and director Jack Hill, who brought Grier to the public eye. I KNOW this was Tarantino's inspiration in bringing back SWITCHBLADE SISTERS to cater a mainstream audience. I'm not convinced by any of the hype that's going on, and COFFY does little to sustain it. Luckily, if you're one of the few who read my statements on femme fatale flicks, now is the time to recover halfway. Pam Grier outdoes any actress, past or present, who performs action roles and does kick-butting on the screen. Her mean mother attitude bodes very well for the blaxplo genre. The bad news, unfortunately, is that it's an exploitation movie filled with bodacious ladies, and (still) scarce action from Grier. Here's where the hype doesn't really show itself. Most of the time, our big bad mama gets messed around and tortured, and exposes all her bare necessities. Same thing for FOXY BROWN. With the groove additive in many of these films, it won't be a huge problem for many of us, including myself, to sit back and enjoy. It would be surprising to see Sid Haig steal the movie just for dragging the poor guy out on the road, however Grier's last-minute revenge saves the film entirely. Still, this is good cream-filled entertainment down to the bottom of the cup. Don't expect Pam Grier to be THE ultimate action heroine like some have believed, but the best potential illustrates her prescence in moviedom.   "},{"Title":"What the hell does `blaxploitation' mean?","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I imagine it has something to do with the weak script and plot that Coffy has, but this movie doesn't exactly exploit African Americans any more than a sex thriller like Poison Ivy or something exploits white people. Coffy isn't really that bad of a movie if you can look past the same old revenge plot and the fact that, while she's not bustin' some hoodlum ass, Coffy is some sort of nurse in her spare time. This woman is like the black female version of Rambo, but the film doesn't really take itself seriously enough for this to be a problem.Coffy is a tough black woman who decides to take matters into her own hands when the law proves powerless to help catch the drug dealers who turned her little sister into a drugged out vegetable. To make matter's worse, a friend of Coffy's named Carter, a police officer, gets beaten (in a pathetic fight scene) and suffers brain damage, further enraging Coffy. The whole movie is about drugs and violence, and Coffy pretends to be Mr. George's newest ho so that she can get close to her enemies and bring them down from the inside. Mr. George, by the way, is a hilariously stereotypical 70s pimp, with his felt hat, ridiculous glasses, and matching pastel outfit that is so tight that he sports a cameltoe.While at a party with Mr. George, Coffy contaminates his drug supply, replacing his cocaine stash with sugar. This is the party where that classic cat-fight scene takes place, with Coffy getting into a side-splitting scuffle with all the rest of Mr. George's harem, and having committed the laughable idea of booby-trapping her hair with razor blades. Okay, now we're really getting to know how much this movie takes itself seriously. And I won't even mention the monstrous lesbian girlfriend of Priscilla, the character that was introduced just before the most idiotic fight scene in the entire film. And then there was the car chase near the end of the film in which the cop drives like a Duke of Hazzard for no apparent reason.While the movie is filled with crap like this and is therefore a definitive B-movie, there were some relatively interesting things going on. For example, it was actually pretty clever the way that Coffy was able to turn the drug dealers against each other so that she didn't have to do all of the killing herself. Also, while all of the fight scenes were awful, some of the violence was surprisingly, and often disturbingly, convincing. When George is dragged to death behind the car, for example, it was obviously a dummy being dragged but the fact that hate-crimes like this have been so notoriously committed against blacks, the emotional impact made it much more effective. Maybe that's what blaxploitation is referring to.The standard revenge plot is not given much of a twist in Coffy, and the closing scene with her walking alone on a beach at sunset doesn't really fit with the rest of the movie. There is some pretty funny dialogue, though. White Zombie fans are sure to recognize her quote early in the film just before she un-heads some drug dealer with a shotgun (`This is the end of your rotten life you mother-F*CKIN'-dope pusher!'). BLAM!! Yeah Coffy! And then at the end, some guy begs for his life while in a swimming pool while Coffy points a shotgun at him, and she says, `Sheeeit, I ain't gonna kill you.' BLAM!! Yeah Coffy!It's no secret that this is not Oscar material. It's a cheesy action film with bad acting and a recycled story, but if you keep that in mind when you watch it, it's actually enjoyable, at least on a few meager levels. Maxim magazine lists Coffy as number 7 on its list of the 50 best B-movies of all time, and there can clearly be no mistake about its status as a B-movie. Enjoy, but be aware of the movie's limitations.  "}]