[{"Title":"Chilling and mysterious","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"139 out of 195 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are two types of horror films, really. There are popcorn horror films, good for a cheap in-the-moment thrill at best, and there are serious horror films, movies that linger in the mind and in the bones. I have just watched Nicolas Roeg's 'Don't Look Now' and my spine is frozen. It's 4am, I'm alone, and I have a heightened awareness of sounds and sights I usually don't notice.Here is a movie that's both resolved and unresolved, ultimately growing more ambiguous as it progresses and becomes more complex. After it is over and has become a complete(d) work to the eye of the viewer, the lasting impression is that of mystery. Too many films in this genre bark up the wrong tree, working to explain all of the events that unfold. By explaining nothing, by being almost abstract, questions and images will haunt the viewer indefinitely. It is what it is, and while this movie can be watched over and over, and the events that occur can be anticipated, they will forever remain an enigma. This is true cinema, purely visual and aural, without the helpful but ultimately self-defeating aid of a proxy observer; the viewer is the direct observer, and there's no filter through which the events and images develop any sort of tidy rationality.Donald Sutherland's performance here is sober, adult, the grief of his character palpable. And in the face of this grief is a force that runs through the movie like a dark current, evoking the eternal and spookily ethereal and subterranean; less an eternity of the heavens than the eternity of a crypt. Venice is not merely the ideal location for this story, but the necessary location; it could not take place anywhere else. The unquestionable, and indeed imposing, Gothic majesty of the churches, whose interior height dwarfs their human occupants with the spiritual dread of the ancient, overlooks the canals of Venice like the wicked-faced stone gargoyles Sutherland finds himself physically embracing, while the canals that run through the city are literally the ghost of this couple's personal tragedy. Living in Venice, in light of the details surrounding their loss, seems almost a perverse choice, perhaps a masochistic one; they could be punishing themselves for their daughter's drowning by living in a flooded city.It's not that Sutherland's character is a rational man in an irrational environment, but rather a rational man in an environment whose own secret code, which one may trust makes perfect sense to itself (like a tree in the forest that will only fall if no one is around to hear), is inaccessible and inexplicable to him, baring itself only in fragments in a way he chooses to ignore, just as you might ignore a spectral voice in the dead of night, dismissing it as a product of your imagination.The movie's notorious love scene is jarringly explicit, yet rather than erotic, it is profoundly sad, and takes on a deeper (even creepy) resonance after the film ends. That the scene is intercut with scenes of Sutherland and Julie Christie dressing prevents the two from ever being completely naked and united; this editing choice changes the dimensions of the love scene in a way that I've never seen attempted elsewhere. At other points, Roeg inserts moments and images that carry sinister implications, none of which are ever concretely substantiated and only leave the viewer with more questions.The film drifts along at a wandering pace. The final twenty minutes are among the most atmospheric and suspenseful twenty minutes in any film, culminating in a montage that is absolutely chilling.'The Blair Witch Project,' made over two decades later and probably influenced by this, has similar aspirations, but finally has only a fraction of the emotional gravity. "},{"Title":"The zenith of movie-making","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"123 out of 184 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  People want and expect different things from movies. What engages and captivates one person can just as easily displease and repulse another (see Titanic). Sometimes, a film simply doesn't register beyond the viewer's walk/drive home (this criminal offense is not exclusively a phenomenon of the 1990s in spite of the last decade's distinct dearth of memorable films). Don't Look Now, however, is a film which cannot fail to last long in the mind.It is easy to love the film for its rare depth of character, its beautiful yet disturbing plot, the stunning Venice setting, the tender and original love scene or just for Donald Sutherland's never-rivalled wig! I am sure, however, that people find it easy to fault the film because it doesn't neatly tie up loose ends, because it is dark and depressing (the film's extensive reach encompasses death, loss, murder, blindness, religion and dwarfism) and because film-making conventions are abandoned.The source material of Du Maurier's short story provides only a meagre framework onto which screenwriters Scott and Bryant have fleshed a stunning adaptation. Roeg's visual and emotional style of directing has never been so perfectly showcased as in Don't Look Now. How many more times can film-makers and advertisers steal (or pay homage to) Roeg's ingenious work? Julie Christie is luminous and pulls the viewer with her through Laura's painful journey after the film's shocking opening. Sutherland's performance is stellar as well. His character, John, is like a Hitchcockian fall-guy with real personality and depth. You are swept along through the canals and narrow avenues with him as Pino Donaggio's stirring music both chills and lulls.Films made in the tone of Don't Look Now are so rare these days. I am not an old fuddy-duddy who complains that they don't make 'em like they used to but am simply a slightly disillusioned film fan who wishes there were just a few more film-makers willing to take chances and not follow the dull formulaic line. What was the last film that stayed with you long after you saw it? It always sounds like a cliche when some obsessed fan tells you a film haunted them for days but Don't Look Now has a curious effect on the viewer. Its intensity grows. Different parts of the film mull around in your mind. You don't think about individual 'scenes' from the film either, you think about the situations, the people, the feelings. All of which is testament to the roundly drawn characterisation and elegant (yet not contrived) structure of the film.If you haven't seen Don't Look Now before then you have a treat awaiting you. If you have seen it - see it again and marvel at a profound, eery, haunting, moving and beautiful film. If it disappoints you that films of such indelible and recurring substance like this are thin on the ground (Apocalypse Now, Taxi Driver and The Conversation had similar effects on me) then do not hesitate to picket the next showing of....(OUT OF RESPECT TO IMDB'S CONTENT GUIDELINES I WON'T NAME TITLE OF MORONIC HOLLYWOOD BLOCKBUSTERS AND THE LIKE)! "},{"Title":"Fear, as an art form.","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"116 out of 177 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was afraid to swallow, to make any noise. The unspeakable was all around me and I lived it up to the fullest. Nicolas Roeg plays with our instincts, with our inner voices and challenge us to take notice. Just like Donald Sutherland's character. He knows, even if his brain tells him not to be stupid. To believe is to commit intellectual suicide. Better not to look, not to listen. Sutherland and Christie are one of the most convincing modern artistic yet normal married couples in their pain in their every daily detail. Sutherland goes along with Christie's nonsense because he sees what the nonsense does for her. They make love for the first time since their daughter's death in a way we've never seen before on the screen and, probably, never will again. Based on a Daphne Du Maurier's book, Nicolas Roeg has orchestrated a chilling work of art. For film lovers all over the world, if you haven't seen it, do, preferably in the dark with someone you know and love. "},{"Title":"Shocking Red December","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"65 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Italian title of this Nicolas Roeg's classic is A Venetian Shocking Red December yep. I had seen this film dubbed into Italian, years ago. I was taken by the look and the atmosphere I remember being unnerved but I was appalled by the acting, specially Julie Christie's - one of my favorites of all time. Yesterday I saw the film again in its original English version. My goodness, what a difference! The film is even more frightening that I remembered. The atmosphere is asphyxiating. You can actually smell the rotting stench of the most beautiful city in the world. The ending leaves you breathless and the acting, well, listening to the actors real voices is another experience altogether. The pain and sudden burst of hope in Julie Christie is moving, very moving and very unsettling. Sutherland, as usual, is magnificent. The film, other than a solid cult status, remains virtually unknown by the public at large. Don't Look Now is a buried treasure that is bound to be re discovered and to all my countrymen, a piece of advise avoid dubbed movies at all cost. "},{"Title":"One of the great mysteries. How was it forgotten?","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"94 out of 152 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't Look Now was released at about the time of The Excorcist. There is otherwise no basis for comparison between these movies. While the Excorcist hits us in the face with the equivalent of a special effects rubber chicken, Don't Look Now manages to get under your skin from the very first scene, and gradually, elegantly insinuates itself into a place where your childhood and adult fears dwell and steep. Its setting in Venice is both beautiful and menacing. Something terrible is always just around the corner from our conscious mind. It is also troubling, and, as only a good movie can, leaves more questions unanswered than resolved. Without a doubt, it contains one of the most beautiful loves scenes ever filmed, showing scenes of Christie and Sutherland in genuinely erotic (by '70's standards) lovemaking, mixed with scenes of the couple as they dress and prepare for their day, the following morning. Director Nicolas Roeg is a forgotten Master. "},{"Title":"A classic in every sense of the word.","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"90 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think it is bad luck that Don't Look Now was released in the same year as The Exorcist, or else this might be a better known and more appreciated one of a kind masterpiece.Don't Look Now is an horror movie but not one like you would expect it to be. It isn't a movie that scares you with some scene's, it is a movie that gets into you and just won't let go and builds up a nightmare like tension. The atmosphere is fantastic and gives the movie a haunting feeling. Venice really works as the perfect backdrop for this movie. The best movie set in Venice ever? Even though there aren't any scary sequences in the movie, the ending is really horrifying, it really freaked me out the first time I saw it, I think 5 years ago. On my second viewing, not too long ago I was prepared for the ending but it still was a very scary thing to watch!The storytelling might seem slow but it works perfect for the movie and its tension. There are some brilliant moments in the movie that all come together once the ending approaches. The editing and cinematography are perfect, as are the performances by the cast.And what is a decent comment without mentioning the famous love scene? Ah yes, the love scene, it really is one of the best love scene's ever. It is brilliantly filmed and even more brilliantly edited. Quite Stylish, as is the entire movie.This classic masterpiece certainly deserves more recognition!10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Bizarre, perplexing, and head-scratchingly complex - but a very good film","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"52 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We've all seen it before the 'horror' movie where someone's lost a loved one, suddenly their ghost starts popping up, and the desperate search to get to the bottom of it ensues. Director Nicholas Roeg took a story somewhat like that, based on a short story by Rebecca author Daphne DuMaurier, and successfully proved that it doesn't always have to be like that. Don't Look Now is a nearly-forgotten film from the 70's by a nearly-forgotten director (I believe this is the only one of his handful of great films that's on DVD), and after watching the film, I realize it's a damn shame.As Don't Look Now opens, we see a placid little pond, and disjointed, dreamy editing and cinematography that combine to form an unsettling scene of two kids playing. A young boy is riding around on his bike, and a little girl in a red mackintosh is frolicking around. We then see the parents of the children, John and Laura Baxter (Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie), sitting comfortably inside by the fire. Something is wrong, though. The film's editing style eerily merges the slowly mouting events outside with the warmth of the interior. The boy's bike hits some glass and John's drink crashes on the table. Before we know it, the Baxter's daughter has plunged into the pond and the Baxters are left with a dead daughter.Fast-forward to some unknown time in the near future, and the Baxters are in Venice, where John is restoring a church that he quite quickly discovers is an architectural fraud. One day in a restaurant, Laura is encounted by a mysterious, psychic, blind woman who assures her that her daughter is 'happy.' Laura tells her husband this, but John is a staunch non-believer in things of the sort, and in a tender, wonderfully-edited scene, the Baxters make love.The love scene in Don't Look Now is notorious for those familiar with it. Being quite graphic, it was trimmed a bit for an R rating in the US, but even by today's standards, it's quite surprising. There's a catch, though - Roeg's film intercuts their frenzied sex with a scene of them dressing afterwards and leaving for dinner (most notably paid tribute to in Steven Soderbergh's Out of Sight, much tamer, but edited in a similar fashion). Why? It is at once the most frustrating, and greatest, thing about Don't Look Now.The film contains a numerous amount of plot strands a mysterious figure in a red coat (who may or may not be the ghost of the Baxter's daughter) begins to appear around Venice, dead bodies are being found in the canals, the killer's on the loose, and the blind prophet continually warns of John's pending danger. What connects them all? Well, one can't really be sure until the end of the film, and that's where Don't Look Now nearly stumbles.In Roger Ebert's review of the film, he comments on how successfully the movie builds up tension and how disappointing the film'sclimax is, but I felt the opposite. Not that much happens in the movie until its final, bloody, climax. What is important, though, is that every little thing that happens in the film has something to do, in some creepy, abstract way with the film's finale. I found myself immensely frustrated by the middle stretch of the movie, because not much makes sense for a while. Don't worry, though, because director Roeg doesn't offer some neat tie-up of all the loose ends of the film; he simply offers a suggestion to the viewer. The question is is the suggestion he offers good enough to redeem the complete puzzle that the movie is before it? I'm going to go with 'yes,' for the film doesn't ground itself firmly in reality, thereby allowing some slack in how lucid the ending must be. In fact, it seems somewhat like a dream the whole way through (don't worry, I don't think it is).What is the point of Don't Look Now, and why should you watch it? Well, Don't Look Now proves that there may be more 'future' in our present than we think... All of the plot strands seem to occur at odd, disjointed times in the film, and it's up to us to decide what's important. Yes, we do find out who the killer is, but don't expect some easy resolution in the perplexing amalgam that the film is. In fact, Roeg lets two plot strands of the movie converge in its conclusion. I was immensely impressed by Don't Look Now, for the device of 'who's the killer' is actually put to some interesting use. I think I know what the movie suggests, but there's so much there that it requires a second viewing.  If not a second, you should at least give it one, but be prepared to be confused .  "},{"Title":"Surreal and mind-bending","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"47 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't Look Now was clearly ahead of its time. In 1973, psychological movies such as this were either rare, or basic. Don't Look Now attempts to go where a lot of movies had never been, which was a realm where many things never truly make sense and yet behind it all is a coherent purpose.First of it is *not* a candidate for greatest horror film ever, though the Times would have you believe otherwise. What it *is* though is a highly confusing yet thought-provoking story which covers grief and dillusion in equal measure.Donald Sutherland plays John Baxter, who's married to Laura, who lose a child in an accident and find their worlds turned upside-down as a result. However, thereafter the story is set in Venice where John's working on a job and Laura's accompanied him there, and where things start to get disturbing for the couple as events begin to focus on their dead daughter and paranormal themes emerge.It *is* a strange tale, and ultimately what you get out of it is entirely up to you. It is probably from this film that the likes of David Lynch started to derive inspiration.Overall, good, if intrinsically confusing. "},{"Title":"Classic chiller with a spine-tingling atmosphere.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"53 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   Don't Look Now comes in for undeserved criticism from people who think that horror movies should be gore-fests. Anyone who truly appreciates the art of horror will recognise this film for what it is a classic. The atmosphere in this film is incredible for many reasons Pino Donaggio's haunting score, the wintry Venice location work, the fragmented and thoughtful editting, and the perfect performances. Add to that the most unforgettable twist ending ever filmed (to date, anyway) and you're looking at a tremendous film. Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie play a couple who go to Venice to recover from the traumatic death of their daughter (she drowned in a pond at the bottom of their garden). They keep seeing a small red-coated figure wandering around the canals, and Sutherland convinces himself that it may be the spirit of his daughter trying to make contact from the other side. However, when he confronts the red-coated figure he is in for one hell of a shock.... Nicholas Roeg's film is a masterpiece. It can be viewed over and over again and with each new viewing it throws up new surprises and possibilities. An enigmatic, haunting and multi-layered treat, Don't Look Now is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"You will suffer two hours of no plot for one halfway-decent final scene.","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"40 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Where do I start? After reading some reviews on here, I was excited to see this flick. Some great things have been said on here for sure. After completing Don't Look Now, one can only assume these things were written by four year olds. Unless you find mindless dialog, pointless scenes and under-developed characters entertaining, you will not be impressed by this slice of mediocre 70's crap.I actually laughed at the ending, which, to those of us who have seen far superior films like Profondo Rosso, Don't Torture a Duckling and The House With Laughing Windows will seem like an episode of Full House. So a dwarf hacks Donald Sutherland once in the neck and he dies. Frankly, he probably deserved it for subjecting the viewers to his flaccid, pale, awkward body in a prolonged, painful sex scene with co-star Julie Christie. Easily the scariest part of the film right there.I was bothered by the 'plot' in Don't Look Now, and I use the term plot very loosely because there just isn't much of one. I'll sum it up for you Donald Sutherland and wife lose child in drowning accident. They go to Venice so Sutherland can restore a church. Some boring stuff happens for almost two hours then the Sutherland gets hacked one time by a dwarf in a red coat that looks similar to the one his daughter was wearing. In the end, my reaction was WHO CARES? I wanna know about that ugly little dwarf, dammit! That would have made for a much better flick than what I just sat through! Don't bother watching this if you haven't seen the 1970's Italian horror films of Argento, Fulci, Sergio Martino and Aldo Lado first. This one attempts to rob from those films but does so very poorly. To those of us who are seasoned giallo vets, this will prove to be a maddening, over-hyped, jumbled mess that cannot hold a candle to the real thing.Scary? Only if you're crazy and don't find a nude Donald Sutherland incredibly HOT.3 out of 10, kids. "}{"Title":"Mysterious, brooding and bone chilling at the climax!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"51 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now is a strange horror film in that it doesn't rely on the usual horror genre staples in order to be successful. Rather than be gratuitous on the gore, atmosphere and shocks front, Don't Look Now simply presents it's story and the horror almost seems like an afterthought. Usually, films like this annoy me because they obviously want to portray the horror, but skirt around it in order to not be put in with the less intelligent offerings from the genre; but this one clearly cares about it's story and characters, and never really sets out to scare. The film, therefore, comes off as being assured and well handled throughout, and even though the plot is slow; the film can never be described as boring because there's always enough bubbling under the surface of the immediate goings on in order to keep the viewers' interest. The plot is shrouded with mystery and follows a father who finds his daughter drowned in a nearby lake. He and his wife then move to picturesque Venice, but the memory of their daughter cannot be laid to rest after a blind psychic tells the woman that she has seen her daughter may still be alive.I love the horror genre, but I admit that a large proportion of it can't be compared among the true classics of cinema due largely to a lack of production values, good acting or a decent script that is coherent with the story and characters. Don't Look Now, however, often appears on film lists amongst the classics because this is one of the films that is strong in those areas. The acting is first rate, with Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie giving brilliant brooding performances that are in line with their characters and the film's plot. Sutherland can be something of a one-note actor, but when a performer is given the right material it allows them to shine and his role in this film fits him like a glove. One of the main compliments that this film gets is the cinematography, as the film expertly captures the beauty of it's central location. Venice's canals and dark alleys are as much a part of this film as the plot itself, and it is testament to Nicolas Roeg's directorial talent that this has been expertly captured in a way that helps the film. On the whole, this is a fine horror film that will be enjoyed by anyone that is willing to put time and effort into it. It's also worth noting that this film pays it's viewers at the climax with one of the best twist endings in the horror genre. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"42 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" An exquisitely haunting, very memorable drama, this is a uniquely directed, well acted and superbly photographed film of searching for what feels to be missing, and the tragic results that can occur. The Italian setting provides the film with a strong sense of the Gothic but also an ominous sense of otherness. In a foreign land with different customs, culture and architecture, the characters feel lost, but yet the mysterious, unknown element of the new setting provides a sense of hope. The director has used a number of tricks to emphasise certain details. These may have no meaning at the time, but their re-occurrence throughout the film adds to the haunting atmosphere. The film also has this amazing power to make almost anything seem foreboding and sinister. There is an undeniable musty B-grade feel to the film, but there is so much else to admire here, that it does not detract at all from the viewing experience. It is an intriguing, gripping and powerful watch. "},{"Title":"Yes, diabolical - diabolically bad, that is (SPOILER)","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"35 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad and wrong - we wanted to give it a -1 but couldn't.The reasons are as follows1/Pretentious twaddle 2/Bad acting (Julie Christie - gorgeous, but very poor scripting and delivery) 3/ Too much Donald Sutherland (naked or clothed - this is a seventies film so the clothing leaves much to be desired) 4/I personally do not find deranged aged dwarfs in red coats inherently frightening but I may be alone in this. However, I can imagine that this may be frightening to a minute substrata of the population who have been unfortunate enough to be attacked by an angry red coated midget (or perhaps multiple angry red clothed midgets) as a child. 5/Where was the story? What was it all about? We are none the wiser after 2 hours. Perhaps my husband and I missed something profound here... perhaps not.I am actually embarrassed that this movie is considered a classic in the UK and can offer no explanation for this. Don't do this to yourself or anybody else. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time Looking Now Or Ever","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Horrible muddled adaptation of a compelling short story. Donald Sutherland plays John Baxter who restores old Venetian churches or something like that. Julie Christie plays his wife. Both of them are actually pretty good and close to how Du Maurier wrote the original characters. But soon enough we're subjected to a bizarre, extended sex scene that is inter-cut with footage of the couple getting dressed. Not only does this make absolutely no sense, we also have to look at Donald Sutherland's bony ass for six or seven minutes. There's other strange scenes and confusing red herrings thrown in that really do nothing to advance the story, including a slightly sinister Catholic bishop who wasn't in the original source material. The religious imagery and aspects to this film keep suggesting that it's about to turn into something like The Omen, but it never does, which is a shame, because even an Omen rip-off would have been more welcome than this thing. The director would have done better to follow the original story a bit closer - if you haven't read it, you'll be lost watching this mess and you'll have to be content with enjoying on-location footage of early 1970s Venice, Italy, which is one of this film's few redeeming qualities. "},{"Title":"Yes, this movie is a cure for insomnia!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Man, I thought I'd seen some boring overrated movies before, like Polanski's Repulsion, but this one must be the worst.  After a nice opening scene, Don't Look Now proceeds to show some characters, who are mostly uninteresting, walk around and have little day-to-day type problems, have a little sex, blah blah blah.  Oh trust me, there's no story at all.  And there's not a trace of suspense or surprise until the very end, which comes out of left field and is very silly.  This is the kind of movie where normal, everyday events are supposed to be scary merely because a stinger was added to the musical score.  If you watch it with the sound off, I guarantee you will fall asleep in minutes! The other really annoying habit of this movie is its tendency to show something innocuous, like a broach, and zoom in on it as if this is something important that we're supposed to be interested in.  In every single case it turns out to be completely irrelevant.  As a result, the viewer is actually conditioned to ignore the movie's details...if the director won't play fair by giving these scenes a payoff, why bother paying attention at all?  Overall, the only emotion this film can create is confusion and a deep, deep desire to shut the damn thing off half-way through.  3 out of 10.     "},{"Title":"Just plain weird","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John and Laura Baxter are living in Venice when they meet a pair of elderly sisters, one of whom claims to be psychic. She insists that she sees the spirit of the Baxters' daughter, who recently drowned. Laura is intrigued, but John resists the idea. He, however, seems to have his own psychic flashes, seeing their daughter walk the streets in her red cloak, as well as Laura and the sisters on a funeral gondola...I had big expectations watching this film since it's hold as cult classic but, by the end, I was bewildered by what I had just watched. Don't look now is often described as a psychological thriller but, to me, it looks a like a patchwork. Most of the scenes are utterly pointless and add nothing to the story and also there's a lot of things that don't add up. The film relies on symbolism, injecting the color red in several scenes as well as other small details, but there isn't really a connection between all this elements so it ends up being just weird and confusing. Most of the time I found myself looking for a hidden meaning but the film doesn't have one. The camera work is truly awful with constant zooms that make the film very unpleasant to watch. And then there's the ear-splitting sound effects, oh my, they certainly got my attention but for the wrong reasons. Aside the beautiful Julie Christie, the acting was average with Donald Sutherland looking very unconvincing. I should stress that not an awful lot happens in this film. It's a film based on suggestion and imagery. In the end I thought it was extremely dull, pointless and put simply, a bad film. Maybe the film has aged poorly, or, I'm one of those persons who didn't get it, but either way, this was a terrible experience.3/10 "},{"Title":"not worthing the high rate at all","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" highly disappointed by this film that i seek ed for so long . i cant understand what so many people voted as an excellent movie. many cons of that movie 1.at the beginning little girl gets drown at the lake and her death seems more like a suicide than an accidental drowning - she doesn't seem to struggle even a bit to flow ,she just shrinks while her brother doesn't cry out for help. As for Donald we see that through the blood in the slides he visions that something bad has happened and runs to catch up but doesn't make it. The whole scene is very rough setup and fake .2.Couple after the death of their child -especially Julie - doesn't act like parents who feel sorrow for their loss.!!!! What a tragedy if a mother losses her child - never seen in the movie .3.Undeveloped characters Donald and Julie ,the two sisters , the priest ,the police officer , the ugly dwarf ?? , 4.Pointless dialogs of little significance among the lead actors leading to nowhere at last.5.No subtitles during the Italian conversations 6.Many unanswerable questions left What kind of gift/curse was the blind woman claiming for Donald ? What was the connection between priest and evil ?Was he indeed a betrayer of god ?Did he know what was going to happen ? Did he cause the murder of Donald?Was Donald a kind of sacrifice for an occult god ?Did Donald know his destiny and followed his death like a sheep to the slaughter?Was there any connection between the dwarf's red coat and the child's ?Was there any importance at the photos at the sisters room ?What did the police officer know ?Who was the serial killer in Venecia? 7.Many blank spaces at the script - very few clues given to figure out - too much confusion and mess - atmosphere of agony and mystery leads to a dead end . "},{"Title":"Just a load of hooey...","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"29 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't see how this movie can be considered a classic of the genre. It was frankly dull, and made little sense, and even if it did, the thin story was pretty bad, and not the least bit intriguing. What I just watched was utter tosh. As for the so-called 'symbolism'.... The movie tries to say things, tries to be deep, and totally fails at it. The only thing symbolic was the red coat, the rest was a lot of nonsense. This is a movie for dumb/pretentious people who think they are watching something 'suspenseful and complex', something they can chat at the water cooler about, discussing the so-called 'symbolism' or 'layers' this movie has, in an attempt to look intelligent maybe... that's the only reason I could think of for someone to call this movie complex. The movie in fact does have layers, but none of them are particularly interesting to the viewer. Quality over quantity is something that is forgotten a lot. What good are the layers, the suspense, the actors, the location, when the story is just plain absurd and 100% uninteresting. The ending is also ludicrously bad, and really brings the whole film down even further. It's honestly laughable to watch this movie, knowing that someone has tried to create a mysterious and chilling piece of cinema, and has ended up with a pretentious, clunky, non-entity of a movie. I admit, this movie could be worse, but it just goes nowhere and in my opinion does not make an entertaining movie. People who like riveting story lines and honestly good movies will be bored. People who like Donald Sutherland naked, faux paranormal mumbo jumbo, or stupid schlock horror movies may like this. Those people have poor taste. Yet the ending ... really... how could anyone defend something so hilariously bad and call it good film-making? "},{"Title":"This Movie was not what I expected at all !","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"35 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I Cannot believe the amount of good reviews I have seen of this movie. A friend of mine had seen and told me he found it boring and meaningless and confusing. He also had a similar view of Memento, which I thought was excellent. Bearing this in mind coupled with the reviews I had read, I sat down to watch this with my Brother. I was horrified at the complete nonsense before me. I found the acting from Julie Christie to be incredibly wooden (a blank look on her face most of the time), Donald Sutherland was slightly better but his ridiculous hairstyle didn't help. The dialogue was totally ridiculous and clichéd and the lines were delivered badly. The Sex Scene was absolute nonsense it seemed staged and not natural and was badly shot, you could easily tell they were acting (or trying to). Admittedly I only watched the first 75 mins but the story, pace and intensity did not look like it was getting any better. My Brother and I mutually agreed to turn over to see what else was on, as we had reached the same conclusion regarding this film. The Boring attempts to be chilling were very badly done (i.e the two old women one with second sight and the poorly staged séance etc.) , maybe in the 1970's this may have seemed chilling. But the film certainly does not stand the test of time. There have been far better films of this type made. For Instance this film was not in the class of The Sixth Sense. I am not addicted to Blockbusters and crap like Armageddon and The Fast and the Furious, so this is not down to my IQ. I often seek out small low budget films of different genres and appreciate them. "},{"Title":"Don't Look Ever","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The only thing I liked about this movie was the grey December atmosphere from Venice and it's little dark corners. As for the rest of this movie, it would have been better left in the canals of Venice forever. First of all, one might have been able to understand more of what the actors say if they had hired a sound engineer and some decent mikes. This film could be useful at sound engineering school for demonstrating how not to produce a soundtrack. There is a horrible echo in many scenes.Donald Sutherland looks like a walrus, but I guess that's the price of watching 70s movies.But the story is total nonsense. I could accept a little bit of nonsense if it least there was something else that was good, but there isn't. Are we supposed to be frightened off our wits by a bit of fog and a red coat? The director tries to build up a an atmosphere of mystery in Venice in December but he utterly fails and the whole story crashes to the floor. The ending is the culmination of stupidity. "}{"Title":"I don't get it...","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I LOVE horror movies. I love good and bad horror movies. This movie was just so meh. I have tried repeatedly to watch it again, thinking maybe somewhere inside I am missing the point. But no, it's a total boring, lazy waste of time. While I appreciated the settings in the movie, everything in the story was so choppy and silly that I never felt scared, just mostly bored. I am a huge fan of both Sutherland and Christie, but they just kind of woodily stare at one another. I never got the feeling that there were any emotions. If you want a good scary movie from this time period, The Changeling with George C. Scott is the best. "},{"Title":"YAWN. One word to describe this movie BORING.","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I realize this movie was made back in the 70's, but real classic movies, whether it's 30-50 years old, can still hold up strong -- even to this day. This movie, however, is not the case. If this movie was released today, it would fail miserably. Too many scenes drag on, and I mean they really drag, and it's very ambiguous -- most of it is very pointless. The movie tries to build up some suspense, but it fails there too. It's a sleeper all the way and no shocking value.I watch a lot of movies every week, but I can't understand how people would love this movie - they must not be very active people. If you want to fall asleep, this movie would be it.I would not recommend this movie at all. Don't waste your time with this one, as time is money and it's not worth it. If you don't care about the story, it may be worth your time for the cinematography (although there's better movies for that too). But that's about it.This movie seems to be praised for the husband/wife sex scene which is almost pornographic but it inter-cuts of them putting their clothes back on to be more cinematic. Just because the movie uses some clever editing techniques and camera angles DOES NOT MAKE THE MOVIE GOOD. The story is extremely lacking and the pacing is awful. Unless you still sit in a rocking chair with your cat in your lap the entire day, you'll be fast forwarding this movie or turning it off. Actually, sitting in a rocking chair is more exciting than this movie. Oh, if you want to see a scene of a blind psychotic... I mean, psychic, old grandma having an orgasmic panic and fondling her breasts, then knock yourself out with this one.The ending is ridiculous and a joke just like the whole movie plays out. It made me more angry. And to think this movie couldn't have gotten any worse, the ending is just as unsatisfying.This is one movie you will easily forget. As the title suggests, Don't Look (at this movie) NOW. "},{"Title":"Red Riding Hood Restoration","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just saw Black Swan, one of the most successful cinematic seductions of the inner worlds of madness. It prompted me to go to this rather than Red Shoes or Nostalghia.What makes this film &#x97; indeed this filmmaker &#x97; valuable is the first decision made. The world of the film is not much like the real world, nor any familiar film world, though there are fragments of and references to both of these. The cinematic reach is toward Giallo, a genre which could be characterized as Italian noir circumstances that fall upon a hapless ordinary citizen, circumstances that are manipulated by and for the viewer and which in the Italian case involve color as a violent agent.The choice in this case is to live in an internal world, the fragmented mind of a psychic who foresees his own death, but believes it to be the death of his non-existent daughter (who we may see being conceived). Roeg is highly visual in his storytelling and since the story here is fragmented and non-linear, the narrative sense is all in the visual continuities color, water and the Red Riding Hood story. The title is from a variation on that story which has the ending deviate from the fairy tale because of decisions on what Red chooses to look at.The elements of the film's story hardly matter our psychic is a restoration expert, working to remake a Venetian chapel and its scrambled mosaics. His life is partially on and partially under water, among and in psychic women, one of whom is his wife. There are many amazing compositions here not as sublime as Tarkovsky, but as well considered. The scene most recalled in memory by myself and others is the lovemaking scene.Photographing sex must be one of the most difficult challenges for a filmmaker. Here, the ambition is orders of magnitude beyond usual because the same folded and fragmented Joyean vision that frames his quest for death is in and under the skin of his beloved. The filming is erotic of course, and it is hard enough to avoid the salacious. But Roeg goes far beyond the encounter would normally consist of foreplay, coitus and redressing as a sequence as bound to earth as any. But here, the intimacy comes from the mix of these. The effect changes us in several ways. We know we are seeing many such sessions a lifetime of love. We know that even this intense touching is for him a cacophony of shifted cause. We know from his after-demeanor that it always puzzles him that he cannot put things in their right place, even here.And the woman, his love, is transformed into rivers, canals, chapels, children unknown and mirrors and photographs that confuse.He is not restored. She continues to flow. We leave the film a bit more psychic and free from wolves.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"God Save Us From An Artiste","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Epically pretentious, maddeningly incoherent mangling of Daphne DuMaurier's excellent short story. Beautiful to look at with very good performances all around and a characteristically wonderful score by Pino Donaggio. All of this is squandered by director Roeg in his sadistic quest to screw the audience out of any explanation whatsoever. There are characters, subplots, and countless shots of ordinary objects and places that seem to be heavy with portent, yet are utterly pointless and without meaning....the Why the hell is it there mini-porn being a prime example. The editing is not simply non-linear, it is purposely disorienting. I find it quite strange that films which are by accident incoherent viewed as bad, while films that are incoherent by design - 2001, Blow Up anyone? - are somehow works of genius. I'll never understand how a film stubbornly refusing to explain itself is a good thing. Don't Look Now is, in the end, nothing more than Nicolas Roeg masturbating to his own genius for two hours. I hope it was at least good for him. "},{"Title":"Overrated - Totally Undeveloped","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is too much good comments about this movie, it really don't deserve the 7.4/10.- The main plot and even the subplots are not developed.- The filming is quite bad.-The photography of Venisia is missed. With a city like that, the atmosphere could have be more thick and gloomy, this is quite unexploited in this movie. - The ending is foreseeable 38 minutes before the end!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!-We got the beginning of a cheap ghosts movie and the ending of an even cheaper slasher, and between the two nothing. "},{"Title":"WHY YOU SHOULD WATCH THIS FILM (NO SPOILERS)","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I first saw bits of this film, Dont Look Now, many years back on TV after watching an interview with Donald Sutherland by Mark Cousins on a documentary called Scene By Scene. It struck me right away that this was an interesting and powerful film. In fact, when shown one scene (a particularly harrowing account of a young girl drowning, this is not a spoiler btw) Sutherland was overcome and began crying. Now, I am not suggesting that a weepy Don Sutherland alone is enough to make you want to watch this film, but it certainly should say something about the powerful nature of it. I recently bought it on DVD and watched it through for the 1st time. I think it is a landmark film, and is perhaps much undervalued.Anyway.......to be more brief (hopefully!!), the reason you should watch this film, regardless of what anyone else on this has said, is that it simply throws up questions. There seems to be too many jittery, self-important people on this board pickin' at bits and pieces of this film (which, I as you should have guessed by now, loved) and complaining about various aspects of the plot as if all films should end leaving the viewer satisfied of their own intelligence (Which in some of these people seems scarce) For me, this film says a lot about the need to move on, and not to look to deeply into your past. HOWEVER, AND THIS IS MY KEY POINT, I think that there is certainly enough depth in this film for a viewer to derive their own meanings. Isn't that what art is about? AND,ON A BASE LEVEL, THERE ARE A FEW SHOCKING SCARES AND AN EERY, UNCOMFORTABLE ATMOSPHERE THROUGHOUT. PLEASE WATCH AND ENJOY "},{"Title":"Do Look Now!","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let me start by saying that any Roeg film is worth watching(the guy could shoot a bowl of soup and create tension).The Man Who Fell To Earth,and Walkabout are personal favorites of mine,the whole theme of alienation and the inexorable change produced by a collision of world psychologies being a natural for Roeg.Instead of super-sensitive alien out to rescue his planet from dehydration(which is really an optional pretext,the film not really being about that),or the primal awakenings of two young Australian kids left to their own devices in the outback by their psychotic father,forging a life-changing relationship with an aboriginal boy,Don't Look Now is essentially the story of a man whose devotion to detail and rationality blinds him to the psychogenic realm,and his own inherent ability to see into it,that he ends up dying a gruesome and bizarrely unpredictable death.Why this man is punished by fate,or God,or by his own stubbornness is one of the most elusive metaphysical ideas I've ever seen in a film.I believe that contained in the moment,where Sutherland sees his daughter's drowning,AND the melting slide photo with the blood cascading from what at that point in the film we believe to be his daughter,in her plastic red raincoat,sitting in one of the pews in the picture of a church he'll soon be restoring,is the key to the mystery.An unholy parallelism seems to be hatched here-his very human,and TOTAL love and concern for his daughter has blinders on it(whose doesn't?),and any ominous clairvoyance on his part is relegated to his subconscious.In any case,this is a totally unique movie,and the strange sisters lend a great,modern Shakespearian feel to the film.Obviously,Roeg's cinematography is outstanding! "},{"Title":"Don't Look Now is a disappointing & mediocre film","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was just reading Fangoria magazine & it had an interview with Donald Sutherland about this film, so I thought I would give it a look as I haven't heard of it before. **SPOILER*** Film starts with a young blonde girl,daughter of Sutherland & Christie's characters, drowning in a lake on their property. Sutherland seems to have a feeling & vision of something being wrong and rushes to save his daughter but is too late.Next scene, we see Sutherland & Christie in Venice at a restaurant. Christy meets 2 sisters in the ladies room & one,who is blind, claims to have second sight & can see Christie's daughter and that all is okay with her. Christie then comes out to return to Sutherland's table and collapses,for some reason.The sister later tells Christie that Sutherland's life is in danger while staying in Venice. From this point on, the film drags on & on without much of anything happening except an overlong sex scene that I doubt anybody really wants to see. Then at the end, we have a death scene with, I kid you not, a killer dwarf. I am not sure what the other reviewers saw in this movie to give it a high rating, because what I saw was a bland,mediocre & slow moving film with little to no actual plot or character development. "},{"Title":"Resonant Atmosphere; Frustrating Disconnectedness","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Warning Spoiler in Final Paragraph This film could easily be torn apart by someone who isn't a major fan of filmic loose ends, red herrings, dues ex machinas, splintered editing, and/or vague storytelling. But Roeg's &#145;psychic thriller' still manages to hold up as far as confusing creepiness goes, and it actually does make some worthwhile statements concerning the irrepressible trauma that sudden bereavement may cause (especially of a young child,) and the destruction which all of that may lead to. Roeg's bizarre editing style frustrated me at first, but then I managed to constitute it to an actual theme of the film &#150; he fragments a &#145;future scene' within a current scene in order to provide his actual narrative structure with the psychical ambience of the actual storyline (ex the infamous sex scene.) I, however, am not much of a fan of Roeg's incessant insistence to simply insert distractions into his plot that ultimately never develop into holding any coherent meaning &#150; a red herring should at least eventually come to make sense, but Roeg simply throws odd scenes in for the sake of confusion here (ex the laughing psychics.) The plot contains evident elements of a classic Oedipus-like tragedy, where the blind are capable of seeing the truth and the ones who can actually see stubbornly blind themselves from it. Even though I understand the intention behind it &#150; that John was too &#145;blinded' by emotional trauma to even consider otherwise &#150; the ending relies slightly too heavily upon an abrupt coincidence for my taste. It's an interesting notion that if one doesn't embrace their &#145;power' or &#145;gift' then it'll ultimately deceive and work against you (as it does to John, who actually foresees his own death but doesn't realize it.) The film is fraught with an excellent aura of mystery; however, much of it never really connects, which is truly unfortunate. "},{"Title":"Well, at least they were honest and kind enough to put a warning in the title","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I cannot claim that I ever got into this one. After starting with a scene the ending of which is so obvious that one wonders why they bothered putting it in, this continues at a pace that can best be described as drab, and with a basic idea so been there, done that that there are clichés going oh, come on. Something as basic as the *volume levels* are messed up in this(forgive me for being of the persuasion that one should not have to have the remote in hand, fingers fixed over the controls), and if you can't scare your audience without deafening them(I will mention no names...Paul...yes, you, with the initials after), you might want to consider improving your skills in that field. At one time my eyes were away from the screen(well, not only one), and what I heard reminded me most of the animated segments(!) on Monty Python's Flying Circus. Finishing off the audio side, the music never seemed to actually follow(or even all that properly contrast to) the action, and every single bit in the film that had people be on the phone with each other had the involved parties speaking completely separate(and not necessarily parallel, for that matter) conversations, at least at one point or more before hanging up. The cinematography and editing vary, but they go further in the direction of the negative(and take a break on the slow-mo, John Woo-wanna-be... it is *not* working for you). The acting didn't impress me. The mystery ended unsatisfactorily(it sure did to me), if taken in sans analysis(and I'm not putting that much effort into it for this one, no dice). There's a sex scene, reportedly rather graphic(I wouldn't know, I didn't grant it a single look, not into pornography, same reason(coupled with an utter lack of interest in the subject and person) I'm not watching Caligula), which is entirely gratuitous(the Trivia claims that without it, all the main couple would do when seen together is argue... come again? They hardly do so at all). I found this much more valuable as something MST3K than anything else. But hey, I'm not into Italian horror, I don't care for Argento either, so you don't have to take my word for it. If I haven't deterred you from viewing this by now, go right ahead. I recommend this to... people still considering this after reading this entire rant. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Bad cinema","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't believe that the film I saw was really the one depicted here as a masterpiece... I am not joking, this is the truth I sought for other similar titles to see if Don't look Now was really the film I had started watching.Yes, I interrupted my viewing because I wanted to make sure, but also because I was bored. I can very well understand why people call it a masterpiece it's because they don't care about the cinematographic quality, which is very bad. I was pleased to see that some reviewers noticed like me the appallingly poor quality of the sound, both effects and voice-over. That's bad cinema and it does make the movie hard to watch. That to me stands in the way of calling a movie a masterpiece...As for the story, well, like it not it makes no sense.The acting may be good, but it's hard to tell with such bad direction, and with asynchrone sound...I really wanted to add my comment because I can imagine the disappointment of the person who goes out and buy the DVD on account of the good reviews in here.My advice to you is try and watch it first, or read more about it before buying it. "},{"Title":"A perfect combination of brooding mystery and bone-chilling atmosphere","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like horror movies. Really, I do. It's one genre where the film has to be really, really abhorrently terrible for me to actually be bored, as most bad horror movies at least provide a few laughs. Despite, or perhaps due to, my affinity for the horror genre, I find it nigh impossible to find films that are unsettling. Don't Look Now, a film responsible in many ways for my becoming a film buff, is such a film, not for its 'disturbing' or gory content, but for its subtle suggestions, insinuations, and especially for the thick, tense, gloomy atmosphere that director Nicolas Roeg so brilliantly creates and maintains.By consistently maintaining Don't Look Now as a character-driven script with recurring themes and motifs the writers of this film, Allan Scott and Chris Bryant who adapted their screenplay from the short story by Daphne DuMaurier (Rebecca), ensure that the 'jump moments' are never hollow or empty. Really, there are many moments here where you see a fleeting glimpse of creepy imagery that so frequently come off as desperate and stupid, but in Don't Look Now the same moments are so tied to the mythology the film develops and the thematic content of the film that they are actually meaningful and essential.Of course, no comment on or discussion of Don't Look Now is complete without commentary on the famous love scene. Yes, it's surprisingly explicit, but people who dwell on the weirdness and explicitness of the scene are largely, hugely missing the point. Roeg initially included the scene as a last minute addition to balance out the scenes of the couple arguing, but through masterful editing from Graeme Clifford (under the creative supervision of Roeg, obviously) the scene is turned into an essential part of the film, not only bizarrely erotic and tender, but also creepy, unsettling, and sad. Roeg intercuts the scene with images of the two dressing, preventing a moment of pure togetherness in the scene, changing the dimensions of and artistic motivation behind the sex scene drastically and definitely for the better.Anthony B. Richmond, a once great cinema photographer (gone from working on The Kids are Alright to Dumb and Dumber When Harry Met Lloyd these days) photographs this film beautifully with the strong creative involvement of director Nicolas Roeg. The score by Pino Donaggio is creepy, evocative, interesting, and sometimes even unpredictable. The unusual and innovative editing of the film is a crucial part of its resounding success, creating creepy moments out of nothing. Some of the acting is (deliberately) exaggerated for effect and mostly excellent.With its creepy atmosphere, innovative editing, strong characters, good writing, and brilliant, unsettling final montage, Don't Look Now is director Nicolas Roeg's finest accomplishment and is deservedly regarded as one of the finest British films of all time, but I'd go a bit further and say it is likely a strong contender for the title of best British film, period. 10/10 "},{"Title":"To the Point...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After having this movie recommended to me from a highly recognized horror movie web site, I ordered the DVD to see this movie for myself.  What a waste.  This movie was so unbelieveably boring and plodding that I almost shut the damn thing off.  D. Sutherland and J. Christie are great actors and they are great in this movie.  But the pace and the plot of this movie is just stupid, unscary and time consuming.  I gave this movie 3 stars for the great acting and nice film location but everything else was awful.  I do NOT need a high-brow horror movie, thank you. "},{"Title":"More yawns than chills.","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is wildly overrated. I think that most of the viewers who call it wonderful or unforgettable actually recollect only some isolated effective sequences. But if you sit down and watch the whole thing from beginning to end, then it probably won't live up to its reputation; repeated viewings will only reveal even more weaknesses.As a psychological study, the film doesn't succeed; the characters are cold and lack depth. As a horror film, it doesn't succeed, either; it's almost never horrifying. And as a supernatural thriller, it's hampered by a poor script - there are too few weird events, considering that the movie depends almost exclusively on them. I'll be the first person to admit that the climax is stunning and chilling, even in the third viewing. But if you know how the story will turn out, there is another problem the exceedingly slow, SLEEP-INDUCING pacing. As for the unexplained details, they don't frustrate me so much; I don't think director Roeg knows more about the meaning of this story than we do.As for the legendary love scene, yes, it IS bold and erotic and natural. But it's also as redundant and unnecessary as any sex scene in the cheapest Friday The 13Th sequel or in the most pretentious art film.And stop searching for symbolic meanings related to the color red. Although it IS present in the film's two most important scenes, it is absent most of the time. If there is a color that makes a strong visual impression here, that's the color gray, without a doubt. "},{"Title":"Like Having Glass Ground Into Your Eyeballs","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Heed the warning of this movie's title and don't look at it now...or ever.This atrocious psychological thriller is neither psychologically complex nor especially thrilling. Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland play parents mourning the accidental death of their daughter, wandering around Venice while Sutherland is engaged in the renovation of an old cathedral. They run into a blind psychic and her sister, and their encounters with them bring Christie some solace about her daughter, but send Sutherland into a paranoid spiral which culminates in him following who he thinks is his dead daughter into the bell tower of a church and then.....well, much hype has been built around the shocking ending to this movie, but let's just see if you give a damn about what happens by the time you get to it.My description of the plot makes it sound like it makes much more sense than it does when you're actually watching the film, because I've left out all of the utterly gratuitous and boring scenes that bring nothing to the party. Director Nicholas Roeg never met a trendy 1970s film trick that he didn't like, and so this movie is full of zooms, both in and out, jarring camera work and harsh, ear-splitting sound effects. I guess he's trying for a nerve-jangling effect, but it all seems like a lot of fuss and bother over nothing. This is an assemblage of disconnected scenes badly in need of a story.The most frightening thing about Don't Look Now is the extended love-making scene that assaults us with a fully nude Donald Sutherland. Now that's what will make you turn your eyes away in horror.Grade F "},{"Title":"mood & atmosphere > Logic in a mind bending suspense story","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" VENICE, ITALY has never been more appealing. After watching this I want to get up and go there right now. The movie is about a couple who lost their child in England, and are now in Venice while the husband is restoring an ancient church. Filmed entirely on location during the winter, and NOT in the schmoozy tourist areas, there is a psychic to tells the wife she can see their daughter and she is happy, which starts leading the film in one direction. Then the father starts seeing out of the corner of his eye a little girl wearing a red rain slicker, just like the one his daughter was wearing when she drowned, which goes in another direction, all the while in the background there are whisperings of a serial killer on the loose. How do any of these things have anything to do with each other? I wont say, but it's a classy thriller with a 6'Th sense level shocker of an ending i DID NOT SEE COMING! but again, more than anything, Venice is the stare here. Over cast and wet. You can see everyone's breath. it's just a couple degreees away from snow. the walls are cracked and crumpling and the fog is real, not from a studio machine. There is an aura of mystery and romance that is indescribable in every scene. No discovery chanell or travel chanell special can sell you on this city better than this film "},{"Title":"Still really effective after all these years","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw Don't Look Now 4 years ago, I was genuinely unnerved by it, and while it was a film I appreciated more than loved I saw it for the great film it was. Now on re-watch, not only has the impact been left undiminished but I now love this movie. Visually the film is very stylish and haunting, yet there is something very sumptuous and symbolic about it too. The haunting music and sound further add to the atmosphere, as does the screenplay and Nicholas Roeg's superb direction. Don't Look Now also has a great story, it has a touch of poignancy, but it scores best when it is shocking and atmospheric, one scene in particular involving the figure in the red cloak affected me so much I couldn't sleep for days when I first saw it. Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie are note-perfect in their roles. All in all, really effective then and now. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Great psychic horror","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The plot of Don't Look Now isn't much. The magic is in the presentation and the magician is Nicholas Roeg - cameraman of films like Dr.Zhivago and Lawrence of Arabia. Don't Look Now is one of his earliest films as director and is probably his best, narrowing beating his previous Walkabout set in Australia.The setting of Don't Look Now is off-peak Venice. The Venice generally known to film buffs is the warm, tourist friendly, summer vacation hot-spot featured in films like Lean's Summer Madness or a recent film Bread and Tulips. In Roeg's film, we see a less romanticized Venice sans tourist hordes. It is cold and quite often wet because its winter. The via's and waterways are virtually deserted as is the hotel John Baxter lives in.John Baxter, played brilliantly by Donald Sutherland is an expert at restoration and off-peak is the best time to restore a beautiful Chiesa in decay. He has come with his wife - Julie Christie of Zhivago - and both are mourning the death of their daughter from drowning. Much of the film deals with this loss and its aftermath. There is a lot of symbolism in the film and particular motifs like rain/water to remind us of the drowning and the color red, the color of the raincoat worn by the Baxter's daughter. There are two strange old ladies, one a blind-psychic, who befriend Mrs. Baxter and claim to have seen their daughter. The solitary sex scene is uniquely filmed and presented very artistically - and realistically.Don't Look Now is all about atmosphere and beautiful presentation. A real treat! It won't seem like a horror initially. I won't say more because that would constitute a spoiler. "},{"Title":"Disappointing *WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS!*","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was completely untouched by this film. It failed to draw me in on any level and was disappointing after a promising start. Personally, I found the relationship between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie totally unconvincing and the lack of character development made it difficult for the viewer to feel anything other than indifference about John's sticky end and Laura's tragic predicament of being an untimely widow having already lost a child. I also found the copious red references unsubtle. It tries to be too arty and there are too many shots of walking up and down passages in Venice which in my opinion fail to create any much needed tension. This film is in no way comparable with The Shining which is leagues ahead.  "},{"Title":"Death, grief, sex, confusion, murder...","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg drama, patchily intense without being really absorbing, has married couple Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie grieving the death of their daughter; when a strange psychic tells them the deceased child is trying to contact them from beyond, Sutherland becomes obsessed with finding the truth. After a fascinating opening, this psychological thriller gets more and more murky, leading to a wet climax in Venice, Italy that leaves the viewer feeling high and dry. Roeg enjoys frenzied story loops, curious cuts and editing techniques, but he doesn't have a trace of humor--good, dark or otherwise--and the heaviness of the film is more memorable than the story (which is anti-climactic) or the performances. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Don't look, ever","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"23 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the most pretentious pile of rubbish ever, i cant believe anyone could have the stupidity to even consider what this pile of horse manure is about, have you people nothing better to do with your time?? and who labeled it a classic? the directors mother after been force fed a cocktail of gin and painkillers ? The Director seemed more amused with the fact that he had shot a red raincoat all through the movie and not to mention his amusement of shooting that intimate scene in the middle. It makes no sense, its about as creepy as the Muppet's hallowe'en special. The worst of it is i'll never have those two hours of my life back. "},{"Title":"This has long been a favourite","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This has long been a favourite and, for me, is one of those rare things, a perfect film. It doesn't matter when I watch it but it always catches me from the start and has me hooked for the duration. Indeed, I always seem to pick up on some reference or repeat motif that I had previously missed and in this way the film even gets better. It helps that I have always liked the director and both stars, oh I've just thought of something I don't like and seems to irritate me more each time - Julie Christie's wig, but no matter. The pair seem to have a particular understanding for each other in this and maintain our interest and deep involvement throughout. There is often discussion about whether the couple really had sex during that scene but the point is not whether they did or not but that it certainly looks as if they did, which is all a director can do. Direction, colour control, editing, acting, music all so very splendid but damn, I've just thought of one more shortcoming. Well, it isn't really, I'm sure it was intentional, but this does not show Venice in its best light. One of the reasons I never went to stay in the city for many years was partly how less than splendid it looks here. Death in Venice was another reason but that's another story. I accept that the mould, decay and neglect so evident helps to maintain the creepiness. "},{"Title":"I wish Holleywood would make films like this now","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Diane and I watched this wonderful film when it was first released in '73 after returning from trips to Venice. Therefore, we could easily relate to the dark night shots in back alleys with the only movement being cats seemingly searching for prey in dark places. I mention this because this will be one of the few films that you can watch that does not show the glamorous side of Venice the main piazza, the Cathedral and the fancy restaurants. No, in keeping with the darkness of the movie the director has maintained this feeling throughout the film no sunshine, a funeral scene rather than a wedding and flights of pigeons flying noisily flying off unexpectedly. If you put all of these things together, as the director has, you create excellent canvas upon which to paint the movie that you are filming.Diane and I had no problem with any parts of the film; we enjoyed it as much last evening as we had 41 years ago. Definitely make the effort to see it on TV or buy a copy in the discard bin of your local movie shop; you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"Wicker man, Sixth Sense, stay right till the end","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Its not often that you really can't see the point of a film till the last frame flickers by. But to fully appreciate what Don't Look Now is about requires something we often have little of - patience.It's a simple enough story of a couple trying to get away from the death of their daughter - a story of love, loss and the way that we cope with the sharp jolts in life.But under that it's a film about memory, perception and imagery. Roeg's style of fragmented time and images is never overplayed, purely because you are not aware of when he is doing it. A telephone conversation in the dead of night becomes a confusing (and scary) moment simply because he edits the two sides of the conversation 5 seconds apart in time.The sex/love scene has often been written about, and there is little point in improving upon the ample studies of the sections. It does serve on how to depict love, and not sex in a film.It's the ending that brings it all together. You can draw comparisions to something like 'The Sixth Sense' here. A moment that draws together the whole of the film and shoves it back at you for a re-appraisal. Slow, plodding moments become moments of utted dread and terror. Characters who appeared to be sinister and evil become the ones we should have trusted in the first place.It's a testament to the horror aspect of the ending that also means you will have difficulty going back and watching the build up to those dizzying final minutes.See it. Stick with it and don't let anyone ruin it for you.This is what a film can be when people put their mind to it "},{"Title":"Could've been a contender","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Straight off, the only reason I gave this a high 6 was due to the cinematography.Some people won't call this a giallo, but I do. It has all the basic trappings but only succeeds on a scant few levels. Before we get to abominable ending, let's talk up the good points.John and Laura Baxter have taken a working vacation in Venice due to the recent death of their daughter. The little girl died while wearing a red rain slicker, and as per usual gialli tactics, her size and color are important. Flash forward from the girl's death to their time in Venice as John works on a church restoration. Here we get subjected to Sutherland's infamous nude scene and if there is someone I don't want to see nude, it's Donald. And wearing that hideous wig to boot! Now, later we learn there is a murderer lurking the streets and we see a body fished out of a canal. So, with this back-story under our cap, we move along to some unusual cinematography and truly marvelous shots of dirty yet beautiful Venice back streets. Here is where the movie shines because for most of the film, if I may break it down? I may--All that happens for 3/4 of the movie is John's work on the church, a few spats between John and Laura, some visits with two sisters who may or may not have psychic abilities, and if you don't pay attention you miss it...John has some psychic abilities as well. However, John does not believe in that mumbo-jumbo, so when he has a vision, he doesn't realize what he's seen, and to a stronger point, sometimes we don't either.Oh, yes, I know this is a big deal with a lot of horror fans, but frankly, the ending is such a letdown. John Landis also commented on the silly nature of the killer's reveal. You see, at the finale, John is chasing this little character around the canal-ways who is small and wears a red cloak. Can it be his daughter? Well, are you an idiot? She is dead, of course, so either this person is a ghost(and if the psychic sister is accurate, their daughter is trying to contact them to say she is happy, not run away) or something else entirely, and as he finally reaches the little urchin, we get to see the cinematic equivalent of having the greatest wet dream of your life only to end it just before waking up by realizing you just banged your grandmother. Without making a lick of sense(though, I'll admit, gialli have a tendency to do so), the killer turns out to be an old dwarf woman with a knife and she promptly gives poor John the steel, right in his neck.Then, if you pay attention after this, you'll see where there was some instances earlier on of time criss-cross or John's unreadable visions.Now, for the rant. Granted, the Venice streets are barren, though the windows always have eyes, so if we have a killer running around in a Red Riding Hood getup, that will attract some attention. Also, there aren't enough murders! Yes, we get that he's confused and running around, but give us something else! The chase at the end was enjoyable and seeing the little red hood facing away from him as we all wait nervously to see the identity was a great build-up. But come on! This was as big of a letdown as the witch at the end of Suspiria(granted, that movie is eggs and bacon over Don't Look Now).Now, I won't say don't see this, because you should see it. It does have many redeeming qualities, but I suspect you will also find the killer's identity and total lack of back-story to be utterly moronic. Also, after you watch this, I totally recommend viewing Aldo Lado's 1972 giallo, Who Saw Her Die?. This also has a setting near the canals in Venice and, in my opinion, it smokes Don't Look Now. "},{"Title":"Don't look now,...nor ever!","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Pitiful acting, too-long, badly paced plot; blah locations; awful sound, lighting, and terrible, just terrible cinematography - for one, somebody should have taken their zoom buttons away; uninteresting characters and senseless plot ...what less could you ask for? By the time anything interesting happens, it's time for the end credits to roll, and I, for one, was quite thankful. Also, did everyone speak Italian in the '70s? They must've because the film makers obviously didn't feel there was a need for any subtitles. What arrogance.I guess all this is why I never heard of this movie 'til about a week ago - even with two big-name actors (at least for that time) in the leads. Judging by their performances here I can see why they'd want to forget about it, too.Should be re-titled Don't Bother! "},{"Title":"Yep.  Look later... Watch other films first.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I fail to get the brilliance of the film.  Roeg does some editing that is interesting by moments but that is just pure show-off at other moments, detracting from the story.  Perhaps this was done because the story is nearly non-existent.  It starts out with a good, chilly introduction, depicting a little girl's drowning.  Then it goes nowhere - well, it goes to Venice, and just sits around, waiting for something to happen.  The entire sense of horror comes from two old ladies, one whom is blind and has a face that is hard to look at.  One (or both?) is psychic, who claims to be able to speak to the dead daughter of the couple.  Donald Sutherland's character has a few visions which he cannot distinguish from reality (nor can we), which creates some more tension - but not much more, except for confusion, most of which is cleared up in the end.  And there's a couple of moments in which the lead characters are in danger.  It's all a bunch of red herrings.  You are basically waiting around for a story to start, and it never does.  That is, until you reach the very ending, which pretty much comes out of nowhere, constructed out of bits and pieces of things leftover from throughout the flick.  And Roeg throws in one of the most bizarre (and unexpected) killers in all horror movie history.  Clips from the entire movie flash before our eyes.  An odd, chilling funeral scene follows.  The End.  This pads out 100+ minutes of film, which could have been shortened to 50, given the lack of material.  Don't get me wrong; I enjoy long horror films with stylish direction, as long as the director can keep things interesting.  Roeg does little here, unfortunately.Oh yes, and there's a sex scene somewhere in there, which has become famous.  What the hell is so special about the legendary sex scene?  It's not particularly erotic.  It's quite tame and rather cold.  And the cuts with scenes of the characters dressing up is distracting, not artsy.  Roeg has been able to do more erotic scenes in his other films (e.g. Performance).  It doesn't help that Donald Sutherland was going through his odd-looking phase, with the large curly hair.In my opinion, only the beginning and the ending are worthwhile.  Recommended only for horror movie completists, some fans of Roeg's other flicks (although some will be disappointed), and the art film snobs. "},{"Title":"Slow Burner...with a great ending!","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Title Don't Look Now (1973) Director Nicolas Roeg (The Witches) Cast Donald Sutherland, Julie Christie Review Horror movies from the seventies. Gotta love them. Most of them had this ability to take their themes very seriously. As a result, the 70s spawned a lot of horror films that were made by some very gifted and respected directors. The Shinning, Rosemarys Baby, The Omen, The Changeling&#133;all serious and great horror films in my book. I will be adding Nicolas Roeg's Don't Look Now to my serious horror films of the 70s list.This is the story of a man John Baxter and his wife Laura who loose their daughter in an unexpected drowning accident. After coping with his daughter's death, he and his wife move to Venice Italy to work on the restoration of an abandoned church. While there they happen upon a blind woman who tells them that she can see their dead daughter and that she is happy where she is. This creates great curiosity on Laura and John, but while John dismisses it as a lot of hoopla, Laura takes it seriously and decides to see the blind old lady one more time. Things get a little more complicated with a serial killer running loose in the streets of Venice killing people left and right.This movie certainly qualifies to be called a slow burner. It really takes its time to tell its story and is in no rush to get you excited. This is the type of movie that will take its own time to tell its tale and will hope that you the viewer will be patient and stay all the way to the end where you will be compensated with a very very good pay off. I have to admit though that I simply love slow burners like this one. They get underneath your skin better and this movie does that very effectively. Right to the bonechilling climax.First off, I really think that Venice was a perfect location for shooting this film. The dark and wet streets of Venice serve as an excellent backdrop to this spooky tale. The cinematography in this film is fantastic, taking full advantage of the beauty of Venice's streets and ancient architecture.Second, I loved how Roeg created this foreboding feeling all through out the film. Everything looks evil somehow, you always feel like the people of the town are in on something. As if its all part of some trick and in this I found the movie to be very similar to The Wicker Man. A strange land filled with strange people with different customs and culture all added to the feeling of alienation.The movie has solid performances. Donald Sutherland does a great job of being the unbeliever. His feet are firmly planted on reality despite all the things he keeps experiencing. I loved his character in the movie and it reminded me of a time when serious adult actors were used in films. It seems like nowadays every horror film has to have a hip young cast. And in real life, not everyone is 20 something. Sutherland's John Baxter felt slightly more realistic in that sense.My only gripe with the film is this incredibly lengthy sex scene that seemed very unnecessary in the film. John and Laura really go at each other in what has to be the longest sex scene ever filmed. Was it to show how they were comforting each other after the death of their daughter? Was it to show that they truly love each other in spite of all their arguing throughout most of the film? I don't know, but if seemed kind of excessive. Still, it was a beautifully shot sequence, as is most of the film by the way.Also, I was expecting the films supernatural vibe to be more prominent through out the film. I thought it was going to be more of a horror film then it turned out to be. As it is, there is a supernatural element in the film but I would say that this film is more of a drama sprinkled with a few elements of horror and suspense. Still, you get enough suspense and foreboding to satisfy any horror/suspense fan. Just thought Id say that in case any horror fans are expecting a full on horror movie. This movie is creepy, yes, but if focuses more on its performances and its drama. Nicolas Roeg, the director did manage to create this really creepy aura through out the film in which you feel something bad is always going to happen, I thought that was quite effective. There's a hallucinatory dream-like vibe to all of Johns visions that adds to the surreal feel of the film.So in conclusion, you got yourself a slow burner 70's psychological thriller, with a spooky setting, great performances and a stylish direction from director Nicolas Roeg. If you don't need gun shootings, explosions and special effects every five seconds in your films and feel the need to see a good psychological film that will play with your mind, get underneath your skin and shock you in the end&#133;well, look no further.Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"I can't believe all the good reviews","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is awful. If you suffer from insomnia you should definitely give this picture a try, you will get cured. The sound is probably one of the worst features of the film, you will definitely need subtitles in order to understand the super saturated dialogs.The movie begins when a couple losses their daughter due to parental negligence. The death of the little girl and the finding of the body must be one of the most dramatical scenes i have ever seen. A couple of months go by and this people are living in Venice. After you've seen an hour and a half you realize that they left their ONLY child alone in boarding school (great parenting!!!). "},{"Title":"Hauntingly brilliant.","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the tragic death of their daughter, John and Laura Baxter take a trip to Venice in the hope of being able to move on from the tragedy. Once there they meet a strange couple of elderly sisters, one whom is blind claims to have psychic ability and that she can see their deceased daughter amongst them. In the days that follow, John starts glimpsing a small figure in a red raincoat, similar to the one their daughter was wearing at the time of the accident, as a serial killer runs amok, the Baxters are heading toward the day of revelation.Don't Look Now is based on a short story written by Daphne du Maurier, director Nicolas Roeg adapting it to create an eerie picture that fuses mysterious supernatural strands with meditations on fallible human emotions. From the opening quarter where we witness the death of the Baxters daughter stunningly filmed by Anthony Richmond Don't Look Now continues to amaze both technically the Venice locale is poetically creepy and more crucially with its nothing is what it seems aura. So many scenes linger long in the mind, be it striking images in the aftermath of a serial killers victim or the shuddering haunting climax as the plots intricacies come crashing together, all played out to Pino Donaaggio's poignantly perfect score.Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie play our bereaved parents quite magnificently, the chemistry is positively electric. The way they portray the parents in this mournful state as they try to move on is highly impressive and firmly has the audience feeling their struggle. Much has been made of their love making scene in the picture, such is it's intensity and the brilliant way it's filmed, it has begged the question on if they really did make love on this occasion!, what isn't in doubt is that there is no titillation to be had here, it's one of the most beautiful filmed sex scenes to have ever been made, Roeg inter cutting it with the couple preparing to go out after the act of love making has finished.Don't Look Now is slowly paced, but that is its chief triumph, it begs you to pay attention and take in everything that is going on, from the slightest little detail to the jolting shock moments, all is relevant to make this a film that firmly rewards those patient enough to be lost in this creepy and enigmatic classic. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Puah!","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, let me tell you first of all that here in England, where I am now, this movie is considered some sort of classic... highly recommended from critics and people I know, and recently re-issued on cinemas (probably restored) as an outstanding movie of British cinema history... Well, on these premises I can only say it was a complete disappointment! On the other hand, if you consider it as an unknown B movie (as it probably is for the rest of the world), it would easily rank among the good ones. I mean that it is not bad at all, there is an excellent (as  usual) Donald Sutherland, a good score, some interesting scenes, Venice looks beautiful (is this a special merit by the director??), but the story is not so great, the famous erotic scene is nowadays quite conventional and anyway not so necessary to the movie, and the thrill or suspence is not that great at all... have you ever seen any Italian giallo? If not, try Argento, Bava, Fulci... at their best, you will surely find more suspence, skills and enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Erotic Gothic Thriller","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't Look Now(1973) has been badly negleted by many film viewers does to its enematic nature.  The first five to fifteen minutes are splendidly edited.  Don't Look Now(1973) is based on a novel by Daphne Du Maurier. Borrows somes themes from the Alfred Hitchcock film of another ghost story by the author called Rebecca(1940).  The film score by Pino Donaggio beats anything he has done for Brian De Palma except for Carrie(1976).  Don't Look Now(1973) may have been influenced by a similar themed pic called Who Saw Her Die?(1971).Nicolas Roeg does an excellent job in filming scenes of creepy and eerie impact.  Donald Sutherland gives a extraordinary performance as the clairvoyant but disbeliever, John Baxter.  The film's most controversial sequence is the shocking sex scene with Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie.  What's shocking about this one scene is the realistic feel of the act.  There are some who believe to this day that the sex scene was not acted but real.  The Sutherland-Christie sex scene is done with the same editing technique as The Man Who Fell to Earth(1976).Don't Look Now(1973) was The Sixth Sense(1999) of its era.  One film that sports the same idea about fate is David Croenberg's The Dead Zone(1983).  Julie Christie is just brilliant as Laura Baxter.  Shares the same gloomy landscape as the director's later film, The Man Who Fell to Earth(1976).  The climax of Don't Look Now(1973) was a gloomy and shocking sequence to watch.  Don't Look Now(1973) is in the tradition of films such as Last Year at Marienbad(1960). "},{"Title":"An hour and 45 minutes that I will never have back!","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have watched a lot of truly horrible films in my time but this one is truly ranked among the worst. I have loved truly horrible films that were entertaining in spite of themselves (JAWS The Revenge, Anaconda, and anything hosted by Elvira) but this movie is not one of them. This film made me angry and that is not entirely its fault. It is the fault of those in the movie-going public who let on that this is a film to see! Almost 2hrs of watching Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie do nothing of consequence. When things did happen, they had nothing to do with each other- random events. None of them led anywhere!! They had sex- so(it is truly amazing what passed for 'in shape' back then)? Donald almost gets hurt on a scaffold- so? He thinks he sees her in Venice when she's supposed to be in England- so? Does he call her? No! He goes right to missing persons?? Finally in the last seven minutes of the film he is killed by a dwarf in the same raincoat that his daughter was wearing when she died- so? Wouldn't you assume that she didn't have the one and only red raincoat in the world? My cousin has one! I'm not sure- does that mean that I should introduce her to Donald Sutherland or not? Either response would make as much sense as this film. "},{"Title":"Don't look now......you just wasted a couple hours.","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  2,089 votes at the time of this writing and this movie is rated a 7.5!!?? WHAT!!!!!!!! I'm still sitting in awe as I type, pondering how BAD this movie was!! LOL I'm actually laughing because of some of the positive reviews I just read to justify my renting it. Yeah, Venice looked cool. I could have looked at a post card for 10 seconds and gotten the same idea. I just don't think I can take 1 thing from this movie and say it was good. Maybe back in 1973 this movie was considered alright, but if you put this into a theater now it would end up being the biggest flop ever seen. This movie just tries to create scary moods out of nothing. It just isn't scary or even much of a thriller. Those who rate this movie highly must be from that era and can't let go. Just let go......please........so I don't rent anymore rubbish...PLEASE!!!! I BEG YOU!!!!!The reason I'm writing this review If I could help JUST ONE person to avoid this movie at all costs, then it would have been worth my time.                                     Yours truly, GM4177 "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Honestly, after reading a few comments and looking at the average score I thought I was in for a treat; however, what I got was an endless plodding waste of time. This movie is nothing but an excersize in frustration. Stiff Acting, large chunks of story that wouldve been better left on the cutting room floor and a freshman's approach at directing take what little good this meaningless story might have had. Unless you're afraid of wrinkled midget women in red parkas, skip this entirely. This movie is utterly devoid of eeriness or anything remotely frightening, I actually LAUGHED at the ending. It's THAT AWFUL. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not anything too special","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think this movie was very interesting but the thing is that its ti little happening most of the time! Most of the movie is boring, but the parts that are good are very interesting. I would consider this a okay horror movie but i don't think i would call this a must see, because i didn't know about this movie until just a few days ago, which then means there is no one really caring about this movie too much. I understand that some people call this a classic, but for me, this movie was just a little too slow to be anything fantastic. I wouldn't call this a horror movie either, except for maybe the last 20 minutes of the movie, since its nothing disturbing or scary enough in this movie, except for the last 20 minutes. "},{"Title":"So boring and overrated","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't think I am really fully qualified to speak too negatively about this film because I had already seen the climactic scene with the dwarf before I'd watched the film in its entirety, so I knew what to expect. Had I not seen it beforehand, I might have enjoyed the film a lot more or a least appreciated it. But anyway, as a fan of horror films I gave it a go but ended up being sorely disappointed. I suppose I was one of these people who just didn't 'get it' but I found it mind-numbingly boring. Even the controversial sex scene wasn't enough to save it. To me none of it really made any sense and the only scenes which were worth watching were the beginning and end scenes. It does surprise me how this film has glowing reviews but I suppose it's all a matter of opinion. It reminded me of Suspiria a little bit - another horror film that everyone raves about but I found it atrocious.I think with this film, you either 'get it' or you don't. I unfortunately didn't. "},{"Title":"Nothing is what it seems.","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The opening sequence of Don't Look Now contains some of the greatest editing I have ever seen. Rewatching this with the knowledge of the ending and then comparing it to that 'life flashing before his eyes' montage in the last moments of John's life gives it a even stranger, hypnotic power. In Roeg's Walkabout, he would cross-cut freely between the Australian outback and the relatively urbanised city landscape to draw comparison. Here, he juxtaposes the mundane with the mundane until the tragedy creeps up upon the two unsuspecting parents; dropping a little plastic ball into the water as a glass is knocked over, and then frenzy with nonchalance; they both see the smear of red ink that spills across the photo print with an unmistakable meaning, but as John makes a frantic dive into the lake, we cut to Laura tossing it aside for a smoke. And then the ink slides even further and bathes the frame completely, and links itself to the sopping wet raincoat that will become a harrowing motif that follows John throughout the film. Clifford jumps ahead in time via the aural match cut of the scream and the drill, and depicts the couple seemingly recovering from the loss in Italy. In the most well known segment of the film, a controversial sex scene at the time, he intercuts the sensuality of the moment with the utterly uneventful post-coital movements. Roeg and co. make this doubly impressive, first in the raw physicality of Sutherland and Christie's lovemaking that is charged with a powerful shared emotion (mainly grief) and is much more explicit as opposed to the conventional sex scene. The contrast suggests that their relationship is just as strong in the sexual ecstasy as it is moments later, easily existing in the two opposing points. Secondly, in the way that Clifford does not merely alternate between the two time periods, but almost overlaps them by way of match cut; the hips bending and undressing and dressing simultaneously, bare backs being revealed and covered up at the same time. This further pushes the idea of non-chronological presentation that doesn't seem to bear any meaning until the very end. But as entwined as they are in the bedroom, they exhibit two very different reactions to the visions of a blind psychic they bump into in Venice. At first John is dismissive, and hesitant to give any thought to his late daughter. And then he begins to witness things himself, things that would otherwise be impossible. There is a scene where they talk on the phone that is so brilliant at visualising this seed of fear and doubt forming in his mind. John has convinced himself that Laura is in Venice, but is shocked to hear her voice from all the way over in England. She is photographed with this hazy, dreamlike quality and her words are the same; reassuring, pleasant, encouraging. The brilliance is in the dialogue that seems to almost drown out each other in their own insistence - Laura barely stops talking to let John ask a question, as if everything was all right and there was nothing to worry about. And John attempts to find an opening to relay his strange experiences, but ends up not even being able to set a date and time for them to meet later on. This conversation has them on completely different planes, but it is done with such subtlety in the dialogue, as if there was just a little bit of satellite interference, instead of their fast unravelling story. The sound is as vital in both its absence and appearances. Sometimes a soft piano will hover over a scene, under the guise of innocence and tranquility. At times this will replace the diegetic sound entirely, and make a moment like making love or discovering your dead child seem to last an eternity. When John first spots the sisters from high on the rooftop an ominous gong sounds, and the camera aligns itself with his own perspective, framing the pair beyond the unsuspecting Laura. Later, their laughs echo in the track like a devil's cackle. And when he spots his wife, who should be hundreds of miles away, the orchestration jumps into a high tempo, distressing rhythm. In the silence, Richmond pulls his weight by making the city of Venice a labyrinth that reverberates the growing paranoia - dim, unrevealing and claustrophobic, a nightmare to get lost in. As the climax nears, he adds swirls of fog which seems supernatural in nature, but to which John hurries past.He seeks the red raincoat. Roeg masterfully engineers this motif to seep into his everyday experience. The upside-down reflection of the pond mirrors a body being dragged up from the canals of Venice one morning. This shimmering reflection shot is later what first introduces the grotesque dwarf. The camera will follow John as he moves past pillars and obstacles and slivers of light, seeking and searching, turning dark corners that no character should logically turn. Red will unexpectedly flit quickly pass any normal person's eyeline, but the zoom betrays his increasing deluded obsession. It is such an innocent, childlike symbol too - but reality rarely allows for these items to remain untouched, and it is marred beyond comprehension, as a bewildered John realises all too late. The little red hat that Johnny wears to the funeral now carries a frightening connotation. This is an excellent film - it brushes aside conventional horror techniques and in doing so becomes fraught with terror. "},{"Title":"Boring.....","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Seriously, couldn't they have gotten better actors and a better genre?! I feel like this movie is more of drams then it being a thriller. It didn't involve much of scary really, if it did, it's a total disaster! There needed to be more gore or blood, even better,have jump scares like todays horror game Five Nights at Freddie's. Yknow, just to make it more entertaining and frightening at the same time! You may think I'm dark but I have to admit, I do like horror films but ONLY when they are well done! I wouldn't consider this a BAFTA Award or a remake in the future, it's a very dull, boring and distasteful movie! Get back! "},{"Title":"When reputation exceeds reality","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now is one of those films that you just have to watch. Or at least everyone tells you, that you have to watch it. I once read a feature in a British film magazine that named Don't Look Now as one of the 50 most scary movies of all time and I have to say that I completely disagree. Its in no way a horror movie.Off course its a scary movie - the thought of loosing your child is the worst thing that could ever happen to a parent, but in that way Don't Look Now is more a drama than a horror. As a drama it works pretty well but as a horror or psychological thriller its less successful. Using the city of Venice as a setting is a wise choice and its nice the see one of the most romantic cities in the world used for something different than a romantic drama. Ultimatelity Don't Look Now is kind of a slug and quite boring and it is nowhere near as good as other films that deals with the same concepts of loss and grief. "}{"Title":"Everything is nothing.","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of the greatest horror movies I've ever seen. It seems, like most horror movies, to be about the immovability of fate, but in fact I think it's about the absolute of coincidence- that life and death always and must take the form of pattern when in fact existence is deadly chaos.The main performances are predictably fantastic. There is a sex scene that is one of the least exotic, and therefore believable- a trist between a long married couple- that I think is singularly believably erotic. The cinematic capture of Venice is singular. Not only its streets but its sounds, the shocking silence of a big city without cars, is exploited to create a masterful sense of place and doom. "},{"Title":"Means to an End","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If your looking for an accessible, decently paced film, one that will keep you engaged with a constantly flowing eventful narrative then stay away. If your in a more open-minded mood and appreciative of the art of horror/suspense cinema give this one a go and it just may be that rare gem you stumble upon and cant get off your mind for the next few weeks.Nothing particularly interesting, thrilling or scary happens for the majority of the film. In fact on the surface it is just a portrayal of two parents in grief over their dead daughter, trying to get to grips with it and slowly move on with their lives. However what becomes apparent once they arrive in Venice is an eerie foreboding presence that seems to follow the protagonists (in particular Sutherland) around the city. The tone of repressed grief, and the atmosphere of an impending doom of something steadily grows until you can almost see it in the air. Id really prefer not to talk about the climax as the less you expect, the better. But i will say that the rather uneventful, but unsettingly atmospheric first part of the film affects the impact of the ending in a way that no conventional, steadily paced horror film could ever achieve. Very much a means to an end experience, in a way I've never experienced on film, and why this a must-watch for any real fans of horror, suspense or mystery, in my opinion.Watch in a dark room at night, its one of those. "},{"Title":"Don't look away","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What to make of a film which is well acted, atmospheric, foreboding, sexy, and makes excellent use of its Venice setting, whilst also being pretentious and lacking in clarity.It is hard to say whether anything could have been changed without breaking the ominous spell the film creates, but it's also clear by the end that it has flaws too large to be swept aside.All in all it's a film I would imagine most people would be glad to have seen, but not one they are likely to come back to again and again.It also contains what has to be one of the sexiest and most stylish lovemaking scenes in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Don't Look For Anything Else Other Than A Well-shot Horror Drama","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is probably my fault that I believed, without reservations, the high praises Don't Look Now received from the so-called top critics online. Believe me, I wanted to love the film for its impressive style and atmosphere, but unfortunately, that alone can't compensate for the ineptitude of its plot that started out as enigmatic but ended up as pure horse sheet. John and Laura lost their daughter in a drowning accident. Some time later, they went to Venice for a job that John is contracted with. While eating at a restaurant, Laura met two old sisters (one is psychic but blind) who claimed that they can see the ghost of their daughter. Laura believed them. John did not. (INSERT  LENGTHY SEX SCENE)Meanwhile, John is being troubled by apparitions. The two old sisters warned Laura that John's life is in danger. He kept on seeing a red caped girl who resembles the image of her daughter at a dark alley. Later on, Laura flies back to England to check on his other kid. The same day, John thought he saw Laura with the two sisters riding an adorned boat. He was worried. Apparently, there's a killer on the loose. He then consulted the police. The two old sisters were brought in for questioning. They were released briefly after John confirmed that Laura is where she's supposed to be. Laura returns to Venice. John, after taking the other blind sister home, saw the red caped girl and followed her at a deserted building. It turns out that she's not their dead daughter. She's an ugly dwarf who's on a murder spree. Upon confrontation, she slits John's throat. They had a procession by the river. The end. I read somewhere that the movie is filled with symbols and subtexts, and that it's about dealing with grief and premonitions, but the problem for me is the story as a whole is not powerful nor interesting enough to be given two sheets about. The worst part of it all is that it didn't even scare me once! It's a goddarn horror movie! While I do appreciate the oftentimes eerie mood and the enigmatic Venice setting, it didn't amount to anything that's gonna cut through the bone. And let's not talk about that ending. That might be the most atrocious joke that I have ever seen in my entire life. I'm sorry, but I'm just not gonna get scared by an old ugly dwarf, even one who has a butcher knife in its hand. "},{"Title":"Doom in Venice","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg's film version of the Daphne Du Maurier story is not an easy film to watch. Though very unsettling, it's not an out and out horror film. A couple (Julie Christie & Donald Sutherland) struggle to come to grips with the drowning death of their daughter. While staying in Venice (he's restoring a church) they meet a blind psychic, who claims to have seen the girl and informs them that she's very happy. While this is a great comfort to Christie, it unsettles Sutherland to the core. The performances by these two are astounding...so is the chemistry (the film has a now famous love scene that lives up to its steamy reputation). Christie is dynamite, exuding a lot of warmth, with no trace of the kooky mod persona she'd cultivated in the '60s. Hilary Mason is perfect as the psychic. Roeg infuses this creepy film with a real sense of dread...a dreary late Autumn captured by cinematographer Anthony Richmond accompanied by an equally effective score by Pino Donaggio. "},{"Title":"One of the most unique and suspenseful films of all-time","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't look now is a true masterpiece. The first time I watched it I went into it assuming I was in for a regular run of the mill ghost story. Oh no. I was very wrong. This movie is far more than just a ghost story, in fact it's not even a ghost story at all really. The film drops us into the life of a grieving married couple that just lost their daughter. The first question the I as the viewer asked myself was is the ghost of their daughter trying to contact them? If so, what for? To warn them? If so of what? Many questions already enter your mind as the film is only just beginning. But the movie just keeps us guessing, the entire time the story progresses in different directions and creates more questions. Is the figure in the red coat the ghost of the couple's deceased daughter? Is the serial murderer running around Venice supposed to be what their daughter's ghost is attempting to warn them about? The freaky elderly woman foretell a dark future for the couple and tell them to leave Venice before it's to late. All of these questions merge into one huge suspenseful masterwork that has your heart pounding out of your chest by the time the last 20 minutes are before us. The climax of this film literally had my heart pounding out of my chest as I sat in the dark in pure suspense. I won't reveal anymore about the plot because I feel as if I've already revealed to much. On to the cinematography. The camera work, lighting, and set design are all TOP notch. Not to mention the score is absolutely pulse-pounding. As well on top of all this the acting is superb! We even get a beautiful and intimately filmed sex scene to add to the drama. There is absolutely nothing negative I can say about this film. It really is one of the best horror films ever made. Just go watch it right now and be in awe.The verdict 10/10 a masterpiece that's so suspenseful you won't even know what to do with yourself. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Ghost Story","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now (Roeg, 1974, A) What is this movie about? One viewing and I'm not sure I can say but I'll do my best.It's about grief. It's about coping. It's about the loss of a child. It's about a marriage. It's about belief. It's about confusion. It's about Venice. It's about fog whispering just slightly above cobblestone streets. It's about ghosts. It's about language. It's about dark corners and blind alleys. It's about canals. It's about paranoia. It's about the ripples between past, present, and future. It's about unease. And boy, oh boy, is it about the color red.That may not have clarified much, but that's for the best. What's important see this rare movie. Few horror films can match its unique craft and intelligence. Go in without expectation and see what it's about for yourself. "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly beautiful","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although it has much in common with the Italian gialli that were being made during the same era, DON'T LOOK NOW is a unique film all of its own kind. Despite its art-house sensibilities and slow pacing, I find it a truly stunning piece of work, not least in thanks to Nic Roeg's stunning cinematography which makes a derelict and run-down Venice a bigger character than any in the movie.Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie star as a couple in mourning for the death of their daughter who travel to Venice for the husband's job as a man who restores church artwork. While there, they become obsessed with their daughter's ghost, which may nor may not be haunting the city. Meanwhile, a series of brutal murders are stumping authorities, and the two plot strands are destined to meet in spectacularly brutal fashion.Despite the slow-build nature of the story, it's never less than gripping, thanks to the naturalistic performances of the two stars and the quite wonderful look of each and every scene. I particularly like Roeg's use of colour, in which red becomes an obsession and the director seems to be playing a game with the viewer for the most part.The film is well remembered (and rightly so) for featuring one of the most horrifying endings ever put on film, but I find the movie that comes before it equally enthralling. I saw it once as a teenager and liked it; I rewatched it last night as an adult and revised my opinion. It's not just good, it's fantastic; one of my favourite films of all time. "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie, quite unlike any other movie out there","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now has always done something quite unlike any other movie out there I am able to totally emerge in it. Every re-watch sheds new light on several details I did not notice before. It is indeed a movie that increasingly gets better with every re-watch.Roeg's movie is an incredibly layered movie. His editing and camera work are highly effective in creating associations between scenes and images that are narratively not immediately related. The famous sex scene is always mentioned as the best example in this movie of his intertwined cutting. It is indeed beautifully done, but there is so much more of the intertwined cutting. The images of water and glass are constantly used to re-evoke the death of the couple's daughter. As characters turn their head, Roeg switches to characters in another place, also turning their head, relating them as if they were in one room. It strengthens the movie's second sight theme through mere visuals.Venice is beautifully shot. Not as a postcard, but as a place of dread, grief and fear. This Venice is like a mortuary, devoid of people and beauty. It tries to put the characters wandering through it on a wrong track, wanting them either gone or devouring them inside.Sutherland and Christie are realistically human. Sutherland seems to simultaneously underact and overact at first, but easing in, he fits extremely well in his character. Christie manages to get across the loving, but slightly unstable traits of her character. It is just Sutherland and Christie though that seem human (and even Sutherland's character is portrayed in an ambiguous way at points). Other supporting characters seem as much part of the dread of Venice. The father, the chief of police and the two sisters are extremely ambiguous their eyes do frighten more than they reassure you.Many people have been disappointed by the ending twist and it possibly is in a first watch. But this particular scene is the key to the whole movie the story is an existential one, about fate. All of the themes in the story before are strengthened by it. It is a much more satisfying one than what would be expected. And indeed, during re-watches the scene is stronger than it ever was it is an absolutely chilling scene.Don't Look Now is so often overlooked. If you haven't yet, watch it. And then again... "},{"Title":"Now this is a creepy film","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So many films try to develop a creepy situation to unnerve the audience and don't seem to be able to come up with anything as disturbing as this. This is directed by Nick Roeg and as is usual in his films a lot of red is used in his scenes. Red in the clothing or rug or set pieces. The film is beautifully shot in a Venice that many people have probably never seen or never will see. Sections of Venice alleys that are damp, dark and lonely and very quiet. But what was that quick red flash? A child? A midget? Who knows? The acting is excellent by everyone and the film is beautifully paced. There are very intimate scenes between the husband and wife that are revealing without being graphic or sleazy. The film has some very unusual creepy moments and overall is mesmerizing. You can't take your eyes off of it. A lot of films have tried to be this sophisticated and failed. This one will probably stay in your collection. "}{"Title":"a mystifying tour de force","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Every now and then and quite far in-between, there comes a movie that simply cannot be described or be reviewed, but it rather has to be seen to be believed. Such is the case of Don't Look Now. From its heartbreaking opening sequence to its depressing settings of Venice, and through its lyrical symbolism (red, glass and water are dazzlingly repeated throughout the film) right up to its terrifying climax, Don't Look Now is a mystifying tour de force, a cinematic enigma that keeps its answers deep into the darkest realms of metaphysics and human psyche. An enchanting, unforgettable experience. Magnificent. "},{"Title":"A great film from one of the greatest periods of American film-making","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is sad to read some of the derogatory reviews on here of this film. You may not like it, but it is hard to deny its brilliance. I saw this movie upon its original release in 1973, and many times since. The elegant beauty of the cinematography, the intense but sometimes unnoticed soundtrack, and the entire mood of the film is extraordinary. Perhaps to a young viewer 35 years later, it may not have enough action or violence to sustain viewing, but then that is assuming that this is a 'horror' film, and ignoring the poetic mystery which pervades every scene. There was a lot of violence in films from this time period, but it more often than not was secondary to the larger story. No easy explanations, no resolutions. The stupid (to me) comments about a seeing a red dwarf in Venice makes me wonder if the writer has ever been to Venice - lost at night in the dark. I doubt it. The love scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie is amazing and was a big deal at the time. It definitely was groundbreaking in its backward/forward time depiction, which only added to the perceived truth of it. It seems the criticisms on here concerning that are that it was too long or too intense! Is that what contemporary film-goers are reduced to? Puritanical abhorrence of a natural, casual, yet intense and real moment? It was the crux of the film, entwining the past and the present and future - a bridge between the first half and the ending - and such a truthful sort of depiction of how passions can be reignited on a journey to such a place as Venice. Obviously, this is one of my favorite films. The details are incredible, and the power of the poetry and the beauty of the whole linger for years. "},{"Title":"Psychic tremblings","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg's third movie is about the closest to a genre film I've seen him get a thriller/horror about a couple struggling with the accidental drowning of their daughter go to Venice and submerge themselves in anxiety and grief, which manifests in different ways. The woman (played excellently by Julie Christie) runs into a blind medium and starts taking almost obsessive comfort out of her insistence that the daughter is fine and happy, while the man (Donald Sutherland, also played excellently) tries to convince his wife that their daughter is dead while still being unable to keep himself from seeing her form (in the aspect of a red raincoat) out of the corner of his eye.Roeg himself submerges into a much more arcane focus on mysticism and cultist aspects--things that reveal themselves throughout his work, but normally not as strikingly as here. He also does the finest camera work I've seen in a long time. How he managed to keep such an active and immersive cinematography while in the confines of the claustrophobic streets of Venice! (and before digital video!) The shot where Julie Christie collapses is stunning, itself as shocking and jarring as many of the cuts that Roeg uses (Roeg is a master of deranged editing that follows a logic one often doesn't want to engage in but finds oneself helplessly enrapt with).Finally, the very weird and perverse way that characters seem to always be reacting to manifestations beyond their current presence underlines the anxiety felt in this film. This aspect of the script I appreciate not for its metaphysical notions but because I'm so familiar with PTSD and the way that traumatic events fold into themselves. Roeg's habit of folding narrative time and space, connecting often an event in the beginning of the film with an event at the end, thus causing an ineffable circle, is much more direct and perverse this time around, mostly because of the thriller genre aspect of this film.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Brilliant horror from left field","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With Don't Look Now, the filmed version of Daphne Du Maurier's short story, Nicolas Roeg delivers a horror movie of the very different kind. It's also one of the very best, even though or maybe exactly because Roeg stirred quite a controversy with his approach to tell the tale. What you get for sure is not the typical horror genre piece. Roeg weaves in supernatural elements, psychological drama, a crime/detective story, a famous love making scene and above all lots of realism and mood he draws directly from shooting on location. In all that a masterful play with expectations of characters as well as the viewers takes place, letting essential and unrelated random elements of the story stand side by side, adding more and more to the escalating confusion. Strange premonitions, painful memories, eerie visions and a multitude of sub-plots - all are packed into an actually highly cross-referencing movie with dominant psychological overtones. With all those threads going on at the same time the viewer is likely to get lost, just like John Baxter (Donald Sutherland), the film's protagonist. Notable assets are also a carefully plotted colors scheme, intelligent cinematography and groundbreaking scenes that show what exemplary editing and cutting can do to elevate a film way above its competitors.Don't Look Now leads up to one of the most shocking climaxes in horror film history and will catch you most likely coming from left field. And if it does, the director has done his job. At any rate, the dark haunting alleys and mysterious canals of Venice are the perfect environment for a bone-chilling tale which keeps its suspense ominously simmering until the inevitable happens. Recommendable for those who like their mysteries slow, enjoy to (re-)discover how the mind works and still know why horror films of the olden days are the better choice. "},{"Title":"Watch it! The new released copy will be soon at the cinemas.","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was lucky enough to be at the Curzon Soho for the world premier (what a big word) of the new copy of this British masterpiece. I don't want to say much about the story. The ones in the know haven't forgotten it since its first release, and the others will find enough information on the net. I saw the film for the first time in the late 70's, I think. Some of the pictures from the scenes in Venice are still in my mind today. That says a lot for me about the great cinematography, the locations, the brilliant directing, the excellent screenplay, and, last but not least, the wonderful acting of all the actors involved. One can't imagine anymore that somebody else than Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland could have played the couple who had lost their daughter. Both made one of the very best films of their career. This is also thanks to Roeg, of course, who has, as he told us, his own way to include the spur of the moment and whatever will happen on and off the set in a creative way. Thus the movie, a piece of art in this case, can take on its own life. This reminds me a lot of musical improvisers, certain painters and other artists, especially the really good ones, I have to add. When I found out that Nicolas Roeg and his writer Allan Scott would attend the new release screening I had immediately to get a ticket. When does one have the chance to see Nic Roeg in public and even to ask him questions? In the early days of his career he worked, for example, with David Lean. Since then he has become one of the great masters himself, with a number of masterpieces under his belt. The film critic who shared the discussion mentioned six masterpieces Roeg has done in a row. Don't Look Now being one of them. According to the critic this is unparalleled in film history, and they are all very much worth seeing. Apart from the hairstyles, as Allan Scott said, the film still looks surprisingly fresh. And I have to agree with him. I can only highly recommend seeing Don't Look Now yourself, if you haven't seen it already or, like me, if you want to see an unforgettable film once more. "},{"Title":"A little bit confusing.","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Roeg uses in the best way the city of Venice, its narrow streets and its shadows in Don't look now. Also Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie (what a wonderful woman) make a hell of a job, especially Sutherland... So, what's the matter? Everything looks set up for a nice intrigue, but the plot (as far as I can see) is totally meaningless. You don't know if you've missed some clues or if there are not such clues to be missed at all. Don't look now begins like a a typical drama involving the death of a young girl and for the next 70 minutes it does not happen anything remarkable... until we get to the ending sequences, where Roeg supposedly clarifies everything... not for me, Mr. Roeg! *My rate 5'5/10 "},{"Title":"Look Closer","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When a man cannot see what is right in front of him, he is doomed to experience the irrational horror that follows suit. John Baxter (Donald Sutherland) is such a man, intent on his work, unable -- or unwilling -- to see that a photograph of a cathedral holds an unexplained red image, and that this very image will be a constant connection with him and his own mortality.Nicholas Roeg's horror masterpiece DON'T LOOK NOW is such a story, in which clues are interspersed throughout, but the protagonist refuses to acknowledge them. Right at the start of the movie we see how busy he is, working at his images, his wife Laura (Julie Christie) barely even a presence, as his two children Christine and Johnny play in the garden that also includes a small lake (or large pond). Christine, dressed in a red raincoat, is playing dangerously close to this pond. Her ball falls in the water; she attempts to retrieve it at the moment when Johnny rides his bike over a piece of glass, shatters it. John spills a glass of water over a picture he'd been eyeballing -- a picture of a cathedral containing the unexplained figure in red. The liquid we (and he, we assume) see, is blood, issued from the figure in red, spreading menacingly. At that moment, John runs out to rescue Christine, but it's too late; she is drowned, and his cry of anguish is truly horrifying.Almost immediately we've taken to Venice, some time later, where the Baxters reside as he works on a Cathedral. Laura becomes acquainted with two women, sisters, one of them who is psychic who informs them that their daughter is happy and with them. Laura faints from the reaction -- she is overwhelmed, maybe even touched by that otherworldly essence of the paranormal and willing to accept, because when she comes to, she is a changed woman. She's more alive, less sad, and open to the idea that her dead daughter is only dead in the body but alive in spirit, and okay. John, however, argues with her. He cannot accept such things. He's an architect, working with the tangible, the visible. Spirits and psychics have no room in his world.At the edges of the story, a series of murders are being committed. On one of them, a little figure in a red raincoat appears running in the dense Venetian night. John has seen this figure, and Roeg keeps using this particular shade of red even in inconsequential scenes to keep the connection alive that there is an ulterior motive that he and Laura are in Venice, and that something evil this way comes.There is an interesting analogy of how men and women confront the unexplained, intentional or not. Women -- or the feminine -- has always been linked to perception, whether men -- or the masculine -- is inexorably linked to action and logic. Once the investigation on the murders take place, none of the men seem to know other than what they see -- which is nothing, an unsolvable puzzle. John is caught in between the two he is (obviously) male, working in a masculine profession, but there is a part of him that he denies, and the irony is that such a denial costs him dearly. The two sisters and Laura are open to what is not there even when only Heather is able to see the horror even as she cannot verbalize it.Throughout it all, red, red, red. Snippets of it, splashes of it, always hand in hand with water and reflection and what perfect locale than a city of water -- Venice -- and its aura of mystery. Christine of course if the harbinger, but so is that unexplained image in that picture which logic cannot concisely make out. In horror, logic can go out the window, and this is a prime example of bending the hands of time -- with flash forwards, flashbacks, and dream images -- to have John take that Final step into the realm of the irrational and confront what he's been chasing all this time his own destiny. If the very revelation of the little figurine is something of a letdown it can't detract from the jolt we feel we can't react immediately, and then the barrage of images that form the puzzle that was there all along. DON'T LOOK NOW is a deeply mood piece of a puzzle, horror that does not need gore or sudden boo moments, but the ever presence of dread and suspense. "},{"Title":"The metaphysical and the skeptical","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't Look Now gets typecast as a horror film even though the movie has a few sparse elements of a horror film (some blood, gore, murder, grotesques), nevertheless they are so incredibly effective that that's what tends to stay with people long after they see it. The whole movie is conveyed in the title `Don't Look Now', a warning. It implies something that is in someone's sight but not in your own, the most significant aspect being the danger that awaits the husband, but that which he cannot see. In this movie the husband and wife are both psychic but one is more willing to accept it than the other. The movie enforces this notion through their different reactions to a traumatic experience. For the wife, she lights candles in the church after she meets the two women (I doubt John Edwards could have such a positive effect). I like how the movie utilizes its primary theme about the metaphysical elements that we posses, and accept though the sheer willingness to accept, or deny through skepticism. One of my favorite scenes in the film, and its one that a lot of people miss, is the scene where Donald and Julie are walking at night and Julie get scared by a rat, and he utters something long the lines of `I've been here before'. Deja-Vu, and yet he goes off, and doesn't give it a second thought. This film is also one of the most effective examples of location and the story going hand-in-hand, similar to Kubrick's `The Shining'. I had The Third Man's Vienna in mind when I saw this film because the labyrinth-like atmosphere of Vienna reminded me so much of Venice in this movie. Roeg got this right. "},{"Title":"Too Arty For It's Own Good","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  True, DON'T LOOK NOW does get under your skin, but in the end it trades in esoteric symbolism and then-tres chic camera angles for a meaningful connection to the audience. To be fair, Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland turn in decent performances as parents grieving for the daughter who recently drowned, but all the weirdness going on in Venice as the couple meets the two English spinsters(a major component in the weird equation that is never successfully solved)and the ensuing chain of events leave questions that are more maddening than intriguing. Sorry, but the infernally long sex scene between Christie and Sutherland seems like filler to me, as if the director tried to fill running time by dropping a stag loop into the final cut. Flat-chested Christie and underdeveloped Sutherland have to be the most physically unappealing sex partners in recent cinema history. Alright, I KNOW it wasn't meant as a porno film, that the actors are supposed to be average people, but really, when has anyone wanted movie actors, even ones supposedly portraying average people, to LOOK average? And the length . . . one can't help but wonder why it lasts for-fricking-ever and what plot holes are being concealed. The ending is an arty washout. If you like arty blather or a series of symbols strung with light narrative structure, get DON'T LOOK NOW "},{"Title":"Here's why people seem to either love it or hate it ...","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Judging by these reviews, you may've guessed that this movie is the screen version of marmite - people seem to either love it or hate. Here are the two teams involved in the battle The Art Rebels and The Frustrated.The Art Rebels are not actually defending the film, they're defending the IDEA of the unconventional. This film is certainly a good example, and, to its credit, it does actually manage to create an eerie mood. Their enjoyment is largely based on an intellectual appreciation of it. Because of the other team's resistance, by upping their own claimed love for the film their position - their need for an identity - is the defined more clearly. In other words they love the drama.The other team, The Frustrated, have had their expectations of this film thwarted. They have most likely seen the high IMDb score or have heard good things about it. They watch and are frustrated by its lack of a driving narrative and the lack of a rounded payoff, especially considering it's nearly 2 hours long. Further infuriated is felt because of their opposition the Art Rebels, who are responsible for bigging it up and directly to blame for the boredom felt. The Frustrated too love the drama of battle and will rate the film lower than they actually feel about it.I have given it a rating of 5/10, which was actually only to give the impression that I'm impartial. My real rating is 3/10. This film lacked crucial direction. It does create a mood, it does have bits of engaging scenes and dialogue, and it does create something of a buildup at the start, but my goodness, the hopeful setup turns into a plot less, confused fog and any momentum already created soon plummets into a painful, painful boredom. If you want a decent scary film, avoid this one. If you consider yourself a student of cinema then by all means watch it, but to avoid psychic injury lower those expectations right down! "}{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I do not know what is more pathetic, this piece of garbage called a film, or the fans who defend it using some of the sorriest excuses one can ever think of.It could have gone down with me as one of the 100s of B movies I had the pleasure of seeing, but what deserved a stop here was the miracle that turned its total lack of the simplest of sense to The Beauty of Randomness as its fans put it! Or the miracle that made silliness and ambiguity become Charming Mysteriousness. Or that other godly act that turned a pointless, long and tiresome sex scene obviously targeting the box office to A Brilliant Portrayal of their love in a time of crises and tension!! I would not know anyway as I could hardly watch it because of the generous amount of shots showing the husband's hairy ass compared to a few quick flashes of the woman's body....I never advice anyone against seeing a film, so please go, watch it and try to figure out anything of that waste of celluloid. Just try to understand how come he sees the woman in red more than one time if she was not specifically following him and imitating his dead daughter. Try and think of any relevance of all those religious symbols or the presence of a priest. Or at least you may try and find why the psychic woman was masturbating during that séance.I tried. I failed. And when I asked those die-hard fans to enlighten me, I was told (take a deep breath and sit if you are standing) that this movie is so good that it is beyond human comprehension. And that in order for me to get a clue I must read the book, watch the play, wait for a couple of years until everything sits with me then watch the movie again. Thanks God they did not ask me to follow this by taking a three months course followed by attending seminars then signing up for a Don't Look Now support group before my life long work can be rewarded by finally being able to understand this piece of creative novelty.I'll end it with what I started withPathetic. "},{"Title":"Nothing is what it seems.  You'd better believe it.","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, Don't Look Now constitutes a real collision of different kinds of careers. Nicolas Roeg had already directed the surreal Walkabout, Donald Sutherland had starred in the humorous M*A*S*H, and Julie Christie had won an Oscar for the bleak Darling. So this one must have really blown people's minds when it came out. Portraying a couple losing a child to a drowning, and thereafter experiencing some rather unexplainable occurrences, the movie might make you question your own sanity. I will say that it's not outright scary, but those scenes on the river...well, just see if you can keep breathing normally after watching those.Anyway, this is definitely one that I recommend. I did not see that ending coming (although I doubt that anyone could predict it). So do look now, and watch the movie...if you dare. Because he's right nothing is what it seems. "},{"Title":"One Of the Better Psychological Thrillers Of It's Time.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now is a strange little movie. The plot is about John and Laura Baxter, a young couple living in England. While looking through his slides of his previous work one day (he is a restoration architect), John notices a red-cloaked figure in a church that he restored. Reminding him of his daughter, who is playing outside, he instinctively rushes outside, to find his little girl has drowned in the pond. Now, sometime later, John and Laura are staying in Venice, Italy, while John does some work on an old Cathedral. Laura begins meeting with a psychic woman and her sister, who claims she sees the Baxter's young daughter. John think's it's rubbish, and dismisses the whole idea. But strange things start to happen to John, after the psychic warns that he is not safe in Venice and that something awful is about to happen - he has a horrible accident while working at the church, and begins seeing the red-cloaked figure he saw in his slide all around the backstreets of Venice. Who is this mysterious cloaked figure? Although Don't Look Now is probably most noted for it's graphic sex scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie, this film has much more to offer. While, I don't think this film is a complete masterpiece like many seem to, I found Don't Look Now to be a well-written, intelligent little horror film. Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie are both excellent in the film, they play their characters believably and well. The atmosphere is to die for, the foggy backstreets and dark alleyways of Venice play a major role in the film, giving it a brooding and uncomfortable feeling. The little figure that John chases through the streets, hidden behind a red rain slicker is really eerie. It strongly reminded me of 1976's Alice, Sweet Alice, but since Dont Look Now was released in '73, I'm guessing Alice, Sweet Alice took some inspiration from this film. The film's both share similarities, most notably the rain slicker element and the subtle religious themes throughout, although they are lighter in this film. The film's finale was macabre and unexpected. Just when you think the killer's identity is going to be revealed - well, it is - it's just not what one would think it would be. But that's one of the neatest things about the film, is how it inverts your expectations and makes things all a matter of coincidence. Overall, Don't Look Now is an above-average thriller with first-rate performances from both Sutherland and Christie, and an eerie atmosphere with a great story. Sure, the film has a little bit of a slow build, but what gives? The tension and suspense that builds with it is what makes the movie so eerie, and the shocker of an ending is wonderful. Recommended to fans of subtle horror slightly on the more elegant side. 8/10. "},{"Title":"An absolute masterpiece in suspense","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" DLN is in my humble opinion one of the best horror/suspense movies ever, the eerie gloomy atmosphere of the almost desolated city of Venice in wintertime reminds me somewhat of the atmosphere one feels in the Shining's empty halls and corridors of the Outlook hotel (the latter then being a very weak copy of the original, I even suspect King wrote the book after he saw DLN, Kubrick sure must have). The couple Sutherland and Christie are still struggling with their recent loss and are slowly drawn into disaster like moths to a flame. Christie almost seems to be hypnotized by the two strange sisters and Sutherland slowly slides into a twilight zone between reality and nightmare, hope and despair. The often spoken of love/sex scene only adds to the chilling sad and foreboding atmosphere as a counterpoint to the tension between the couple in most other scenes. "},{"Title":"Among the best.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Its a bit dated by today's standards, but Don't Look Now is far superior to modern movies on several levels. It doesn't force feed you a thing. Granted, it takes a little work on your part to get through the slow pace but there is much to be admired along the way and it is well worth it at the end. There is a lot of imagery and color significance - water, glass breaking, images deformed in glass, and parallel structure. The city of Venice becomes an important character in the movie as well - usually a romantic town - here it has dark corners and claustrophobic side streets. The movie's dark theme is prominently displayed at the end when a character shakes her head from side to side as if to say no...sometimes you just don't get what you expect. "},{"Title":"Don't Look At This Movie","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Simply put This movie is not scary or eerie. It's long and boring with now thrills. I wouldn't compare this movie to great horror movies. I wouldn't even classify this movie as a horror movie. I watched this movie after reading all the comments from this page and actually turned it off about 3/4 of the way through. I waited, hoping it was going to get good and nothing happened. So if you want to be bored for a couple of hours, this movie will put you to sleep. If you want to be scared, rent the Exorcist, if you haven't already! "},{"Title":"Not scary","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't understand why this is regarded as a classic. The plot is simple and offers no real twists, the scenery is drab and depressing and there is some really ugly 70's fashion on display.I went to see this movie because I like Donald Sutherland but he looks more like 70's porn star John Holmes than the Donald Sutherland I know. There are some odd moments to the direction and Nicolas Roeg has a strange way of cutting and editing.So many people has said so many great things about this movie but I honestly couldn't see them. You'd have to be a fool to not know the outcome at the end. Also the film seems to be in the same league as all those Redemption titles from the 70's. The gritty style and the massive lack of any beautiful images give Don't Look Now a rugged and haggard look. Watch this in the Theatre not on TV. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The masterpiece as is so often claimed?","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now starts in England where architect John Baxter (Donald Sutherland) is moments too late to save his young daughter Christine (Sharon Williams) from drowning in a pond on his country estate, both he & his wife Laura (Julkie Christie) are devastated & decide to move to Venice in Italy to get away from England & the memories where John has been hired to restore a Church. While eating out in a restaurant Laura meets two elderly sisters named Wendy (Clelia Matania) & Heather (Hilary Mason) who claims to be psychic & is able to talk with & see Laura's dead daughter Christine, Laura begins to believe the sisters & feels better knowing that Christine is able to communicate with her but when John finds out he is sceptical & wants nothing to do with the sisters...This English Italian co-production was directed by Nicolas Roeg & the script was based on the short ghost story Rebecca by Daphne Du Maurier & the script takes that basic idea & stretches it out over 110 minutes with variable results. Don't Look Now is often held up as some artistic masterpiece packed with depth, meaning & symbolism as well as a twist ending that in my opinion is alright but hardly the genuine surprise shocker than many might have you believe while other's describe Don't Look Now as a boring mess that people read far too much into & interpret even the littlest thing as having some great meaning. To me the truth lies somewhere between the opinions as I appreciate Don't Look Now as a decent & often absorbing ghost story it didn't knock my socks off & it did bore me a bit which is the ultimate sin a film can commit as far as I am concerned. The majority of the film fells like a calm drama where everything is normal & two grieving people are just trying to get on with their lives, there's the sub-plot about the psychic sister but largely it's pretty unremarkable stuff until the hour mark where the supernatural elements kick in more & all the set-ups that Roeg has staged & planted start to come to fruition but it's still sedately paced by anyone's standards & then there's that twist ending which is sort of gruesome in a dark way which then does try to tie everything together in a series of flashbacks that sort of work but isn't entirely satisfying. Don't Look Now goes from tedium to mystery to gripping drama to horror & almost everything between without ever really grabbing me, sure I liked it & it tells a decent ghost story with a decent twist ending but I wanted to describe it as brilliant & not just decent.Roeg really lets fly with the imagery here as it's absolutely everywhere, from the broken glass of the mirror at the start to the broken glass of the glasses on the table Laura knocks over to the broken glass at the end to the symbolism of the water Christine drowned in as they move to Venice which is obviously a city built around water, the water in glasses Laura breaks, the rain whenever we go back to England & the like & then there's the shiny red plastic mac which also becomes a major part of the films imagery. Don't Look now is the sort of film some could sit down & analyze for like hours, every scene or every moment could have an alternate meaning or some sort of hidden depth, personally I think life is too short for that & while there is obvious symbolism here it gets dull fairly quickly. There's no real gore in it although the twist ending does feature a little blood & there's a pretty steamy sex scene here too. Don't Look now is undeniably well shot with nice cinematography & the tight, narrow streets & canals of Venice almost become a character in their own right.With a supposed budget of about $1,500,000 this has good production values & is well made, shot on location in both England & Italy. The acting is alright, Sutherland is OK but not brilliant while Julie Christie at least looks great.Don't Look Now is a film that is a personal experience, how much you get out of it will depend entirely on how you take to Roeg's symbolism & the often sedately paced nature of the story which just has either Suntherland or Christie run around Venice for extended periods not doing that much. I liked it, I could see where it was coming from & it's fairly absorbing but I wouldn't call it the masterpiece many seem to. The IMDb lists a Don't Look Now (2011) remake as in production & I'll be amazed if it's anything like the original if it ever gets made. "},{"Title":"The setting was beautiful","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The leads were both very skinny, very young, and very rosy. The love scene was very explicit and beautifully done. However the movie is dated. There was no depth. I never could figure how many children they did have and why these children were left behind? We know that a very young boy was in boarding school but what happened to the older sister. They were like backdrops. The filming was wonderful, Venice was magnificent but the plot was lacking and very much a shallow Henry James. The plot was not knitted together. At one point, Sutherland says,  I've been here before. I guess that actually was a premonition but it was never addressed again. That happened frequently in the movie. This was not one of Daphne du Maurier's memorable plots. "},{"Title":"Don't bother to look","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed with this movie. Usually I enjoy the work of both Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland, but this movie was just not up to scratch. Venice was made to look even worse than it is in real life and the lonely locations had more of a feel of 'Omega Man' in a New York slum then the bustling Venice I know. Sutherland managed to partake in another high profile love-making scene similar to his effort in The Eye of the Needle where he was lucky enough to be involved with Kate Nelligan, but at least the sex scene made more sense in The Eye... than it did in this movie, obviously the movie was so dull and lacked any relief from its grim Gothic like atmosphere that a 'romp in the hay' might lighten it ..... it didn't, except for Donald Sutherland.  "}{"Title":"A confusing horror/drama with more style than substance.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Takes an awful lot of time to get moving, and the climax, instead of resolving things, only makes matters more confusing. The only thing that became clear in the finale is that Sutherland's vision of the two sisters and Christie on a boat was his foretelling of the future, and indirectly of his own death. But nothing else makes sense. Who was the freaky old lady impersonating the dead daughter? Was she the murderer of all those tourists? If she did kill the tourists, was it a coincidence that Sutherland kept seeing her and that she wore red? And why did she run away from Sutherland only to murder him later on with supreme confidence? And if she didn't kill those tourists why did she kill Sutherland? What is it that the priest seemed to have known, or had a premonition about? Nothing gets resolved here, and nothing adds up. I mean, almost nothing. A lot of religious imagery, things very vaguely suggested; all abstraction and no clear line or logic. So what's the message of the film? If you lose a child tragically and two sisters tell you that it is happy on the other side you will most likely pay for this information by getting killed by an old freaky elf lady who carries a knife around and stabs people in the middle of the night in churches? To make things worse there is incoherence and mumbling in speech, and a lot of dialog is in Italian (without subtitles) which made things frustrating. If you're going to use other languages in a movie you'd better provide some damn subtitles, and if these dialogues aren't important THEN THEY SHOULDN'T BE IN THE MOVIE IN THE FIRST PLACE! Scenes are drawn out without having any relevance, and the movie plods along, only hurling more confusion at you and not making any attempts to explain anything. Films may be ambiguous to a certain extent, a lot even, but at the end of it all there must be a sense in the viewer that there was a point to it all even if many things were unclear. 2001 & Picnic At Hanging Rock are very ambiguous, but they make sense in a strange way, even though they are quite free for interpretation. However, in this film there is nothing to interpret. An equation with one unknown is easy. An equation with two unknowns gets difficult, but can be dealt with. An equation with ten unknowns is hopeless; it's rubbish. A good story knows when to stop hurling unknowns; there is a limit. Here, practically nothing is clear, and there is a definite sense that there was no point to it all. Maybe I am wrong, and the film requires another viewing or two, but I doubt it. The only interpretation that I can squeeze out of this undistilled orange juice of a film is that perhaps the message was that Sutherland and Christie got punished (by God) for not being believers, and there are clues that they weren't religious. If this really is the point of it all then it is most certainly a very pathetic point indeed. And if a film with so much (supernatural) ambiguity is to be accepted then it has to be on a high level atmospherically, which the two above-mentioned films are. This film, however, although moody enough, never reaches a captivatingly high plateau of atmosphere.More should have been accomplished out of this material, and from this director. Scenes should've been taken out, and the story solidified. A long sex-scene between Sutherland and Christie serves no purpose plot-wise (unless you consider it important to find out through it that the couple is sleeping again for the first time in a long time and that the sex was great - but who cares). Besides, Christie's body is nothing to shout about... "},{"Title":"First class horror.","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Based on the novel by Daphne Du Maurier and directed by Nicholas Roeg, Don't Look Now is a master class in suspense and horror, a film bound by a psychological tension that pulls at the viewer within seconds of the opening scene. Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie play John and Laura Baxter whose young daughter drowns in a freak accident. Devastated by their loss, they travel to Venice in an attempt to forget, but soon meet a clairvoyant who claims to have made contact with the dead girl. As the couple are drawn deeper in, their frantic search for their daughter is signposted by omens of doom and premonitions, leading to a climax that guarantees it a place as one of the greatest British horror films. Sutherland and Christie are excellent in their roles, totally convincing as a couple torn by grief. What separates this film from its rivals is it's sheer originality; the brilliant camera angles that almost make you breathe the characters, and the highly charged (and controversial) sex scene. This could have been like any other, but the directors use of inter-cutting the scene with shots of the couple dressing is as clever as it is original, familiarising the viewer with the couple on a far deeper level. The result is a film as complex and deep as Venice itself, with a catalogue of emotions that leaves it's mark on the viewer's memory. "},{"Title":"Has it shocking moments but I wouldn't necessarily give it the rating it has","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know, for me this is not one of the best movies of all time. It was a nice time-passer, has its thrilling moments, but in my opinion too many chances and ideas were wasted in this film.What's with this blind, screaming woman always announcing that John was in danger? (I know her role.) They could have got more out of this instead of letting her scream every ten minutes and look frightened all the time. Because all the time the film tries to let her and her sister look freaky, but in the end they are just two normal women. (And more normal than the normal characters, I must add.)What also was annoying was this endless wandering of the main characters, especially Donald Sutherland, through some dark corners of Venice. Honestly, after this movie you get the impression that Venice is a city inhabited by ghosts, murderers and freaks, is always dirty and dark and if you visit it you cannot be sure to get out of it alive.I liked some moments and the ending, for it gave away the twist, but my personal highlight of this film is Julie Christie whom I have never seen in a movie before. She was elegant, emotional, very beautiful and intelligent - simply a pleasure to watch and some so-called Hollywood actresses from today surely could learn one or two things from her.To sum it up Typical horror trash - and I have seen better before. But Julie Christie gives the film a touch of class. "},{"Title":"Cheap suspense at the expense of coherence","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" People keep posting comments about how others should stop looking for the logic in this film, and appreciate the suspenseful atmosphere. I disagree. You can't just have a shrieking string section randomly swell up at a shot of an insignificant shop sign and call that atmosphere. Apparently in the hope of infusing the film with an atmosphere of dread, the director has inserted moments of complete nonsense into this film which completely detract from the wonderful performances of the two lead actors. For instance, at one point we see the two sisters, one of whom is psychic, laughing in an evil, maniacal fashion as is they are plotting the downfall of the two lead characters. As it turns out, they are actually sweet women with no malice towards the grieving couple. Why the evil, maniacal laughter? Ask the director. This is just one example of many such moments of nonsensical suspense-building which end up leaving you feeling manipulated and confused - much of the confusion coming from bewilderment at the reverence in which so many people seem to hold this really rather silly piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Don't Watch Ever","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A dull and pointless movie, and certainly not a thriller. Plus movies about a child dying rarely make for a fun night. Sure, there may have been some clever symbols and foreshadowing, but the fact is the story is about the shallow people and thus we really don't care about the story or the characters. As for the famed love scene, I find the inter cut editing ruined it. The sound was so poorly recorded and mixed that it's hard to follow the dialogue. Finally, the film gets my vote for some of the worst camera work of all time - couldn't Roeg afford a tripod?I want my 120 minutes back.  "},{"Title":"SUPERnatural!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First establishment don't even consider watching this film when you're tired and/or trying to conquer sleep&#133;because you'll lose. The terror in Don't Look Now is strictly psychological and whether it's a masterpiece or not all depends on the viewer's state of mind. It could become one of the most superbly chilling films you'll ever see, but at the same time you could say it's very overrated and not that compelling at all.Second establishment the settings, scenery and locations couldn't possibly be better. Don't Look Now is almost entirely set in Venice, Italy which is the most appropriate décor to tell a paranormal tale. The story completely depends on the dark alleys, ancients cathedrals and typical waters where it's shot at. Donald Sutherland and his wife Julie Christie settled in Venice to slowly forget the death of their young daughter. While Sutherland is restoring a cathedral, his wife is approached by a blind, psychic lady who claims to be in contact with the couple deceased daughter. This spiritual woman comes with a warning&#133;but she can only foresee a tragedy&#133;not forestall it! Nicolas Roeg is a brilliant cinematographer and he can create a hardly bearable tension without showing shocking images. The drama and sentiment in Don't Look Now is well-represented, of course, since it handles about the worst thing parents can go through&#133;Witnessing and living with the dead of their own child. The supernatural methods that Roeg implements are unique and it's almost impossible to discover them all in one single viewing. Perfect example of that is Sutherlands walk in the dark alley, where all the ominous elements of the little girl's dead are repeated&#133;That's pretty brilliant but you don't realize it right away. Some of the storytelling require a wide attention-span and I'll fairly admit that the film is overall long and pretty boring at times. Even the explicit (and infamous) sex sequence is way too long. Donald Sutherland is a class A actor, even though his haircut never looked so ridiculous. Julie Christie is a loveable wife and very convincing as the heart-broken mother. "},{"Title":"Read the story!","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Other viewers' comments seem to fall into two categories--either they thought this film was great or else they were bored, but the surprising thing to me is that not only did no one compare it to the original story, most people had not even read the story.  The reason I watched this film was because I commented to someone that I liked Daphne du Maurier's short stories better than her novels, particularly Don't Look Now, and this person told me they had made a movie of it--I hadn't known that. I had read the story many years ago but remembered it very well. I have to join the league of those who found this movie boring--if I didn't already know the story I would have had a very difficult time figuring out what the heck was going on. I probably missed a lot of cinematic niceties, and I would guess that if you didn't know the story you could miss even more--everything was very atmospheric and very confusing. The shots in the seamy part of Venice were good at building up an eerie mood of foreboding, but overall the movie was slow paced and sleep-inducing! Daphne du Maurier was a very good writer of supernatural stories, so do yourself a favor and read her collection--the book title is Don't Look Now and it includes other stories. "},{"Title":"Tries to be clever and full of symbolism... but it's mostly nonsense and pointless ambiguity!","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I honestly had a great enthusiasm towards this film before I watched it and I really longed for a film that would mainly offer a sinister atmosphere for the most part. I had read so many great things about Don't Look Now and the plot, the locations and the characters looked compelling enough to me to give this movie a chance and be prepared to enjoy an over and done masterpiece. Frankly, I am aware that most people who like this film, are probably going to think I'm terribly brainless because I was somehow disappointed by it, but I would much rather speaking my mind and giving my honest opinion.The main reason why this film turned into a disappointment to me, was mostly the fact that there were quite a lot of scenes that worked as a sleeping pill to me. I think I have seen a decent share of horror films that offer big moments of silence and so-called clever symbolism and subtle details that somehow help to build a solid story. However, in Don't Look Now, I felt a bit overwhelmed by the excessive amount of pointless sequences (and I'm pretty sure they ARE pointless) and images that in the end are reduced to nothing whatsoever. I felt like most of these puzzling and unsolved details, were Nicolas Roeg's way to mystify the audience with discourteous methods and filling blanks to make the movie longer and by some means more interesting to look at. Nevertheless, opposite to what those chaotic sequences were meant to incite, I felt somehow underestimated and ripped off. This film could have offered the same story and lots of bright symbolism, without the requirement of bombing the audience with tedious states of affair. I'm very supportive of ambiguity in horror films, when help to create a sinister atmosphere, at least. As an example, I'd probably mention Lucio Fulci, whose films are mostly criticized by the great quantity of nonsensical scenes. However, in Mr. Fulci's case, I think the puzzling aspect of his films, at least contribute in a great deal, to develop a terrifying atmosphere. So to make it short and clear, what I condemn the most about Don't Look Now, is its offensive and underestimating ambiguity that leads to nothing at all and simply leaves the audience doubting about their own intelligence.Too bad this film cheats the audience with so many pointless oscillations, because the story itself is not bad at all and the characters look darkly beautiful enough to make a frightening horror film, like the two old sisters, for example. The locations were probably one of the most appealing elements in Don't Look Now and probably one of the main reasons why I agreed to watch the movie until it was finished instead of just leaving it incomplete. I am not one of those horror fans who expect a big EUREKA! moment during the last minutes of a film, I can guarantee that. However, I do not appreciate feeling mocked after a movie is finished. I'm sure this comment will be voted as NOT useful several times by people who support this film and think I'm just an airhead who didn't get it, but that's all right&#133; I can live with that ;) (My five stars, mostly are due to the locations and a couple of eerie moments that made the whole thing endurable somehow). "},{"Title":"Art = Crap","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those art movies that makes people want to run screaming. Not because it is scary but because it is maddeningly boring. Plus it has far too much naked Donald Sutherland. And how tall is he? He could take a dwarf! Roeg is a great picture taker - nice set-ups, interesting shots, angles, etc. The problem is his story telling ability. I felt no sympathy for the Sutheralnd character. He seemed crushed by his daughter's death - for about 20 seconds - and then its forward in time, we are not even told how long, and he seems perfectly fine. And the end? Sorry I just had to laugh. Lousy movie. Do not fall for the classic bit. "},{"Title":"warning!  this movie may cause drowsiness!","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After discovering my taste in movies, a coworker highly recommended Don't Look Now. I recently rented it on NetFlix and watched it again after unsuccessfully trying to stay awake during the first viewing. The concept is no doubt interesting. The execution .... not so much. In addition to it being painfully slow, it was way too long. And if there's anything worse than a bad movie is when there's too much of it. And the scary scene at the end is so bad it it's laughable. Perhaps if the master of psychological thrillers, Alfred Hitchcock, had gotten his hands on this my comment would be different. The one redeeming factor of forcing myself to watch this movie in its entirety was the gorgeous Venice scenery. (That'll teach me to listen to coworkers.) "}{"Title":"Very disappointed.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was hoping this movie would be suspenseful, an edge of your seat thriller, or at least hold my interest through the entire story. It was neither. Most of the movie is spent in the watery streets of Venice with absolutely nothing going on (whoops, guess that was a spoiler huh?). I mean I expected some bit of suspense from a movie boasting to be a psychic thriller. The only remotely interesting parts of the movie are the very beginning and the very ending (as that is the only time anything actually happens) and even the ending made me laugh (I think it was supposed to be horrifying or something). If you like boring movies with a lot of pointless talking etc.. than this is for you. If you like movies that are suspenseful, have an excellent plot, and are fun to watch, then pass on this one. This is one for the artsy, interpretive, it was boring and pointless so I liked it bunch. "},{"Title":"A classic of 70s film-making--NOT!!!","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is absolutely horrible. For one thing, the title makes no sense after you have watched the movie. For another thing, the plot itself makes no sense. It basically concerns two people whose daughter drowns; they move to Venice for no apparent reason, and then scary stuff starts to happen. Oh, wait. No it doesn't. This movie isn't scary at all. The only scene worth mentioning is the sex scene, which contains enough nudity to offend anyone with a sense of decency, but not enough to impress people who want to see that sort of thing.I'm not going to spoil the ending for you, but after the movie dragged along for 2 hours, let's just say I was EXTREMELY disappointed.This movie should have been called Don't Watch Now. Or Later. Or Ever.  "},{"Title":"Very superficial","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can see why this film may be a hit among fans but personally I found it very superficial. Why is that? Because the film has a very good atmosphere, especially in the first third of the movie but that atmosphere turns out to be it's own purpose. Director creates a diversion by trying to persuade us that the stories within the film are closely related yet they turn out to be very much unrelated.I love the cinematography and the style in which the movie was shot but it fails with dramaturgy. It seems as if the movie was composed of many psychologically tense moments without anything that composes and connects them into a one solid structure. The red thread of the movie is non existent. The director wanted to make their dead daughter the red thread. He wanted to make it something to bind all the parts of the movie and to lead us to believe that everything will fall into place at the end but the end is completely disappointing and fails in that attempt. I don't know if fails is the right term to describe it considering it was never his intention to make relation from the beginning of the movie with it's ending in the first place. And that make me felt like I was cheated. Donald Sutherland as the main character was very good but I wasn't too thrilled by his partner Julie Christie. I just didn't trust her completely. Overall, the movie has it's moments but I felt they could have done a better job with dramaturgy and script. "},{"Title":"Spoiled everything in the last 10 minutes","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It was quite naively progressing movie. It never seemed pretentious or factitious at all from the beginning till the end. Good scenes, good cinematography and good acting were all to be appreciated. Even though Venice is one of the safest cities in the world, the crimes shown in the movie did not seem artificial at all. The decadence of the city was surprisingly natural and in fact totally fit into the old-to-be-restored atmosphere of Venice. However, in the end, thanks to the dwarf, everything was spoiled and thrown to the garbage. I could not help but laughing looking at the fake blood going out of the neck of the guy and meaninglessly shaking head of the dwarf. Such a delusion. "},{"Title":"A psychological and symbolic study of grief and how to get over it !!!","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Don't Look Now' is a psychological thriller/horror film directed by Nicolas Roeg. The screenplay written by Allan Scott and Chris Bryant is adapted from a short story of the same name written by Daphne du Maurier. Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland respectively play Laura and John Baxter, a couple struggling to get over the grief of losing their daughter Christine when she accidentally drowned to death. They move to Venice when John gets commissioned to restore a church. There they come across two sisters, one of them being blind. The blind sister who claims to be psychic tells Laura that she can see Christine and is in touch with her, their dead daughter.'Don't Look Now' is one of those films that will divide audiences all around the world. Some will absolutely love it, while some will hate it big time. This is because Nicolas Roeg's style is very unconventional and on the first viewing can be a bit unsettling. Although I haven't read the original short story that this film is based on, but I can easily say that the film is an artistic work with an identity of its own. It is very visual. In the film's very first sequence, Roeg pretty much summarises what the film will explore. There are infinite jump-cuts, numerous flashbacks and flash-forwards and other various visual tricks which Roeg uses to make the film extremely rich visually. The colour red is of paramount importance. This film has a creepy cold European vibe borne out of isolation which reminded me of Polanski's 'The Tenant'. There are certain shots in the film which will stay with me always due to their disturbing and unsettling nature like the shot where the blind psychic sister Heather gets introduced to the audience for the first time and we see her reflection on the three mirrors all next to each other or the famous shot of the red hooded figure turning back to reveal her face to John.One of the most important elements of the film is the way in which Roeg shoots Venice. This is a city which is renowned for its simplistic beauty and romantic aura. But quite to the contrary, Roeg makes Venice look desolate, scary and worn out. The narrow lanes are confusing and Jack and Laura constantly lose their way. This is essential to the theme, because I believe the desolate weary Venice represents the state of John and Laura's minds. They just can't get over the grief of losing their daughter. Their minds have become as weary, dark and lifeless as the Venice that they are residing in. But Laura comes into contact with the two sisters and she decides to believe the supposedly psychic blind sister when she says Christine is happy and well. Laura decides to show faith and as a result receives at least some mental satisfaction. But the rational John refuses to give in to the claims of the psychic and refuses to recognise that he himself might be psychic. As a result he goes on wallowing in misery and guilt, as he clearly still blamed himself for Christine's death. This refusal to show faith in the end leads to his sad death. I truly believe 'Don't Look Now' can be seen as a companion piece to 'The Exorcist' as both are films that explore faith. I think both films show that irrespective of whether you believe in God and the afterlife or not, having faith can actually give you closure and give you mental strength to move on from some form of grief and start living again. John refused to believe the psychic sister. So while Laura received some sort of closure, John continued to suffer with guilt all on his own. The red hooded figure who turns out to be the murderer represents the grief mixed with guilt that John just can't get rid of no matter where he goes and in the end this grief gets the better of him and kills him.Another important aspect of the film is the gender divide. The women are far more open to the possibility of the supernatural and the godly, while the men are consumed by their rational thoughts. The bishop of the church that John is supposed to restore is seen in the film to question God's plans and God's priorities. John doesn't pay any heed to his wife's requests to be open to the claims of the sisters. Apart from Nicolas Roeg's creative and inventive style of storytelling, one has to admire the acting. Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie are brilliant. They actually looked like a couple. You can see that they love each other, but you can also grasp the sadness and the distance that has grown between them after the great loss. This duality in their relationship gets underlined by Roeg through brilliant editing in the infamous sex scene which gets inter-cut with shots of both of them getting dressed afterwards on their own without any chitchat. We witness the passion in the sex, but at the same time we witness how both are somewhat distant and how both are still overwhelmed by Christine's memories. Hilary Mason also has to be admired for her disturbing and creepy portrayal of the blind psychic Heather.'Don't Look Now' is a brilliantly crafted psychological horror film. I think like 'The Exorcist', the main theme running through it is faith. Nicolas Roeg does a great job in making a film that is genuinely disturbing as well as endearing as the director clearly loves the two main characters who are clearly troubled and Roeg has respect for both of them. "},{"Title":"A solid chiller, well acted by Christie and Sutherland.","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now is a good and engrossing film, a moody story that is well told. An adaptation of the story by Daphne Du Maurier, it stars the lovely Julie Christie and the always excellent Donald Sutherland. They play Laura and John Baxter, a couple who lose one of their two children in a drowning accident. Some time after that, they're living and working in Venice, Italy while their surviving child attends school in England. Laura chances to meet two middle aged sisters, Heather and Wendy (Hilary Mason and Clelia Matania). Heather, who is blind, seems to have a second sight that compels her to tell Laura that her deceased daughter is happy. However, there's a warning from the beyond that somebody is in danger. And, as it happens, there's a killer on the loose in Venice.This is certainly very well done on a technical and artistic level. The characters of Laura and John are compelling, and Christie and Sutherland work nicely together. He's highly skeptical of this supposed psychic ability of Heathers', but ultimately humours Laura, whose mood brightens considerably after having made the acquaintance of these two sisters. Venice is a beautiful location for this tale, and director Nicolas Roeg, working with cinematographer Anthony B. Richmond, gives this film superb atmosphere. Right from those opening credits, a mood is created, and the filmmakers guide us on an interesting journey that gets more surreal towards the end. The action is highlighted by an especially steamy sex scene (and both Christie and Sutherland get nude), and is ended with a riveting finale.The colour red is turned into a thematic element, right from beginning to end, and viewers aren't that likely to forget the sight of the red raincoat.Strongly recommended.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Evocative and Haunting","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now was originally released in the UK as the A picture in a double bill backed by The Wicker Man, and what an eye-popper they must have been together. Both pictures succeed in dislocating the viewer, and although the twist here is simpler than in the WM, it is no less effective.Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie play a couple slowly coming to terms with the accidental drowning of their daughter. The film is largely set in Venice; and imagery of dripping or running water is so central to the story it appears to be almost a character in the movie. Director Nicholas Roeg skillfully evokes an atmosphere of decay and death without once ever going over the top; this atmosphere hovers over the film, but only occasionally intrudes.Sutherland and Christie both give committed performances, and without going into the plot too much, find themselves confronting the death of their daughter in different ways. Old Venice comes to life with real feeling, and a splendid sequence in a church with Sutherland hanging on for his life due to an accident is tremendously gripping.The movie is probably a little slow for modern audiences not used to this kind of film where ambiance is even more important then the story, but those who can stay with it are in for a gem of a film. And the ending, which dispenses with narrative logic for full on shock, is tremendous. "},{"Title":"A bizarre and unique psychological thriller, with some knockout scenes.","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" (Halloween Horror Reviews #15)Considered by many to be a masterpiece of psychological horror, Don't look now is undoubtedly a well made movie. It is a slice of 70's paranoia thriller on the level of 'The Conversation' and 'Taxi Driver'. It creates an incredible atmosphere and uses a top-notch location (Venice) in a unique and subtle way. Any filmmaker who wishes to master the art of forming an eerie atmosphere should defiantly check this film out.The film's main actors are all superb. Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland work absolute magic every second they are on screen, their emotional weight and passion is something truly staggering. They are a huge part of why the film is so effective. The supporting cast is also solid, however may often seem lacking when compared to the two powerhouses at the centre of the film.The film has some of the best sound-mixing around, creating a great sense of panic for the audience and making every scene as disorienting as a bad nightmare. The paranoid sense of dread is emphasised by the bleak and cold setting. Venice feels hostile and angry, it works as a driving force throughout the film and puts the audience all the more on edge.The film can feel convoluted and jumbled at times in it's plotting. Characters will lack relevance regardless of screen time, and plotpoints will seemingly go nowhere. This, along with the sometimes lacklustre pace are by far the film's largest problems for me.However the film's opening and closing scenes are fantastic. Emotional, cerebral and horrifying, both in drastically different ways. These scenes are where the film shines brightest for sure.Overall, whilst clunky and a little dated in it's execution, Don't look now is a stunning horror/thriller and shows many truly inspired elements and sequences. "},{"Title":"Part Of Me Thinks The Movie Has Aged, Yet It's Gorgeous Cinematography Is Anything But.","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If there's anything you'll take away from your first viewing of Don't Look Now it's the swirling waters, colours of red and similar motifs repeated throughout the movie. After an apparently explicit sex scene for its time that is only a minute long, and if by then you've even bothered to actually make a big deal about it shame on you. Don't Look Now appears to be pretty thin on the outside, but on repeated viewings it turns out to actually be full of details that paint a much larger picture.Laura Baxter (Julie Christie) and John (Donald Sutherland) are a married couple, who after the recent accidental death of their daughter travel to Venice when the husband accepts a commission to restore a church. They encounter two sisters where one claims to be clairvoyant, and informs them that their daughter is trying to contact them and warn them of impending danger. The husband at first dismisses their claims, but starts to experience mysterious sightings himself.A little more heavy handed than your average thriller. The subtle amounts of grief begin to separate the couple, and there's some exceptional editing when it comes to the scenes of premonitions and the overall cinematography of Venice is beautiful. You can look up all the themes of the movie, because Don't Look Now possibly has the most ever bundled into one film and sadly not all of them are as easy to decipher. I cannot help but personally feel that there is a huge pacing issue, or disconnect I always feel towards every character regardless of scenario. I know that's one of the themes and whether or not that was intentional I can't say, but it really hinders the movie for me every time I watch it.Final Verdict When all is said and done, I think Don't Look Now comes off as more of a drama than an actual thriller. Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie do wonderful work, and everything else is a tale of recurring events and sharp U-turns. Maybe I need to see it again, but I would certainly say this movie demands patience and you better have it. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Eerie & Original.","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicholas Roeg directed this eerie and original horror drama that stars Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie as John and Laura Baxter, a married couple still grieving over the recent death of their daughter, who accidentally drowned. They are vacationing in Venice, Italy when they are approached by two sisters who claim to be psychic, and have been in touch with their daughter on the other side...John scoffs at this, but Laura is intrigued. John, meanwhile, has been seeing images of his dead daughter walking in a red raincoat,and his wife with the two sisters on a funeral gondola. Why is he seeing these visions, and what is the connection between this and a brutal series of murders occurring in the city? Mysterious film builds a feeling of dread throughout, leading to a horrific climax. Plays effectively with the idea of psychic visions and their true meaning, even though it can be muddled at times, and demands the viewers full attention. May require multiple viewings. "}{"Title":"Nothing is as it seems.","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the death of their daughter, Laura and John Baxter (Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland) are living in Venice, where John is restoring an old church. They meet a strange pair of women, one of whom is a psychic who claims she can see their dead little girl. This fascinates Laura, but then the woman says John is in mortal danger.This is a very well-made, creepy thriller. Filmed in the shadowy, twisted alleyways of Venice, it is chock full of red herrings and dripping with atmosphere that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Everyone seems to be a potential threat, every action is suspicious, even if we don't know why. And the soundtrack adds just the right eerie touch. Christie is young and beautiful, Sutherland is moody and complex; they have great chemistry together and share a scene that surely should have been rated X.Based on a story by Daphne du Maurier, this is a dark, dreamlike movie filled with so much tension that you may think twice about that Venetian vacation. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Exorcist Era...","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Along with movies like ROSEMARY'S BABY, THE EXORCIST, and THE TENANT, DON'T LOOK NOW was one of those early 70s fright fests that was as beautifully crafted as it was creepy. Nicolas Roeg's intercutting of almost continuous bits of action throughout is one of the more interesting stylistic touches in DON'T LOOK NOW. The cinematography is breathtaking has Venice ever looked so beautiful on film before (or since)? I doubt it. That most of it is hand-held is even more impressive; it gives everything a Real Time feel, allowing the viewer to immerse themselves in what's happening- we're there when something happens, we see it and are swept up in it. The only problem I've ever had with the movie is that the basic storyline is so clichéd (and the resolution so... contrived). Otherwise, DON'T LOOK NOW is a classic worth a look. "},{"Title":"Good build up but ultimately disappointing","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I decided to watch this film after reading reviews about it that hailed it as an instant classic, being a fan of psychological horror type films I started to watch it with high hopes which were shattered as the film progressed.So for around 90% of this film nothing really happens, there is a lot of talking which in all honesty isn't even relevant to whats going on. However there is a creepy and ominous theme as the film progresses and a sense of not being able to trust any of the people that the main character meets.With all of this build up you expect something to happen that's going to flip this film on its head and really make you think but no such luck with the ending of the film being just as pointless and mediocre as the rest of it.I will point out that the film is over 40 years old and maybe it worked when it was released in that time period but for me it was a waste of time and i would honestly not recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Arty horror almost works but not quite","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw this movie I was about 10 or 11 and I got totally traumatised by the dwarf murder of Donald Sutherland's character,shockingly scary violent and sinister. Years later I watched the film again,yes the murder is still a strong scene,yes as an adult the famous sex scene is a pretty good watch,Julie Christie a not painful on the eyes,but I tell you what the rest of the film is a lesson in pretentious nonsense. It is not often I find supernatural themed thrillers boring but I find it hard to express any other emotion when describing the movie. Why do some directors try to be so clever when executing their work? It's almost like the most important aspect of any movie gets overlooked-entertain! You do feel in the hands of a more commercial(if maybe not so highly regarded)director this could have been maybe a good slasher movie but hey, each to their own one mans trash and so on "},{"Title":"A 1970's supernatural thriller / Art film","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nic Roeg's evocative thriller still stands up pretty well after all these years. Released in 1973 it was amongst a number of films that broke new ground in dragging 'horror' away from the camp clichés of Hammer etc.The subtle performances of Christie and Sutherland and the delicious lingering direction of the misty winter'd city, which makes Venice the other leading character, set the film above the common thriller and into the realms of 'the art film'. Now this can obviously put off viewers who are looking for a more 'straight ahead' movie experience, but for those who are looking for a more sophisticated experience, 'Don't look now' delivers.Definitely a film from a European tradition rather than Hollywood, the movie uses a filmic language beautifully to express and explore the characters and the situation (providing us with clues, emotions and puzzles to keep us guessing), rather than dialogue to fully explain and tell the audience what to think.The events are taking place some months after the death of their child and Christie and Southerland excellently portray a couple teetering between crisis and denial; hanging on to each other desperately one moment, sinking into their work for distraction the next, arguing the next, taking medication, not taking medication, jumping at hopes of 'life after death' and so on.There are beautifully crafted 'red-herrings' along the way to keep you guessing and the supporting characters (such as the priest) are not spoon-fed to the audience as either good or bad but as elements of the mystery that we may or may not be seeing through the lens of the Baxter's eyes.The final scenes explores the many threads and (especially for a first time viewer) have a superb conclusion which successfully avoids sliding into a trite b-movie ending that simply 'wraps everything up'.In short, this a 1973 movie and as such is obviously a product of its time but if you like a more European style of cinema and would like to see an early supernatural thriller deftly handled by cast and crew, this is it.Oh yes - I forgot to say, it's got what I still consider to be one of the best love scenes in any movie before or since. "},{"Title":"Not Just a Horror Flick  A Testament to 1970s Film Craft","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Few directors create the degree of tension that Nicholas Roeg does in Don't Look Know purely by prolonging the pace of his story-telling and drawing the eye's attention on seemingly innocuous images of supposedly inanimate objects an ornate door, a crumbling wall with peeling paint, sheet-covered furniture sitting in an empty room, a ring on a finger. It is this pace at which the viewer is shown these objects that allows us to understand there is an ambiguous importance to these things. The animist treatment of the main protagonist, the city of Venice, and of all the objects that make her up, create an eerie sense that all things have a soul and sight and significance and, as a result, that all moments mean something and are pre-ordained and fated. It is this materialism that stands above the human characters of this story. After all, the viewer begins to understand early on that the various characters' pre-mature deaths are already fated and foretold, and that it's only a matter of time before the characters understand this (save for the blind sister-- and too late at that). Don't Look Now is a thing of beauty, a must for anyone in love with the visual styles of the '70s, with the singular tone of movies made in Italy in that decade, and with a detailed attention and love for a soundtrack, cinematography and production that would be much more at home in a movie that does not call itself horror. "},{"Title":"A great movie for a rainy day when you're jonesing for some suspense","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I rented this movie from the recommendation of a friend, who shares my love of thrillers (we both adore The Changeling with George C. Scott), so I rented it from Netflix. It was worth it. Although the ending was not what I expected (not necessarily a bad thing), the natural acting (and chemistry) of D. Sutherland & J. Christie, and the eerie elements of the cinematography, the two Weird sisters, the well-shot, ambiguous alleys of Venice AND the unexpected ending, make this worth your while if you like thrillers that rely on psychological assumptions rather than gore.An enjoyable evening in -- Enjoy! "},{"Title":"i think there is something none of you has understood","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hello. I read with a lot of interest everyone's comments on Don't Look Now and there is something missing from your summaries or criticisms of this movie - I'm talking about the scene when John sees his wife surrounded by the two ladies on a boat (while she should be in England...) None of you mentioned that what John is really seeing is in fact is own (upcoming) death. Indeed, John also has psychic powers but he refuses to admit them, even though he realizes weird things are happening to him (such as the foreboding of his daughter's death, when he drops water on the photograph of the cathedral with the small hooded figure). This is also why he always appears very embarrassed when he is around the two old ladies - he knows the blind one senses his psychic powers, although he is in complete denial of them. John sees his own death, but he's too down-to-earth to really understands what it means - and therefore, to run away from it. And thus he meets his tragic fate, while he had the means to escape from it.Personally, I am not a big fan of this movie, but I have to admit that it is really well done and the shots of Venice in wintertime are simply splendid. There are some scary moments, a little bit in the mood of the Shining by Kubrick. It is a fright that doesn't make you scream and jump into your boyfriend's arms (or girlfriend's, for that matter...), but it is a fright that comes from the inside, that makes you feel uneasy and disturbed. When the small hooded figure finally removes her hood and reveals her face... Oh dear, I was petrified on my chair! The old ugly wrinkled dwarf's face is just stuck in my memory forever (and yes, I admit, I even had nightmares about it...) The movie is not agreeable in itself, but I would nevertheless recommend it - although we've all let out so many spoilers already that probably no one will be very surprised or scared seeing it!PS  I apologize for the English mistakes I -surely- made, English is only my second language! "},{"Title":"More of a film than a movie","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately I still haven't read Daphne Du Maurier's short story. So I'll comment on the movie, or shall I say film, only.It has been a while since I saw it last time, but I remember it well. I liked it very much, but it is one of those flicks with such a heavy atmosphere that I wouldn't watch it repeatedly.This work is without doubt a milestone and it is definitely art (one definition of art is nearly pure self purpose as opposed to crowdpleaser). It leaves a lot of questions. It triggers feelings which we didn't even know of. It does so if you are willing to get into the movie. Some people, who prefer everything explained, might be very disappointed.I have the feeling that David Lynch saw this film more than once, The tv show Twin Peaks seems heavily influenced by D.L.N unless I'm very wrong.I think that any why-explanation of the events would be pure speculation. Anything seems to have more than one reason to be happening. One (or more) at the rational level and many at higher levels. This is the only Hitchcock-inspired movie I ever saw that managed to go very deep. And there seems to be no kind of commercial compromise like some kind of epilogue to explain everything as for example in Hitch's otherwise brilliant Psycho. Attention, SPOILER ALERT!So who is the midget at the end? Is it a murderer on the loose, or is it an evil creature only seen by Donald Sutherland? Don't forget he has the gift of second shight. So if the midget is simply a murderer on the loose, it wouldn't quite fit in. Or maybe it does.   I think the midget is anything you want. That's not the point. It shows how different levels of reality, consciousness and dimension are interwoven. So if someone would ask me Who is the midget, I'd answer We don't know. That we most likely includes Daphne Du Maurier. "},{"Title":"du Maurier tricks","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ---NOT ACTUAL SPOILERS, BUT BEST READ AFTER VIEWING THE FILM---I am not an expert du Maurier reader, but I've found a common feature in a few of her stories which may be a key to her work, Don't Look Now and The Blue Lenses to name just two. She tells ordinary situations but wrapped into rare atmospheres, giving false hints about them and thus leading the reader (watcher) to take false conclussions and wrong supernatural explanations about these perfectly normal things. At the end of her stories, she usually weeps the mystery out to reveal the evidence of an easy, logical and natural solution to a mystery which actually never happened except inside the reader's mind who fearfully took things too far. In other words, she intentionally creates suspenseful illusions to take us apart from the logical straight way and keep our fears wondering until the final twist. If you think about it, this sort of temporary induced stupidity is present -and required- in any horror and suspense film every potential victim -and us as observers- needs a pretty amount of stupidity to let the killer or the monster enter and conduct the story for a while. In DLN you could see a modern couple doing normal things, from their intimate chat to their well remembered fair sex scene. Even the wife's worryings about the injured child and the subsequent anxiety of her husband tracking her down are fully believable normal situations. But the writer adds red herrings, symbols and subplots to grow our paranoia... and John's too. Suspectful priests, policemen and laughing clairvoyants- even the hotel employee is suspectful at some point; gargoyles, churches and lots of religious symbols; Death, Beyond and serial killers. John Baxter himself progressively loses his starting feet-on-the-ground condition to end things up in a painful and deathly illogical mistake, after getting all along the story more and more biased due to external influence -Venice, the sisters, his own wife renewed faith, the warning signals. Of course, all of these factors work on John's grief and vulnerability background regarding the lost child. From all of this I'd say DLN is a play on human credulity and mind weakness being under extreme conditions; when we abandon ourselves to superstition or expose to random -but hopefully unknown- risks, assuming the raw reality hurts so much. Someone spoke about Laura's final smile I think it is just the smile of wisdom, of total understanding of the facts, with all the chained elements of nonsense they conceal, but real and painful facts. Quoting Robert de Niro's character in Angel Heart how bitter wisdom could be when it gives no profit to the wise (please excuse the translation flaws). Regards, Jose. "}{"Title":"A very crafty, disturbing, formidable film.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think the commentator below is being remarkably unfair to this film, considering he/she readily admits they turned off 3/4 of the way through. For to view Don't Look Now without the context of its shattering, stunning ending is to stop listening to the Beach Boys' Pet Sounds before I Just Wasn't Made For These Times and Caroline, No. To bluntly try and explain what sort of film this is, well... let me say that those who have seen The Wicker Man, Picnic at Hanging Rock or Performance will notice, despite the vast differences in social and actual settings, that these four films have in common a mastery of accumulating tension and atmosphere. Performance is indeed partly made by Nic Roeg, the visual genius, some say charlatan (but not me) who directs Don't Look Now. Performance is more consistently visceral in its impact, and the contrast of the two halves is remarkable, but that's another story. Don't Look Now is in many ways a less abstract and visually bombarding picture than Performance, but that's not to say there aren't oblique visual images at many turns. The spectre of Pinter, that interestingly hangs over both halves of Performance, is evident here to some extent. Note the tension of dialogue and body language in the cafe scene here, and also later in the film when Sutherland's John Baxter consults Bruno Cattaneo's odd, inscrutable Detective Sabbione. It is indeed a fine script, brought up to a remarkable level of subtlety by the vivid, artistic direction.I must say the acting is inch perfect here for the film. Donald Sutherland just looks so right for the part, and lets the audience get a very good sense of his emotions. Julie Christie gives an autumnal, particularly nuanced performance that belies those who question her worth as an actress. Perhaps out of the decade where she was an icon, she was able to give more divergent performances. She was fine in Billy Liar! with the role that perhaps established her vivacious, metropolitan type, and while I've heard some of her roles aren't great in other 60s films, Petulia sounds most interesting. Anyway, Christie is Laura Baxter here, a mature married woman, seemingly calm on the surface but inwardly shattered. It is a great tragic role, and she plays on the resignation as much as the logical madness of the character. Plus, of course, she's absolutely beautiful, and not as that Dane Hamlet oddly once said of Ophelia, beautified - her beauty comes across as intensely natural. The two sisters are especially sinister creations, visually unsettling and an odd mix of good old British cup of tea reassurance and something far more ominous and undisclosed.The ending, with the tangible symbolic link to earlier events, is a truly shattering moment, and I must not spoil it in any way. Suffice to say, Roeg makes it synthesize superbly. His direction is a deliberate mixture of abrupt, near subliminal editing and montage, with more slow, stationary ominous shots - for example the scenes centering on the boats. Venice, is as many have said, a character in itself in the film, its beauty inflected by an autumnal decay and deathly stasis. The sex scene between Sutherland and Christie is pure beauty, excellent music and editing; it brilliantly represents what is a loving relationship, and becomes all the more melancholy in contrast to the film's dark events and hints at events. Pino Donaggio's music is fitting overall, really, if not as astounding as the cinematography and direction - perhaps something a little more jarring than the Italianate strings would have proved more apposite, though the music itself is good and fairly fitting.I would have to remark that many may not take to this film; it is far from an easy film to stomach, but making the effort, you can get an extraordinary amount out of it. Certainly a uniquely unsettling, very adult film, imbued with subtle brilliance; likely to stay with you for a long while...Rating- **** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"One of the greatest ever horror films.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The greatest ever sex scene. Serious, intelligent horror. A creepy plot about a dead girl in a red raincoat who may not be dead. Beautiful locations shot in Venice. The most terrifying climax in a film ever. A perfect horror masterpiece. Goodbye!! 9/10. "},{"Title":"A truly disturbing film","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is truly a 'spooky' film. This is meant in the true sense of the word. Not for Nic Roeg, the cheap, sometimes, risible, 'shock tactics' that directors of lesser talent (and there are plenty of them!), think is the only way to make a scary movie. One example of how chilling this film is, is the scenes in Venice with the little girl in red - which reminds me of that scene in Rosemary's Baby, where Mia Farrow is by herself in her apartment, doors firmly bolted, and Ruth Gordon just waltzes in to see her. Don't Look Now is a brilliant piece of film making. It cannot be a coincidence that one of the best films about the Australian 'outback', was his film Walkabout. Incidentally, both Don't Look Now, and The Birds, were based on stories by Daphne Du Maurier. "},{"Title":"This one could have used some trimming.","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What was certainly an intriguing premise is mostly lost in an overly-lengthy and redundant film by Nicholas Roeg. The story deals with a couple relocating to Venice Italy after their young daughter drowns in a pond on their property in England. While the husband (Sutherland) spends his time restoring an old church, the wife (Christie) is left to act like more of a tourist. It is autumn, and Venice looks dark and foreboding. Not many tourists are left. There is also a killer on the loose. Someone is seen running around and ducking out of sight wearing the same kind of bright red raincoat that their deceased daughter wore when she died. Accidents keep happening. A blind psychic woman warns the couple to get out of Venice, etc, etc, etc. The husband refuses to see the warnings, or interpret them for what they most surely have to be. Additional tragedy seems to be the only way we're headed.So much to like about this film in terms of casting, acting, moody locations, and interesting storyline. But whomever actually edited this film just left too many redundant images and scenes in. This film could have been much more involving and gripping had it been trimmed down to about 90 minutes instead of nearly two hours that we are left with. The dialog is at times murky and difficult to decipher. A good bit of it is in Italian, too, and that doesn't help matters. There is an exceptionally passionate love scene (remember those?) but even it seems arbitrary. I watched this on a whim, hoping to discover another long-lost gem such as Let's Scare Jessica to Death, or Picnic at Hanging Rock. Sadly, this film fell well short. Additional viewings might improve one's enjoyment of this film, but at this point in The Hound's life, time is too short. 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A master class in film editing, not so much in horror.","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the highest-rated horror movies on IMDb so I've been quite eager to watch it. Imagine how disappointed I was to realize it's not quite a horror (though some scenes - especially the ending - are good with suspense).It's a very... atmospheric movie that reminds me a lot of Wong Kar Wai's stuff. Great to look at but jeez, boring as heck. Don't Look Now paints a picture of Venice that is beautiful yet bleak, and its cinematographer, Anthony B. Richmond, won a BAFTA for it, though I wonder if the impact of the movie doesn't come more from director Nicholas Roeg and film editor Graeme Clifford instead.Wow, the editing is relentless and blatant. Imagery was shoved in my face so hard that even the persistently shallow moviegoer that I am managed to draw parallels between images and story. I think that's why this movie is so acclaimed it's a master class in film editing, though it's probably better appreciated from a filmmaker or film critic's eye than an Average Joe's, much like Citizen Kane.Or maybe the boys like this movie because of the almost X-rated sex scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie. (Don't bother; it's not nearly as shocking now.) "},{"Title":"Well it put me off going to Venice!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot say this film was terrible, but I cannot say it struck me as being very good either.Don't Look Now pioneered the use of symbolic themes and motifs that have been incorporated into many horrors and thrillers since - such as Sixth Sense (use of red), The Ring (series of images seen before death), and The Others (scary yet benign old psychic lady).  The whole film was numbingly creepy, achieved by its location in the backwaters of Venice.  The ending was spine-curdling yet poignant and Sutherland's performance was nothing less than fantastic.  Indeed, the ending is about the only part that saves the film from being a crashing bore of slow-paced images, which have no meaning until the end, forcing you to go back and watch the whole film again to find the images you missed.  The first hour is painstakingly slow the first time around as it appears to have no meaning and the second viewing screams to be edited even more.  Stretching a film out unnecessarily does not create suspense - it just gets boring.  Not even the excruciating love scene between the anorexic Christie and Sutherland broke the stagnant pace.Christie's performance largely contributed to the downfall of the film.  She may be pretty, but her only acting skills consist of two pouting facial expressions.  Supporting cast were robotic if nothing else - particularly the blind psychic lady, who was laudable at times.  The most notable performance was the murderous midget, who stole the final scene and ruined the story of Little Red Riding Hood for me forever!Like The Exorcist, the director had the perfect concept and the perfect atmosphere, but should have sacked the editor! "},{"Title":"A visually stylistic psychic thriller without much substance","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the film's visual style, as well as the way that much of what went on was left ambiguous, but too much ambiguity isn't always a good thing. Many elements that originally seemed like clues turn out to be red herrings...or in fact totally meaningless.  And the love scene, while well shot, doesn't serve much purpose except to showcase Donald Sutherland's bum from every possible camera angle.It's an interesting rental as a part of '70s film history, but the short story on which it's based is better done. "},{"Title":"A Very Pleasant Discovery!","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh brother! I can't believe I'm 43, a big fan of horror films, and only now saw this film! This was a fascinating film from start to finish. I had no idea where it was headed, and the writer/director did a good job of keeping a great sense of mystery throughout the film. The great thing about the 'girl' in the red mack is that you think Sutherland is hallucinating when he sees her in Venice. And, after you see/hear the psychic give the final warning - you think he'll meet his fate accidentally. (They set this up very nicely with the almost-fatal accident in the church). The visuals add a lot of dynamism to this work, and halfway through I knew I'd have to see this film again to catch the allusions and references it was making. My only criticisms are that it does drag somewhat, and some of the direction is a bit haphazard at times. But this can't detract the fact that this is easily one of the greatest thrillers of all time. "},{"Title":"Wonderful directing","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now is set basically in Venice, Italy, where John Baxter (Donald Sutherland) and his wife Laura (Julie Christie) has settled after the horrible death of their daughter. When in Venice, Laura meets two strange sisters, one of them a blind psychic person, who claims that she has seen the couple's daughter. At the end of the movie, you will sit there with your mouth wide open, and just gasp at it.This picture is beautifully directed throughout, and starts with the excellent cross-clipping between Sutherland working and his daughter drowning. This becomes an extremely tense and powerfully shocking scene, without getting scary. Great editing! Sutherland and Christie gives performances worthy several Academy Awards in this movie, and works very well together. The love scene was breathtaking, once again, the editor was brilliant. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A couple recovering from the death of their daughter reside in Venice where the husband is restoring an old church. The meet elderly sisters and one of them claims she can see the little girl from beyond. At the same time a vicious murderer is running loose on the streets.There's no real neat way of summarizing the storyline from Don't Look Now. It's such a multi layered and gripping thriller that keeps rewarding audiences on repeated viewings. Every aspect is so carefully and professionally handled; the stunning photography making the best possible use of Venice's enchanting scenery, the supernatural element that lurks over and the puzzles that keep making more and more sense the more you watch the film and think about it. Don't Look Now is truly a unique film.By setting the film in it's off season where no tourists are lurking about, Venice takes on quite a unique look as the streets are mostly empty and the town looks awfully creepy during nighttime. The film has some striking imagery and will stay with you long afterwords. The classic love scene is the most beautiful I've seen, carefully edited and actually making a point in the process. The clever script keeps viewers completely unaware of where the film is going to go next and the classic shock ending still gives many adults nightmares (actually cited in a number of textbooks as an early shock which still give people the willies if seen at an early age).Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie play extremely well off each other, a genuinely likable and believable couple; you really care about them. Roeg's direction is nothing short of superb, his best work by far.Very recommended. "}{"Title":"one of the most beautiful and terrifying films of all time","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The city of Venice is the 3rd co-star of this gorgeous thriller. You can almost smell the nasty canal water and the mildewed bottoms of the buildings. Sutherland plays an architect helping to restore an ancient church. There are so many crumbling antiquities in Italy, restoration is always going on, and this church is very Gothic and suggestive of weirdness. The bishop is an enigmatic figure. Most scary movies feature lots of gore but not this one, its subtle. One is constantly being kept off balance, slightly suggestive of Hitchcock. The cinematography is exquisite and erotic as are Sutherland and Christie. Roeg started his film career as a cinematographer and I think this is a great example. Daphne DuMaurier has scared a lot of people and i'm one. Don't watch this alone! "},{"Title":"Why go to Venice to forget? (spoiler)","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If they went away to forget about Christine's death then why on earth go to the city that's built on WATER? I don't know if it was symbolism (they would never forget about their daughter etc.) or the writer just thought Venice was a pretty place. I first thought that it was this extended metaphor about forgetting the memory of Christine and no matter where they went it would always 'haunt' them so to speak. In my opinion, I thought the entire film was a load of symbolism of the colour red put on film relating to Christine's red mac obviously. This film had real potential but just didn't have enough depth and thought put into it. "},{"Title":"On the third viewing, I loved it.","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll give a film a second or third try if I can't make a decision about it on the first viewing. In regards to DLN, my opinion of the film shifted with each subsequent viewing. At first I considered DLN murky and indistinct. Now I consider the film a moody masterpiece. I've come to the decision that Nicolas Roeg is a brilliant director and master craftsman of film.On DVD, DLN looks so beautiful. There are scenes and images so rich they look like paintings. One image in particular of tableware and food being knocked over in a restaurant is very reminiscent of 17th century Flemish Still Lifes. Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland make a lovely screen couple as there appears to be genuine chemistry between them. Julie Christie &#150; my all time favourite actress &#150; manages to look beautiful, sexy, sympathetic, maternal and fragile all at the same time. There's a famous lengthy love scene between them which some reviewers have said doesn't add to the film. But I do think it's such a beautifully tender scene that it adds dimension to the relationship of Julie and Donald's characters. I find it amazing that such a strongly visual love scene doesn't in any way feel pornographic or vicarious.To me, DLN is more a film study of paranoia and confusion than a horror story. There's a murky quality to some events and some characters. After my third viewing, I still can't decide all the motivation of the old sisters. But the confusion and paranoia of Donald's character comes across beautifully.Overall, DLN is beautifully moody and eerie; Venice looks both exquisite and foreboding. The film's score is enchanting and haunting (I still have it playing in my head). Damn! Why can't they make films like DLN any more? 8/10 "},{"Title":"Slow paced, with a few good moments","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie opens with the two leads (Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie) inside their home. Their young daughter (Sharon Williams) is playing outside. Before you know it, Donald has a mild premonition, rushes outdoors and jumps into a pond. He lifts his girl out of the water and tries (unsuccessfully) to revive her using mouth-to-mouth respiration. So begins a sad tale, where Donald attempts to block this tragedy out of his memory, while his wife (Julie) is reminded of it by a blind psychic (possibly Hilary Mason). The psychic has visions of the young girl, and later, of Sutherland, when she senses he is in danger. Sutherland specializes in restoring old churches. The setting for most of the movie is Venice, Italy, a city that is presented as romantic and haunting. Possibly the best moments of the film are the love scenes between the two leads. Intercut with dressing and undressing shots, Ms. Christie has never looked more naturally erotic. The ending of the movie is quite enigmatic- you really have to see it to appreciate it. Interestingly, it also makes you think about what you saw at the beginning of the film. "},{"Title":"I wish I'd followed the title's advice.","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Over the years The Criterion Collection has restored and presented many of cinema's greatest treasures. Thanks to their meticulous care, thousands of the film world's greatest achievements have gotten the care and attention they so richly deserve. On the other hand, they've also reissued stuff like Don't Look Now.This movie is almost universally beloved by critics and Serious Film Viewers. When I was a film student, if they'd showed this to us I'm sure I would have gone right along with the party line and proclaimed this to be a masterpiece. But I was so much older then; I'm younger than that now. I don't have to call something profound because it's slow. I can call it yawn-inducing and poorly paced.The basic plot here is that John and Laura lost their little girl Christine to a drowning and now they're in Venice while John helps with a church restoration. One day Laura meets two sisters, one of whom - - a blind woman with second sight -- says she can see Christine sitting with John and Laura, and that the daughter is happy. She also says Christine bears a warning for her parents leave Venice at once. John doesn't believe it and he stays, much to his detriment.Now, I could attempt to expand on that synopsis but there would be no point because there is no further plot, unless you count John's endless meandering through foggy alleyways. Does cinematographer Anthony Richmond make empty Venice look great in the film? Absolutely. Does the occasional splash of the color red on Christine's raincoat and blood on a photographic slide have a striking effect when it appears? Sure it does. Is there a famous sex scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie? Apparently, but unless you're into watching two bony skeletons clack together, it's not going to do much for you.Roger Ebert once said, It is the film's visual style, acting, and mood that evoke its uncanny power and his sentiment is echoed by a lot of other reviews I've read about this movie. But without a decent script, it's simply style over substance. This film has a reputation for being terrifying, or at the very least chilling. I adore films with those descriptors but this never even came close. As always, I can only speak for my own personal experience and would never discount anyone else's opinions on art. Aside from the decent cinematography and a tremendous performance by Donald Sutherland's mustache, this film really failed for me on every other level. "},{"Title":"A visually complex puzzle of a film","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg was certainly a master of the montage. During his prime he directed a series of films in which striking visuals were edited together such that they impacted the viewer in unusual ways. It is this bold use of editing that truly marks Roeg out as a visual stylist. With Don't Look Now these skills are evident from the outset. In fact, this movie above all others in the director's catalogue is perhaps the best example of his skilled use of this form for maximum emotional impact. The story about a couple who lose their daughter in a drowning accident and then move to Venice to forget, is replete with recurring imagery that only becomes fully meaningful on repeat viewings. Motifs such as water, mirrors and the colour red are repeatedly featured throughout the film. Water - the Baxter's little girl drowns, they leave England in the middle of a downpour only to move to Venice the city on the sea; mirrors - are seemingly everywhere, reflecting characters emotions, are broken immediately prior to the drowning; red - feels so prominent because it is used so sparingly - the colour red is almost completely removed from the colour scheme of the film other than key flashes of it at certain moments - this stylistic detail is not obvious but if you look back at the film you will see.One of the most unusual features of Don't Look Now is the way it presents Venice. This magnificent city is not depicted in a typical travelogue fashion. Famous landmarks are almost non-existent. Back alleys and crumbling buildings are instead featured throughout. This off-season Venice is sparsely populated. It looks cold and ominous. Which of course fits in perfectly with the theme of the movie. The labyrinthine corridors of the city mirror the complex psychological inner workings of the protagonists minds. The atmosphere throughout is eerie, and the tone overall is somewhat enigmatic. The central character John Baxter is in self-denial about his gift of the second-sight. The visual clues throughout the film foretell events yet to come but Baxter fights that which he fears is true; his frightening ability to see into the future. This of course results in an ending that is both unforgettable and entirely unpredictable.This is not really a film for everyone to be fair. Its pacing is slow and deliberate and it is more about atmospherics that action and thrills. Even its famous sex scene may disappoint many as it isn't really very erotic, more realistic and tender. Its two leads have tremendous chemistry and are both outstanding in quite complex roles. This is a fairly adult supernatural tale. One with many layers and meanings. "},{"Title":"not my cup of tea","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" girl dies, father sees her in venice canals, wife meets blind psychic, man gets slashed by dwarf.didn't think much of this one, but venice looked nice.lots of people had said what a good film it is, but i couldn't really see it. too much 'pondering' by the main characters and not enough actual plot. also, i thought that the ending was quite poor - even though it had been heavily sign posted it could have been more of a shock. instead, i found it quite funny!still, loved the Italian policeman and his sinister manner, plus the priest who looked as though he was acting the part of someone with something to hide.http//lotsofpopcorn.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not for late night viewing","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was alone in the house one evening. It was about 1100 p.m. and it was quiet. I saw this movie was on and decided to give it a try. It starred Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland, so I hoped it would be worth the effort. This turned out to be one of the most gripping films I've every seen. You follow this couple, who are wearing their hearts on their sleeves after the death of their little girl. You watch their pain as they begin to believe that there is some supernatural force at work that is going to reconnect them with their daughter. The red clad figure of a child keeps passing before them, but they never are able to really close in on it. It has to be the little girl. There is one incredible erotic scene which people talk about. This is violent sex. The city of Venice is in its off season and the canals are dirty. Construction is happening around the central figures. It is cold and it is oppressive. Sutherland's character is quite unlikeable. I've always found him to be rather unlikeable. But he must find out. He becomes obsessed with leaving no stone unturned. When we get to the ending, we are on edge, like his manic obsessive presence forces us to be. The ending is, of course, classic. I won't spoil it for anyone. Don't see this movie late at night with the lights down. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is truly one of the great films of all time. From beginning to end, it is deeply evocative and ultimately, disturbing. Beautifully shot, it captures on film two actors at the top of their game. This won't be for everyone but any serious film fan must watch it. A moody masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Venice, Awful Horror Movie.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am incredibly shocked that this movie received a 7.5 rating!!I'm sure I've seen over 2,000 films in my lifetime and just about every horror movie ever made. If people have given this film a high rating simply for the fact that it is torture just to sit and watch I'd be pleased to follow suit and give it a 10 rating. I would not give this film more than a 2-star rating(and I'm being generous). This is 1 hour and 45 minutes I'll never get back.I also believe that this movie should be moved into the drama category and not horror, or even thriller for that matter. If you are interested in viewing this film prepare yourself for a very slow-moving drama in which you find yourself starting to look at the clock around the 30 minute mark and saying to yourself 'hmmm...I wonder when the movie will begin', then at the 45-minute point, and again after an hour while scratching your head and saying 'this is a horror movie? In my opinion this movie got entered into the horror genre simply due to the end sequence (which lasts only a few minutes). Don't expect too many jumps, creepy atmosphere, gore or psychological terror.Good points about the movie - Very beautiful scenery of Venice, Italy. "}{"Title":"Stunning atmosphere and great cast.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sutherland's quiet, caring, but doom laden progress through the film is balanced by Christie's sensitive awareness of the fate that surrounds them both. The supporting cast, including Hilary Mason and Clelia Matania as the two dotty English ladies, and Renato Scarpa as the Italian police inspector, with his quiet tone and measured way of speaking, only add to the tension which builds to a clever climax.Soft focus, bright red blur in a shadowy pastel surrounding, swelling violins, dead bodies being pulled out of murky canals, bloody violence at the end, and beautiful sad Venice all around - how can the film be anything other than wonderful. You'll never look at the colour red again without a shiver. "},{"Title":"Simply magical","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The power and beauty of Don't Look Now still baffles me after countless viewings. The film's legendary opening sequence alone signals a work of extraordinary quality. The performances by Sutherland and Christie are both puzzling in their something-is-very-wrong ambiguity and, at the same time, haunting in their simplistic honesty. The film's sex-scene shows which moving results may come from actors who trust each other and their inspired director, all at the peaks of their talents. The film is also an interesting document of the seventies' styles and film-making techniques. Don't Look Now is a modern masterpiece, truly different and more intelligent than any other horror film you're likely to see. It inspired me to become a filmmaker when I saw it at fifteen. Don't miss it.  "},{"Title":"one of the greatest horror films ever","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't even know if this is a true horror film. I would say yes because the multi layered story keeps you thinking and caring for the characters long after it is over. Don't Look Now is a genuinely heartbreaking story. I feel that it serves its purpose as a horror film because all of its little elements that find their way deep under your skin don't settle there with ease. The film is like watching a nightmare unfold where you tell yourself 'I'm dreaming' but you don't wake up. Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland are both phenomenal. I think the dramatic portions of the film are heavy and make us care for these sad people enough to be afraid for them. This is a film which must be seen more than once; not only to appreciate it, but to understand that it really does all come together. It has been said millions of times, but They don't make 'em like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect when I watched this in 169 but after the viewing there is only word that describes this piece of art, A Masterpiece.The photography and framing is fantastic, especially the former, the film looks real and Venice never looked so gothic. I just love the photography, beautiful, just beautiful.The 2 leads are fantastic, Julie Christie is beautiful and puts a lot of care into her performance. Donald Sutherland is terrific, both work so well. The love-making scene is full of passion and shows how beautiful it really is. This is not a sex scene, it's a love scene. The editing is fabulous, especially the love-making scene and the opening to the film.The story is quite simple but only once the film reaches its climax which is quite disturbing. The film has many layers and there is a lot of symbolic scenes which all make sense once you've seen all of it.They don't make films like this anymore, this is a masterpiece in acting and photography.  "},{"Title":"An Ultimate Psychic Horror","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film a year ago, for the first time and as I heard that is very good, i didn't want to know anything about it, just cause it is so good. So, I started watching the film and literally after the first minute I was already sitting at the edge of the seat. INCREDIBLE !!! This masterpiece of horror belongs without any doubt on top 5 horrors ever made. My favorite one is definitely THE SHINING by Stanley Kubrick, but this one is on the second place. Brilliant directing, extremely relaxing acting, philosophical camera work, perfect lights, pace, music and suspense. VERY VERY SUSPENSEFUL film. It grows on you as I said after the first minute. It is very thrilling, psychological thriller with very dark dramatic elements that are turning into pure horror. For all that are into the genre this is A must see.11/10P.S. Just know that it doesn't have a single gore or blood spilling scene... That is what it makes it so powerful and mesmerising....  "},{"Title":"Original for it's Time","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Being almost 40 years old, Nicholas Roeg's Don't Look Now is ahead of it's time in it's story-telling and cinematography. It features a young Julie Christie, and younger Donald Sutherland, and succeeds in creating a creepy environment in the meld of Omen without as much reliance on Christianity. Without giving too much away, the movie sleekly fits in it's own set of mysteries and ties it together well. There were 3 minor things that looked poor or needed to be edited much better. One, Sutherland's character's clown suit purple, two the awful fake blood (you'll know), and finally a ridiculously long gratuitous sex scene with the leads. Still a decent older entry into the super-natural genre. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Creepy Gem","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Low-key masterpiece of the occult. What I particularly like are the hints of an extra dimension without rubbing our nose in it. Thus, the portents of what is to come are subtle and unpredictable. Note, for example, the running red splotch on the photograph as the daughter drowns, and how that pattern is duplicated in the stonework before Baxter's (Sutherland) trestle tumbles from the church roof. Too bad Baxter rejects his psychic power, otherwise he might have picked up on the portent of the little red figure. And how about that blind woman &#x97;great makeup on her eyes, like nothing I've seen since Rocketship X-M (1950). That first closeup had me under my chair.And what a great atmospheric setting Venice makes, though the ancient buildings appear ready to fall down. Those narrow passageways between the towering structures are the last word in gloom. My guess is the Venice Chamber of Commerce was not happy with the results. And when a Baxter goes running down one of those creepy pathways, you feel the shadows closing in. No wonder people there travel by gondola and canal. Anyhow, Sutherland and Christie are great. But what really distinguishes the film is the subtlety of its structure. Seldom has the occult been more fascinatingly portrayed than here. The movie's a genuine low-key gem. "},{"Title":"Death in Venice","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This 1973 movie may be the most esoteric horror film ever made, in that it quite subtly deals with grieving, and the hold the dead have over the living, in ways that few films do, a notable exception being the Kieslovski film Bleu. Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie lose their daughter in a drowning accident, but the focus is hardly upon the family (the older son is shuffled off to boarding school) as much as it is upon the psychological weight this death brings to bear upon the two adults, who seem to deny it as much as they dwell upon it. Removed to creepy, byzantine, claustrophobic and utterly beautiful Venice, they encounter a pair of English sisters, who may or may not be a psychic link to their dead daughter. (One of the more disturbing moments in the movie is the sequence which cuts between the sisters alone barking with laughter while Christie recalls her initial encounter with them to her doubting husband.) This movie asks if people have psychic ability, what does it really mean, and what good/evil does it offer those who haven't? Miles beyond most mystery or horror films intellectually, and oddly remote and suggestive, this is well worth watching. Besides, it has Julie Christie!! "},{"Title":"Dated but OK","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HmmAn interesting little film, would have been fantastic at the time.As you would expect from a film directed by Nicholas Roeg, it is at times abstract and symbolic. The pace is slow in places, but (with possibly the exception of The Exorcist, which still stands up quite well today) many films up to the mid 80s could attract the same criticism.There are certainly a few spine tingling moments, and as another poster commented, a feeling of impending doom all the way through the film.Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Watch it now !","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Behind this old fahion aspect and a kind of romantic venitian story, there's a thrilling movie in the tradition of the Exorcist or Robert Mulligan's the other. Probably one of the best film by Nicolas Roeg. The end is really scary and you know by watching it that the authors of 'Blair Witch Project also had.  "}{"Title":"7.0/10","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *************SPOILER*************Classic Donald Sutherland. If you are looking for a great thriller (set in Venice no less) with the super-natural twist...this is the film.Though it is somewhat predictable, I still liked it very much. Any movies with crazy knife wielding midgets score high in my book.I would recommend this film to anyone with a taste for old Italian horror flics. It falls in the same lines.  "},{"Title":"Just Venice","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Instead of collecting clever adjectives to show how much I liked/disliked this movie, I'd say something -I hope- more objective. There are two kind of Venice visitors the lovers and the haters. The lovers usually can't explain where or what is exactly Venice fatal attractive (love is not explainable, is it?), which acts as a deathly disease and never lets you once you've seen it. While the haters see more a collection of damp ruined buildings, sinking in putrid waters. The same thinking line would likely talk about Rome and Athenas in terms of just debris. These are both the same sides of the coin for this movie watchers. Don't Look Now *IS* Venice SHE is the main starring. The damp, the echoes, the silence (not actually paradoxical), the mist, the light... mostly everything special one could appreciate in this film atmosphere is Venice quintessence. Forget the Great Canal, gondolas and San Marcos preconceived ideas, they are just shiny golden baits for avid tourist masses. But it's the darker, the dying side of Venice which really impresses a soul, and so it does this movie. If Venice sights are not enough to attract your attention for a couple of hours, maybe Sutherland and Christie will do. Daphne du Maurier's story is the root masterpiece and Pino Donaggio's standard work perfectly pushes this time the dagger of anxiety deeper into your heart. If you think you are inside the lovers group, don't miss the movie. Try also the stories by du Maurier, Donna Leon and Michael Dibdin their books are damped with the same venetian sticky matter; I bet their minds too. "},{"Title":"Good, and should be seen, but not the greatest horror movie ever.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, this movie is a little weird, but not excessively so.  Second, it does have ample scary and chilling moments, and a strong ending.  Third, the love scene really is one of the best ever.  But, fourth, it is not the greatest horror movie of all-time, as many fans of the genre claim.  There is no way it is as good as The Exorcist, Halloween, Friday the Thirteenth (or many other 80's slashers), Rosemary's Baby, or, for that matter, even Scream.  Fifth, I am glad I saw it and those who haven't yet should. (It is better than The Changeling and The Innocents).   "},{"Title":"Amazing film thriller with a sense of time and place","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An English middle class couple lose their daughter to a domestic accident, and their loss continues to haunt them on a working visit to Venice.A little firecracker of a movie from the offbeat and underrated Director Nicholas Roeg; developed from the novel by Daphne Du Maurier. The setting of a winter Venice (what a backdrop!) gives this film a chilling air all of its own.Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie are perfectly cast as the middle class couple and the two old women that have something to tell them are great too. The twist ending can make your spine tingle - even on repeat viewings. A lesson in delivering big thrills on modest budgets. "},{"Title":"its decent","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  a good love scene does not make a good film great. i did love the film, although its only number 35 on my list. great atmosphere....superb acting....outstanding location and a decent amount of suspense, make this dated film seem alive and gripping. one of the best ever? lets not go too far. is it worthy of the praise? yes. but before we go saying how its in the top 3...lets all sit and watch some very under-rated films such as the other, from 1972, a film with no blood, no sex and is just if not more suspensful. "},{"Title":"Good, in a confusing sort of way","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS'Don't Look Now' certainly had a creepy premise but with only the few following exceptions it failed to live up to the horror I was led to expect. The film has a deeply disturbing last scene in which you are left with the idea of witnessing your own funeral which I think would give anyone a chill down their back.Aside from that there wasn't really much horror for me. The bloody murder scene was more confusing than anything else - unlikely killer that's for sure. There is a large part of the middle of the film where I got a bit lost, but got back on track for the finale.Acting was excellent from both Sutherland and Christie. It also features a touching love scene, which although very beautiful adds nothing to the plot (if anything slows it down) and gives nothing to character development, so I can't help but wonder what its point is, but it was very nicely done - they really do look like they are making love.Certainly worth watching for the performances if nothing else.7/10 "},{"Title":"Bitter and Inevitable","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Only age and experience will allow a viewer of this film to appreciate its underlying message. The young won't understand it. They're not meant to.Don't Look Now is about the most bitter, inevitable reality of life death.Death hovers like a fog in this film. Subconsciously, we catch glimpses of it as a reflection on the water, a face in the window, someone's moan echoing off the stone walls of Venice.John and Laura Baxter, played by Sutherland and Christie, are the people that death stalks in this film. It strikes early, and stays, for reasons that aren't entirely clear. The Baxter's move to Venice. Death follows, and begins to slowly and inevitably suffocate them like the swamp water that filled their daughter's lungs.Warnings are issued by a blind spiritualist. Leave Venice she says. John Baxter ignores this warning.The value of life is measured  by the fact that it can end suddenly, without warning, or preparation, or meaning. With age, this realization begins to haunt you, a crude and bitter aperitif to any of life's sweet moments. A burden that, with each passing year, becomes heavier, more awkward and more demanding.Don't Look Now is a message to the young about the nature of death. A message that, ironically, will be lost to them until it's too late and they realize that death walks beside them, their companion until the end. "},{"Title":"Nic Roeg delves into occult horror","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's an intriguing drama with leisure pacing. The photography by Roeg and Pino Donaggio's melancholy score are good assets. The performances by Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie are solid although the much toted steamy love scene is tame by today's standards. A surprise ending if you can make it through the entire film. Not quite up to par with Performance or  The Man Who Fell to Earth but it's 70's era Nic Roeg so that counts for something.P.S. Avoid anything by him after Eureka... "},{"Title":"Death in Venice?","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this film I did not knew the plot or anything so the surprise was striking I had no idea tha Dont look Now was almost a  classic  based on a story by Daphne Du Maurier,Hitchcock adapted Rebecca from her book too,so,she was a notorious writer. In the beginning of DONT LOOK NOW when John Baxter(Donald Sutherland)has a premonition just before his little daughter's accident,I felt a strange uneasiness.Julie Christie(as a grieving mother)give a very touching performance,when she is in Venice with John,they don't communicate each other they can't deal with their pain,when the blind medium appears and said to Julie that her daughter is happy,Julie Christie starts to live again she is more close with her husband but John perceives something he is not a religious person but his job is to restore churches,the question is he really has the gift to see the future?.Dont Look Now has one of the most impressive ending i have ever see,Rosemary's Baby final sequence was great,I loved the ending of The Others,this one is also chilling and sad at the same time, just imagine to watch your own coffin! that scene gives me the creeps!,but at the same time is one of the most powerful in Cinema History. "},{"Title":"Don't Watch This Alone","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A spooky, atmospheric film which will have you jumping from your seat.This is an unusual film with flashbacks and visions that are complicated but satisfying. You have to pay attention to catch all the nuances of what is happening. Donald Sutherland is quite good as the grieving husband/father and Julie Christie is strong as the wife/mother. But the character of Heather, played by Hilary Mason, is the one that you remember...her glazed, blind eyes will make you shiver. The city of Venice is portrayed,through the use of excellent lighting, as a mysterious place of tunnels and dead end passages which is very effective. The final sequence of events will catch you unprepared,even though there are clues to the climax all through the story. There is an steamy love scene between Sutherland and Christie that is legendary. You won't see it on the edited for television version. This movie was originally rated X because of this scene, which was slightly cut for an R rating. "}{"Title":"Two comments on this very good film...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since I saw this one on the big screen, not knowing in advance what the outcome would be, I came away shocked and trying to piece together all the clues in retrospect, the clues he missed.  The film was very effective for me in this way.  But, if you know what is going to happen (because someone told you or you have seen it already) the experience is totally different. You only have one chance to get the full impact of this film, and, if you have had a prior build-up from a friend or from reading these comments, it may be spoiled. Concerning the love scene, I found it as erotic and genuine as many others have.  I also had the idea that this is the first time they are making love since the death of their daughter.  I can imagine that parents who lose an only child may have difficulty being intimate for a long time after.  So, it would be much more than a gratuitous erotic interlude in the story; it would be a sign of hope that they are healing.  It makes the ending all the more tragic! "},{"Title":"A brilliant and intoxicating collage of light and color","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a compelling visual feast of orgiastic proportions. The lush use, and equally important lack of use, of color creates a world fascinating in its coldness and splendor. Donald Sutherland's freshly shorn buttocks enhance the color palate in the same way that a red butterfly stretching its saturated wings in the dew enhances a warm spring morn.The color scheme in Venice, representative of the inner turmoil of Sutherland's and Christie's characters after losing their daughter in a horrible accident, is just one of the many brilliant aspects of this film. It's use of grays, blues and greens creates an ominous feeling that portends of things that may yet come to pass.The use of color in the past works breathtakingly, much better than in Lumet's DANIEL, and even the super-saturated celluloid of Spike Lee's DO THE RIGHT THING. It helps to tie the viewer emotionally into this rich world where Sutherland's family was happy and secure.No brief discussion of the visuals of this film would be complete without talking about that raincoat. That is absolutely to die for! I would love to have a rain coat so breathtaking and it is used in this film to its fullest extent. Kudos to the production design. Hoo-rah!I would love to explain how this film is in fact a metaphoric treatise on the value of religion in helping the living cope with the loss of a loved one to the communist party (red raincoat anyone??), but that shall be covered in another review...DON'T LOOK NOW?? With these visuals, Sister I'm going to look again and again and again!! "},{"Title":"Nightmarish and Beautiful","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  1973 was a terrific year for horror films. You had The Exorcist which was brilliant for mixing shock scenes with great plot and characters.Then there is the forgotten(except by a lucky few) Don't Look Now. A methodical, surrealistic film with that builds up to a climax that will haunt you.Everybody comments on the sex scene in this movie and with good reason. Take a look at any of those NC-17 rated films on Cinemax and almost any sex scene you will see will have a prefuntory, mechanical, emotionless approach.The sex scene in this movie is warm and rich and looks like it happened with a couple that is in love.But the real highlights in this film are the dreamlike happenings that happen throughout that do not get explained until the end (well, not completely explained).Besides where it takes place, the film itself has a foreign feel and for that reason it didn't quite connect with American Audiences in the way The Exorcist did.But for film lovers that gave it a chance, it no doubt left a real impression on them.Watch out for the figure in the rain coat! "},{"Title":"eerie, chilling, haunting, brilliant","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film for the first time ever on TV last night and halfway through the movie, I began thinking of the subsequent review I was going to write - the one I am writing now in fact - it was to include words such as too slow, uneccessary and makes no sense but after watching the film to the very end my following thoughts will be very different. I now see that every creepy event made perfect sense and every event was also linked together from the beginning to the end of this haunting piece of cinema.For me there is not one but two storylines running through this film, the tale of a couple grieving the loss of their daughter who go to Venice and are haunted by psychic visions of their loss and the tale of the shady Venice police force's efforts to track down an even scarier killer that's on the loose. The two interweave and culminate to a thrilling, breathtaking climax, that I will not forget for a long time.This film was on release originally at the same time as The Exorcist and in my opinion is a far better movie 8/10.  "},{"Title":"'something is wrong, but you just don't know what'.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't look now is among the best I have ever seen. If you want to compare to any other feature I think Polanski's brilliant Rosemary's Baby is much alike. Both occult thrillers give you the same feeling that 'something is wrong' but you just don't know what. Sutherland is great (interesting; all 70-ies movies in which he stars are great). The art-direction is so beautiful, so stylish they don't make 'em like that nowadays.Best scene is the one where Donald watches his own funeral, but be sure not to miss the opening sequence; the shot of Sutherland holding his drowned child is stunning. "},{"Title":"Wonderful cinematography","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Has some of the most beautiful cinematography to be seen anywhere. I have heard that Roeg was a cinematographer/cameraman for many years before starting to direct. Don't know if that's the case, but this is gorgeously framed and shot. "},{"Title":"Do look at Don't Look Now now","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie made the British Film Institute's top 10 and it topped the best 100 films list of the British publication Time Out. According to Wikipedia Don't Look Now was, along with Hitchcock's great film Rebecca, one of only two movies Daphne du Maurier liked based on her work. But living in North America, I found it a hard movie to see and harder to buy. If you can get ahold of this one, it's worth it.After losing their young daughter, a depressed married couple (Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland) encounter two weird sisters who claim they can see the girl in spirit and that she is happy. This gives Laura (Christie) much relief, but John won't accept his daughter's afterlife. He thinks he's being realistic, but he's really in denial- Laura is making peace with the child's death and John isn't. His failure to do so makes him think he can still find her and chase after her- a mistake that destroys him, despite psychic warnings.What are we to make of that killer dwarf? The viewer is free to decide whether she was real or a metaphor, a deformed serial killer or death personified. Maybe John was killed by a murderer but he had delusions as to what the killer looked like. Maybe he actually killed himself. Maybe he died in the accident at the Church and what happens after that is all in his mind in his last few seconds. In that light, the dwarf, which might be regarded by some as strange and random, is open to interpretation.The story possibilities are helped along with beautiful direction, editing and cinematography. There does seem to be some influence from Hitchcock. Not all of the acting is perfect- Sutherland yelling out Dead! Dead! Dead! was overkill- but in general it works. The movie is intriguing, haunting, and captivating. "},{"Title":"Director Nicolas Roeg made several puzzling, complex films in his prime; Don't Look Now is one of his most enigmatic and certainly his spookiest.","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now is one of the fanciest, most carefully assembled enigmas seen on the screen. The film stars Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie as a husband and wife whose lives grow complicated after meeting two elderly sisters in Venice, one of whom is clairvoyant and claims to be in contact with their recently deceased daughter who is trying to warn them of impending danger.The film is based on a short story by Daphne du Maurier. The macabre short story, in director Nicolas Roeg's hands, became a brilliant exploration of loss, grief, betrayal and eroticism. The celebrated sex scene between Sutherland and Christie sets the tone for a mystery of strange supernatural connections and unknowable truths, while Venice look like a place with brooding, shadowy secrets and dark, nightmarish alleys. Don't Look Now is a masterpiece of suggestion and terror. "},{"Title":"Red Cross Code A DVD Commentary","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Optimum Home Entertainment, 2006 ContentsIntroduction with Alan Jones Audio commentary with Nicolas Roeg and Adam Smith 'Looking Back' featurette An interview with Pino Donaggio TrailerNo, you're not suffering from some Roeg-ish déjà vu Don't Look Now was originally released on DVD by Warner Bros in 2002. However, that version only featured the trailer and the 'Looking Back' featurette, along with a notoriously poor stereo track. This special edition aims to consign that version to the dustbin (or its modern equivalent, eBay), sporting Dolby Digital 2.0 stereo sound, a digitally restored anamorphic widescreen transfer, terrific new cover artwork - and, best of all, an audio commentary with the elusive director Nic Roeg himself. But more of him later. They say seeing is believing intones the wordy trailer. But only a split second of time separates the past from the future. The present is crushed between them. A thin thread of life in a skein of death. If that's not creepy enough, the guy doing the voice-over sounds like he's on loan from a 1970s public information film, the sort aimed at children who like playing near canals. Don't. Look. Now. It's like the anti-Green Cross Code. Introducing the movie is horror expert Alan Jones (yes, he does rather look like Pluto from Wes Craven's The Hills Have Eyes), who notes the film ensured that parents would never again buy their child a red plastic raincoat. He also reminds us that the frankest sex scene in mainstream cinema history up to that point was the first to be filmed, and that composer Pino Donaggio, whose first feature this was, went on to score Brian De Palma's Carrie, Dressed To Kill, and Body Double. As a 1960s pop idol, he also had a hit with the original version of 'You Don't Have To Say You Love Me', then called 'Io Che Non Vivo', before Simon Napier Bell and Vicki Wickham re-jigged it for Dusty Springfield. The 20-minute featurette 'Looking Back' (note contains major spoilage) sees Roeg, cinematographer Anthony Richmond and editor Graeme Clifford reminiscing about the movie. For Roeg, Don't Look Now was an exercise in film grammar... these images were part of a puzzle that we'd eventually come to understand. The crew describe shooting in Venice - the winters are grim, with Roeg recalling the City's curious sound maze, by which tourists traversing its gloomy alleyways will never be sure whether the sound of footsteps are behind or in front of them. The film's palate was vitally important, with the colour red used very sparingly, to maximise its chilling impact. The celebrated love scene wasn't originally in the script, and was shot in 90-minutes in a hotel room on a hand-held. It's not a seduction, stresses Roeg of the couple's healing intercourse. It's a married couple at it, adds Richmond. Finally, Roeg explains the significance of Julie Christie's final beatific smile aboard the funeral barge - a smile of the undefeated in the face of defeat is somehow much more powerful. Elsewhere, composer Donaggio states he can't remember much about the film (good start), but then proceeds to recall quite a bit. Apparently, the producers didn't want him, but Roeg was excited with his efforts and gave him free reign; De Palma didn't share Roeg's hands-off approach, it seems. Donaggio of course, is also responsible for the love scene music, which, with its hippie flutes, sounds like the incidental score for a 1970s children's cartoon from Czechoslovakia. And there's very little that's sexy about that. You may want to crank the volume up a bit for the audio commentary; at 78, Roeg may still have all his faculties intact but vocal projection isn't one of them (Rowley Birkin QC from 'The Fast Show' springs to mind). You really have to concentrate here. It's a moot point whether this is as definitive an insight into the film as we're going to get (Roeg, like his non-linear output, is too digressive for that, and rarely answers a question directly) but it's marvellous to have him nonetheless. Among other things, the director recalls that Daphne Du Maurier, who wrote the original short story on which Don't Look Now is based, wrote to Roeg after seeing the film to tell him that his two leads, Christie and Sutherland, reminded her so much of the couple she saw in Torcello, having lunch together - the couple who had influenced her story They looked so handsome and beautiful and yet they seemed to have a terrible problem and I watched them with sadness... It struck me perhaps that their child had died. Roeg describes the difficulties of shooting in Venice - the most bizarre and wonderful place - and the casting. (I liked the idea of an English and American marriage... a sort of common language but completely different culture). Of the sex scene, he says, It's a completely natural thing. I think that's why people can put themselves in that position... if you know what I mean! Roeg recalls that the film wasn't universally praised when it first came out, which the director generously puts down to its distribution (it was originally released on a double bill with an equally overlooked movie, The Wicker Man). Of the film's ambiguous themes (and for Roeg, theme rather than plot is everything), he says I think any drama has to have the quality of something unfinished. Our whole existence is predicated by the fact we don't have anything complete. If we do feel that, we're missing something. Enigmatic to the end, he also won't be pressed on whether the film still stands up for him. It's a memory for me, he states. Ah, but what memories. "},{"Title":"Clever, atmospheric, dated, over-rated","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those films that no doubt require repeated viewings in order to be fully understood and appreciated, and as I've only seen it once it is perhaps unfair to deliver too decisive a review. Having said that, Roeg seems to hide the meaning of his story with so many oblique references and (sometimes clumsy) symbolism that I was tempted to feel that what is so often praised as genius is actually the self-indulgence of an unchecked talent. The film's about fifteen minutes too long, and some scenes are too long but the atmosphere Roeg generates is undeniably eerie, and if you didn't already know the twist ending (which surely everyone does by now) then it probably still delivers quite a shock. "}{"Title":"A Beautiful, Thoughtful, Unpredictable Horror Movie","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicola Roeg's Don't Look Now is one of the most interesting and technically well-made horror movies I've ever seen. Drawing inspiration from Daphne du Maurier's short-story (adapted by Allan Scott and Chris Bryant), this is a story about loss, grief, fate, madness, set in a Venice which is simultaneous beautiful and nightmarish.John and Laura Baxter travel to Venice where he's engaged in restoring an old church. They also use this travel to try and forget the death of their daughter Christine and possibly salvage a wrecked marriage. But a chance encounter with two British ladies changes everything; one of them, blind and claiming to have psychic powers, tells Laura she's seen Christine and that she's happy. John is skeptical, but the mourning Laura is sucked right into her visions. She also has a warning for John he must leave Venice or he'll die.But John is developing his own madness, as he starts seeing a figure which resembles Christine. Ironically, as Laura starts getting some comfort from the old lady, John becomes himself obsessed. And his obsession will lead him to an unforgettable meeting with fate and to one of the most unexpected endings in film history.Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie are amazing in their respective roles, he as a commonsensical man who's trying to leave the past behind, she as a mother trying to cope with loss. Their relationship is honest and convincing I really believe they've been a lifetime together and have gone through the death of a child.There's a famous sex scene in this movie, very visual, which some call needless; but for me it summons up their relationship through the movie they're too lonely people who've drifted apart and are trying to reconnect. It's a beautiful moment of passion and intimacy.The technical aspects of the movie are just as excellent. I particularly admire Anthony B. Richmond's cinematography, which turned beautiful Venice into a frightening city full of shadows and unknown horrors at each turn. Pino Donnagio's score is also beautiful it's sad, serene and restrained, much like the movie itself. The editing is also clever Roeg and Graeme Clifford constantly insert bits from John's past into the narrative, showing how past and present are always together.Unfortunately the story is never strong as much as I love the movie, at times it felt incoherent, with a serial killer plot that needed more room for development, especially considering it ties up everything together. I can't wait to read du Maurier's story to see how she dealt with this.All in all, Don't Look Now is a fascinating horror movie, made during horror's last Golden Age (it came out in the same year The Exorcist and The Wicker Man did); it's intelligent, it's mature and it's emotionally engaging. Quite simply, no one makes them like these anymore. "},{"Title":"The loss of a child, represented as the ultimate horror","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Once again, a film that has suffered as a result of the limitations of genre classification, with many viewers hearing of its subsequent reputation as a horror film of legendary, note only to then feel slighted by the distinct lack of gore, brutality or obvious dramatic tension. Nonetheless, this is a horror film in the best possible sense; or at least, as far as a more mature adult-orientated audience is concerned. Like many great horror films, it works because the thematic set-up has a certain sense of plausibility, establishing a theme of human fragility that reverberates from that opening sequence and eventually ends up colouring everything from the judgement of the central characters, the interference from external forces and the clear lack of any kind of outside influence, as the world of the film and the world of these characters becomes progressively more claustrophobic, or closed in. This notion is perfectly expressed by the continual atmosphere of dread and uncertainty that is suggested by the incredibly drab colour schemes, the dilapidated, almost decrepit locations, and the general overcast, foggy-wet misery of Venice out of season.Nonetheless, we feel that sense of connection, just as we feel that the fragility of this relationship, and the scene of isolation, or perhaps even alienation - be it from grief, or simply the idea of foreigners in a strange and exotic land - is entirely real and true to these protagonists as actual human beings, even when clearly stylised for purposes of a greater dramatic connection. The use of Venice as the film's primary location works incredibly well, reminding us of the influence of Luchino Visconti's near-infamous Death in Venice (1971) - a similarly morose film about loss and self destruction - and director Aldo Lado's underrated Giallo thriller, Who Saw Her Die? (1972). By setting the film in Italy, director Nicholas Roeg is able to tap into the grand tradition of Italian horror cinema of the mid-to-late 1960's, from Mario Bava to Dario Argento, with the ultimate concern of the film - like Bava's The Girl Who Knew Too Much (1963) or Argento's The Bird With the Crystal Plumage (1970) - being about sight.With this notion in mind, the film deliberately focuses on characters who, for one reason or another, are unable to see the situation for what it truly is - both in the pre-credit sequence and in the subsequent scenes leading up to that cryptic, heart stopping finale - until it is entirely too late. This is brilliantly contrasted by a secondary character who is unable to see in the literal sense, and yet, is able to perceive the world around her, not only experiencing things that have already happened, but those that are yet to come. The notion of second sight, which is almost the ultimate cliché of films that deal with subjects of a supernatural nature, is here fully explored by Roeg, not simply in the traditional, storytelling sense of character and script, but in his fantastic, elliptical approach to structure and editing, which again, carried over from his previous experiments with the late Donald Cammel on their groundbreaking debut film, Performance (1970).As with that particular film, which was also centred on the notions of sight and perception, we have an emphasis on moments that at first seem fairly inconsequential, only to later take on a greater thematic importance once the pieces of the film, particularly in light of those final scenes, eventually fall into place. Roeg's film is often noted for three standout sequences 1) the opening pre-credit tableau, in which a scene of drab domestic existence is literally cross-cut with the death of the couple's youngest child; 2) the sex scene, which is not only exhilarating in the sense of the two characters uniting through the burden of grief, but in the sense of showing a scene of genuine passion that seems tender and true; and finally 3) the shocking revelation of the penultimate scene and the various questions that it raises. As amazing and compelling as these sequences are - and as a testament to the greatness of Roeg's direction and the central performances of Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie - there is much more to the film than these sequences alone.The film works because the characters are believable; we recognise the situation and how the spectre of loss and grief hangs above these protagonists, creating tension, anxiety and often animosity. As the film progresses, the relationship between John and Laura becomes as central as the growing supernatural elements, illustrating once again that this is a very grown up (horror) film about grown up people. It is rare to see this level of emotional complexity and maturity in film, horror or otherwise, with these two very normal, very unassuming middle-aged characters coming together in one of cinema's most infamous and mostly celebrated expressions of tenderness and passion, as they explore one another's bodies and eventually learn how to continue on in life (as a couple). Again, these are themes that may be missed by a less mature audience (it has little to do with age and a lot to do with attitude) who will be unable or unwilling to engage with the film on this kind of highly personal, sometimes uncomfortable, but always fascinating level. "},{"Title":"Roeg is no Rogue in Sheepish Clothing..Stripped Emotionally Bare are They..","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Follow up to Danny..970 and others who greatly appreciated Roeg's beautiful rendering of a very complex,multi layered story, despite attempts to simplify this film as a Horror/erotic flick ,matching Christie and Sutherland.. IF anyone here,commenting on this film ,has not seen Walkabout...it is a MUST,particularly if you are trying to understand the 'multi-levels' of symbolism and thematic material in DLN..Recall the clash of cultures,civilizations in Walkabout, which begins with a suicidal Modern father,determined to kill his children in the Outback..the children survive,rescued by David , the aboriginal teen..Roeg ,utilizing ghostly death scenes, merges ancient and modern psychological human frailties and strengths..as the three adolescents discover each other, their inner resources, will to survive and flourish in an Australian society that had remained segregated and disparate.. Remember, in DLN,we have John Baxter, a rational scientist, apparently assigned to assist in the restoration of an old Venetian church. His premonition regarding the imminent threat to their daughter,Christine's life, occurs as he peers into a magnifier,viewing ,analyzing a slide,possibly, a mosaic fragment from the wall of the church ; recall later the significance of his climbing the scaffolding to match a piece of mosaic into the mural and his almost succumbing to an accident. Of course, he blames himself for not acting earlier to this 'vision', premonition, but offers no 'spiritual', mystical interpretation, unlike his wife,Laura,who dwells in the 'images' of her daughter's spiritual being..And, upon arriving in Venice and meeting the blind sister,Laura is actively seeking to 'communicate' with Christine,and encourages John to open up his steadfast, scientific, rationalist thought stream to their daughter's spirit.. YES, the primary conflict is within John Baxter, the scientist, rationalist, who proclaims our daughter is DEAD, nothing remains..And yet he cannot completely deny the blind sister's observation, that he has the GIFT.. of prophesy, premonition,of foreseeing future events..possibly Christine's imminent death, but guiltily he is powerless to alter her fate, and seemingly his own. What drives John ultimately to pursue the rapidly moving,fading appearance, resembling Christine? Yes, we are left to cope with this enigma. But , if guilt is a universal human attribute, it remains an irrational force that arouses our compelling curiosity, drive to comprehend, and need to obviate.. IS John's 'mysterious' death simply the culmination of his own prophesy..the camera zooms in on the jagged shape of the carotid slit...we have seen it before..several times.. His death,although he defeats several attempts on it, has been prophesied, forewarned by several.But the persistent rationalist remains in Venice,steadfastly to complete his work, but internally dealing with the Blind sister's compelling vision, which she shares ,as a gift, with John.. For the non spiritualists among us, 'point to your last emotion's cerebral source', which only may enable us to better understand the erotic, purely sensual scene between John and Laura a little better. "},{"Title":"A well-assembled mood piece.","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A couple heads to Venice in winter and tries to recover after their daughter had drowned in a lake in their backyard in England. But in Vince they get flashes of someone in a red coat and a blind physic woman informs them of their dead daughter. Though, in Vince there's something sinister lurking around every corner and the couple receives some shocks.This is a very beautifully crafted supernatural thriller by director Nicolas Roeg. There is such flair and creativity in the texture and suspense of the film. It might come across as a pretentious exorcise. Though, you can't deny the direction is tremendously executed , with such subtleness and precision. This makes it compulsive viewing.The wintry Venice backdrop is simply harrowing in the detail, from the canals; tight passages ways and bridges that occupy the bleak city. It truly captures the evoking atmosphere of dread and discomfort felt throughout the film. While, the nightlife comes across as quite hollow and sinister, with dark and creepy lane ways, imposing shadows lurking and such dim lighting. You just don't know what's behind every corner. Making it definitely the showpiece and the enforcing backbone of the film.The story is a very riveting puzzle piece, which every single scene is really important in picking up small hints and symbols to where the story is heading. It's quite a slow driven story, but still it keeps one glued to the screen throughout. There are some obscure and unexplored themes left up in the air, but that gives it some sort of mystique. Like I typed before every little thing counts.This no roller coaster ride of fast paced thrills, but a slow burner that stirs up different types of emotions and believes to what's actually happening. As surrealism and reality is morphing into one and the couple is treading in a fine line in between both realms. It's haunting and quite depressing as you can feel coldness of the atmosphere that the characters are feeling.The eye for detail and visual texture is superb. The eerie visuals are definitely eye catching and have a great impact on keeping you at unease. There is such a bleak and depressing colour scheme of grey, brown and black, though the vibrant colour red holds such a high importance in the story. While, the infamously intrusive sex scene comes across as quite cold and a way to heal their emotional wounds of their dead child.The tension is superbly built up, in the use of the swirling and imposing camera-work e.g. the moving opening scene of their daughter's death. With real moody and sharp editing. There is also bone chilling and striking sound effects that fills every crevice of the film. The smooth and potent score is truly mesmerising in catching the anxiety and alienation of these couple's emotions in such a foreign place. While, the film finishes with such a gob-smacking climax, which is truly powerful and shocking. The creepy set-up to it also packs a harrowing or morbid feel.The performances by Sutherland and Christie are simply absorbing and brilliant in their portrayal of the hurting couple John and Laura Baxter. The same goes for Hilary Mason as Heather the blind physic and Clelia Matania as Wendy, the two elderly sisters that Laura bumps into and gets physic messages about her dead daughter Christine. This is definitely a film that needs repeat viewings to pick up on certain things and signs throughout the film.This is a sophisticated and unnerving puzzle of a film. "},{"Title":"Chilling and suspenseful","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Watching this without knowing what to expect proved to be very rewarding as this is one of the most spine chilling movies I have seen, reminiscent of some of Polanskis work, but most definitively with an identity of its own. Using winter in Venezia as a backdrop is one of this movies smartest ideas. The narrow canals, the many cul-de-sacs and general sense of claustrophobia and being-lostness creates a lot of the suspension making me think twice about visiting Venezia at all (a city so full of tourists that the only option is winter).Add to that brilliantly tight editing and masterful direction and you got a winner. The editing makes the hottest love scene I have yet to witness on film, in fact I cant think of any competitors at all ATM. "},{"Title":"A master piece which just gets better with every viewing!","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Saw it when it first came out in the cinema back in the 1970s and thought it was absolutely one of the best! Have seen it five or six times in video format since then and my estimation for it just grows and grows. It is one of those rare films which, like a masterful novel, can be seen and re-seen and each viewing can give you different insights and perspectives. Christie and Sutherland are absolutely superb in every scene and are worth watching again and again. Finally, the scenario, with the decay and collapse of Venice omnipresent, like a stifling, obnoxious fume, is absolutely perfect for this... horror story?... tale of true love redeemed by death?...tragedy in which we chase our hopes and dreams even as they are actually destroying us???? As I say, with each viewing, I find the poetry and the possible interpretations just grab you that much more. Like a fine novel, however, after having reviewed it just recently, I shall wait a while until viewing again. If my estimation continues to grow as it always has done in the past, then it will be heading for a 10/10 in terms of rating! Thank you, Nicholas Roeg! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece, ten out of ten","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A great film, works as a conventional thriller, but also has a great deal to say. Wonderful performances by the leads; the big mystery is why Roeg never did anything else that works like this. Don't expect the same old thing like the dim horror fans who dissed the classic. It's a gem no quite like anything else. The DVD looks great, too bad you don't get commentaries. TEN OUT OF TEN. With the great McCabe and Mrs. Miller, Cristie shows herself as more than just the hip actress of the time, but one of the great stars ever.  "},{"Title":"A Dark Masterpiece","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the greatest ever British films. It's the story of a couple's grief after losing their daughter who drowns in the garden pond.Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie star and give spellbinding performances as they try to get their lives back on track, only to find that a series of disturbing events lead them further into a world of psychics, murder and dread.This isn't a gory movie - the horror builds throughout the film. It's set in Venice and as time passes, the city itself seems to conspire against the characters and becomes a dark dreamlike place - the atmosphere is perfect.There's a love scene in the movie that is worth a mention - beautifully shot (like all of Roeg's movies) and genuinely tender. It's intercut with scenes of the couple getting dressed afterwards and is simply wonderful.The ending left me aghast. It was bewildering, shocking and amazing. The credits rolled and I got up, put the light on and returned to the real world in a bit of a daze. This film stuck with me for a long time - it's impact is immense.An absolute must see.10/10  "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't look Now is an arty, haunting, and brilliant. It hasn't lost any of its impact 27 years later, except it has been forgotten because it was up against the mass hysteria of The Exorcist. It is very talky, and sometimes confusing, but it has two great performances from Christie and Sutherland, masterful direction from Roeg, a positively spine-chilling ending and an erotic sex scene that doesn't become a cliche. Heartily Recommended.PLOT 9 SCRIPT 7 ACTING 9 DIRECTION 9 CINEMATOGRAPHY 8OVERALL 8.5   "},{"Title":"A movie that's haunted me for a long time","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Don't look now' really is one of my all time favorites. I've seen it a countless number of times and still there's not a boring minute in it. However, I'll probably never forget the first time I saw it. I was about 12 and babysitting for my little sister. The movie was broadcasted on TV and it absolutely terrified me, but my sister was sleeping next to me on the couch and I didn't want to wake her up, so I kept watching it, without moving a muscle in my entire body. I've had several nightmares afterwards that featured the dwarf-like creature and the scene in which the little girl drowns. The latter, I think, still is one of the most chilling scenes I've ever seen.You might want to consider watching the following films in a row Start with 'The Comfort of Strangers', which is also set in Venice and breathes about the same dark atmosphere, then put 'Don't look now' in your VCR and finish it off with 'The Brood' by David Cronenberg. Just try it and you'll know why the last one belongs in the same series. "}{"Title":"had some nightmares about the red riding hood dwarf","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  has some brilliant scenes like the love making intersected with the dressing-up afterwards; the child which, at the end, appears to be a dwarf; the last dying minutes of Sutherland; and the overall dark mystical sphere of the movie. I've seen the movie several times but it still keeps me puzzled. "},{"Title":"An atmospheric chiller","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I sat down to watch this film I knew almost nothing about it which is probably the best way to view it as constantly wondering whether I was watching a psychological thriller, a supernatural thriller or even a horror film kept me on the edge of my seat through out. The film follows John and Laura Baxter who are living in Venice some time after their daughter Christine drowned back in England. They seem to be coping until Laura talks to two women; one of whom claims to be a psychic who can see Christine with her parents. Laura's instinct is to believe the woman but John is convinced they are frauds. Laura sees them again and they warn her that something bad will happen to John if he stays in Venice. When their son has an accident at his boarding school Laura returns to England but soon after she leaves John is convinced he has seen her with the two women but when he can't find her he goes to the police&#x85; is she really in Venice or is he starting to see things? As he searches for her things get more and more creepy until the film reaches a shocking conclusion.Director Nicholas Roeg maintained an almost constant feeling of unease throughout the film; making Venice seem a claustrophobic and menacing place. Right until the end we don't know what the two women's motives are; are they really trying to help or are they a danger? Stars Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland did fine jobs as the Baxters; their naturalistic performances made them very believable as a married couple totally as ease with each other. If you think that a thriller needs explosions, chases and lots of CGI then this isn't the film for you; however if you want something genuinely chilling I'm sure you'll like this. "},{"Title":"Donald Sutherland's Magical Moustache","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Excess of grief for the dead is madness; for it is an injury to the living, and the dead know it not. - XenophonNicholas Roeg directs Don't Look Now. Opening sequence John Baxter studies projected slides of the inside of a Venetian church. At his side, John's wife repeats a question their daughter once asked If the Earth is round, why is a frozen pond flat? John smiles, but then notices a figure cloaked in red on one of the slides. He leans in for a closer look. His smile fades. Outside, his daughter Christine, similarly dressed in a red mackintosh, falls into a pond. Baxter senses trouble, runs outside, but is too late. She's dead. Director Nicholas Roeg edits the sequence, cutting back and forth from John to his wife to his son to his daughter to the church, to suggest fateful rather than coincidental connections.John and his wife travel to Venice. The city becomes a nightmarish dream-space, their daughter's death carved into the very landscape. Grisly murders happen out of sight, the city's canals recall the pond in which Christine died, a child's doll is seen floating in the water, corpses are pulled out of rivers, and red cloaked killer dwarfs lurk in the shadows.While the city haunts, a manifestation of their troubled psyches, the Baxter's grief in their own, unique ways. The wife, Laura, becomes obsessed with a pair of mediums whom she believes can summon her daughter's spirit. One of the clairvoyants is blind, literally privy only to the metaphysical. John, however, denies outright the existence of spiritual, supernatural realms. He is an architect. A man of reason. Clean lines. An empiricist. Laura has a mental breakdown. In the hospital, a child plays with the very ball that bounced while her daughter died. John blocks out his wife's mental disintegration, denies the possibility of conversing with the dead, purposefully avoids the clairvoyants and seems to have forgotten about his daughter entirely. His denial bleeds into every scene like ink. I know this place, he says of a waterway, before chasing a red figure and later denying the occurrence when questioned by his wife. Similarly, throughout the film, John and Laura travel through Venitian canals. In the background, almost subliminally, police are seen ferrying bodies on boats. At one point John talks to an officer. Laura asks what's going on. John dismisses it. Nothing, he says, as bodies are fished out of liquid.Throughout the film it is subtly implied that John is himself clairvoyant. It is only when the mediums bring this to Laura's attention that we learn this outright. John's denial thus stems, not from simple grief, but an attempt to deny his own supernatural abilities and therefore responsibility; he let their daughter die. As such, Roeg shows John increasingly withdrawn, boxed in, drunk, shut off from the outside world. And yet...John restores an ancient church, the building like some Gothic window into his own heart. As the church is restored, so to is, not only John's belief in the otherworldly, but his confrontation with his capacity to tap into the future. We recall that John authored Beyond the Fragile Geometry of Space.Ending John chases what he hopes to be a restored Christine through the alleyways of Venice. They meet in an alcove, where the figure is revealed to be a serial killer, who swiftly kills him. Confronting the death of his daughter, he receives her admonishment. The father kills the child, the vengeful child the father. A failed restorer of imagery, John fails yet again to foresee death. Final shot Laura on a funeral barge, surrounded entirely by water.The film was based on a short story by Daphne du Maurier, who also wrote stories upon which Alfred Hitchcock's Jamaica Inn, Birds and Rebecca are based. Don't Look Now thus at times strongly resembles Hitchcock's works, pushing the master's brand of opera, big emotions, expressionism and baroque imagery into more nervous, kaleidoscopic territory. Roeg's use of composer Pino Donaggio also recalls both Hitchcock's collaborations with Bernard Herrmann and Brian De Palma's collaborations with Donaggio. De Palma has himself made a career out of making films like Don't Look Now (and Vertigo, one of Don't Look's more obvious ancestors), most of his films baroque, operatic, and reflective of his hero's dream-spaces. His Obsessions, like Don't Look, also takes place in Italy, is scored by Donaggio, and revolves around tortured fathers and restoration projects on churches.The film also recalls Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, another film about the return of the repressed, though Kubrick rejects the supernatural outright and presents the flip-side of Don't Look. In The Shining, a father's flight into fantasy and an audience's desire for the supernatural becomes a means of denying a history of scars wrought on children and others. Or as Deleuze put it We do not repeat because we repress, we repress because we repeat. The kind of repression Don't Look presents therefore has little real world basis. Typicaly, traumatised humans do not deny the supernatural but immediately resort to fantasy and magical thinking she's in a better place now, it was meant to be, she's with God, shes okay, it didn't really happen etc.Don't Look belongs firmly to the occult horror genre (Polanski, Wicker Man etc), but what's remarkable is how naturalistic it feels, despite Roeg's hallucinogenic tone and rapid, elliptical editing. Rather than distract, Roeg's razzle dazzle creates a vivid impression of Baxter's grief and anxieties. This is largely due to the casting of Donald Sutherland as John. With his unusual face/eyes and large moustache, both of which seem to humanise John and make his anguish and loss all the more real, Sutherland is the kind of hero you can find only in 1970s cinema. In its ability to evoke and conjure up the ordinary, Sutherland's moustache is perhaps the most supernatural thing about the film.8.9/10 &#x96; Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"The Must-See Film Not Enough People Have Heard Of","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A married couple grieving the recent death of their little daughter are in Venice when they encounter two elderly sisters, one of whom is psychic and brings a warning from beyond.I had only heard of this film recently (within the last year), and even now it seems to be one of the best-kept secrets of the horror genre. Despite consistently getting high praise from people, and having a noteworthy cast, it has little publicity. Unlike The Exorcist or Rosemary's Baby, it is not often remembered as one of the greats of its time. Perhaps because it is subtle? This may be changing now thanks to it being championed by the Criterion Collection (though those films attract a different sort of audience).Donald Sutherland is a great actor, and rarely gets the respect he deserves. I suppose these days people are more familiar with his son Kiefer. But Donald has a solid record of appearing in great films, this one included. In one scene, we spend a good deal of time gazing upon his nude body. And, strangely enough, this works for me. (I have seen his bottom elsewhere, leading me to think he enjoys this.) Julie Christie is gorgeous, and a perfect supporting actress. She is very calm, serene, and this works.The ever-critical Howard Maxford actually likes this one, calling it brilliantly detailed and thoroughly absorbing. He goes so far as to call it a modern day classic. These positive words are rare for Maxford, but at least when he uses them he is right. I would love to see a decent copy of this. The first copy I watched was adequate, but had slightly fuzzy sound at times. With it now (2015) being out on Blu-ray, this problem seems to be rectified.Mike Mayo is even more praising, giving the film 4 out of 4. He sees it as a harrowing horror that defies classification. He also points out the unusual use of color and the intensely erotic love scene, both of which really clinch the film. What lured me in, besides Donald's posterior region, was a shot early on of a photograph with running color. It was beautiful in itself but also symbolic. That such a shot was pulled off really was make or break from my point of view.Director Nicolas Roeg, despite his success here, is not as known to horror fans as he is to those into classic, more critically-loved films. He has a noticeably impressive list, but those unfamiliar with film may not recognize much (beyond Doctor Zhivago). Horror fans should know Roeg was the cinematographer on Roger Corman's The Masque of the Red Death, as well as the director of such great films as Walkabout, The Man Who Fell to Earth and Bad Timing. See these!Asa bonus, fans will be glad to see this is the film debut for composer Pino Donaggio, who has impressed them time and again with Carrie, The Howling and many others (often working with Brian DePalma). "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest British Films of the Seventies","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like Walkabout, Nicolas Roeg's first film as sole director, his second, Don't Look Now, begins with a sudden, tragic death. Whereas Walkabout is about two children trying to come to terms with the sudden death of a parent, Don't Look Now is about two parents trying to come to terms with the sudden death of a child. It tells the story of a couple, architect John Baxter and his wife Laura, whose young daughter Christine drowns when she accidentally falls into a pond in their garden.The scene then moves to Venice, where John is in charge of the restoration of an ancient church. Laura accompanies him, hoping that by spending time together they will be able to come to terms with their grief, which has been putting their marriage under strain. While in Venice, they are befriended by two elderly sisters, Heather and Wendy. Heather, who is blind, appears to have psychic powers and claims to be in contact with Christine's spirit. Laura believes in Heather's powers, and derives comfort from what the sisters tell her, but John remains sceptical. John's attitude begins to change, however, when Heather warns him that he will be in danger if he remains in Venice and shortly afterwards he narrowly escapes death in an accident at work. He begins to catch glimpses of a child-like figure in a red raincoat who resembles his dead daughter (Christine was wearing such a raincoat at the time of her death) and tries to pursue this mysterious figure, who always eludes him.The film was highly controversial when it appeared in 1973 because of the now- famous love scene between Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland, unusually graphic by the standards of the time, although it seems to have got past the censors without too much trouble. In the seventies it seemed to be the case that sex scenes were more acceptable, not only to the censors but also to many critics and elements of the public, if they could be shown to be necessary to the plot. Although this idea must have led to many scriptwriters tinkering with their plots in a desperate attempt to work in a necessary sex scene, I think that Don't Look Now is one case where such a scene is entirely justified. The sex scene represents an important stage in John and Laura's relationship, the first time they have made love since losing their daughter, so its importance to the plot is crucial. It was, apparently, not in the original script and was added at the last minute by Roeg who wanted to show that, despite the strains on their marriage, the relationship between John and Laura is one based upon love and desire.Roeg has always struck me as a director who never really lived up to the promise of his early work. His third and fourth films, The Man who Fell to Earth and Bad Timing, were a disappointment, being confusing and self-consciously arty. In the seventies he was clearly aiming at becoming an auteur director, but some of his more recent films have been more obviously commercial. Don't Look Now, however, is in my view his masterpiece, although I also have a high regard for Walkabout.Roeg began his career as a cinematographer, and Don't Look Now, like a number of his films, is a highly visual one. Because most tourists visit Venice in summer, non-Italians normally associate the city with sunshine, blue skies and dazzling white buildings. The film, however, is set in winter, and the Venice we see here, although still beautiful, is a city of mists and pale, cloudy skies. (The few scenes set in England have a similar look).The background palette is dominated by muted colours- greys, browns, pale greens and blues- but in the foreground one bright colour stands out- red. Many scenes contain a single vivid red object- a scarf, a hat, a telephone, a bunch of flowers, a stained-glass window and, most importantly, the red coats worn by Christine and the mysterious figure. This colour scheme provides a visual unity to the work, as does another recurring motif, light on water. In Daphne du Maurier's original short story, on which the film is based, Christine dies of an illness; this was presumably changed for the film so as to draw a subtle visual parallel between the pond in which she drowns, also on a grey winter's day, and the canals of Venice. Another Roeg trademark is the unorthodox editing, especially in the love scene where shots of John and Laura making love are intercut with footage of them getting dressed for dinner afterwards.The film's visual style is only one of the reasons why it is a favourite of mine. It is the sort of film which works on a number of different levels and in which I find more every time I see it. It is sometimes referred to as a horror film, but it is actually far more than that, among other things a psychological study of the effects of grief and bereavement. Both Sutherland and Christie are excellent, and the performances they give must rank among their best as they show us two grieving parents who try to overcome their grief in different ways. On another level, as already discussed, it has a subtle visual beauty. On a third level it is a haunting, uncanny and unsettling mystery story. There is no straightforward, logical explanation for everything that happens to the Baxters, but no such explanation is needed as this is a film where ambiguity and mystery are more effective than a direct, rational approach, with all loose ends neatly tidied up, could be. In this it recalls that other great seventies drama, Peter Weir's Picnic At Hanging Rock. Don't Look Now is one of the best British films of the decade. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Sad, Grim, Cerebral Drama","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now accomplishes one of the deepest and most difficult fears humans have. If your instinct tells you something that society, logic, reason, and ego all tell you are ridiculous, what do you do? When you take notice of something that no one else believes, the same things that tell you your instincts are ridiculous are again in question. It is no surprise to me that the film's concept was created by Daphne Du Maurier, the author of the famed Gothic psychological thriller Rebecca, which was adapted into a movie by Hitchcock, for Don't Look Now seems very likely to attract Hitchcock to the helm, with its ominous suspense, glimpsed details, sudden moments of tension, and the plot itself. Only Nicolas Roeg directs instead, and not so incomparably to the aforementioned master.This disturbing, cerebral drama tells the story of a couple, Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland, whose young daughter has recently drowned in a tragic accident at home, the grief from which applies tension to their marriage. In search of a change of scenery and a chance to work through their pain, they take a working vacation to Venice, where Sutherland has been contracted to restore an ancient church. While he works, Christie is befriended by two strange elderly sisters. One of the sisters is blind and claims to be in psychic contact with her dead daughter. Christie is drawn to the sisters, but Sutherland finds their influence on her unsettling and suspects them of deceit. The ensuing drama is set against a subplot involving a serial killer who has eluded the police. You have no idea where it goes from there. Or at least I hope you don't.An appealing motif of Roeg's sad, grim composition is his dream-like ambiance and his patient attention to the heartbroken couple. Even apart from flashback sequences, flash forwards, elements of clairvoyance and premonitions, and other such individual considerations, there is definitely an impressionistic melody, remarked upon in part by one of Pino Donaggio's best scores, and Roeg's seemingly unostentatious, courageous sex scene between Sutherland and Christie is an extensive episode wherein subtext can either be found or felt, because instead of stagnancy, the scene brings flavor. "},{"Title":"A Dream Really","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't Look Now is a horror film, that's not quite a horror film at all. From the beginning, stunningly shot and directed, it unfolds like a dream. Images connect, but not necessarily in a logical way. They do, however, form (more or less) a disturbingly coherent picture (emotion, dream?).It all starts with the death of a child. The daughter of the Baxters (beautifully played by Julie Christie and even more beautifully by Donald Sutherland) drowns. The scene lasts about five minutes - the quiet, uneasy build-up, the alternating takes between the girl running toward the pond with her ball and the parents having an everyday conversation, and the escalation into tragedy. It's not horrifying in an immediate physical sense, but it carries a dreamlike unease.The story then moves to Venice where Donald Sutherland's John works on the restoration of a church, living in a hotel with his wife, Laura. The rest of it is relatively simple Laura meets two women, one who allegedly possesses second-sight and tells her that her daughter is with them as a ghost and is happy, which convinces Laura that this is indeed true and, when she tells John, he doubts it being pragmatic and rational, creating a rather common and over-done conflict of reason versus belief.However, this seemingly simple story enters into the realm of the subconscious. It almost reminded me with of Paul Verheoven's The 4th Man without being as vulgarly violent - but it shares a similar theme. How do we explain the coincidences and situations which occur in our daily lives? Are they merely random coincidences with only the meaning we choose to attribute to them? Or are they a part of a general, unknown (divine?) order? In other words, Don't Look Now is about religion - to some degree of course. More accurately, it is about the meaninglessness versus the meaningfulness of life.While The 4th Man evolves like a pulpy thriller of coincidences, traps and schizophrenic paranoia, where none of the characters are likable (especially the hero), Don't Look Now has a darker subtext to it. It doesn't simply jump into strange occurrences and coincidences and play with the viewer's mind - it provides a very real motivation for the way the characters behave and comprehend things the way they do. Grief, the grief for the Baxter daughter, drives Sutherland's John through skepticism and outrage at the insinuation that the daughter is somewhere in limbo. He is the central character because he doubts - but he also sees his daughter. He is thus faced with a very existential problem. He doesn't believe his daughter is alive or even that he can see her - but he follows the little red shape through the foggy street of Gothic Venice. He doubts his own cause, he doubts that it has any meaning, that his daughter is indeed alive, yet he knowingly chases her image because he has to know for himself. The question, of course, is how do deep emotions of loss and grief affect our worldly perception? What is belief in the reason behind the things we see? Are they merely a picture painted by our imagine or, once again, are they incredibly real?The film raises these questions, and rightly so, but I don't think it deals with them completely. While I don't think this is a bad thing, I do find the ending anti-climactic and consider it an attempt to tie things in a nice little package. It's a cop-out - an answer to a question which we cannot answer. Nonetheless, Don't Look Now, even if you don't accept its premise and the questions that can be derived from it, is flawlessly directed and performed. The film's survival can be attributed to Sutherland and Christie and Roeg's searching camera, and the way it evokes that ethereal region where strange things happen sometimes without logical explanation, but manage to reveal us to ourselves. "},{"Title":"Don't Look Now...or later!","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Brief comments. I read approx 30 comments on this film before renting on DVD. I am a major horror and suspense buff with over 1,000 movies under my belt. Okay, then...Don't Look Now is a very unsatisfying film. It throws in many cheap ploys to throw you off from what is happening but never explains them. Two examples The dried-apple faced dwarf in the end and the scene of the blind woman laughing with the clear implication that she  is up to something - There are many others.Overall very confusing, zero character development (When did she ever mourn? What exactly does he do for work?), and confusing characters (Is the Monsenior a good guy? Are we supposed to think the Police Chief knows something by his exceeding strange mannerisms?). And as for the big sex scene - man, do you really want to see Donald Sutherland's pimply 36 year old butt? - not cool. Ending will leave you empty. Please avoid this film - Despite positive reviews, it really is not good on any level. "},{"Title":"...or ever, preferably...","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  --mild spoilers--To mention this in the same breath as The Wicker Man is absurd.  To rate it history's scariest (another film site has done so), preposterous. Admittedly, some of the foreshadowing almost works -- though I spent the better part of the film wondering what, exactly, I was looking at.  Vague symbolism builds suspense... without payoff.  One mildly unsettling scene -- which comes from out of nowhere -- does not the ultimate horror movie make. Fans of Tom Savini's make-up fx have seen this before (in first season Tales from the Darkside episode, In the Closet) -- and that says more than I possibly could.  The love-scene is the most thoughtfully artistic I've yet seen put to film -- pity its non-inclusion in that tripe which, lately, passes for romance.  Genre fans expecting the requisite shocks will find none, herein -- save, perhaps, that scene...  I cannot see past these flaws in rating Don't Look Now any higher than '5.' "},{"Title":"An outstanding suspense movie","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this superb thriller movie 25 years ago, however I still have it fully on my mind. To start the magnificent beauty of Venice, and secondly to complement it, the presence and elegance of Julie Christie, in my point one of the best movie stars of all times.At the same level, we can say, the performance of D. Sutherland. To close my comments, I'd like to say that the end of the film, the real funeral gondola, is in my view, one or perhaps, the most unexpected and shocking scene I've ever seen in the cinema. "}{"Title":"* * * * out of 4.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the accidental drowning of their daughter, a couple (Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie) moves to Venice to get away from it all. They soon come in contact with a psychic who claims their daughter is trying to communicate with her mom and dad from beyond the grave. And soon enough Sutherland keeps seeing a little girl wondering the streets that looks like his daughter as a series of murders plague the city.A masterpiece in all respects. This film features heartbreaking performances from both Sutherland and Christie, dazzling camera work, lush music score, beautiful cinematography, a shocking ending, and tension so great it is unbearable. My pick for number three horror film of all time.Rated R; Sexual Content and Violence. "},{"Title":"An extremely overlooked film!!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had just recently heard of this film from an internet recommendation off of IMDB, and had never heard of it prior to that and now that I've seen this film, I don't know why? The cinematography is superb, the music is beautiful, but haunting at the same time. The acting is also another one of the great features of this film, Julie Christie is fine as the young, anxious, hopeful, but grieving wife, and Donald Sutherland, played the hardworking, ambitious, but heartbroken and confused husband, Bravo!! I also really liked the fact that D.L.N. was shot in Venice, Italy, the scenery was breathtaking, and, depending on the scene, downright eerie. I have seen many other horror films that have been considered classics, and were said to be really scary or suspenseful, but many, even some of the critically acclaimed ones pale in suspense to this frightening, moving film of grief, confusion, longing, and horror. The only downsides of this film was the ending which seemed to be missing something, and was rather absurd and a little gory, and the erotic scene between Christie and Sutherland, it was a little dry, it was missing a little more emotion and was at times, a bit too revealing. Overall, Don't Look Now, seems to be a rather forgotten film, and is a film I have definitely decided to add to my personal DVD collection without a second thought, the score was excellent, the acting, and once again the cinematography!! If you like suspense you will surely enjoy Don't Look Now. "},{"Title":"Water Damaged","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Precise Example of an Art Film. It Wears its Pretensions Proudly With a Bold Primary Color Inserted Frequently and Symbolically. Of Course This Being a Psychological Film, The Color is Blood Red. Hitch Did This in Marnie (1964).Director Nicolas Roeg, a Cinematographer Turned Director, Artfully Plays With His Craft and Weaves Together and Altogether Alluring Exercise in Cinema that Reminds, At Times, of Hitchcock, Argento, and Other Directors that Take Their Films as Art Very Seriously.Piecing Together a Picture Puzzle Utilizing All the Tools of the Trade, These Craftsman Love to Play the Audience with Cinematic, and in This Case, Psychic Premonitions to Lure the Audience This Way or That Way. Therein Lies the Fun. It's Misdirection and it Isn't. The Frame May Be Mapping What's to Come and Maybe Not.You Have to Keep Watching to Find Out. This is All Very Intriguing to Some and a Bit of a Bore to Others. It's the Type of Film that Can be Very Divisive Depending on What Your Expectations Concerning Entertainment and Film as Art are Concerned.Donald Sutherland is So Good Here That He Never Once Seems to be Acting and Julie Christie is Almost as Good. The Other Supporters are Europeanen and Some Seem Like Locals. The Venice Seen Here Will Most Likely Not Attract Any Travelers. The Backdrop is Shown as Dark Decay and Water Damaged. Water is As Prevalent Here as the Color Red.Trying to Get Over the Grief of Their Young Daughter Who Drowned While Playing in the Backyard is the Heart of the Film and the Psychological Devastation Shifts Back and Forth as Both Parents Struggle With the Practical and the Paranormal.Overall, Not for Everyone. But the Film's Artistry Cannot be Denied. How Much You Appreciate it Will Depend on What Expectations You Bring to the Viewing. It Can Seem Dated but it Doesn't In Any Way Seem Primitive or Exploitive, Just Artists at Play Having a Grand Time with the Medium and the Audience. "},{"Title":"Make the living appear dead.....","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John and Laura Baxter are in Venice when they meet a pair of elderly sisters, one of whom claims to be psychic. She insists that she sees the spirit of the Baxters' daughter, who recently drowned. Laura is intrigued, but John resists the idea. He, however, seems to have his own psychic flashes, seeing their daughter walk the streets in her red cloak, as well as Laura and the sisters on a funeral gondola.....With its brooding atmosphere, right from the upstart, the film is one of the most unsettling experiences I have ever had the fortune to see.Venice is usually such a beautiful place, but here, Roeg has made one of the most romantic places In the world, depressing and menacing, which indicates that no one is going to be happy come the end.As The Exorcist, gave us Captain Howdy, and Jaws gave us peril with the Colour Yellow, this has a little mash up with both. Whenever Red appears on screen, something bad happens, or is about to, and just who is the mysterious figure in the red coat.Sutherland and Christie play amazing roles, and literally have beautiful chemistry. As the film progresses with glimpses of hope ( the blind sister stating the daughter is happy), the hope turns into despair, with scenes that are terrifying yet subliminally beautiful.The scene in the church when the scaffolding falls is beautifully shot, with silence deafening the ear, and the last fifteen minutes, is beautiful, but the most dread filled fifteen minutes of mainstream cinema you may ever see.Horridly beautiful and mesmerising. "},{"Title":"Death in Venice","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The ending of Don't Look Now reminded me of Peter Dinklage's wonderful monologue in 1995's Living in OblivionHave you ever had a dream with a dwarf in it? Do you know anyone who's had a dream with a dwarf in it? No! I don't even have dreams with dwarfs in them. The only place I've seen dwarfs in dreams is in stupid movies like this! 'Oh make it weird, put a dwarf in it!' Everyone will go 'Woah, this must be a f**kin' dream, there's a f**kin' dwarf in it!'And maybe that was my problem with appreciating Don't Look Now - that my perception of it was tainted by too many years of clichés and repetition in hundreds of movies. My feelings about the movie were ambivalent. I liked it for the beautiful cinematography, for the eerie, disorienting, discomforting atmosphere, both aided by the timeless, dark beauty of Venice.I appreciated it for the symbolism, for the clever and subtle foreshadowing in almost every scene. But that's also what killed it for me - it felt like Roeg was trying too hard, and like I've seen it all before. As much as I appreciated it, I didn't truly enjoy it, I didn't truly felt the characters, their pain or their fear, and I didn't immerse myself in the film. And I can't quite figure out if the fault lies with the film or with myself - maybe I'm too jaded to truly let myself feel a film like this. I'm glad I saw it though, and I recommend it to all film lovers - it's an important and unique work, that should be remembered more than it is. I just can't name it as a personal favorite. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror films ever made...","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I feel that Don't Look Now to be one of the best horror films ever made particularly the creepy atmosphere about it. It features Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie, who play John & Laura Baxter, John is an art restorer, who is trying to recover from the death of their daughter who drowned by accident in a lake. So John and his wife go off to Venice in the winter to restore an old church there. When they are there they meet two elderly sisters called Heather and Wendy and one of them happens to be a blind medium.She tells them that they are able to get in touch with their dead daughter. but she warns them that there is danger ahead. I thought that Don't Look Now had a good creepy psychological feel to it which makes you feel unsettled during the film. I recommend this to be a great horror film to see. "},{"Title":"Chronicle of a death foretold","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of the most unsettling films you'll ever see, I first saw Nic Roeg's Don't Look Now in my late teens and remember being blown away by it then. I don't usually like to re-watch movies even from years ago (there are so many unseen ones still to see!) but had no problem breaking my rule and casting my much older eye on it again.And it still blows me away! How many films genuinely make the hairs stand up on the back of your neck...well as Donald Sutherland's church architect character John Baxter acts out his destiny at the shocking conclusion, I found my hand going unconsciously to the back of my head, just as I'm sure it did all those years ago.The film has many themes, principally the power of the dead to affect the living, how adults cope (or otherwise) with the death of a child and if precognition is possible in a 20th Century world. Roeg posits all this and more in his film but doesn't lets up on the suspense either, never forgetting this is a thriller. The viewer, like Baxter and his wife Laura, convincingly played by Julie Christie, is constantly thrown off guard with a variety of unsettling situations, from the obvious device of uprooting the principals to a foreign environs, struggling to comprehend the local language, the hand-held camera shots as husband and wife both stumble lost around the serpentine not to mention labyrinthine streets of Venice and a supporting cast of characters none of whom appear wholly sympathetic to their plight. In addition, we get several interior shots in front of mirrors (an old trick from film noir), flocks of birds flying away everywhere (predating John Woo!) and scenes played and replayed reinforcing the almost trance like state the couple inhabit, almost like a waking nightmare. Popular tourist spot Venice, with a murderer also on the loose, suddenly seems a place fraught with danger and dread - what is it about this place and death (Visconti's Death in Venice was made at almost the same time)?There are several unforgettable scenes right throughout the film, from Sutherland's anguished cry of loss as he emerges literally from the depths, dead daughter in his arms, the brilliantly cool cross-cut scene of the couple making love through to the heart-stopping conclusion with Sutherland's confrontation of the murdering dwarf. The acting is superb throughout, not only Sutherland and Christie in the leads but also, in particular the actresses portraying the strange sisters who cast such a major presence in the narrative. For me the single most perplexing scene is the one where these two stoical old maid typical tourists, having just convinced Julie Christie of the blind one's second sight are seen laughing outlandishly in their hotel room.I could go on and on - I haven't even got around to disseminating Roeg's continuing predilection for the colour red which is never more manifest than here. In total then, a great film by a maverick and under-appreciated director that works on a variety of levels and which deserves to be ranked among the very best that the 70's threw up. "},{"Title":"drilling into you","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" though i watched this movie late in the evening, rather sleepy, beginning of this movie woke me up and didn't let me go right till the end. I saw some people say that director purposely was breaking rules of movie making but i don't see it that way. He was using the very rules, the bricks of narrative technique by putting them together in a puzzling way. Editing style of Don't look now is disorienting and distracting right from the beginning. Lots of mirror images, constant distraction 180 degree action line, unmotivated sounds and so many more is used ingeniously to create the necessary mood. The constant background sound of water makes me feel wet and soaking, you begin to be afraid from sound of water by the end of the movie. The use of water motif in murders and the followed use of it in background sound works perfectly. The beautiful and tourist friendly Venice is given a completely different image. Like a maze where two people loose themselves and each other running after their memories (or running away from them). Another motif used through out the movie was red color. It was almost the only color most of the time on the screen, besides blues of the main characters, all the rest was grayish desaturated look. Overall it's a perfect example of fear generated from deeper emotions not from monsters suffering from excessive saliva. "},{"Title":"You'll want to look twice","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now made its impression on me a little while after I had finished it. During the film itself, I was not particularly confused, shocked or horrified by any of the events on the screen. The film itself is definitely unsettling and a bit creepy, but it is never clear exactly why until one considers it later. On some levels it seems to be an indictment of occultism and spiritualist beliefs. But then the story's methods of foreshadowing and the cyclical, coincidental occurrences later in the plot struck me as a revelation of something ominous, dark and sinister.Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie play John and Linda Baxter, a married couple whose young daughter dies in an accident at their estate in England. Soon after the couple relocate to Venice to work on a job restoring a dilapidating cathedral. In Venice, the locales are notably aloof, the streets are deserted, a killer is on the loose, and a blind psychic claims to see the Baxter's dead daughter. A strange, sad quality lurks behind the environment and strange incidents befall the couple.An important thing to note about the film is how professionally it is made. The entire cast and crew seem to put real effort into the whole production. There is a wonderful original score to accompany the moods and scenery, the Venetian locale is effectively foreboding, and the melancholic desperation of John and Linda bleeds subtly through the story. The movie is apparently famous for its drawn-out love scene (where we get to see more of Donald Sutherland than Julie Christie). It is certainly longer than most mainstream sex scenes, and came across to me as cheesy for the music included (and aren't most movie sex scenes totally over-the-top?). But it works to establish the couple's intimacy early on in the story. All in all, Don't Look Now won me over as a well-crafted, melancholic little thriller. "},{"Title":"Death in Venice","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Outstanding contributions from the two principals, Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie really make this film. The use of Venice, a profusion of strong symbols and careful editing all contribute to its success, but Roeg's tight 'exercise in film grammar' owes itself to the leads who breathe life into its formal layers.Less lovely is the sound recording which is distractingly lumpen. A key feature of the bulk of the film is the sound quality of Venice; it is both remarked upon by the blind seer, Heather, and carefully intercut with the footage in order to disorientate. The patchiness of the general audio cannot be seen as an extension of this though.For all its ambiguity (a du Maurier trait no doubt, try Hitchcock's Rebecca), melancholy and indeed horror this is a deeply affirmative film. Furthermore, for all its technical anachronisms it remains a strong, inventive adaptation. 7/10 "}{"Title":"SPOILER -- Hidden conspiracy","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this, re watching, then pondering, I felt that the drowning girl at the beginning of the film had nothing to do with the rest of the plot. To John, seeing the figure in red was just a reminder to him, and us, of his daughter.Although the frequency of red objects foretold certain events, maybe the psychic was seeing the dwarf instead of Christine in her visions.And, I like the previous comment about the Vatican Conspiracy. I can imagine that certain people may not like an Englishman attempting to restore something old and sacred, that was not meant to be touched, remember, John was not very good at what he did.Anyway, nothing it what it seems in this thriller.  "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What can i say... it is amazing, you just have to see it. It goes right to your subconscious and makes you feel so petrified even thought you see nothing. Actually it cannot be described. Venice is more than appropriate scenery for this story - just DO see it. Thank God there are directors that can show us something different, not just the same things, over and over again.... "},{"Title":"Could have been great","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS***This movie was wonderful, slightly unnerving and quite engaging up until about the point where his Laura leaves for England. After that things kind of drift a bit. Then he locks the gate, and what the hell is going on. Now I'll gladly accept the film as it is, since after the point I talk about reality really starts to blur and symbolism is more important than what is actually going on. But I just think that it could have played out so much more interestingly than how it did. The ending left me disappointed thinking of other things that could have been.... if only they hadn't thrown a little old midget woman into it. Or at least John could have drowned by the midget's hand, I would have enjoyed the closure and it would have made it somewhat happier... but even that would have left me wanting. "},{"Title":"Unsettling well-crafted horror movie","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Forget the Halloweens, Elm Streets etc, this movie is creepy. Its a well-crafted and scary adaptation of the Daphne du Maurier short story. It uses the imagined and the unseen to unsettle and indeed frighten the viewer instead of the all too common guts and gore. The setting in a flooded Venice in the winter provides a moody and sombre backdrop to the events that unfold. A sense of tragedy and impending doom pervades the movie from beginning to end. Plus it has the excellent Sutherland and Christie in the main roles. This movie ranks alongside The Shining as my favourite movie in this genre.   "},{"Title":"Four stars out of four.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Young couple who escape to Venice after the death of their young daughter are contacted by two psychics who claim that the daughter is trying to reach her mother and father from beyond the grave. And then the father starts seeing someone that looks like his daughter roaming the streets.......Impressively mounted chiller with a violent finale and a fine eye for detail is by far and away one of the best films the genre has to offer. It features first rate performances from the entire cast and dazzling direction. And instead of just going for cheap scares like most other films, it takes the time to develop character and add on layers of suspense and terror. "},{"Title":"A reasonably good adaptation of D. du Maurier's short story","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I particularly liked the good evocation of Venice atmosphere. The acting is rather good, although I find that D. Sutherland is not an ideal casting, he has something evil which does not fit with the character. The sex scene is quite superfluous. "},{"Title":"The best love scene ever","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK so I was a student and going to lot of films with girls, but the love scene in this film has lived with me for ever. It started an obsession with Nick Roeg films, all of which are compelling. Now as an ageing father, the film works on another level, and the obsession with a dead daughter, is entirely understandable. It seems a shame that some of the newsgroup reviewers that I admire so much have not contributed their thoughts about this classic film. "},{"Title":"Very Cold supernatural thriller...","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't Look Now was sadly overlooked in 1973, possibly because of the recent release of The Exorcist, and as much as I admire that film (mainly for Ellen Burstyn's performance) the two are incomparable. Firstly The Exorcist relays on cheep special effects, where as Don't Look Now gets right under the skin. Everything is so subtle that most viewers miss the important stuff.The use of the very grey colour scheme helps set up the coldness of the characters, the events and loss that they have gone through. But THAT opening, brilliant, it's unbelievably one of the best scenes in film history, Nicholas Roeg's camera work and editing are flawless, if you where ever going to do a study on cross-cutting or juxtaposition then Don't Look Now is the film to see.Don't Look Now is a cold and chilling supernatural thriller, with more reasons to see it than the sex scene or the ending (although they are standouts), the performances are also brilliant, with Sutherland and Christie showing a kind of screen chemistry that's very rare nowadays, giving John and Laura the believability the plot requires. This is a great, underrated and as others have said, sadly forgotten film.  "},{"Title":"Dark and Eerie","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I believe this to be one of the best dramatic-horror films I have ever seen.  Don't Look Now  is a movie that tends to frighten more the mind than it does the eye, although its visual features are quite extraordinary. Each scene is beautifully dark and creepy to say the least. You also couldn't ask for a better pairing than Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland; they are terrific together in this. I have found that very few people know of this movie, but if you come across it, you won't be disappointed. Like uncovering a mysterious, old treasure "},{"Title":"Glad I Looked","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is a strange film, that can't be denied.  If the intent was for the viewer to fill edgy and nervous throughout the film, then they succeeded.  Everyone and everything seems to be almost in a manic frenzy to get from beginning -> A to ending -> B, which is essentially the same, with varying degrees of differentness. What's in between doesn't really seem to matter ...... much of it being disjointed and jolting in an unpleasant way.  Not that I'm thrashing this revered work of art, just that there's really too much symbolism and not enough, getting to the point.One part of the movie where they seem to have no problem with getting to the point is the very bold sex scene.  Very erotic stuff here and the film maker and the actors should be applauded for seeing this part of the vision through, as this is one of the scenes that really works.John and Laura are truly connected, the chemistry is there and with no awkwardness from other scenes.One of the reasons the sex scene works so well, is there is little need for dialog, and other scenes where dialog is _really_ needed (so you aren't just left guessing at what was meant by some avant garde camera work) it isn't there.Oh, John denies his needs emotionally and Laura is emotionally needy all over the place.  I guess my little review here is something like the movie, disjointed.  I'll wrap it up so that you don't fall asleep on me, but one last note, terrific score. "}{"Title":"A compelling, prismatic study of grief and its dangerous doorways to complex hells","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Images that may mean multiple things and dovetail into each other like problems being considered in three-dimensional chess, a melancholy score by Pino Donaggio, and Sutherland and Christie's ying/yang pairing transform a minor, darkly humorous story by Daphne du Maurier into possibly one of filmdom's major achievements where style and substance wed to create something unsettling and spectacular.  I regard it as the turning point where once-respectable Pauline Kael lost her credibility (she mis-read the whole film and called it chic trash, apparently she was having a flash forward to the Reagan years when every film would have to qualify as feel-good), and everything afterwards seemed like a rerun of its many ideas, and none so deft or generously realized.  After 30 viewings, there is simply nothing I enjoy viewing so much as Roeg's touchstone, whether I watch it as a psychological grief study, a treatise on synchronicity, a meditation on perception, or a sly, darkly humorous Gothic yarn having its awful fun with the predicament of a middle class married couple stranded in wintry Venice.It is not a film for those who merely watch film like passive snails, or kids who think a good edit is a John Woo sequence. No, Don't Look Now is transformative alchemy, and the uninitiated need not apply.  "},{"Title":"A Flawed Masterpiece","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although uneven and flawed, this movie is a must see on the strength of two scenes, the first being the opening sequence (some of the most superb editing of all time), and the love making scene between Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland.  Both of them give excellent performances as always, and you'll never think of Venice the same way again.  The ending is a bit of a let down-- it felt forced after the foreboding build up.  I understand the mythology and the religious symbolism behind it, but... a midget? Come on!!! After all is said and done, Don't Look Now is something that can't be missed, regardless of its faults. "},{"Title":"Good acting, camera-work and soundtrack, but not so interesting plot","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Which amazed me a bit as the name Daphne du Maurier is usually a quality mark; or is it the directing, could e.g. Alfred Hitchcock have created a more interesting progression? Well, you are constantly reckoning on something to happen, but nothing really did or the outcome was just trivial (the John Baxter related scene up in the church).The main actors (Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie) are great, of course, and their famous erotic mix scene has become a classic, copied or parodied in various later movies. Use of Venice is also a good finding, but I was somewhat perplexed how shabby and crumbling the city was even in the beginning of 1970ies.Consequently, the film was smooth to follow, but it was neither occult nor haunting to me and when the ending credits appeared I realised I had just seen a film with people having mind problems due to tragic events. "},{"Title":"the definition of the genre","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this film I was in my late teens and had just moved out to live on my own. I was used from a young age to watch 'scary' films, but this was in a league of it's own. One of the best performances ever by Donald Sutherland, one which his son Kieffer may never match.Though initially slow to get going the film builds to its climax in a fantastic sequence of events and equally superb shots. The atmosphere builds up steadily and inevitably. It is the ultimate example of the suspense film. The setting enhance the tasteful feel of this production and even the period typical love scene in the hotel, mixing sensual shots of the lead characters making love with shots of them getting dressed and ready to leave afterwards, add real quality and depth to the overall result, whereas the rare moments of predictability and cheesiness do nothing to diminish this feel.An absolute must see for the lover of the classic suspense genre "},{"Title":"Somewhere on that Fence","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" While I can appreciate some of the editing, the visuals, and the directorial license of Nicolas Roeg, I cannot agree that this film is one of the all-time horror greats nor is it a great film. Good film? Perhaps. I really need to see this a couple more times to possibly fully understand everything that happens and what everything might have been intended for. movies like this are a lot of work, and that isn't necessarily a bad thing nor necessarily a good thing. I like a movie that makes one think, but I don't like one being forced down my throat as being great art just because I may not see it the way you do. I see there is quite some division with reviewers' responses on this film. A truly bad film would not do that either. So...for form's sake and because some of the film's scenes are very powerful, I will sit on that figurative fence leaning slightly more to good art rather than just mediocre. The director Roeg gets a lot of good credit for his visual artistry from the opening scenes involving the little blonde girl with the red mac to the stain on the stained glass photo to the truly magnificent and haunting views of Venice. Roeg paints his canvas with detail and color. He also overdoes it as well. The lengthy love-making scene for overblown, unnecessary, and a huge detractor from the atmosphere of the film. I kept thinking to myself - My God will this ever end! Roeg's evident skill with a camera lens does not always translate into good story-telling. I have not read the very short Daphne Du Maurier story but know that it and this must be completely different in many regards. Roeg gets us going early with the death of the child and then we have these long, very often poorly transitioned scenes in Venice until things start heating up in the final third. the movie seemed very long though it is just under two hours. It felt like two-and-a-half. That is because Roeg's pace is sometimes catatonic. I, for one, like the pay-off. I could see that Roeg had tied up lots of loose-ends and appreciate the thought that went in to that. I enjoyed Sutherland and Christie in the leads, and I really liked Hilary Mason as the blind sister/prophet and her Italian-playing an Englishwoman sister Clelia Mantania. They were respectively creepy as were all of their scenes. I would not NOT recommend the film to anyone that liked to think when they watch a film. Clearly the film, at least the first time, did not resonate with me like it has for others. For that i was somewhat disappointed like when I saw Roman Polanski's The Tenant - a film I thought incredibly overrated. this film may be just that too. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and dramatic film","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Baxter (Sutherland) and his wife Laura (Christie) struggle to move on after their daughter's death and when in Venice they meet a blind psychic who sees the spirit of their daughter.Based on Daphne Du Maurier's fantastic novel, this British film aims high to depict the hard nature of a story transfixed with powerful and emotionally involved deaths the tough bond of marriage and all the while, Don't look Now will please neutrals if reader's of the book may feel a little hard done by.The opening montage is a brilliant selection of the type of film we viewers are gearing up. Two children playing apparently safely are left on their own by their parents who are mixed up in their own world. What follows is a striking shot in which Donald Sutherland's John sprints out of the house and we see a high angled shot looking down into the expressionless eyes of his daughter, floating in the water. This scene is staggering, made powerful through the sudden shock of aimless playing and a father trying his best to save her.Whilst the film begins with the grizzly opening the book opens with the married couple sat in the restaurant discussing the people around them.Changing tactic from calm to shocking allows us to be engrossed into proceedings and sets the upcoming drama. I confess to not loving this change, particularly after witnessing the too quick cut from Laura's view of John clutching their daughter. Nevertheless the rest of the film picks up the dramatic implication of the tragedy as the cut switches into the restaurant where the sisters are introduced.The beauty of a book is imagination and to adapt such a provocative story such as this makes our assumptions different. When reading the novel I found the psychic to be a bit more reserved, a little less forward. The scripting and seizures Hilary Mason goes through as Helen are a tad awkward, bit of a contradictory to the calm nature of the psychic in the novel.For a short story at around 50 pages its amazing to squeeze a two hour film out of. There are notes of improvisation where events happen on screen rather than in the book, such as the vivacious love scene, the wandering around the streets at night and the collapsing sequence in the church. All brilliant, if lacking a bit of author magic. There are many little things that add up to such a consistent feeling, such as the red themes and calm feel of Venice despite the hidden crime details.What was a slight disappointment was the lack of focus on the murder spree happening in Venice, a touch more detail and the ending would have felt more personal. The sound is terribly loud and warbled Nevertheless this is a shocking provocative adaptation that will entertain and delight many, especially for the neutral who will be in for many surprises. "},{"Title":"study in dark, watery and red","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's always fun to watch a good 70ies movie almost 35 years later, because any exquisite cinematography like in this film adds an aesthetic and historical pleasure to watching it, to what people already loved when the film appeared first.I'm wondering why the film didn't receive more rewards in his time. The SZ-Cinemathek - a collectors choice of best films ever chosen by one of the three leading newspapers in Germany - lists Don't look now in his Top 50, and I can understand why.In the first scenes shot in Hertfordshire, England, we think that John Baxter can see his child's death even though he's not near her, but later we understand that his child's death is the beginning of his foreseeing his own death. The tragedy about it is that he doesn't realize he does. Trying to be a rational guy who wants to protect his supposedly unstable wife from the supernatural, we - not him - realize that it is he himself who is closest to the irrational. Though Laura doesn't fully understand his condition she tries to protect him understanding more of it than he does; but she fails, because both of them are so tragically entwined in their fear about the other and about death, and both are so naive in the matter, that she can not keep him him from doing exactly the steps which will lead him to death. As soon as he is alone in Venice he somehow becomes loose; he starts to loose himself to his second sight while still conceiving himself as the loving and caring husband. His misinterpreting of what he sees leads to the fulfilling of the prophecy about him. In the end he even forgets about meeting his wife who is back in Venice, while he is dragged into a strange pursuit of what might seem to him as a memory or reappearance of his dead daughter. He is not anchored in reality anymore but has not yet reached the other world fully like the blind one of the two sisters has. Being in a transit state in between he becomes an easy victim to the unnatural. Only too late he realizes his fatal error and that he had foreseen this creature before as the forerunner of death, being the most ugly twin of his earlier child.Like all films which show present and future mixed into each other this film has to give an answer to the question as to how characters fulfill their prophecy even though their seeing what's going to happen influences what they're doing. In other words wouldn't they be able to see the future, the future wouldn't be what they see. It's an interesting logical problem and dilemma to films who use this motive. Don't look now solves it by keeping John Baxter in the dark about his visions so that he finally dies because he doesn't recognize himself, or better it takes his death to make him see the truth about himself.These are great motives about the human condition and separate this film clearly from being just a horror film. It has more in common with Kubricks Eyes wide shut in this respect, for example. "},{"Title":"WIll someone please answer me this?","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I saw the dwarf's face at the end, it seemed very familiar and I could've sworn I saw it somewhere earlier in the film. However, when I went back to the beginning and fast-forwarded through the DVD, I couldn't find it. Did I see her face or what? I know we saw her from the back several times, but I'm talking about actually seeing the face of the dwarf.Next question What was the significance of the detective talking about how women start to look the same as they get older? Was the dwarf supposed to look like someone else in the movie and that is the reason she seemed so familiar? Thanks so much for any help. I really liked the movie. "},{"Title":"What Becomes a Legend Most  Excess","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Roeg is revered. A filmmakers filmmaker, he is often called. All that pure film aesthetic at play in all criticisms. We bow. But enough, already.The film story is outlined again and again in previous viewers' opinions, so that we will dispense with. The story is what it is and you either give yourself over to it or not. Wise to say yes, I think. We will also quickly get over the fact of the 70's, when the film was made, when men's hair and clothing left everything to be desired, thus the fine actor, Mr. Sutherland, looks a bit silly in our hindsight, which is all we have now. On the other hand, Julie Christie looks just fine in her suburban housewife's pert clothing, accompanied by a figure that leaves the viewer grateful for the differences in the species. The semi-famous love scene is semi-good, with that pre-post coital cutting dizzy making and aesthetically wrong. But she is lovely, yes.The setting could not be better. You could do Chain Saw Massacre in Venice and get my attention. A lovely, dark, romantic, corrupt, atmospheric dream, the sinking city. But...Mr. Roeg far too often gives himself over to his weakness, the eye of an interior decorator. Or a romantic still photographer? A shot by shot analysis says...oh, nice, great set-up, pretty shot, good eye, oh yes! But when they accumulate as they do you begin to feel as if you are being treated to a soft porn filmmaker's first serious film. Too much of a muchness, as my mother-in-law used to say. A generally quite good film with too much schlag. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, Slow Yet Absolutely Riveting","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" D Nicolas Roeg. Donald Sutherland; Julie Christie; Hilary Mason This Low-budget, shaky piece of high art cinema is slow and in some parts very boring. However, it succeeds in almost every way. A film that is widely believed to be one of the scariest ever made, Sutherland and Christie perform solidly supported by a classy cast and ice-cold Venice locations. This is a film, which cannot be appreciated and/or enjoyed by all, but for those who stick with it, it is incredibly effective. I for one fail to understand exactly what gives this film its 'Art film' classification. The camera-work in this film is the last thing to write home about. It is a film shot principally with hand-held cameras &#150; occasionally shaky and out of focus. The style of photography borrows heavily from Italian films (lots of zoom, hand-held) and is, frankly, nothing special at all. The story of this film is superb. The concept plays perfectly with the locations and the actors. Sutherland and Christie completely shed their 'celebrity' looks and are totally believable as a troubled couple. The famous sex scene is in no way the films high point, but serves its purpose while being reasonably explicit for its age. The main reason to see this film is easily the earth-shattering climax. I cannot say enough about how superb the ending is and I suggest that anyone who has not experienced it, do so! ***1/2 "}{"Title":"Highly over-rated","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As an avid film fan, I was keen to see the legendary don't look now- loved by critics worldwide. However I was greatly disappointed.First the good- nicely shot, good performances. BUT THE SCRIPT !! Hardly anything happens, and when something does, it doesn't make any sense at all. While trying to be a deep and meaningful piece, it comes off as pretentious. AVOID. "},{"Title":"Very eerie and atmospheric chiller.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't Look Now has something that is missing from most entries into the horror genre these daysa dark,sinister mood.This creepy story is permeated with the spirit of a dead character,in this case the drowned daughter of architect Donald Sutherland and his wife Julie Christie.While Sutherland is restoring a church in Venice,his grieving wife meets two elderly sisters,one of whom(Hillary Mason from Dolls) is a blind psychic.Mason claims that the dead girl is trying to make contact,and a series of frightening,unexplained events follow,many related to a series of murders along the canals.What is good about this movie?The acting is brilliant,the direction is superb and the climax is genuinely nightmarish.Some of the cinematography is the best you'll ever see in any movie.The film is slow-moving,even boring at times,but overlook that and you have a great horror picture.So many horror/thriller movies were set in Venice(Giallo a Venezia,Murder by Design,Bloodstained Shadow)and this one is also among them.If you enjoy horror movies,you should see this little gem. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was in the mood to see an old horror movie and picked this because it has a very good rating (7.4 for a 40 years old horror film) in IMDb. I only looked at the titles of the reviews in the first page to avoid pre-conceptions that may spoil the experience. The problem is that the movie is so incoherent and (paradoxically) predictable that there is nothing that can be spoiled.I wanted to see an old movie because new ones are too full of gimmicks and tricks trying to artificially scare you. The trick I hate more is to make some characters behave in impossibly stupid ways that puts them in danger trying to make you worry. All cheap films has one or several idiot characters that are killed along the story to make clear how dangerous the situation is. What a lot of people here seems to find innovative, creative, genial, mysterious, thrilling, shocking, shilling, and sinister is that (and here is the spoiler) the idiot is the protagonist. About the climax, I don't know what feelings was Nicolas Roeg trying to generate but for me it was relief. I knew Don't look now was about to end. Three stars for the debated sex scene. I agree with the review of Paul, through a great editing manages to convey at the same time dimensions of pleasure, sadness, joy, intimacy and separation in a way that I've never seen attempted elsewhere. "},{"Title":"I was always told this was in the same class of Horror as Rosemary's Baby or the Changeling...I think not","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this back in the early part of the decade when DVD's were spilling out with all these old titles in the mix. I read and listened to review after review about how this is a top 10 horror film...how? To me this film was more art film than horror. The classification should be Mystery and not horror. The last scene of the film I think is what gave this film the Horror tag. Without it, it would just be a basic/generic sorta mystery. One that Agatha Christie coulda wrote.Set in Italy where a couple who have lost their child to a drowning back in England, the husband works in Venice to restore an old Church. The wife is bored and meets these 2 little old ladies in a restaurant. One of them tells her she's a Psychic....or she has Second sight. From their we go from scene to scene waiting to see what these 2 little old ladies have said is ever gonna come true. Well, be prepared...because it's a long wait for the action to happen...and there ain't much of it.Slow and plodding this is certainly not one of the best horror films ever. It's not really horror but as it is, it has a lot of good points so it's worth a watch. Just don't expect to erase 1 out of your top 10 list and place this one it's place. "},{"Title":"another film where this is a minority report ,","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" From all the high ratings this had & the fact I did not see this when first released,I was hoping for a treat.My hopes were dashed by a few elements,like an inconclusive script, The film was taken from a Daphne De Maurier (Rebecca) story. Rebecca was a moody & very interesting story & movie. 'Don't Look Now' is moody but not interesting or good.The director was Nicolas Roeg, he did make a few good films, this is not one of his better ones.He was able to get 2 fine performances from Donald Sutherland & Julie Christie, The remainder of the cast are all competent.In this period, they were using an editing style that never worked for me, too many scenes were overly choppy.I also did not see any reason for the tragic ending.They were starting in the '70s to have more explicit sex scenes,the long one in the movie was really unneeded.The setting is mid-winter in Venice Italy,Venice is one of the most beautiful cities in the world, Scenes here did not make me believe it was, too dreary & dull.This is not an awful film, but sure is not the good one I was led to think it was.Ratings **1/2 (outof 4) 69 points (out of 100) IMDb 6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"leaves you with an uneasy feeling watching it, and I mean that, strangely, as a compliment","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicholas Roeg's Don't Look Back takes the premise of parents coming to grips with the tragic and untimely death of their daughter like a paranoid thriller, but not in the sense that it always will keep you on the edge of your seat. On the contrary, there are stretches in the film where you wonder where it will be going (early in the film more-so than other parts, though this is part of Roeg's design as it unfolds). As their other child, a son away at boarding school, gets sick and Julee Christie's character- who has been given a chilling premonition by a blind Italian lady while the two of them, the other played by Donald Sutherland, are in Venice- goes to see to him, the results start to affect Sutherland's character. He sees someone in a red coat, in quick glimpses, and even thinks he sees Christie again. But is there a plot growing in the works? Is he seeing what he thinks he is, or does he lose his rationality? Like Roeg's previous film, Walkabout, there are times when the story is taking such a leisurely pace that it has to be on part of the audience to stay with it. But Roeg twists the screws just slightly, making little things and the attention to details via quick edits, super-impositions, that darn abstraction of the red-mark (which, by the way, shows up later in a church Sutherland is remodeling), that one doesn't want to look away. It is, on the one hand, sort of cheating for what its core audience might want- it doesn't get very much suspenseful until the last ten minutes or so, when finally the stakes are raised just enough through circumstance, and Sutherland succumbing to what he early on had warned Christie off of (believing the blind lady out of some idea that the daughter was still alive).On the other hand, it's not exactly about the suspense anyway it's taken from a short story by the same author who provided stories for some of Hitchcock's films (Rebecca and The Birds), and while it could be said that the filmmaker doesn't shy away from a twist at the end or with some direct musical choices throughout (albeit Roeg doesn't quite get a Herrmann here), it's less about that than about the mind losing a stake in what may or may not really be happening. Is it paranoid if it's really happening to you? Roeg seems to suggest paranoia following the character (is there a plot surrounding Sutherland and Christie, the blind lady, the detective, the strange murders occurring), but his style isn't that of a Hitchcock. He'll linger on some scenes, make some flashes to others, and it sort of put me in a strange mood watching it, almost like watching Antonioni (and even then a comparison is hard to do as the style of both with the camera is separate).What Don't Look Back does is surprise the viewer, if not completely successfully in terms of genre than as something reaching outside the bounds of it, and that's what makes it work as well as it does (if at all) so many years later. The editing is especially good, as was with Walkabout (watch the cross-cutting between the steamy, real husband-wife kind of sex scene and the two of them getting dressed the next day), the mood has a eerie effect without over-stepping itself, and there's also one of the most disturbing killers from a 1970s film. And it goes without saying that Sutherland and Christie both turn in fantastic work here (the former probably more than the latter, if only because of his amount of screen time outranking the other). "},{"Title":"Excellent film.","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" And what makes it excellent is the classical music, the setting in Venice, a great performance from Julie Christie, and the story itself, which was well-written, interesting and suspenseful, fast-moving and with sympathetic characters. I also thought the cinematography was well-done. Not too many downsides to the film. LOL Even the Blair Witch type ending would have worked if only the character had been revealed as less grotesque, which was just too much. It seemed sort of anti-semitic, how that role was cast. But that's certainly arguable. Great film, nonetheless, especially considering that it is a film from the 70's, and many films from that era have dated badly, whereas this one hasn't hardly at all. See it. "},{"Title":"It bored me due to the absence of tension then it GETS you!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film contains spoilers, it is mainly what happens in the storyline and my interpretation of the events.In all honesty I thought it was an Italian director who made this film.  Being largely set it Venice I didn't notice the director's part in the Cinematography in the film.  I can now see how the narrow tight and some times dirty, rat ridden dead end passages can be quite scary. We start in Hertfordshire, England close to where I was born.  My senses pricked up when I see a girl in a red cloak step on a pane of glass in the large garden setting.  The film, mainly due to the direction seems slow, although I give it its merit from the use (and later reuse) of following the girl via her reflection in the pond.  This reflection later seen is in fact off water from a Venetian canal.  This later use of water might explain the use of Venice (due to the vast number of waterways (and having been there, the water like the pond is rather filthy).When the credits come up with adapted from a Daphne Du Maurier novel the first thing that came into my mind was the film Rebecca (to avoid a spoiler, so to next paragraph) and the image I saw was a drowned girl).It surprised me that this scenario occurred in this film, and we now focus on the parents.They move to Venice as the father (Donald Sutherland is an architect).  His wife is told about her daughter by a odd pair of sisters, and the blind and psychic one tells her about what happened to her.This film now has a plot to which we can follow.  We are watched a woman slightly go mad, yet the husband brings her to her senses and we witness a long raw sex act, between the two of them.The husband catches strange glances, including his wife with the two ladies on a river taxi going the other way and upon calling loudly she doesn't look or respond.  The couple had earlier been told that their son was injured in England and the wife planned to fly back straight away.  The husband has a near fatal accident at work and the blind lady told his wife about a potential danger.Visions of their daughter in a red cloak (no face seen) appears at random in Venice, fist by her mother, then by her father).  He goes to the sisters home to find they are detained by the murder squad (the detective following the father is also quite well directed, although more music would have built on the suspense.He then proceeds with them to them accommodation; the wife returns, is taken to the station; is shown a picture, of the killer then dashes to the sisters location.  The couple just miss each other, and this adds much needed tension to a film that wasn't sure where it was going (a little like then middle of Citizen Kane).  The husband chases a person resembling his daughter into a church and up the levels into a room.The tension is great and the suspense, now abundant, the cloaked person finally turned to reveal a scary midget brandishing a knife.  She promptly slashes the husband and he dies slowly.We are presented with flashbacks, the smashing pane of glass is now the a window in the church the husband kicks out, the wife and sisters on the river taxi were in fact on there way to her husbands funeral and the red cloaked woman, respects evil.  Yet from where is a mystery?  The amazing use of flashbacks, which are incredible is films like Mulholland Drive credit this film, yet unfortunately the lack of interest in the main bulk of this film merely lets this film achieve a Good; six out of ten status.  I believe it also influenced Dressed to Kill (1980) yet lack of suspense, sex scenes, then BAMM a murder.  Its original, yet not always a winner.  "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How could Roger Ebert put this on his greatest films list, but he also has some other overrated films on there like The Thin Man and Strangers on a Train. This movie was pretty bad, just like Rosemary's Baby, it just went by so slow and then it picks at the end but you just don't care. I thought i the ending was stupid and i didn't buy any of it.  "},{"Title":"Don't Look Now (1973)- a beautifully shattering film","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" N.B. I Post the spoiler alert, because I discuss general details of the ending, and it is hard to talk about it without describing it. I will try to be general, for anyone reading this for research purposes, without giving away too much. A beautiful, picturesque film. I just about think this film is faultless. Each frame of the 105 minutes has perfect attention to detail. If you've been unaware of this film up to now, stop reading this review and see it - nothing will prepare you for the ending, and you'll get much more enjoyment if you have no idea of what's coming next. There are three main scenes, which critics usually pull out from the film. The opening scene, certainly is well made, and conveys a very British approach, in the house and its architecture. British audiences should find very much that this will relate to them. And then when Christine dies, Donald Sutherland's performance is incredible! The second notable scene is the Love scene - and it is a love scene and not a sex scene. The couple capture an intimate relationship, which conveys more passion than most sex scenes. The realism in which it is filmed also makes audience feel like a voyeur to the extent that it is such an intimate scene. Its also so important as it is the first time Laura Baxter was able to touch her husband since Christine's death. The characters are played brilliantly by their respective stars. Donald Sutherland becomes the English architect in a foreign city perfectly, and Julie Christie deserves an Oscar for her performance. Many didn't like the film on its release, because they associated Christie with the more mainstream 'Dr Zhivago', but in my opinion, the role here is far more complex and intricate, and therefore the better film. The ending is truly one of the greatest in film history. You'll want to watch it over and over, to see all the levels of meaning. Even those realists who believe the dwarf woman is only the serial killer who'se victims have been in the backdrop throughout the film, will find it intriguing, because serial killers are usually tall dominating males. The thought of being killed by an old dwarf lady in a red coat challenges our schema, and that is what conveys wider meanings. My own interpretation is that the woman represents death. In Folklore death wears a hood after all, and although I'm not great on historical contexts, I believe that there was a plague on Venice in the 16th Century or there abouts, which religious society called the red death. The Red Colour schemes define this film as art, and the piano music will haunt you. If you enjoyed this it might be worth seeing1) The Human Stain- Anthony Hopkins et al,- a very similar tone, and very repressed characters.2)Masque of the Red Death- Vincent Price et al, - Not as complex as DLN, but a good use of historical contextualisation and the representation of death3) The Life Of David Gale - Okay, this is a little different, but the slowish pace, and wider messages are likely to appeal to a similar audience. Thanks for reading this review. I hope it was useful, in helping you make up your own interpretation of this masterpiece. "}{"Title":"One of the Most Beautiful and Stylish Films I Have Ever Seen","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In England, John (Donald Sutherland) and Laura Baxter (Julie Christie) lose their beloved daughter Christine (Sharon Williams) drowned in a lake in their real state. They move to Venice and leave their son John (Nicholas Salter) in a boarding school. While working in the restoration of a church, John has lunch with Laura that is not fully recovered of her loss and she helps an old lady in the restaurant with a speck of dust in her left eye. Her blind sister that claims to be psychic advises Laura that she can see her daughter happy and close to them; and that John that is also psychic must leave Venice since he is in danger. Laura feels happy with the revelation but the skeptic John does not believe in the elderly sisters. Meanwhile a serial-killer is killing people in Venice. When Laura and John are called during the night by the director of the boarding school telling that John had had a minor accident, Laura travels in the morning to London to see their son. Meanwhile John has an accident in the scaffold in the church and while going back to the hotel, he sees Laura and the sisters on a funeral gondola. Further he glances somebody wearing the red clock with hood that Christine wore when she died. John decides to investigate whether the sisters have abducted his wife and to follow the person with the red cloak with tragic discoveries.Don't Look Now is one of the most beautiful and stylish films I have ever seen. In the 70's, the former cinematographer Nicolas Roeg was in the beginning and the also in the top of his career. This outstanding cult-movie is impressive, with a fragmented narrative and a stunning cinematography even in an old VHS of my own. Julie Christie is extremely beautiful and Donald Sutherland is perfect as usual in the role of a couple traumatized by the loss of their beloved daughter. The screenplay discloses locations that show the decay of Venice, giving sadness to the story. Last time I had seen this film was on 20 January 2000 and today I have just had the pleasure of seeing it again. My vote is nine. Title (Brazil) Inverno de Sangue em Veneza (Winter of Blood in Venice)Note On 01 November 2013, I saw this movie again on DVD. "},{"Title":"Horror classic!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg's Don't Look Now once seemed radically new with its kaleidoscopic imagery, dreamlike editing, and willingness to let mystery be mysterious on several levels of reality/illusion--plus art-house darling Julie Christie in a long, nude love scene! Nowadays, this 1974 adaptation of a Daphne Du Maurier ghost story looks almost classical. Following the drowning of their child in England, Laura (Christie) and John Baxter (Donald Sutherland) have come to dank, eternally dying Venice, where he is supervising the restoration of a moldering church and she is either slipping into or climbing out of madness with the help of a pair of creepy spinster sisters, one of whom can see even though blind. John may share this psychic power, though he resists accepting it as the canals fill with murder victims, surface realities turn shimmery as water, and a red-coated figure--the daughter's ghost?--keeps flickering in the corner of our vision. Though surreal and perplexing, the film does eventually add up, and the ending remains a real throat-grabber. "},{"Title":"Lengthy sex scene, chilling finale, significant red and a Dwarf","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I feel that the atmosphere is created by the quite frenetic crosscuts reflect and enhance the already distinct atmosphere of psychological disturbance. The non-linear style throughout the film which becomes more apparent throughout. The music is very eerie and quite silent but builds up when someone thing may happen which creates tension for the audience. The characters like the 'Sisters' who tell John and Laura that there daughter is warning them, at first John was sceptical but believed them in the end after seeing glimpses of what he thought was his daughter wearing the same coat as the one she died in. With them being in Venice the audience feel like the characters as they are in a country that they don't know, don't speak English and in other tenses are Isolated from everyone else, which is a common convention of a horror film.The love scene is rather lengthy with editing that influence the film Out Of Sight with the love shots and when they are getting changed. When a sex scene comes in mind it is usually not showing love and more of a quick and rather obnoxious sign of love. Sex scenes come in films like American Psycho and the more amusing of scenes like American Pie both beginning with American summing up the Americans love lives or what's left. But with Monsters Ball 'Sex' scene they are more about love and gaining love. The scene is an important part of the narrative where we are left with the idea that Laura was pregnant the scene at the end helps with that idea when the liquid is spilt and the liquid looks like the ovule. With John dead as well it's a life for a life.The colour red is a significant thing in the film, it probably has more screen time then Julie Chrisite. The colour red comes up so many times even if its obvious or if it is a little hint in the back ground. The opening sequence with the daughter dying has red flowers behind Julie Christie before turning around and screaming, a red rose stands for a loss of a love and I feel is a vital thing in the scene. The colour red means danger, passion, love, stop and anger. These are all vital in each scenes with the red coat at the end with the dwarf the colour red means danger and stop other wise you will be killed. The red coat at the beginning is the total opposite with John passionately holding his daughter and the love that he has for her.I did like the movie, the editing during the love scene was great and obviously was just like Out Of Sight but didn't have a love scene. The film was confusing and quite tiring to understand with scenes and objects that you have to think and remember I am usually a fan of films that you have to watch closely but this was to confusing. The story line was excellent. The film was atmospheric thanks to the editing and music and spine chilling with the finale. We were told as an audience that there was a murderer and was always at the back of my mind so you forget and when you finally see the murderer there is an element of surprise and the director laughing at me as I'm too naive to remember. The opening sequence shots looked amazing with the damp mist in the real country side of Britain. I can't wait for the Hollywood version, not! as they make a lazy attempt at re-making a classic British film. "},{"Title":"I still don-t know ...","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  if it really scared me or not, but I have to say that the way it is filmed, the locations and the good acting work gave such an atmosphere to the movie that you hardly can move from your seat while watching it. I cant imaging that 30 years ago, and in the big screen it could really take your breath. The decision to choose Venice as the background, is super. The characters move in this dark and small streets like in an enhanced town with lot of strange, fascinating and disturbing elements. I recommend it to everybody who not only like scary movies but also just good movies.  "},{"Title":"an especial film","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  well, as far as plot summary , as given so far , i cannot add anything . but , as far as the movie goes ..all i can say is that this has always been in my top three movies , since the age of  15 , some 21 years ago , and i would not move it  from there . great direction , based on a great short story (by daphne du maurier) , superb acting from christie , sutherland et al , and , aside from the infamous love scene , which is meritorious in itself , the movie is extremely well crafted and is compelling to the end (!)  "},{"Title":"dark and mysterious","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this is one film that's full of atmosphere and suspense.it does move at a leisurely pace,but that's the appeal of it,to me.there is a real feeling of foreboding permeating the film.the last twenty minutes or so are very suspenseful.and at then.nothing is really tied up in a neat little bow.there's a lot unresolved,although through the movie there are subtle clues that are left that hint at possibilities.certainly this is a movie which which will stay with you for awhile.or maybe it won't.i guess it depends on what you got out of it.certainly the climatic scenes is still in my head.if you like old fashioned chillers,i'd recommend this one.just remember,it's not going to give you all the answers you're looking for.for me,Don't Look Now is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"If you like this, check out The Comfort of Strangers","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If this is a favorite movie of yours, you should definitely check out The Comfort of Strangers. It is from an early Ian McEwan novel that is clearly heavily influenced by the Du Maurier novel this came from (or this movie, who knows). It also concerns a couple in a strained marriage in Venice, similar scenes in which they get lost among the winding paths, the introduction of a mysterious stranger, and a very similar ending. It also has a similar lush and beautiful score, this time by Angelo Badalamenti. Definitely a bookend movie to this one.And check out my website while you're at it Cinema de Merde is devoted to bad and cheesy movies with specialties in horror and gay movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"the seventies ruled","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS What more would you want from a film, you've got Donald Sutherland, the immaculate Julie Christie, ESP, Venice, a red dwarf?, old blind eroticism, the most sensual love scene ever filmed,and wonderful sound editing creating a haunting, visceral horror film! I saw this movie at the Paramount theater in Austin with a double feature of Night Of The Hunter and I was blown away by the look and feel of both films.Nicholas Roeg is a genius who is vastly underrated and unfortunately underworked. Maybe someday people will regard him in the same breath as a Kubrick or Lynch when they look back at his films of the seventies including Walkabout and The Man Who Fell To Earth.God Bless Nicholas Roeg! "},{"Title":"great cast but loo long","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The cast is great and especially Sutherland. Suspense is gripping but it just takes too long to finally happen something. Maybe it's just seventies-style or something. Music is haunting and atmospheric and suits well in Venice locations Some camera movements are a bit distracting and a little bit too stylized. The ending is spinetingling and worth the wait! "},{"Title":"Occult and classy cult-classic&#x85;","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Johnny and his little sister Christine play in the country home while their parents are busy in the living room. John (Donald Sutherland), a hard-working architect is focussing on the restoration of a Venetian church while his wife Laura (Julie Christie) tries to find an answer to a trivial scientific question. The two parents are totally unaware of the tragedy about to happen, a tragedy foreshadowed by some very odd parallels made of falls, broken glasses, and Christine's raincoat whose bright red is mirrored in a stain on John's plans after he dropped a glass of wine on it. John instinctively senses the danger and runs to the pond for an atrocious discovery Christine has drowned and all he can do is to exude a quasi-bestial groaning of shock and total disbelief &#x85; Nicholas Roeg's Don't Look Now is a treasure of imagery that would have been a delight for eyes if it wasn't so creepy. In fact, it might contain much more symbolism than needed, and ironically, this undeniable strength might also be the film's only weakness, as Don't Look Now combines both style and substance but sometimes it's so amazingly stylish that it doesn't leave the viewer some time to get in the philosophical core which is certainly its more fascinating aspect. Not to diminish the merit of the two leads who are remarkable as the grief-stricken Baxter couple, but Don't Look Now is one of these films whose success relies essentially on the peripheral elements. First, the movie 'lives' through a meticulous editing mixing between flashbacks and subliminal visions of the future in a dizzying visual orgy and secondly, the cinematography recreates a perfect nightmarish vision of Venice, through a sort of Gothic photography that reminds of another classic horror film from the same year.Don't Look Now has such an unconventional way to play with images, action, that the line between reality and imagination, between trauma, facts and fear gets more uncertain as the plot progresses. So maybe (after all) the two lead performances do consecrate the movie's greatness more than any other artistic aspect. John and Laura embody a different kind of reaction toward death Laura is a passionate and emotional woman who can only overcome her grief after meeting two elderly English sisters. One of them can't see but she's gifted with a psychic power and when she reveals that Christine is happy in the after-life, she provides the only emotional arguments that could appease Laura's wounded heart. John is more rational about the two English sisters, yet his very skepticism makes him more vulnerable because his mind can only find an illusion of peace, John is complex because he mirrors a condition opposite to the English sisters, he can see but he's 'emotionally' blind.This emotional blindness is featured more than once, and Roeg does a good job with portraying men as more awkward people, whether it's John, the church's Archbishop, the Police Chief, the communication never seems to go somewhere because they're too rational to believe that there are other strange forces operating in Venice. Indeed, we're far from the postcards' Venice or the pop-culture imagery, this one is shadowy, dirty, the perfect setting for a series of macabre events assembled in what seems to belong to a linear time-line corpses dragged out of the water, accidents involving a falling movement or broken glasses, and a darkness and dullness of colors contrasting with some mysterious occurrences of a bright red figure appearing to john. The film writes many interrogation marks in our minds turning a mystery/thriller into a thought-provoking invitation to question our own visions and certitudes, and while Laura does, John does not.That's the root of the conflict which, if it doesn't kill the love between them, deprives it from any possibility of durable happiness. Which might explain the infamous sex scene, graphic for its time, and alternating between nudity and cuts showing the couple putting their clothes, the contrast between the passion and their quietness is striking and provoke a sort of intellectual seasickness, the proof that even the most passionate moments are meant to be ephemeral. The films oscillates between the passion and the thrills with a sort of Hitchcockian quality, and like in Vertigo, the occult aspect creates the troubling mix of love and paranoia, both driven by their own opposite truth and absence of truth. In Hitchcock films, we couldn't believe what the images meant, in Don't Look Now, even the images are hard to believe.The whole film is a complicated puzzle, perfectly aware of its sophistication, and this might create an unsettling effect after the first viewing, although we can't help but having the certitude that this will lead somewhere, because the imagery contributes to a constant feeling of continuity. Whatever occupied the first scene comes back regularly breaking glasses, falling, and a malfeasant presence. So when, the psychic lady predicts some horrific things to happen, we know this will be the pay-off of a patiently built up suspense. Is the conclusion going to satisfy the first viewers? I guess it's up to any of us to figure. As for me, I didn't think the ending redeemed the first part; because I thought everything was equally fascinating.But maybe I'm victim of my first impression, maybe the film demands several viewings and it's impossible to get all the meanings in one review, let alone after one viewing. I would find it even unfair to write some lines about this disturbing thriller, knowing that there are certainly many subtleties I didn't get, or some hints or clues that went unnoticed. So should I review it or wait after at least a second viewing. I sincerely don't know &#x85; even now, I'm torn between two totally different opinions, one that praises the artistic accomplishment, and another that focuses on the actors' performances. I guess the magic of the film hides somewhere between these two aspects &#x85; "}{"Title":"A Red Jacket Here, A Red Herring There, Spells A Big Movie Rip-Off Everywhere","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ummm.... Are there actually 2 versions of Don't Look Now (DLN, for short) out there? I kinda think there is. And, by mistake, I grossly erred and picked up the utterly stinky version of DLN (which was nothing but a big heap of crap). And, because of that misjudgement, I missed out on seeing the totally wonderful version of DLN that everyone else is watching, and raving about, and giving 9 & 10-star ratings to.Is this what happened? It must be so. 'Cause it's the only thing that makes any sense to me why I found this version of DLN to be so bad that it wasn't even worth using to blow my nose on. It really wasn't.Of course, while watching DLN, it didn't help matters for me, at all, that it starred the likes of Donald Sutherland who has got to be one of the most talentless, putrid, and unconvincing actors of his generation, bar none.And, naturally, here in DLN, that droopy-eyed doofus, Donald (wearing an utterly hideous wig, no less) didn't let me down once as he incompetently put in yet another dull and forgettable performance, just like he's done in every other picture that I've ever seen him in.By the way - When it comes to discussing this film's title (which is Don't Look Now) - I can't tell you how much I hate movies that use a catchy, ominous-sounding title as a cheap ploy to spark one's interest, only for the viewer to find out after watching the stupid thing that its title had absolutely no relevance to the story, whatsoever. (Sheesh! Give me a break, already!) Anyways - When it came to the grave danger that Sutherland's character was clearly warned about earlier in the story - It wasn't the person who was behind this deadly danger that sought him out. No. He, himself, knowingly pursued them. And, so, if you ask me, this big dumbbell got exactly what he deserved in the end. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to its reputation - BORING!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now By Malte006 This movie belongs to the band of movies which subjectively really disappointed me, despite its good reputation. With the superstars Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie in the two leading roles you can say that this movie really was good filled in its leading roles. I read that this movie was supposed to be a horror-thriller, which takes place under occult circumstances in a very Gothic looking Venice. Sounds really interesting I thought &#150; so I bought the movie on DVD and was very excited to see it. It starts good with the mysterious death of the family's daughter. Then her parents travel to Venice where Donald Sutherland's character has to make some architecture work. In this city they meet a psychic woman and her companion. This psychic woman now warns the couple that something bad is going to happen if they stay in Venice. From this point and until the end of the movie nothing exciting really happens. The end is a bid weird I thought; when an old dwarf of a lady kills Donald's role. I must say that I was heavily bored in the most parts of the movie and I still wonder How come a man in his best age could defend himselfs towards a dwarf of an old lady!!? "},{"Title":"Oi! Big Nose!","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don’t Look Now is horrifically dull. The dialogue is tortuous, with long, drawn out scenes between the two leads that seem to have little point or direction. Whilst the quality of the film is greatly enhanced by the digital remastering, the soundtrack fares rather poorly in comparison and so to make matters worse, the piece is filled with a screeching score and shrill dialogue that is rather akin to listening to somebody running a metal glove down a blackboard. Emotionally, I could make no attachment to the film’s characters, whatsoever. The initial tragedy of Christine’s death occurs and is then swept aside as the action shifts to Venice almost without feeling or note. We have no concept of how much time has transpired, so we have no real indication of how much time has passed that might have healed the mental wounds. Both John and Laura seem unaffected, despite the fact that Laura’s mood subsequently lifts when some supernatural contact appears to have been made with her dead daughter. John seems detached and, frankly, rather disinterested and this is a state of emotion that quickly rubs off on the audience.The trouble with the long scenes of dialogue is that you find yourself looking for a hidden meaning that ultimately doesn’t exist. One of the film’s most famous (or should that be infamous?) scenes is a sex scene between the two leads, Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie. Film history tells us that the film was allegedly after an initial version had been made because the director felt that the couple were spending too much time on screen arguing. You can certainly tell that the film was something of an afterthought. I have certainly never seen a clumsier, and less sexy sex scene in my life, despite its rather explicit content. As Sutherland and Christie writhed and pumped I could only really liken the whole experience to that moment when Ken and Dierdre had a bit of a snog on Coronation Street. Gross.It’s worth noting that not an awful lot happens in this film. It’s a film based on suggestion and imagery. The director is intent on injecting the colour red throughout the film. Initially, John knocks over a bottle of bright red ink onto a camera slide that seems to signify the death of his daughter who drowns in a bright red rain coat. From there on in, the red is everywhere – in the crowds, in the cafes, and in virtually every scene involving Sutherland or Christie. Its significance is either utterly obvious or fiendishly subtle, but in either case dreadfully uninteresting. Even the apparent beauty of Venice is lost upon the dull script that wends its way through the drawn out film like a dead body floating along the canals.Sutherland looks extremely odd in this film as he has done in every other film he has ever made, to be perfectly honest. This certainly helps. His glaring eyes and frightened expressions certainly do their best to draw the audience in, even if they have already either nodded off or left the room. Julie Christie is frightfully frightful and tries just as hard, but points never were awarded for effort and her input is soon lost. The only rather interesting character is that of the blind sister, who looks and sounds rather sinister throughout and will certainly provide opportunity for cataract-inspired nightmares in young and old alike.Don’t Look Now strikes me as a film that has aged rather poorly. Interestingly enough, there were many things in this film that reminded me of The Exorcist, a film that was also released in 1973. Both films have the same dark, lifeless tone. Both films contain priests that seem to know more than they’re letting on and both films feature lots of religious imagery. In some ways, the conclusion to both films also feels rather similar. As a horror film, The Exorcist is infinitely more successful. Even now, the film is terrifying to the core and holds its own against modern-day counterparts. Indeed, if you’re looking for scares, then I would suggest you look elsewhere – Don’t Look Now’s 15-certificate is more likely to have been awarded based on its sexual content than any real horror.There are many who will disagree with me, but Don’t Look Now bored the pants off me. This is not what I call a classic film. It’s what I call boring old dirge. Don’t Look Now? Don’t Look Ever, would be my advice. "},{"Title":"Slow, but beautiful","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg attempts to do a 'McCabe & Mrs. Miller' with Daphne Du Maurier's corny ghost story, shellacking it with bucketloads of high style. And he basically pulls it off, too--although it's nearly impossible at the film's conclusion *not* to let loose with an 'Oh come ON!,' 'Don't Look Now' is still a beautiful film full of memorable elements, from its celebrated sex scene to its weird spooky fades to its flourishing, Italianate score. (The music is ultimately what makes the explanation of Donald Sutherland's vision so funny.) Horror fans will enjoy the director's riffs on the giallo subgenre too, although some might be annoyed by the classy slowness of his approach. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Artsy and surreal but a thriller, too...a unique British twist on New Hollywood","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now (1973)A tale told with the new realism of the times, emphasizing genuine people, small details to add credibility, and a filming and acting style that is vivd and yet everyday. But that's only half of it. Add a surreal and sometimes disorienting editing that adds dreams and flashforwards, add some camera-work that is abstract or off kilter, and stir in a general ominousness where almost everyone is a little creepy or suspect.You may not figure out what the title means (I didn't) but all the confusions of the plot do, actually, click together by the very end. It's really rather simple, and this elegance is beautiful, internally, helping justify what sometimes feels like a patient, if not long, movie.And yet it never loses interest. What it creates at those times when the events are not changing is a feeling of pure ambiance. Of course, the mise-en-scene is purely Venice, and the best of Venice, the winding, aging, gorgeous alleys and canals. And an decrepit church, the center in one sense of the plot. The core of the story is a short story by a master of popular, romantic intrigues, Daphne du Maurier (who also wrote Rebecca). She has said that of all the film adaptations of her works, she only liked Don't Look Now and Rebecca.This won't be to everyone's taste, due to the abstracted style and a sense at times that nothing is happening. But if it starts to click, which it did for me, and you can just watch and know it gets more and more interesting, go with it. Inhabit the camera as much as the characters and find it's a visceral, poetic film. With a great, logical surprise at the end. "},{"Title":"Slowly paced but intriguing and beautifully directed supernatural tale","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now seems to get very mixed reviews. A lot of people regard it as either one of the best horror films of the 70s or a deadly bore with no chills. I'm not going to say its one of the greatest horror films ever made, but its far from the insomnia cure that some make it out to be. It really isn't even a horror film, as there's few attempts to actually scare the audience (up until the climax). Its a chilling and slowly paced meditation on supernatural matters thats made with a great deal of intelligence by director Nic Roeg. Its not my favorite film of his (thats still the cult masterpiece Performance), but the man really can do no wrong. Don't Look Now isn't for people who enjoy quickly paced slash fests, but if you have a taste for atmospheric, almost fairy tale like supernatural stories such as Mario Bava, you'll enjoy this a good deal.What makes Don't Look Now really good is how well made it is. The direction by Nic Roeg is absolutely exquisite, with some gorgeous color schemes and cinematography. The film has a dreamlike atmosphere and is beautifully directed. The acting from the two leads is also extremely accomplished. Both Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland garner a good deal of sympathy for their characters. As great as the direction is, without a pair of strong performances in the leads, this film wouldn't work. Fortunately, Christie and Sutherland are both fantastic actors and more than up to par here.I haven't made up my mind as to whether I like the ending or not yet. I'm not sure if I should appreciate its near surrealistic sense of ambiguity or be disappointed by its lack of explanation. Its still a frightening resolution either way, a good ending for one of the finest supernatural thrillers ever made. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Dosing, but still pretty good","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first film I've seen which has had me dosing off while watching it, hoping for the lesson to end (film studies you see) but still I come away craving to order it off the internet.Sat there, doing my report, I put things like 'lacks direction', 'going no-where', 'boring' and 'waste of cinema goers money'. On the final report I was writing things like 'twists and turns the audience so many different ways', 'pulsating' and 'return of the classic horror film'.To be honest the film did lack some direction in the middle with no definite plot, no definite thing to grab hold of. It seemed to sail along like one of those boats on the Venice canal without exciting me or without, to be honest, SERIOUSLY boring me. I sat in hope of the next scene blasting into life but carried on disappointed.The ending certainly did blast into life, but for the sake of avoiding a spoiler, I'll just say it took me two or three minutes after thinking it over to get my head round what had happened and why.Only when you look back on this film do u realise how good and clever it is, the editing being a HUGE factor into making it what it is. There are no really scary scenes, although the ending made me jump, but the use of lighting, editing etc.. makes it scary and unnerving. I dosed through the film, but still I give it a good 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was in the mood for a solid psychological thriller. I love a good scare, minus the blood and guts. I looked at different lists of recommended scary movies and came across this. I gave it a try. Really really ewwwwww. I hated this movie but clearly intellectuals loved it. The handsome priest could have had Satan himself exploding from all of his orifices, but it would have been the secondary plot. Early on in this movie (which I did not know) is a supposedly well known, very long sex scene. Wish I had know that before I downloaded this. I wanted scary, not gross out. I have never been a huge fan of Donald Sutherland, so to be repeatedly exposed to this naked, skinny, disturbingly tall, permed, pale guy was more than uncomfortable. This is a thriller??!! He's got this fro/perm thing so he looks eight feel tall then he's naked all over the place. We see all of Donald Sutherland, over and over. Yuck. It was so uncomfortable. I wanted to get to the scary part of this movie but finally gave up with 45 minutes left. Nothing but naked Donald had been presented (and did I say WAAAY to much presented)and no matter what happened I just could not scrub that image. Just gross. Hardly the thriller I had hoped. I can not say how high up on the yuck factor this movie reached. Was there a plot or story here? I have no idea. I need to go sterilize my eyes. "},{"Title":"More 70's Crap","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This overrated turd lends further credence to my theorem, stated as followsTheorem Movies from the 70's suck.Corollary The level of suck is directly proportional to the level of critical acclaim.There are some extremely rare exceptions to this postulate. Don't Look Now is NOT one of them. Do not fall for the hype.I love psychological horror, spooky atmosphere and a thriller with a good story. (IMO, The Shining is the scariest movie ever made.)This movie has none of that. What it does have is pretentious editing, unnecessary zooms, wooden acting, trite photography and hideously bad sound design. In fact, it contains some of the worst Foley work I've ever been subjected to. The famous sex scene is too long, contains way too much of naked Donald Sutherland, and is an object lesson in how NOT to cut a scene. Bad. Just bad. Awful. Stay away. "},{"Title":"Artistic even symbolic but way too little story","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie as it really had a very interesting premise. The beginning scene where the little girl drowns is one of the most gripping I have seen. Everything that happens after that is way less interesting. Sure Venice offers a nice scenery and beautiful images, the narrow streets create an atmosphere of claustrophobia. The couple meet up with two old ladies, sisters, one is blind but has paranormal gifts telling them she can get in touch with their deceased daughter. Instead of showing the viewer how this could be done we as viewer just get the message that their daughter said they have to leave Venice as the father's life is in danger. Of course he doesn't believe even though he sees images of a girl with the same red jacket as the one his daughter was wearing when she drowned. And apparently there is also a murderer on the loose. I wish the director worked out this story aspect a bit better, tell me some more about the daughter how does she try to get in touch with her parents and the role of the older ladies it stayed all too vague. It seems to have no real goal, more artistic and perhaps symbolic rather than an interesting or gripping story. No I didn't feel for the father in the end as he was supposed to have the gift too but at no point in the movie he truly convinced me he was missing his daughter or trying to get over her loss. "}{"Title":"Too different for today's horror fan?","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Reading the comments here, I get the distinct feeling that the wrong people are viewing this movie. So first off - don't rent this if you are expecting a slasher B flick. Don't rent this if you want a linear plot line with every event explained. Don't rent this because of a hot sex scene. Don't rent this if you expect Spielberg character development. You will be disappointed, bored, mystified and annoyed - this is not for you.If you are used to and like a slower Euro-style movie where things just happen because they are a part of the web of life and the plot being a subset of the whole then this is for you. If you like twists that actually make sense at the end rather than being tacked on just to be clever then this is for you. If you want to see an example where sex is used just like any other device to develop the relationship between the characters (as it does beautifully) then this is for you. If you like subtle characters, characters that feel real and with more dimension than needed (after all,the people you meet on the street aren't just there to advance your life story) then this is for you.I only wish that they would make more movies like this - for me. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror films of all time","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't Look Now is directed by Nicholas Roeg, based on a short story by Daphne Du Maurier and stars Julie Christie, Donald Sutherland and Hilary Mason.It is an experience that will stay with you long after it has finished.Famous for it's use of non linear sequences which only add to the sense of unease and fear which can be felt in almost every scene.Beginning on a quiet Sunday afternoon in the English countryside a little girl in a red raincoat falls into a pond and drowns.Her young brother finds her and runs for his dad, art restorer John Baxter(Donald Sutherland).John is devastated when he can't save her and is troubled after having had a premonition of her death.A few months later he and his wife Laura(Julie Christie)take a break in Venice,Italy where John is helping to restore an old church which has fallen into disrepair.The Venice they arrive at is far too quiet, almost like a ghost town grey and still.After they arrive they meet to elderly sisters(Hilary Mason and Clelia Matania).One of them Heather(Hilary Mason)is blind yet has the gift of second sight.Heather informs Laura that she has seen her daughter Christine and describes things to her that only she and John could know.Heather also warns of impending danger to John.As John and Laura struggle to process what they have heard the sense of unease which lurks over every inch of the film intensifies and when John keeps seeing a small figure lurking the streets dressed in red raincoat he becomes convinced it's Christine.Best remembered for it's shocking ending involving John and a knife wielding dwarf.The main focus though has also been directed towards the infamous sex scene between Christe and Sutherland inter cut with shots of the couple dressing to go out for dinner.The amount of passion on display in this scene led to speculation at the time of an off screen affair between the two stars. Undoubtedly it is a great horror film, one filled with intelligent writing and genuine scares it is creepy and is effective at producing scares by making you think about what your seeing.As opposed to filling it with endless shots of gore and cheap shocks.With excellent performances from Christie and Sutherland and a downright creepy one from Hilary Mason,Don't Look Now is one to watch. "},{"Title":"This is a bad film.","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing so many good things about this film I decided to go out and buy it; what a mistake that was. The first time I saw it I didn't even watch it till the end and since I was bored last night, I decided to give it another try.I'm not going to bother telling you what the film was about, you can read another review for that but basically it's about a little girl who drowns in a pond in her back garden (wearing a red raincoat, ß that's important in case you were wondering.) then her family moves to Venice (without their other child for some strange reason) to forget the tragedy.The beginning of the film when the little girl dies was good, but as for the other 110 minutes (approx), I can't describe how bad they were. The sounding was terrible; I had to strain my ears to hear the dialogue. Also, what was with the crazy blind woman laughing in one of the scenes? Was she up to something or what? Who knows? And at the end when the father finally catches up with the strange person who had been running round Venice wearing the red raincoat (told you it was important) you find out that it wasn't the daughter (of course, she's dead) but a weird midget with a knife in her pocket and she suddenly stabs him in the throat and we watch as he dies with fake blood around him (seriously, you expect us to think that was real?)All in all, this was a totally crappy movie and a waste of my money and to anybody who thinks this is a classic thriller; you need to re-think your decision, I could write a better film than this and I'm only 15!Pfft, even thinking about it makes me want to throw up, DON'T WATCH THIS!  "},{"Title":"well-done horror","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg's Don't Look Now has a consistently eerie, waking-nightmare quality that pervades throughout its duration; the off-kilter atmosphere complements the characters, who, in essence, are strangers in a foreign land. After the sudden death of their young daughter, a couple (Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie) flees to Venice in an attempt to clear their minds, though complications emerge when a blind medium claims to be able to communicate with the child. The film contains reputable direction and an emphasis on suspense over gore, with an eccentric cast making the events believable. While defiant of easy categorization, Don't Look Now is a solid little thriller. "},{"Title":"Don't Look Now","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can think of a some reasons for the film title's meaning, but anyway, I am very glad I gave this film from director Nicolas Roeg (Walkabout, The Withches), based on the short novel by Daphne Du Maurier, another chance. In a not all linear story, John (BAFTA nominated Donald Sutherland) and Laura Baxter (BAFTA nominated Julie Christie) are living in Venice to work on an old church, and get over the drowning of their daughter Christine (Sharon Williams). There Laura meets a pair of elderly sisters, Wendy (Clelia Matania) and blind Heather (Hilary Mason) who claims to be psychic and that she can see the spirit of the dead daughter. Laura of course is intrigued, but John is resiting the idea, but he does take some notice when Laura gives him their warnings to leave Venice. He soon has his own psychic flashes, seeing their daughter running through the streets of Venice in her red coat. The final and shocking scene sees John finding what he thinks is Christine, but is fact a Dwarf (Adelina Poerio) who has been on a murder spree, and John of course is the next victim, getting his throat slashed. Also starring Massimo Serato as Bishop Barbarrigo, Renato Scarpa as Inspector Longhi, David Tree as Anthony Babbage, Ann Rye as Mandy Babbage, Nicholas Salter as Johnny Baxter and Bruno Cattaneo as Detective Sabbione. While the story is filled with creepy and chilling moments, eccentric characters and that terrifying finale, the iconic scene of this film is the passionate sex scene between Sutherland and Christie, portraying husband and wife, with dressing parts edited in it is a remarkable unscripted (improvised by Roeg) scene. Sutherland and Christie make good performances, and while the story isn't all straight forward, it is very watchable, a good idea to watch more than once. It won the BAFTA for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing, Best Sound Track and Best Film. Julie Christie was number 91 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and she was number 24 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, the film was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments, it was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments, it was number 40 on The 50 Greatest British Films, and it was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Well made but requires explanation","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This would have been a very good film but for the total lack of explanation at the end. Who was the freak dwarf at the end? Why does Sutherland see his own funeral before it happens? Why do all of the characters behave so suspiciously? I watched the interviews on the DVD and no explanation was forthcoming. The director waffled on about rationality and coincidence and the fact that they filmed the opening scene in a swimming pool. Who cares? This is undeniably a beautiful and atmospheric film but the storyline is utterly pointless and there are many pointless scenes; for example the famous love scene - one of the most repulsive and unnecessary scenes I have ever had the misfortune of watching - featuring lots of Sutherland's wrinkly butt.Most of this film is a fastforward. "},{"Title":"Close to X Rated Donald Sutherland Movie anybody?","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was good and all but sheesh, the excessive nudity of Donald Sutherland was a little OVER THE TOP! I mean, geeze, even after his love making scene (10 minutes), he walks around naked, weighs himself in the nude and then goes to work in his office COMPLETELY NUDE! Other than this, the movie was great. The sisters were creepy and that scene where they are both on a boat was very creepy and I was scared beyond measure. The final scene was amazing and brought back memories of a special I saw on The 100 scariest movie moments ever. I liked this movie though. However, it did not scare me to death. I did make the mistake of watching this during the day. "}]