[{"Title":"The voice of innocence whispers in our ears...","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"118 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Is it really possible that this luminous masterpiece is a first feature film? It is as though Mozart had started his career in composition with one of his mature symphonies. What is totally special about 'Badlands' is the visual control that Terrence Malick applies to the story, and his use of fabulous music to embed his amazing images in our mind. The 'Bonnie & Clyde'-ish story could have been turgid, but Malick turns it into a mythic journey.At the heart of Malick's method is the fabulous interior monologue by Holly explaining and ironically commenting on the story. Kit made me take my schoolbooks so I wouldn't fall behind with my studies.... This has been characteristic of each of Malick's films - Linda in 'Days of Heaven' and Witt in 'The Thin Red Line' have somewhat similar monologues - and 'New World' is monumentalised by the haunting monologue/montage with which it ends. Here it totally sucks the viewer into the story and makes the montages that it accompanies into, just about, the high-point of seventies cinema. Alongside this, Malick uses some of the most haunting music in existence. Whether it is Carl Orff or Nat King Cole, Malick transports us with fabulous romantic imagery that perfectly balances it.I started on this comment determined not to use the word 'poetry', but I just can't avoid it. With nearly all filmmakers, including very great ones, the style that they present is very much prose - great prose, perhaps, but firmly rooted on the ground. With Malick, we are taken, emotionally, to the stars by the lyric magnificence of the totality of his vision.It is said that Welles learned cinema by watching John Ford's 'Stagecoach' before embarking on 'Citizen Kane'. Every young filmmaker should watch this amazing masterpiece again and again and again and inform their work with Malick's matchless sense of true cinema. "},{"Title":"Badlands, you gotta live it everyday...","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"107 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's really a shame that Terrence Malick didn't have the brilliant career he deserved at Hollywood. Shot with a nearly shoestring budget, Badlands remains one of the most dazzling debut movies of all time. Malick's legend based on his (long) absence has helped it to become a cult-movie. Inspired by a tragic short news item which took place in 1959 (a young couple who decides to commit a series of free murders to leave a mark in history), the odds are that Malick's first feature-length movie inspired Oliver Stone and Quentin Tarantino for their dangerous and irresponsible Natural Born Killers (1994). Concerning Tarantino, I read an interview about him in which he expressed his admiration of Malick's work. It shows that the author of Pulp Fiction (1994) has a great esteem for this talented and mysterious film-maker. At the same time, we can also note down that Malick's work inspired Bruce the Boss Springsteen two songs Badlands on his darkness on the edge of town album (1978) and nebraska on the eponymous LP(1982).An American journalist had written that Badlands was the best mastered movie in the history of cinema since Citizen Kane (1941) by Orson Welles. One can judge this affirmation as exaggerated but it is nevertheless indisputable that Malick's opus strikes on numerous aspects an assertive and opaque story, a fluid making, a relevant screenplay, an original photography which gives to the landscapes an image of desolation and lost paradise perturbed by a free violence. The work is also strongly steeped in a certain poetry.Concerning the two main characters, a French critic had written that it was difficult to feel liking for these two irresponsible. I think that this critic badly analyzed the film. Terrence Malick doesn't try to make them likable to us. He describes them without kindness and condescension. They haven't got an imposing personality and live only through an intermediary myth. It is particularly obvious for the young man (Martin Sheen) who is obsessed with James Dean. One can also say that Sissi Spacek's voice-over which tells this dramatic story is of an amazing neutrality. Then, unlike many criminal lovers, Sheen and Spacek will live at the heart of this violence and the latter won't bring them together or take them away.With Badlands, Malick was judicious for the choice of the actors. In a way, his first movie enabled to put Sheen and Spacek on the map and it also launched their respective careers. Then, what happened to Terrence Malick after this sensational debut movie? A second movie, Days of Heaven (1978) starring Richard Gere as successful as Badlands. After that, for twenty years, nothing. However, in 1998, Malick made a rather successful come-back with the Thin Red Line (1998). According to the latest news, he would currently shoot a movie about the first years of America's colonization in the beginning of the seventeenth century. If my memory serves me well, the movie will be released next year. Let's hope so...Like this?try these....gun crazy ,Joseph H.Lewis ,1950you only live once Fritz Lang,1936Bonnie and Clyde Arthur Penn,1967 "},{"Title":"Landmark film.  One of the best directorial debuts","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"70 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Kit is a garbage man, Holly just a teenager living with her father. Kit and Holly get together and Holly's father disapproves. Kit kills Holly's father and together they go on the lam and a few others get killed in the proceedings.This 1973 landmark film was the directorial debut of one Terrence Malick. It's been described by many as one of the most mature debuts in film history. The numbness of Sheen's and Spacek's characters is haunting and makes a very strong point and it's very hard to swallow. Spacek's voice-over, which tells how she experiences life with Kit, is disturbing and yet, poetically beautiful. The sheer innocence of her character, her bright-eyed view of the world, her acceptance of Kit's explanations make a stronger point in the examination of two completely alienated individuals than any other movie I can think of.Martin Sheen has never been better than here. His Kit, obsessed with James Dean apparently, is one of cinema's coldest villains. His utter detachment in all the proceedings is a wonder to behold. He's completely numb and that's more haunting than any outburst of rage. He's a flawed product of society. He doesn't feel evil, he just doesn't feel anything. Sissy Spacek is also wonderful in her role, giving a very memorable performance as Holly.Terence Malick's direction is superb. The cinematography by Tak Fujimoto is beautiful, every frame simply looks stunning and he captures the era wonderfully. It's hard to believe this film is over 30 years old. The music is also very good, with a catchy melody which seems to go well the innocence portrayed in Spacek's character. This almost feels like a children's tune.This film is considered to be loosely based on the real life killing spree committed by Charlie Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate in 1958. Starkweather was executed and up until his last day alive, he said that Caril was just an observer but finally said she was as guilty of the killings as he, even initiating some herself.Badlands however says in the end credits that the story is fictional.One of the best films of the 1970's. "},{"Title":"A sophisticated exploration of the nature of good and evil","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"64 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Surely one of the most brilliant films ever made. The haunting music and cinematography would almost suffice by itself. The hero is little more than a child the heroine his willing accomplice, and we are made to question what is good and what is evil by seeing the world through the eyes of children. From the moment when the girl's father shoots her dog to punish her, we lose any loyalty to traditional values or to the rights of parents over their children. By the end, it's obvious to us that society doesn't value the lives of those who were killed. It anticipates Natural Born Killers, but perhaps says more and uses a tighter structure.Brilliantly acted and directed, with many layers to it.  A film to watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"Slower Is Better In This Crime Tale","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Made in the early 1970s, this was more of classic type crime story than a modern-day one in that the violence wasn't overdone and it was a slower-paced story than what you would see if re-made today.That slower pace makes for a better study of the two main characters, who were based on the real-life serial-killing duo of the 1950s Charles Starkweather and his girlfriend.Martin Sheen's Starkweather-type character Kit Carruthers is amazingly low- key for a killer and Sissy Spacek, playing his girl, Holly, shows some really strange reactions (she hardly reacts after Sheen shoots her father) while providing fascinating narration. In fact, the more I watch this film, the more Spacek's narration is the highlight for me. It's great stuff.Being a Terrence Malick-directed film, you know you are going to get some nice photography. He really loves closeups of nature. Another plus is the absence of profanity. There is very little of it. "},{"Title":"Desperados Detached","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In January, 1958, nineteen-year-old Charles Starkweather and fourteen-year-old Caril Ann Fugate went on a murder spree in Nebraska and Wyoming. Eleven innocent people died. Most, though not all, of the killings were random. Starkweather and Fugate's story inspired several films, including this one.In Badlands, the pair's names were changed to Kit Carruthers (Martin Sheen) and Holly Sargis (Sissy Spacek), and their ages were altered slightly. From what I have read, Starkweather and Fugate were emotionally detached and casual about the killings, especially Charles, once the initial murders had occurred. Both Sheen and Spacek do a good job of mimicking this nonchalant attitude. At various points throughout the film, Holly narrates the story in an emotionless, monotone voice. It's like she's reading a diary of what happened as we, the viewers, watch movie footage of the events.The film's title is appropriate, given that the characters' inner lives must surely have been wastelands, and given that the film's plot takes place mostly outdoors, on the lonesome High Plains, with its brooding and stark landscape.The film's color cinematography conveys a mood of desolation, especially in those scenes that contain little more than the horizon, expansive blue sky, treeless plains, and a couple of lonely desperados. At one point, the color morphs into sepia-tinted images of small town America, as the whole country, in fear, takes up arms against the fugitives, a photographic change that renders an almost documentary tone to the film.From time to time, classical background music accompanies the senseless violence, a cinematic contrast so stark as to make the film surreal. And, of course, the sequence toward the end where Kit and Holly, with car radio on, dance in the headlights as Nat King Cole sings A Blossom Fell, is truly mournful and haunting.Badlands is incredibly understated and low-key, as detached as the characters portrayed. Director Terrence Malick conveys a simple, uninvolved story, packaged in a film that makes no effort to communicate either symbolism or thematic depth. Nor does the film render judgments about the characters or events. It's an approach that probably wouldn't work today. But it is effective, and through the years the film has gradually become more respected as an excellent character study of 1950's teen rebels without a cause. "},{"Title":"Saw her standing on her front porch, just a-twirling her baton...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"43 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The serial killer genre is the most overdone in modern cinema, but director Terrence Mallick took a real life story to make his powerful debut, 'Badlands'.  He even toned it down, his interest being not in presenting a picture of pure (and wholly artificial) evil but rather in portraying a wholly human story.  Murder is depicted here in all its banality - people shot (off-screen) through locked doors, by a young man acting for wholly normal motives but without the customary restraints on behaviour that we term morals.  The result is a haunting, though occasionally pretentious, study of individuals drifting beyond the bounds of civilisation, their physical location (America's still-wild west) symbolically matching their mental isolation.  Sissy Spacek is particularly good as the ordinary girl just along for the ride.  A fine film, 'Badlands' is also genuinely disturbing, in a way that Hannibal Lector could only dream of. "},{"Title":"cool, disinterested study of amoral pair","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"45 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  BADLANDS is an intelligent little film. We're given characters and situations and left to make our own conclusions. Based on an actual young couple who went on a killing spree across the southwest in the late 1950s, the story has two young people doing their own thing with precious little in the way of ethics to guide them. It's interesting to note that both these kids substitute their own fantasies for any sense of order or responsibility that society may have to offer. The turning point comes when Kit and Holly decide to shuck their semblances of normal life for whatever their fantasies provide which, unfortunately, can't sustain them. Sheen's Kit is full of swagger and bravado; it's almost easy for someone to see him committing robberies and serial murders. Spacek's Holly is more intriguing a soft, vanilla, invisible girl from a respectable, emotionally detached home, she seemingly possesses little in the way of what one would associate with a violent criminal. Yet, she accompanies Kit, with nothing in the way of reservations or regret. The chance to fulfill her vapid, movie magazine fantasies, if only by hiding out in the woods and applying makeup, seem infinitely more palatable than her dull existence twirling batons in her yard(it's interesting to note that one of the few things she takes away from her home is a highly romanticized, Maxfield Parrish print). These misguided illusions, along with her adolescent love for Kit, keep her going to the end. A worthwhile exploration of the bland, vacant American sensibility that values appearances or passive, benign behavior over real ethics and personal morality. And definitely more relevant as the years have passed.  "},{"Title":"Meditative view of life, love, and death by Terrence Malick","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands, based on the relationship between Charles Starkweather and Caril Fugate (and later an inspiration for Tarantino's True Romance and NBK), never has a moment where something un-realistic curries. Writer/producer/director Terence Malick leads his film along with a true emphasis on both the psychological nature of Kit (Martin Sheen) and Holly (Sissy Spacek), and with the un-canny knack for a relaxing style in his camera. At best, Badlands is one of the successful homages to European cinema of the 1970's, something that will last a long time due to its pairing of absorbing art-house and (perhaps) mainstream sensibilities. At worst, a viewer could feel bored with Malick's intent on running with his poetic ideas as a director. If there was any pretentiousness at all, it went over my head; this is a film that draws you into its tragic nature.Sheen and Spacek are totally believable as a couple on the run, as Kit continually has a trigger-happy attitude to people after he shoots Holly's father. While Spacek holds the heart of the picture steady, I'd have to say that Sheen's Kit is one of his best performances. He comes off in the perfect sense- you wouldn't think for a second that Kit could be a killer, that is until he pulls out his pistol. It works just as well that Holly is the narrator, so that the viewer can understand where Kit's coming from, and where he's going. If there is any distance between his character and the audience, there's still a strong, emotional connection through Spacek, and their bond as a loving, if dangerous, couple.Overall, Badlands is extraordinary in a way that doesn't cram its atmospheric from start to finish on the audience, and it looks at young people in love, however in such twisted circumstances, in an honest way in how escalatory events create a disillusioned feeling in youth. That it's made on such a low budget gives it more merit. Kudos should go to the musical score by James Taylor, Gunild Keetman and George Tipton, too; it's one of the best debuts of the 70's. A+ "},{"Title":"The Gun Is Loaded But Nobody's Home","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is a movie that is so flat it's infuriating. It is also anticlimactic and an ultimate failure.Innocent teen Holly (Sissy Spacek) meets troubled loner Kit (Martin Sheen) and their love affair turns into a killing spree and a life on the lam. And that's all. Throughout all the events that unfold in this story- some tragic, some funny, some frightening, and some heartbreaking- neither character expresses any strong emotion or any discernible personality. We know the characters LESS at the end of the film than we did at the beginning, and that is just as unsatisfying as it sounds.Was Kit destined to become a killer? Were there signs we should have seen? Was there something in his past that drove him to this? Does he enjoy these killings? Or is he riddled with guilt and remorse? Is he conflicted or confused, demented or brilliant? Director Terrence Malick never answers these questions. So why bother telling the story?Holly leaves us with the same void Is she secretly proud of her crazed, violent protector? Is she mentally unstable herself for getting involved in this situation- and allowing it to continue? What's wrong with her? What's going on here?!? She spends the movie in a dreamlike state with no reaction to the events around her. Even Kit's best friend- who gets shot in the belly for trying to escape- has no reaction to his own impending death... he sits quietly on his bed reading old postcards and bleeding to death. Restraining actors to this degree is a crime against the craft.The closest we get to any real insight is the contrived, intentionally-stilted voice-over from Sissy Spacek, which ultimately reveals nothing. Our narrator's voice is detached, disassociated, and numb, even with the advance knowledge of all that has happened, and how. To tease the audience in this way is a defiant prank, and not very funny.What could have been a brilliant movie is ruined by Malick's refusal to reveal ANY motivation for any of his characters. Heck, we don't even understand why Holly's Father was so protective of her in the first place! A character study like this needs emotional highs and lows, conflict, confrontation... and after the first hour of watching Holly & Kit drift through this nightmare looking like they're stoned on painkillers the novelty begins to wear thin.I love Sheen & Spacek, and I very much wanted to like this movie, but it has been expertly crafted to communicate nothing. Badlands simply exists, and if this was the stunt Malick was hoping to achieve, his reward is that the film leaves no lasting impression.GRADE C- "}{"Title":"Brilliantly constructed and acted debut feature","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An astonishing film, uncomfortable, bewildering but never less than beautiful. I came away and went straight to my dictionary to look for a definition of 'evil'. My OED uses three words. 'Bad', 'sin' and 'harm'. Neither 'bad' nor 'sin' get a foothold in this morally sterile film. Any impression of wrongdoing is dissolved in Holly's intermittent voice-over, recording Kit's justifications for his actions. All the film is conducted at this remove - even the killings themselves Kit only uses guns, distancing himself and his impulse from the violence of murder; the victims die silently with little bleeding. Many are shot in the back or out of frame. This way even the idea of 'harm' is removed.Stripped of a moral framework the film becomes terrifying. The natural inclination is to side with this charming couple falling in love. Then without warning, Kit's unfettered id can lash out with the amplified, impersonalised firearms he carries. The insecurity of whether you're watching the good guys or the bad is as gripping as any individual performance.That said, Spacek and Sheen are necessarily strong. They have to carry the film, their characters are strangely feral. Untutored, yet modern, Kit's moral framework is gleaned from movie and music personalities (he beams at being called James Dean). In fact I was poleaxed by Sheen's performance, a schizophrenic construction of barbarism and erroneously understood manliness. I'll never watch the awkward energy of Michael J Fox in Back To The Future or Teenwolf in the same way again.On top of everything Malick films America beautifully. The two senses of Kit's fruitless journey contradict themselves; even the soundtrack oscillates between the aspirational (Nat King Cole) and the bucolic (a capella singing, a marimba). It's so well composed and executed it's possible to feel cut off. It's hard to argue with for a first picture though 8/10 "},{"Title":"I stand alone","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"45 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hesitated before writing this review, because *everyone* seems to think this movie is the greatest thing since sliced bread.Personally, I thought it was deadly dull, and the characters unmotivated cardboard cutouts who have nothing in common with real human beings.I also object to Malick's fundamental dishonesty. In his desperate desire to say something Real And Meaningful (in other words, arrogant and sophomoric) about the horrible 1950s, he uses Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate as an emblem of alienation in Ike's Amerika, while minimizing the actual crimes they committed. (Among other things, Starkweather murdered Fugate's two-year-old sister by ramming a rifle muzzle down her throat until she choked to death. He also sexually assaulted a 16-year-old girl before he and Fugate murdered and mutilated her. Neither of these crimes is so much as alluded to in the film, because The Message is too important to be sullied by mere truth.)So am I so out of touch?No. It's everyone else who is wrong. "},{"Title":"Where's your spark now?","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Typical of director Terrence Malick's work, Badlands revolves around a couple of loners who ostracise themselves from society and attempt to live in the wilderness. They eke out a natural existence, living a romantic life in the vein of Henry Thoreau, but gradually the outside world encroaches, leading to conflict and eventually death.Our heroes are an odd bunch. She's (Holly) an ugly duckling and social outcast whose life was derailed by the death of her mother, and he's (Kit) a loser who collects garbage and preys on little girls too naive to recognise that he's a bum. Like most of Malick's heroes, they're in search of some idyllic haven, a quest which takes them to the dust-bowls of South Dakota. Like Malick's The New World, in which both England and America were new worlds, this film's title thus has a double meaning. Our heroes not only retreat into the badlands, but away from what they perceive to be the badlands, in this case the covert hostility of small town America.Though the film is structured as the hazy memories of a slightly older Holly, its visual fabric is almost completely at odds with Holly's recollections. Kit and Holly perceive themselves to be deep and brooding loners akin to James Dean, Bonnie and Clyde and medieval romantics, but the audience is always aware that they're just a couple of flat and vapid personalities. In other words, Holly wrongly annotates her own story, and it is only gradually, as the story unfolds, that she wakes up to this fact.Kit is himself constantly proclaiming that he has things on his mind, and yet everything he says and does proves otherwise. Kit's void is made most apparent by his obsession with James Dean. When others mention that he looks like Dean, Kit's eyes light up, his face brimming with a kind of narcissism. He's a nobody, and comparisons to Dean allow him to expropriate, if only for a little while, somebody else's fame.Kit's disenchantment with self is emphasised during the film's final scene. You're quite an individual, a police officer says as Kit boards a plane on route for the electric chair. Think they'll take that into consideration? Kit naively replies. Individuality, and the fact that society does not cater for it, is precisely why Kit and Holly find themselves marginalised.The people whom Kit kills (co-workers, Holly's father etc) in his attempts to evade the law and maintain his freedom (and relationship with Holly) therefore demonstrate that Kit's rebellion is, quite unconsciously, a rebellion against a social order which wants him confined to the outskirts of society. The flights of the various individuals in Malick's Days of Heaven and The Thin Red Line follow this same trend, Richard Gere killing his factory boss and going on the run in the former film, James Caviziel ditching the army and going on the run in the latter.But rather than treat sex, love and freedom as a cynosure for unity and elation, Malick depicts romance as the locus of division and indifference. Is that it? Holly disappointedly says after the couple first have sex, a line which marks the point at which their romance begins to collapse.The disintegration of Kit and Holly's romance (he begins to question whether she really was a virgin, she begins to view him as a bum) mirrors the couple's disenchantment with being free and living in the new world. But Holly's journey from romantic naivety to disillusionment also mirrors the arc of the film's philosophical meta-story, which charters a war between the Romantic Ideal of man-in-harmony with nature, with the Post Enlightenment Ideal of man lording over nature.Romanticism began as a reaction to the Industrial Revolution and as a revolt against the social and political norms of scientific rationalism and the Age of Enlightenment. It favoured ancient customs, folk art, returning to nature, spontaneity, enchantment, freedom, and rejected rational and Classicist models in favour for a form of Medievalism which, in theory, helped one escape the confines of population growth, urban sprawl, and industrialism. In short, the Romantic Ideal exalted a kind of gifted, enchanted, misunderstood loner whose creativity followed the dictates of his own wild inspirations rather than the mores of contemporary society. Such a romantic outlaw is found at the core of every Malick flick.So Malick's films deal with what German sociologist Max Weber calls Rationalization's disenchantment of the world, in which society cherishes instrumental Rationality over and above value rationality to such an extent that magic/spirituality/religion/ethereality is slowly eroded. This process of devaluation or disenchantment gives rise to a condition of cultural nihilism in which the intrinsic value or meaning of ideals and actions is increasingly subordinated to a rational quest for efficiency, control and the pursuit of mundane materials, often by violence. Weber calls this the iron cage of specialists without spirit and sensualists without heart (Holly's father is an artist but uses his talents on advertisements). In breaking free of their worlds and retreating to the Romantic Ideal, Malick's heroes are thus searching for some mythical wholeness, some non-existent Eden which is unattainable precisely because all pre-enlightenment myths of wholeness have been displaced by the modern discovery of a plurality of worlds. The tensions of Malick's films, however, arise from the fact that the modern world which allows for all, also allows for nothing. As plurality is threatening, the Social Order attempts to reduce this threatening plurality - and the sceptical undermining of knowledge and morality it entails - to one universal world again by means of conquest and domination. And that is the paradox Malick explores the Post Enlightenment world which preaches multiplicity but seeks to impose its own unity, its own singular Law (imperialism/colonialism/the Big Other), and the Romantic Ideal which promises some spiritual wholeness, but delivers only the lawless, malevolence of Nature.10/10 &#x96; Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"A slow but rewarding film and an impressive debut","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the Starkweather-Fugate killing spree of the 1950's, this film follows 15 year old Holly Sargis as her quiet, small town existence is changed when she is approached by the 25 year old Kit Carruthers. The pair get friendly as they take walks together but Holly has to keep it a secret from her father, knowing he will disapprove. When her father finds out he shoots her dog as punishment but neither Holly nor Kit are dissuaded from being together. Kit decides to leave town and take Holly with him, when her father tries to stop him he kills him and heads off on the run.Although on the surface this sounds like a lovers-on-the-run film with a serial killer edge, Malick's writing and direction prevents it from just being what you expect as he delivers a memorable debut. I first saw this about 15 years about when I was about 13 or 14 and at the time I only remembered that not a lot happened and that I was quite bored, so I can appreciate why some viewers don't find this to their tastes. Watching it again the other day I found it much more interesting, perhaps because I am older or maybe because I wasn't paying attention the first time. The film is slow but it is very interesting because of the characters that Malick has written and then allowed to develop out over the film. On one side we have the cold Kit who is a cold killer on one hand but breaks into a smile at comparisons with James Dean and the chance of fame. It has been done loads since but the look at the fame-hungry killer here still feels fresh.On the other side of the story is Holly. As narrator a lot of weigh is put on her but the way it is done she is more than just a story teller. While the on screen action tells us about Kit, Holly's narration says a lot about her mind. Her fairytale, sing-song delivery and dialogue contrasts really well with the cold, unromantic violence on the screen. Her denial and desire to explain it all away is clear but not forced down the viewer's throat. The cast respond well to the direction and both give restrained but strong performances, avoiding showboating or pushing too hard. Sheen is strong, holding back for the majority and coming out at the end. Spacek is the heart of the story and her innocent (or naïve) character is played well both on screen as well as in her narration. Malick's direction is patient and as dry as the violence. The scenes are blessed with an open (empty) feel thanks to the impressive cinematography.Overall this is a slow film that is fairly empty if viewed on a superficial level just looking at the narrative. However the characters and the examination of their mindsets is what makes the film interesting and Sheen and Spacek both react well to that. It also helps that Malick has done a great job as writer and director while his cinematographers have produced a barren and pointless landscape to match the heartless and pointless killings. "},{"Title":"A Not Unimpressive Amoral Film","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"34 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" While the end credits were rolling I noticed an on screen disclaimer along the lines of  All the characters and situations are fictional and any relation between the events depicted in this film is entirely coincidental  which had me scratching my head because whenever I read about Terence Malik's BADLANDS I'm told that it's based on a true story about two teenage lovers who went on a killing spree in 1950s America . Thank you very much IMDb for pointing out via the trivia section and other reviewers comments as to why the producers suddenly wanted everyone to think that this is not intended as a true story . I'm sure it would have been impossible to make anti heroes out of the true life protagonists As it stands Kit and Holly are portrayed as two amoral children living out a childhood wish fulfillment . They kill someone and then spend a long period of time living out in the woods . It's almost like these childhood fantasies we have when we're younger how wonderful it would be if we could just escape from a world of industrialization and adults and just do whatever the hell we wanted with no interference and the point is hammered home when Kit builds a tree house out in the woods . Who but a child has ambitions to spend their life in a tree house ? However I find myself asking myself how this would be possible , is it likely that two teenagers wanted for murder , who have no probable experience of rural life and who both smoke cigarettes being to live off the land without having to buy groceries or go into town ? I could have accepted this if it stuck to a true story but not if it's been heavily fictionalised . Likewise we really don't find out the motivation behind the killing spree , Kit and Holly ( Well Kit since Holly is portrayed as being a bystander of sorts ) allow some people to live and some people to die without any rhyme or reason to it . Come to think of it perhaps the reason BADLANDS is so well regarded is because it's supposedly based on a true story . If you start looking upon it as a made up story it seems shallow and unimpressive for the most part doesn't it ? Not to be negative this is a good debut by director Terance Malik who manages to bring out two very good performances from the then fairly unknown Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen . Remember I said something about childhood wish fulfillment ? that's exactly how Spacek and Sheen play their roles - As two children with misguided views on the world in general and love in particular . It's as if Kit and Holly are unaware of what consequence is , which again seems like a child's mentality would be . I also couldn't help noticing that Malik seems to have a great love of nature with shots of wild life and glorious and beautiful sun sets filling the screen , something he used in his later masterwork of THE THIN RED LINE which made me ask myself if Malik is a member of Greenpeace ? Perhaps not since he's an auteur who seems to know that while there's great beauty in nature there's also great cruelty present tooA good though perhaps not great example of cinema from the 1970s when amorality was all the rage "},{"Title":"Film Review &#x96; Badlands","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick's crime-drama Badlands (1973), loosely based on the real-life murder spree of Charles Starkweather in 1958, is a harrowing and bleak film on a teenager's murderous adventure with his girlfriend. The film is told from the perspective of Holly (Sissy Spacek), a lost teenager living in a dull South Dakota town. She narrates the love story between herself and Kit (Martin Sheen), a young, charming man with looks that aren't dissimilar from James Dean. Holly is so smitten by him that she is corralled into becoming an accomplice during his killing spree, which commences with the murder of her disapproving father. Initially, the couple finds temporary relaxation, living in a forest with wooden shelter and animals to feed on. However, when Kit senses danger from three men holding shotguns, he ruthlessly guns them down before they get the chance to threaten. This begins a pattern that transpires like dominos falling down one after the other as Kit murders anyone and everyone that stands in his path. The film is well photographed by Tak Fujimoto with beautiful aesthetics of the colourful, vibrant and natural American countryside. This is the high point of Malick's film as well as the great performance from Martin Sheen. Whilst the story was engaging, it became too repetitive and tiresome after the same scenarios occurring from place to place on their killing spree. Personally, I found Badlands to be quite similar to Arthur Penn's Bonnie and Clyde. However, Penn's is a far greater film to Malick's as Bonnie and Clyde has a superior constructed narrative consisting of characters that were explored with more depthAlthough I didn't particularly enjoy Badlands, it must be acknowledged that it is an impressive debut feature-film from Malick, which is the start of a lengthy and impressive career. "},{"Title":"What could have been just another story about delinquents on the run was turned into something extraordinary by first-time director Terrence Malick.","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is one of the first literate examples of narrated cinema since the early days of Orson Welles and Abraham Polonsky. A teenage girl (Sissy Spacek) and a young garbage collector (Martin Sheen) take to the road, and wander across several states of America on a vengeful murder spree.If a film can be defined by its influence, the status of Badlands as a cult classic is deserved. The template of two kids on the run has served any number of subsequent film-makers, who have gazed enviously on its elusive power. Its story is filtered through the feelings of Spacek's Holly, who views Kit's actions as hopelessly romantic; she is blinded by her adolescent crush on him, and the dislocation between her dreamy acquiescence and the horror of the couple's actions lends the film a unique tone, fluctuating between lyricism and jolting reality. "},{"Title":"Not just a dramatization of real events, but a romanticized portrait of crime...","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the 1950s, a quiet but quick-thinking young man who postures like James Dean stirs up trouble for a simple young girl living with her father; he eventually takes her on a journey across several states by car, leaving dead bodies in their wake. Dreamy, somewhat vacuous (and intentionally so) drama by debuting director Terrence Malick was based on a real-life case, one which probably bears no resemblance to this film. The two main characters aren't shaped they're blobby malcontents who don't even have a plan, they go where the wind takes them. There's a surge of excitement in their initial escape, and the two are viewed as romantic misfits even though there's not much romance between them. This was obviously exactly what Malick intended, but the viewer can't really get a grip on this story; it's shapeless and blobby too. The low-keyed action and (amusingly) droning narration by Sissy Spacek makes the whole thing seem like a non-event, and yet the performances by Martin Sheen and Spacek are highly controlled and interesting. We're probably not meant to be moved by either of these two, but Sheen's joshing confrontation with some officers is incredibly bracing, and his acting in general is raw without ever seeming showy or amateurish. The background score (with a theme that sounds like jewelry box music that keeps getting louder and stronger) is evocative and spooky, and the film's ambiance is intriguing--but neither makes the film very compelling or memorable. The loose narrative slips in and around what we're seeing, as if there wasn't a proper script, and the impression is that the filmmaker was relying strictly on externals. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Puts the 'Bad' in Badlands","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was stunned and amazed by the great reviews of this movie. It's unfortunate that you can't (yet) rate 'why' a movie is good or bad, because this is definitely a tale of two movies. As a drama, I give the rating which I entered as my official rating &#150; 1 out of 10 stars. This is no reflection on Martin Sheen or Sissy Spacek's talents or performances. Neither is it a reflection on the general plot, since it was based on a true story (a fact, which until recently I didn't know). I own the movie, and watch it from time to time, but it's because I would give the movie about 7 out of 10 stars as a comedy. The dialogue is hilarious! My brother and I saw it in the early 80s on t.v., pre-cable, and laughed until we were almost crying. So anyway &#150; I couldn't in good conscience give a movie that is categorized as a drama, and is so horribly bad, a good rating. If somebody recommended this movie to me as a great drama, I would never trust their opinion on anything else again. Anyway, it's interesting to see how differently people see this movie, but variety is the spice of life. It's doubtful anyone will get through the current 12 pages of comments on this movie to read my comments, but few movies I've seen, if any, have polarized audiences like this one. There's plenty of movies where people seem to either love it or hate it, but this is the only one I can think of where the two opposing factions would give a movie the same rating for opposite reasons. "},{"Title":"Terribly overrated, in my humble opinion","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A Terrence Malick film being weird is about as unusual as snow in Alaska, but with his debut Badlands, it's a weirdness I can't bring myself to like. Though he got himself a very interesting subject in loosely adapting the story of real-life murderer Charles Starkweather, his writing made me find the story dull after just a couple of minutes and the one and a half hours running time felt like an eternity.Admittedly, the relationship the two protagonists have can make for some good scenes from time to time and the car chase (70's car chase, mind you) near the ending for once also brings some excitement to the film, but altogether, Malick really stretches the story out way too long and remarkable moments are very sparse. Even the beautiful landscape quickly loses its touch, as the three (for whatever reason) cinematographers can't come up with ways to give the film an appealing look. Especially when compared to the visual splendour of some of Malick's later works, it's almost unbelievable how generic everything looks in Badlands. The acting can't carry the film either and the chemistry of Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek is absolutely weak, making the characters' feelings and thoughts not any clearer it all.I've noticed most people feeling more positive about this film than I do and I really attempted to understand some of their arguments, but to me, Terrence Malick completely wastes a great premise and has his film lacking any sort of recognition value. The Tree of Life, a project of his almost three decades later, is nearly an hour longer and only has a quarter of the script as I'd guess, yet is a hundred times more interesting, inventive, and poetic than Badlands. "}{"Title":"A very beautiful film; does it have any other purpose?","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It has been said that Badlands was in part a reaction to the romanticising of deviance and criminality in films such as Bonnie and Clyde. In that film the protagonists were played by two fabulous-looking, charismatic (not to mention talented) actors. I came away feeling that Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow would have been great fun to hang around with--dangerous, sexy fun.Badlands is not like that. Sure, no-one would really want to be like or spend time with Kit Carruthers (based directly on fifties killer Charles Starkweather). But I was troubled by several aspects of this stunningly put together film. Essentially, it is fine craftsmanship created around a very difficult subject with little exploration of the characters, their motivations or the consequences of their actions. What remains for the viewer but a kind of detached voyeurism?Cruel and cowardly, Charlie Starkweather was full of self-loathing, believed himself a failure and felt his life was doomed to misery. Murder is a simple act that even the sub-intelligent can commit, but it has staggering consequences. Having killed, Starkweather changed; in a way he grew. He felt himself to have achieved something. It completed the sad story that was his life.Kit Carruthers, on the other hand, slouches, mumbles and poses throughout Badlands. We know almost nothing of his past. Of course, the narrative follows Holly's point of view, but since she appears to be in a dream and virtually clueless throughout the whole affair, how useful is this narrative method? At the end Kit is pretty much his same inscrutable self as at the beginning, except now he is famous. He's kinda cool and he knows it. When he kills it's as if he has met some unpleasant but important obligation that only he is qualified for. The murders themselves are sterilised, just a bang and the victim quietly lies down. The sets and locations are picturesque, the actors are picturesque, the murders are picturesque...The 1957 film In Cold Blood is a gripping example of what can be achieved when something of the nature of spree/serial killers is explored, when the consequences of their actions is stark and real, and when the people inside them are glimpsed. (And there are people inside, badly damaged and loathsome, but fascinating.) "},{"Title":"Malick's first and finest","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" By 1973, Bonnie and Clyde had already set the tone for what quickly became one of Hollywood's favorite scenarios the anti-social lovebirds who take to the road and leave a string of corpses in their wake. If Badlands stands out from this tradition (and it does &#150; tremendously so) it's thanks to Malick's selective appropriation of the strong points of the genre, and his careful avoidance of the rest. He spins his yarn with a constant eye for realism and restraint, exploiting neither the romance of the story nor its underlying violence, his primary concern the subtle interplay of the characters' psychologies. Kit Carruthers (Martin Sheen), a social burnout running garbage in Fort Dupre, South Dakota, strikes up a friendship with Holly Sargis (Sissy Spacek), an oddball teen living in the shadow of a cruel and domineering father (Warren Oates). As the season progresses, Kit bouncing from one dead-end job to another, the two outcasts meet in secret and gradually fall in love &#150; or the closest thing to love their passionless demeanors can muster. The father's eventual discovery provokes a confrontation, at which point Kit calmly draws a gun and shoots to kill. Her father dead and her future uncertain, Holly chooses not to report Kit to the police, embarking instead for the open road and the life of the fugitive, Kit at the wheel, Holly riding shotgun, no one asking questions, and the bodies left to rot.Again, it's Malick's restraint that makes this film a masterpiece. Despite its obvious greatness, Bonnie and Clyde seems to be in a race with itself to see how many graphic fatalities it can accumulate in a two-hour period, while the killings in Badlands are sparse, predominantly bloodless, and, as a consequence, much more disturbing. When Clyde kills his first innocent victim, we are more preoccupied with the sickening sight of blood on the windshield than we are with Clyde's guilt. In contrast, Kit shoots Holly's father and the man seems almost to slumber, clearing the way for Holly's eerily subdued response Daddy . . . Daddy . . . are you going to be okay? The violent acts in Bonnie and Clyde upstage the thoughts and feelings of the characters that partake in them. The killings in Badlands act like subtle attractors, underscoring the chilling sense of detachment that pervades the movie from beginning to end. Screen writing merits get substantial help from the breathtaking cinematography, and from the tremendous performances of Sheen and Spacek, which, like the script they enliven, are wondrously subtle, artfully restrained. Indeed, if any aspect of the movie borders on the overblown, it's the heavy use of voice-over narration, which is almost an act of subtlety in disguise we get so caught up in the rhythm of Holly's easy-going, matter-of-fact exposition that we forget about all the things she's not telling us, like why she condones Kit's violence, or why she follows him into the middle of nowhere, or why she spends her days happily enjoying the affections of the very man who murdered her father. The dispassionate observer who allows one atrocity after another to go unpunished, Holly brings out a side of humanity at once reprehensible and profoundly mysterious, and yet, in another testament to Malick's writing ability, we never get the sense that she's symbolic of that tendency. Her character is far too vividly rendered to be representative of anything other than itself, in the same way the movie strives not to preach or to educate or to allegorize but to tell a story in the smoothest, richest, most unpretentious manner possible. With George Tipton's haunting score rounding out the mixture, Badlands is easily one of the best films of the early 70s, and remains poignant to this day. "},{"Title":"Regarding some people's negative comments","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, this is one of the greatest movies ever made.  It's just as objective as a Stanley Kubrick movie, and just as disturbing, but instead of typical Stanley imagery, here you have pretty landscapes, wildlife, and cloudy skies.  This is the Malick way.Anyhow, I'd just like to address some people's negative comments about the film.  First off, the pace of this film is measured and certainly not speedy, but it really should only come off as dead slow to people more accustomed to contemporary action/comedy/suspense movies, as for the '70's this pace is pretty normal, especially for a movie this hypnotic.  Also, the implausibility of some of the character's actions is simply because these are detached, out of place people.  I can think of a handful of people I've met who actually remind me of Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek in this movie, socially just acting in subtely bizarre ways.  One reason this movie is so brilliant is that it captures the presence of this type of person where I rarely have seen any other film that does.  Finally, the psychotic person who sees this movie as a condemnation of Americans and a glorification of the the British a) Terrence Malick is not British, he was born in Illinois b) He did not direct the Limey c) Steven Sodenberg did, and he's not British either d) this movie is based loosely on a true story and actually tones down the much more graphic and depraved violence that the real life American redneck Charles Starkwater actually acted out in order for Malick to offer the wide array of thematic food for thought within this movie. "},{"Title":"Minimalist thriller","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" BADLANDS is a minimalist thriller from famed director Terrence Malick, a film which gets by on mood, feeling, and a sense of dejected atmosphere and inevitable foreboding that accompanies the on-screen actions. There's not a great deal of plot complexity in this film, but at the same time it speaks volumes about human existence - a truly existential thriller. A bit like a Herzog film, then.The story is a straightforward one about a modern-day Bonnie and Clyde who go on a violent road trip across America. Its influence upon the more recent likes of KALIFORNIA and NATIONAL BORN KILLERS is obvious, and yet as the first of its type it clearly has the edge over later additions to the genre. Martin Sheen excels in a frightening, career-making performance, but it's Sissy Spacek who really holds things together. Her quiet, mousy character is somehow the worse of the two, mainly because she deals with intense violence in such a matter-of-fact and accepting way.The cinematography is excellent and brings out the lonely barrenness of the Colorado locations - it's a shame more Hollywood films don't escape the studios once in a while to celebrate the geography of North America. Warren Oates bags a nice minor but pivotal role, and the set-piece sequences are very well handled. It might be a grim and depressing story - it is based on facts, after all - but in Malick's hands it becomes somehow oddly beautiful. "},{"Title":"Awfully Cold Around The Heart","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There's an undeniable coldness about this story of a couple of lovers who go on the run and leave a trail of dead bodies in their wake. Their love affair isn't characterised by the kind of warmth, humour and passion that typifies most romantic relationships and their complete lack of compassion for their victims is absolutely chilling. The calm and emotionless style in which the on-screen action unfolds reflects this coldness and in so doing, emphasises the gulf that exists between the conduct of the young fugitives and that which most people would regard as normal. The distance which first-time director Terrence Malick maintains from his characters is also very effective in this connection and strongly echoes an approach which was frequently used in earlier years by numerous film noir directors and Alfred Hitchcock.Kit Carruthers (Martin Sheen) is a young, arrogant, James Dean look-alike who works as a garbage collector in a small town in South Dakota and unexpectedly finds himself attracted to a 15 year old girl who he sees practicing her baton-twirling skills in front of her house. Holly Sargis (Sissy Spacek) is naïve and rather lonely and spends her time taking piano lessons and reading movie magazines. She finds Kit irresistible but her widowed father (played by Warren Oates) opposes their relationship and shoots Holly's dog to discourage her from continuing to see Kit. In order to overcome this problem, Kit shoots Holly's father dead and then burns the house down before going on the run with Holly.The couple initially hide out in a tree-house in the woods but are soon discovered there by three bounty hunters who Kit kills before he and Holly have to move on again. Their relationship and the killing spree that began at Holly's home continue for a short time but eventually come to an end in ways that are not typical of such stories.The picturesque environment in which the action takes place is one of the movie's real strong points and the numerous vast, empty landscapes which are featured convey a sense of timelessness which emphasises the fact that this couple are living in a world of their own in which the normal rules don't apply.Martin Sheen is perfect as Kit as he's a convincing James Dean look-alike and makes his character's lack of empathy seem completely believable. Sissy Spacek also makes a strong impression as a young girl who's completely amoral. Her character never actually kills anyone but her behaviour throughout the story is very disturbing. She provides the story's narration in a way that illustrates just how distorted and over-romanticised Holly's view of her time with Kit is and also makes Holly's apparent indifference to the death of her father seem totally shocking.Badlands is a beautifully made and remarkably simple film that's quite mesmerising at times and it's these qualities, in particular, that make it so interesting and compelling to watch "},{"Title":"floating","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Taken as it is, if you know absolutely nothing about this film prior to watching, or if you haven't seen any of the films Malick did after this, i think nevertheless you'll find here a fine piece of cinema. This is solid within any measure you consider for such a type of film. A kind of anti-film, an expression of mood instead of story, contemplation instead of reflection. The 70', in the twilight of the 60' were ideal for this. This is not about changing the world as much as it is about contemplating it, being in it, or deliberately outside it, while acknowledging it, like the characters in this film. That's why in the 70' we had the more truly introspective and deep antonionis, we had mood creation even in the underground stuff of Monte Hellman's cockfighter. And at this point, we had the unknown Malick, whose background is one of philosophy and not of cinema. He is a thinker more than a filmmaker.Yet he delivered in his few cinema iterations some of the most profound visual experiences ever. Here he sticks to the mood formula, i guess because this is his first film, and he couldn't or wouldn't stretch the chances more than he felt he'd control them. So he delivers a recognizable shape of a film, while pouring in it the juices of what he would master, in later years. The genre is fully hardwired in film goers all over the world, it is a classic in American film. But Malick's intentions are elsewhere. He's no Coen, never wanted to be. He doesn't want to pick a genre and subvert it as much as he wanted to disembody the whole picture. That's why he chose this story, about to characters fully dropped in the nothing, successively killing all the links to a regular recognizable world. The latent madness justifies what Malick does. And what he does is interlace bits, fragments of countless motifs. Parallel narratives which make no sense to the main narrative (if there's any) other than just being there. One of the best compliments i can make to a film and a filmmaker is that he or it are able to place us in a specific more or less possible alternative world. That's the main goal of film. Malick pushes that goal further. We are never in the film. Instead we float around, uncertain about where or when we are, or more fundamentally, what we are, as viewers, what's our placement in the narrative. This film is still pretty raw, we see the intentions (now that we've seen what he built after this) and there are bits of the film where we get to that state of undetermined wonder. But this is just a sketch. The man was just starting! New World and Thin red line reached really high. And i suspect the Tree of Life might be as big a step as those 2. Sissy Spacek, what a film girl, what a look, such self-aware innocence. How good a Lolita she might have been, had she played it.My opinion 4/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Badlands an Essential South Dakota Film","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Living in Rapid City, South Dakota, one thing that you find out rather quickly is that your world is probably not going to be represented on the big screen very often. Sure every once in a while there will be a movie like Hitchcock's North by Northwest or summer blockbuster National Treasure Book of Secrets that mention the city in passing, but those movies are certainly not about the city's people. One film that does at least attempt to examine a South Dakotan's psyche, however, is the 1973 film Badlands.Acclaimed director Terrance Malick's debut film (The Thin Red Line) is a fascinating relational study filled with shadowy dynamics and grim-faced intensity. Starring a young Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek in only her second ever film role, the film tells the story of a relationship that develops between Kit (Sheen) and Holly (Spacek) in the hot South Dakota summer. Kit is a man ten years older than the fifteen-year-old Holly and seems to have little reason to care about life other than the excitement that he feels when he first sees her on her front lawn. His life up until this point has been a seemingly endless ennui, picking up trash both literally as a driver of a garbage truck and figuratively as a renowned ladies man in the small town that has seen all of his twenty-five years. Holly is nothing exciting to look at but her father's disgust towards him represents a challenge for Kit something he has probably never felt before living in South Dakota.After it is clear that Holly's father will fight him at every turn, Kit comes alive, perhaps for the first time. His desperation to win over a girl that he doesn't necessarily even care about propels him to a violent course of action, which will eventually culminate in the murder of Holly's father. Not knowing what to do, Holly leaves town with Kit as a path of mayhem and devastation goes out in front of them. A testament to the strength of the film's script, the piece's two main characters stand in stark contrast to one another, each complementing the other while remaining entirely fascinating based on their own merits. Kit can best be described as apathetic, in every scene rolling through life with a bored expression on his face. Murder is not a significant event to him, but just another task that he must complete in order to keep breathing. The chilling calm that he possesses in every situation makes him instantly stand out. Not so much a villain as a force of terrifyingly violent potential, it is impossible to guess what he will do at any given moment. Sheen plays him with the just right level of detachment. Not much focus is given to his eyes, but throughout the film's running time, Sheen seems practically lizard-like; his cool never shatters, but rather seems to only get stronger as the situation grows more dire.Holly, however, looks at life, like any other teenager. Curiosities abound within her, and to her each moment of every day seems like an enormous deal. Her journal entries sprinkled throughout the film as a narrative device makes the film more than just a mechanical news story about a malicious psychopath, but rather tries to say just how much impact the killing of complete strangers can have on a person. At the end of the film Holly is no longer the naïve small-town girl that she once was, but someone who has lost all of their previous innocence. Spacek's every move as Holly is perfect and she especially succeeds in pulling off the gradual transformation that the role requires. Making it easy to see why she would later become a great star, Spacek gives what may be the best performance of her career here.Besides these two fantastic characters and performances, the film also excels in its direction. Unlike Malick's lethargic recent films, this is lean, gritty, and ultra fast paced. There is no sense of Malick's suffocating pretension here, but rather just the desire to tell a good story with fantastic characters. There are no pointless shots of forests or wildlife just people struggling to live their lives in whatever way makes sense to them at the time. The action in the movie is exquisite, the character interactions brilliant. This is the director that deserves the kind of superlatives that have often been thrown at him. The only problem is that Malick seems so reluctant to cover this kind of territory again. It's as if honesty scares him, and so he now hides behind nature, and despite being given twice the running time that he had to work with in this film, his characters are merely hollow figures with no depth to speak of. Instead of allowing his philosophies to sneak in through a character's actions or dialogue, each and every thought has had to become a separate voice-over, taking away from the flow of the film It's a shame that a film this unique has been ignored by the mainstream for so long. Showing a part of the United States not often thought about and with an utterly captivating duet at its center, Badlands is a film that deserves more attention. It's not often that a film feels this authentic and with the movie industry moving towards concepts that are more and more focused on the technical possibilities instead of the motivations of its characters, it is impossible to know when another like it will see theaters. The rarity of this kind of film makes it all the more important on the social landscape. If you have not seen it yet and are wondering why Terrance Malick is getting so much hype, this is the film you should seek out.You won't finish it disappointed.Initial Rating 9/10 Like this review? See more at http//www.examiner.com/film-249-in-rapid-city/tim-luisi "},{"Title":"A Boy and a Girl Embark on an Adventure...A Deadly One","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Malick's 'Badlands' is based on the story of the infamous murderous duos Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate who went on a murder spree killing eleven innocent people. Since then many films have been made based on this infamous couple. One famous example is Oliver Stone's overrated 'Natural Born Killers'. While everything in Stone's film is over the top, 'Badlands' is skillfully understated.With the exception of the murder sequences, the movie is quite calm. Malick focuses more on Kit and Holly's interactions rather than the murders. The atmosphere is chilling, tense and detached. Sissy Spacek's narration reflects the Holly's detachment. Mind you, Kit and Holly weren't out to seek thrill in the murdering, they merely killed those who stood in their way.The brilliant visuals and cinematography capture the emptiness of the landscape that mirrors the young couple in the foreground. On the surface, Kit and Holly are just like any other person. They dance to music, talk about pop-culture, tell each other jokes...it's just that they're oblivious of pretty much everyone else in the world, as if they're the only ones that exist. The beautiful soundtrack contributes excellently and adds to this fantasy world the characters think they're living in.'Badlands' has a quiet yet whimsical quality to it. The dark humour is very effective. Malick succeeds in making the lead characters easy to identify with. His writing is solid and the dialogues are a splendid mixture of humour, wit and detachment.Both Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek perform naturally. Their embodiment of the characters, spontaneity, reactions, understated expressions, body language and spot on dialogue delivery are first rate.For me, 'Badlands' is one of the best movies about a crime committing couple. There have been classics like 'Bonnie and Clyde' and the above-mentioned example but Malick's film surpasses them because of its terrifically crafted and understated effectiveness. "},{"Title":"Anti Bonnie and Clyde","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a strange film because it's suppose to be. Strange, in the sense that it's something you've never seen before. An original story with two very unique characters. Throughout the film, you ask yourself about motive. Why are they doing what they are doing? Martin Sheen plays the perfect well-liked nobody. Sissy Spacek once again plays the little, shy, country girl who is taken for the ride of her quiet and ordinary life. This is a Malik film, meaning, there's a moral at the end of his film. Everything filmed by Malik is beautiful in its own way. You have to see it for yourself and judge it. You'll come to the conclusion that Badlands is very original.... "},{"Title":"A young couple leave a trail of bodies from South Dakota to Montana","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot of this movie is ostensibly the same as the later, but better known, 'Natural Born Killers'; the execution is very different though. Told from the viewpoint of fifteen year old Holly we see how her life was changed forever when she met twenty five year old Kit, a garbage collector who her father did not want her hanging around with. Kit decides that he and Holly will leave together and he shoots and kills her father. The two of them flee the scene and live off the land for a while until the inevitable happens and people come looking for them&#x85; more deaths ensue as they head west to Montana, intending to eventually cross the border into Saskatchewan. They don't get that far though as the law finally catches up with then as they drive across the wide open landscape of Montana.Anybody reading a plot description of this film could be forgiven for expecting a story like 'Natural Born Killers'; Kit and Holly are quite different to Mickey and Mallory though; we are not expected to enjoy what they are doing, nor are they interesting people; I don't mean that in a negative way; just that they are ordinary people who happen to be on the run for murder! The story is told in a very matter of fact way with Holly narrating as we go. Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen do fine jobs as Holly and Kit; keeping them believable characters. Director Terrance Malick does a great job keeping the action low key; neither glamorising nor condemning their actions; we are just observing what happens. I would certainly recommend watching this film; it is a great example of the genre. "}{"Title":"That strange, ethereal quality found only in dreams.","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick's Badlands has become more significant and famous for its muted emotions and picturesque vistas than anything seen as conventionally cinematic. What is so remarkable about this film is the way Malick is able to capture a particular time period so well and say so little about it. Though the story takes place in the late 1950s, it is not necessarily about that era nor the effects of such a time on the people. This is not a film about post-WWII America or the influence of the Cold War on society. This is a fairy-tale, taking place outside of any sense of the real world as it is defined.Focusing on the misadventures of Kit, a 25 year old antisocial who has little in mind of what he wants to do and the 15 year old naive girl, Holly, who accompanied him, this film is certainly the work of a particular artist's vision. Certainly very few filmmakers could make a film like this except Malick and that appears to be its demise in the future of cinema. Perhaps so many people view this film with detachment because that is the way the characters view their actions. Especially Kit and Holly but also the law and people they encounter seem to be bot involved and uninterested in the dealings of everyday normal people. Whether this should be taken as a negative criticism or not remains to be seen. What can be said about this film is it is a remarkable study in indifference and banality, two very dangerous attitudes when it comes to something so important as violence. Malick avoids obvious statements about these figures, opting instead for a dreamlike state in which two young kids for no sensible rhyme or reason go on a killing spree. The violence is as downplayed as the emotions and all that is left is our attempt to contemplate any larger meaning or consequences of such an occurrence. "},{"Title":"Absolutely gorgeous and fascinating treatment of the young criminal lovers on the run theme","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The young lovers on the run theme has been done to death many times, but leave it to Terrance Malick to create one of the most visually and thematically fascinating treatments of the theme. Unlike many other entries in the genre, Malick creates a lush film that never feels exploitive. It shows very little in the way of violence. This use of suggestion and subtlety make the characters actions seem all the more disturbing. Equally impressive is how ambiguous the motivations for the characters are. The seeming lack of explanation only makes them more dangerous. And despite some degree of sympathy given to the protagonists, Malick never turns them into simple anti-heroes the audience roots for. Their tender scenes of love clash with shocking acts of violence, in which you always feel bad for the victims.Malick's direction is exquisite as usual. There more emphasis place on mood and atmosphere than actual plot, but Malick is one of the few directors that can aptly pull this off. Quite simply, this is a beautiful film to look at. It takes a realistic subject and gives it a dreamlike feel. This isn't pure style over substance though. There's a lot of depth to the characters that make this film hold up well upon repeated viewings. Both of the performances by Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen are fantastic. Spacek has moved on to many other roles since this, but as far as I'm concerned, this is the best performance I've seen from her yet. Equally impressive is Martin Sheen (looking very young). While the real life Charlie Starkweather (the killer upon whom the film is based) was apparently very manic and deranged, Sheen doesn't play him as such. His nuanced and low-key portrayal really fits the film better than a more accurate depiction of Starkweather would. By the way, if you feel a sense of familiarity when watching this, the narration and music were pretty much aped for True Romance. As much as I love that film, Badlands is a more intelligent handling of the topic. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Doesn't hit all the right notes, but powerful in spots.","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands was a mild disappointment. Any film by Terrence Malick that scores so highly on this site should have been better. That's certainly not saying its a bad film, but there are more than enough flaws to prevent it from reaching classic status. The film is of course based on the Starkweather-Fugate killings of the 1950s. We are told the story of a young man and his much younger girlfriend who go on a random killing spree and generate a massive manhunt. Martin Sheen (looking very much like Charlie) plays the young man named Kit. Sissy Spacek plays Holly, his young girlfriend. The two give terrific performances in front of a typically beautiful natural backdrop that you would expect from a Malick film. It's ultimately the script that comes up short.The story begins with Kit working as a garbage man and quickly being fired from that job. Probably for talking too much and trying to take home some of the things people are throwing out. One day he notices Holly twirling a baton in her yard, and he quickly begins to charm her. The two have to sneak around because her father (Warren Oates) can tell right away that Kit is too old, and a little weird for his daughter. The tension between Kit and Holly's father boils over quickly, sparking the spree of violence and destruction that makes the two young lovers famous. Much of the movie has the two of them driving aimlessly around the countryside. This gives Malick the chance to do what he does best by showing us some beautiful shots of nature, but somewhere along the way, the narrative gets lost along the side of the road.There are some scenes that just play completely unconvincingly. One scene has Kit and Holly showing up at the home of one of his old garbage collection buddies named Cato. After the three have lunch, Kit gets the idea that Cato may try to turn them in. Kit shoots Cato through the back, causing a very serious wound. What happens next? Cato GETS UP and walks back inside the house with Kit and Holly! Yes! Then he kind of casually sits down on a bed and explains to Holly that he feeds flies to his pet spider! There is no anger, there is no anguish, and there is no logic! Despite the fact that Kit and Holly are known and wanted killers, nobody ever seems to be really afraid of them. Two friends of Cato show up shortly after he is killed. They show virtually no fear as they are led into an exterior cellar at gunpoint. We don't even hear them scream as Kit sends two rounds through the door once they're inside! Later on, Kit and Holly invade the home of a rich man at gunpoint. Once again, their victim seems to show no fear. Hardly even a sense of being forlorn as he and his maid are held against their will. And no sense of thanks after their lives are spared later on for the price of his Cadillac.One of the goals this film had was to show a detachment in the way Kit kills his victims. Okay, I get it. But if you don't project terror from your victims, then the whole premise rings false. I highly doubt these victims would have all gone so quietly. That said, Sheen is pretty good as Kit. He is not outwardly angry or threatening most of the time. He acts overtly polite, but there is an edginess that you can see festering just below the surface. Sissy Spacek is wonderful as the young lady originally enthralled by this guy who looks like James Dean, but then gradually pulls away from him as his spree continues.The film has some disturbing scenes of animal cruelty. In one, Kit steps on, then over a dead or dying cow at a feedlot where he works for a time. Another shows Holly throwing out a pet catfish into a melon patch and leaving it to die. And worst of all, her father punishes her for dating Kit by shooting her dog and dumping it into a river. Perhaps the film is trying to reinforce the notion of cruelty to animals leading to cruelty to humans later on. It's an old notion. Another old notion the film reinforces is that of celebrity coming to our most deviant criminal figures. Even in 1973 this was an archaic idea, going back in this country at least as far as the outlaws of the Old West. We have always glamorized our most dangerous criminals in this country. Badlands has nothing new to offer us in that regard.Overall, this is a beautiful and well-acted film. The script might think it has a little more to say than it actually does, but if you're a die-hard fan of Malick, you'll probably love the film, anyway.6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Terrence Malick's tale of love and death","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is a timeless masterpiece, which has been unofficially remade countless times (True Romance, which has a similar score, and Natural Born Killers are two good examples), yet none of the copycats can top the power of Terrence Malick's simple but gripping debut.The plot, as I said, is now very common two people fall in love, he (Martin Sheen) kills her (Sissy Spacek) father, and the couple starts running, while leaving several corpses behind.Malick is a genius, a poet who alternates the beautiful (the gorgeous, endless landscape, the romantic sunsets) and the ugly (the various murders). His story of doomed love has been imitated everywhere, but he tells it so brilliantly it feels like the first time you've ever seen something like that. That's the real beauty with Malick he makes movies even more rarely than Kubrick did, but they're so powerful they justify all the waiting.The leading couple is one of the best on-screen pairings I've ever seen Spacek is perfect right from the beginning as the innocent girl who gets involved in the whole mess just because she thinks she's in love, and Sheen gives one of his best performances as James Dean wannabe Kit Carruthers (it's right up there with Capt. Willard and President Bartlet). They are young, confused and in love, and their journey is one of the most unforgettable to have ever graced a screen.Wonder why Terrence Malick is so praised throughout the world? After seeing Badlands (and The Thin Red Line), you won't anymore. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of all time!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The music alone is beautiful but it is also visually stunning and the story keeps you gripped. I think Natural Born Killers is a remake, but Badlands is much more subtle, the dusty landscapes, Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen, it's a classic! "},{"Title":"Formidable","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terrence Malick's debut feature is probably the most accessible of the three he's directed to this point. (The other two are `Days Of Heaven' and `The Thin Red Line'.) It has a clean and simple directness the other films would move away from as they became more stylized and studied. As told through the flat narration of fifteen-year-old Holly (Sissy Spacek), it's the story of a couple (Spacek and Martin Sheen as Kit) who travel through the plains on a spree that happens to involve murdering those who pose a threat. One of the themes that flow through Malick's films is the communal relationship humans have with the laws of nature and that impulse has an implicit synchronicity with those laws; this concept goes a long way towards the characters' motivations as Kit kills and as the couple moves away from a sexual relationship to one based on primal needs ranging from mere survival to putting down roots. The laconic performances of Sheen and Spacek also reinforce Malick's ideas; as young innocents who proclaim neither joy nor anguish over the deaths that occur, their off-the-wall perceptions of reality have a sneaky humor that make them extremely sympathetic. As usual, Malick's visual sense is far more advanced than most of his contemporaries (he uses three cinematographers here, including Tak Fujimoto, who would later go on to fine work with Jonathan Demme) and he alternates carefully framed shots of intimacy in closed spaces such as Victorian homes with sweeping vistas of earth and sky. He's a formidable filmmaker whose work is almost in a category by itself. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films Ever Made","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is no film set like Terrence Malick's Badlands. Malick is an extraordinary unique director with styles and films that no other director can make, except for him. The first trait that makes his films great is his original screenplays. The second is his use of scenery used in all of his films. A third would be his characters and how they relate to the story. Badlands is the story of two lovers, Kit and Holly, who meet in a small town of South Dakota. Kit is a garbage man, and when he meets Holly, he tells her that he isn't interested in her for sex, but for who she is. Holly's father does not let her see him, and when he finds out he shoots her dog. Kit kills him, and they go on a killing rampage in the badlands of South Dakota, killing witnesses and people they have encountered. The screenplay is excellent, and contains some of the best dialogue ever. There is humor, terror, and many different mood changes. One example is the scene where Kit and Holly are at the rich man's house and they are about to leave, so Kit locks him and his deaf made in the closet. He says to them We're still friends, right? since they did let them stay for as long as they liked and use their furniture and eat their food. He replies yes, so he closes the door and says No monkey business now. That is considered disturbing, but it is truly more haunting and terrifying. What adds to the terror, but also starts some humor is that right after that, Kit asks Holly why she's always walking ahead of him, and she says that he's always behind her. It's a pointless conversation, at a time right after they have basically killed two people. The audiences' mood changes quickly.The scenery in the film represents a lot of things. It is beautiful imagery and landscape while at the same time you are watching two serial killers. It's a very interesting combination, especially since the characters talk about enjoying the scenery while they're driving. Total emptiness like the plains they are in on the other hand, represents trouble. It's like the crop field scene in Hitchcock's North by Northwest (1959) how Roger (Cary Grant) walks into the field with total emptiness and the plane chases him. A scene similar to that happens in the film. In the plains, while the Cadillac is nearly out of gas, a police helicopter comes by and starts shooting at them. Kit tries to make a game of it, and Holly says she no longer wants to do this. That is when they split up and Holly gets taken in, Kit then runs from 2 cops in a car and eventually gives up. While this is happening, they're driving through a small town which is where they have stopped and eventually back in the plains. Maybe the plains are free and in town is where it's dangerous for them?Now Malick's characters are not just any characters. For example, Martin Sheen is not just Martin Sheen, he is Kit Carruthers. But Kit Carruthers is not just Kit, he is James Dean too. He drives his car like James Dean in Rebel Without a Cause (1955) and holds his rifle across his shoulders like Dean in Giant (1956). The dreamy quality in the film which is mentioned earlier, contributes to the characters. It helps us view the psychotic mind of him, by their conversations about nothing after they have just killed someone. Holly, is a very interesting character. She is just such a unique character I can't even describe her in one word. She deserves her own adjective. While crossing the badlands, like I mentioned earlier and Malick actually noted this as the humor in the picture, that she is telling the audience what they ate and how it tasted, as if we're going on their 'trip' sometime. The rich man at the house they stay at for a while is also a good character. He let's them stay 'as long as they like' which he says once they tell him they need supplies (perhaps addition to Kit's dreamlike vision of his rampage?). Thinking about him, it is kind of like Norman Bates in Psycho (1960) with his huge house in the middle of nowhere and he lets them stay and even eat the food in the house. He is the only character who they don't shoot, but they lock him and his deaf maid in the closet. So overall, Badlands is one of the greatest films I've ever seen for these reasons. Malick's three masterpieces all contain qualities like these. Days of Heaven (1978), his next film, has similair references such as the whole film taking place on the plains of Texas during the great depression with homeless people being employed as farmers. The dreamy quality still stays with us, when Bill (Richard Gere) and Abby (Brooke Adams) are lovers, but posing as brother and sister, so the farmer who has about a year to live, can marry Abby and they can eventually inherit his fortunes. Like Badlands, contains lovers being mischievous. Not in the exact way, but Bill does eventually kill the farmer once he tries to kill him because he finds out. They then go hiding in the woods. Malick does seem to like using the killing with no spirit theme in his films. In The Thin Red Line (1998), his third film, one of the characters during the war shouts out that he is killing people and can't be touched for it. It's all Malick's style and he has a very great one. He is my favorite film director. "},{"Title":"Classic & Poignant Young Lovers Road Movie","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the late fifties, Kit and Holly, two aimless young people from small town South Dakota, fall deeply in love. Holly's father won't tolerate Kit, and when Kit tries to make Holly leave with him there is a confrontation and Kit shoots him dead. The lovers go on the lam and hide out in the wide open spaces of Dakota and Montana, but inevitably their actions catch up with them.This debut feature by the brilliant yet spartan writer-producer-director Malick (he's made three movies in thirty years) is a quiet, thoughtful, haunting and poetic road-movie. Despite being produced on a low budget it looks fantastic, thanks to the photography by Brian Probyn, Tak Fujimoto and Stevan Larner. This is a film with lots of wonderful unconventional shots which bring the American Midwest to life - empty treeless vistas, lonely cows, fenceposts going nowhere, ramshackle buildings, desert flowers, tall reeds and endless blue sky. The setting is very much a separate character in the movie, not just a backdrop in which the action takes place. Sheen and Spacek (who does a fantastic narration voice-over) are both remarkable as the child-like killers on the run - they never behave the way movie conventions would have them. Their characters are very muted but still passionate and while Kit's actions are unforgivable, the sense that he has done something with an otherwise dead-end life going nowhere is very powerful. Oates is equally good in his brief role, and Malick has an amusing cameo as the guy visiting the rich man's house. The story is very loosely based on the Starkweather-Fugate murder case of the time, but is far too abstract and stylised to be a simple crime drama. With great art direction by Jack Fisk and inspired use of source music (Carl Orff, Erik Satie, Nat King Cole, James Taylor), this is a beautifully-crafted, truly American movie. "},{"Title":"Eat the Collie","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I suppose this film is a failure if seen out of its context as one of only three films by Malick. But if you have seen his `Red Line,' then you can discern what was in his mind in this first outing `Tracing entire sentences on the roof of my mouth that no one can read.'At this time, some, led by the French were creating a non-realistic parallel narrative but in the direction of romantic idealism; the Swedes' parallel narrative tended toward archetypical symbolism; Kurosawa, Kubric and others were weaving parallel alternatives, but always targeted. For instance Welles had targeted architectural space in his manifolds.Malick had a notion of internal parallel narratives that instead just float -- a thread that hovers over the visible action but does not annotate it. That makes it the center of the film instead of just a stylistic addition. Everything is reversed the players and story aren't the focus, they just provide some liquid for the chunkier matter of the visual soup. The real features here are disembodied words, ethereal music, unrelated lovely images. The story needs to diminish to the point of a mere shadow of a real movie, the performances to copies of real actors. We are in fact told just who these actors are.An example of the anti-idealism is the handling of sex. In an ordinary film, sex would be ridiculously miraculous -- fireworks! Here, the only appearance it makes is a comment on how unremarkable it is.This is the earliest instance I know where an auteur deliberately casts an actor that he knows cannot do the job. He doesn't want dimensionally acute verity, so Sheen's dimness is a plus. Spacek is intelligent, here as a 24 year old actress playing a 15 year old by sloughing off any effort at the same self-awareness that Sheen struts. She has problems at the end, because at root her method relies on the investment in character, in this case the very character who throws away all the elements of character.Malick is a semiotician finding lucidity in the mechanics of dream incoherence a philosopher first, filmmaker second. Kubrick was later to adapt Malick's notion by going much beyond his `Eyes.' has an apparently zen parallel, but falsely so -- it appears to not make sense, but in fact does. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I came into this movie at complete random, knowing almost nothing about it, and I can say I had a really good time. Almost immediately I found that the plot is almost the exact same as a movie I love a lot called Natural Born Killers. A young country girl falls in love for an older psychopath who kills her dad so that they can run away together. The difference in this movie is that the girl seems a lot more unwilling to go on a killing spree. Also the boyfriend played very wonderfully by Martin Sheen also seems like he doesn't really want to kill anybody, but does whatever it takes to get out of trouble. The art direction is also very refreshing. Light oranges and accompanying blues flourish most of the Badlands scenery. Martin Sheen also played a very fun and very believable role and I enjoyed him more than any other actor. That being said, most of the other actors were rather weak, especially Sissy Spacek. The story, albeit very fun, lacked emotional connection like Natural Born Killers had. I couldn't find myself relating to Sissy Spacek's as much as I did the parallel in Natural Born Killers. So all in all, this movie has some inexcusable problems, but its a very fun, refreshing movie that I would recommend to anyone, especially fans of Natural Born Killers "}{"Title":"He says frog, I jump.","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is, unsurprisingly, Terrence Malick's most accessible film. Sissy Spacek starts her demure, innocent voice-over on the bed stroking her dog, in a similar way to little Judy Garland in The Wizard of Oz all those years ago. Later the dog is killed and dumped off a bridge and the storybook mood is completely marred, but her voice-over drones on continually with all these romantic fairytale clichés. This is probably one of Malick's most effective uses of the voice-over; that youthful Texan drawl maintains a sort of naivety even after about a dozen murders and at the end of the film. Spacek's storytelling has a quiet, reserved sense of propriety as if she had been raised a certain way and continued to behave so even after the shocking first killing of her father by Kit. She isn't quite aware of her own spin on the Bonnie and Clyde type romanticism of it all even as the whole state is out hunting for them. The closest Malick comes to festishising this adventure of theirs is during the period where they build their own bush fortress complete with tunnel network and booby trap system and forage the flora for all its natural uses. But even then it seems to be an intentionally idyllic manifestation of Holly's - she rattles off that Kit overheard them talking about some reward money, and shares his rationalisation that in this beautiful wilderness it is every man for themselves. She extrapolates every action of his to be some deep yearning for these days to last forever, while he wields his gun like an eraser that magically removes any of the obstacles in their way. Sheen has a cold yet charismatic aura about him - the wild James Dean hairstyle, the way he perks up when he is compared to the film star, how he fields questions from the hordes of adoring policeman like a celebrity at a press release. And in the midst of the killings, he spares a rich man, whose prosperity he seems to admire. Fujimoto's photography deftly subverts at every turn. We see the usual panorama slideshows of the wild wild outback; a towering mountain, a hunting falcon, lightning flashing beyond the horizon within a cloud. Kit himself is one of those stalking beasts, walking aimlessly and firing carelessly. See the shot where his lone figure strolls by the full moon; in any other movie that would be a stunning celebration of natural beauty and what Holly's voice-over dubs as poetic 'solitude'. And there is that stunning and subtle change in the background that signals the first hint of Holly's unrest - Kit locks the young couple in the basement, and then for good measure shots them dead too, his first unquestionably unnecessary murder. And as the camera swings back, the couple are now standing amongst a dark, cloud-covered horizon instead of a crystal blue sky. I am struck by this little movement as they run away from that scene of the triple murder. The blue sky is now murky and dark, and as they flee side to side, Kit reaches out as if to hold her hand, but quickly rescinds when he realises she isn't paying attention. Malick doesn't show their consummation, but them merely discussing it casually afterwards as if it isn't all that. They bury a treasure trove of their possessions as they plan another long journey, and the voice-over smothers it with meaning, but it's just trash. And as she pines to discover faraway lands, the camera focuses on a cargo train emerging in the distance with a hazy, dreamlike quality, as if it was beckoning them back to civilisation. This is done with a lot more subtlety than Natural Born Killers, which had the same goal, but took it over this extreme satiric edge until it basically became the same flashing image culture it was criticising. A talk show, complete with laugh track, ridiculed the idea that serial killers would ever have ulterior motives or undisclosed factors that lead them to this path. The lovers killed unapologetically and stylishly until the movie demanded otherwise. Badlands takes a different route; it doesn't subscribe to the notion that killers must internalise and release within brutal violence. Adversity doesn't always build character or result in weathered, learned faces. Think that they'll take that into consideration? he asks as he is flown to a death sentence, still sporting the wavy hair and turning to his girl for a reaction. And there's still a hint of that adoration under there. "},{"Title":"Rebels Without a Cause !!!","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Written and directed by Terrence Malick, 'Badlands' is loosely based on the lives of real-life killers Charles Starkweather and Caril-Ann Fugate. The screenplay of the film instantly introduces us to a teenage, naive girl named Holly. She starts having an affair with the handsome, wild and rebellious James Dean look-alike Kit and she keeps this a secret from her father. Once her father becomes aware of this affair, circumstances lead to a confrontation where Kit ends up killing Holly's father in a fit of rage. They then embark on a deadly journey together, a journey punctuated by numerous murders and criminal acts on the way.'Badlands' came out during the period when the New Hollywood era was flourishing in American cinema. It clearly has that European art- house feel that became prevalent in the American films of that time, but 'Badlands' still maintains its identity as a thoroughbred American film. The film shows us the beautiful American countryside beyond the urban milieu. The cinematography is absolutely breathtaking. The lush green fields, the richness of the blue skies and the wide angle shots of the vast fields are sights to behold. Any still from the film can be framed and hung on the wall due to the sheer beauty. These beautiful surroundings are used by Malick as a juxtaposition with the disturbing acts of the characters.One of the first and foremost things that you notice while watching the film is that both Kit and Holly live in their own worlds completely aloof from everything else. Kit is a lonely figure who feels he deserves better than what life offers him. He has delusions of grandeur. He thinks he is treated like a scapegoat by everyone in society and so now he is answerable to no one and is above the law. This is similar to the mentality of Michel in Bresson's 'Pickpocket'. There is a shot of Kit lying on his bed with peacock feathers on the wall behind him giving him this divine look which reflects to some extent how highly he thinks of himself. His isolation from the world coupled with his delusions and his love for James Dean's films makes him rebellious just for the sake of being rebellious. Holly is the only one who actually listened to what he has to say and so he is attracted to her. Holly's character is even more disturbing. She is also a person engulfed by loneliness. Her mother had died and her father never really gave her the amount of company that a young kid needs in the formative years. The film actually gets narrated by Holly and the childlike nature in which she narrates gruesome incidents shows how innocence can be corrupted under specific circumstances which will lead to emotional numbness. The journey with Kit is like a fairy tale for her. Neither of them love the other. But they share each other's loneliness and delusions in the most disturbing ways.Terrence Malick takes us on this road movie with these two delusional simpletons, but refrains from romanticising or glorifying the two characters like 'Bonnie and Clyde' or 'Natural Born Killers'. He intentionally keeps the viewer at a distance. He asks the viewers to only observe these characters and their actions instead of relating with them. Actually I believe the ending of the film is an indictment on how society and media can end up glorifying and romanticising criminals. Another theme that Malick explores is the randomness of life. These characters come out of nowhere and they start killing people. There is no logic to these murders which makes this film comparable to Richard Brooks' film 'In Cold Blood' which also based on real-life murders. Martin Sheen as Kit is absolutely fantastic. He actually looks a lot like James Dean in the film and owns the character. He walks around and speaks with this masculine charm and magnetism. Sissy Spacek plays the naive and innocent Holly perfectly. The film for me in the end was easy to admire, but slightly difficult to love. This was my first viewing of the film and I can clearly see why 'Badlands' is considered one of the great American classics. But I found the distant style of storytelling a little tough to fall in love with and the film didn't linger in my thoughts too long. But I'm pretty sure this was because the film requires multiple viewings and my love for the film will only get enhanced with subsequent viewings. "},{"Title":"Boy, we rang the bell now, didn't we?","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" He may have 'looked just like James Dean', but more than anything I couldn't get over how much Martin Sheen resembled his own son Emilio Estevez in this story. And then I started thinking about how much more effective the Kit character might have been if he had the maniacal personality of Emilio's Billy the Kid from Young Guns. I guess that just wasn't his style or the way director Malick approached this story of two star crossed lovers who landed on the wrong side of the tracks.The thing is, you never get the impression that fifteen year old Holly (Sissy Spacek) had a bad streak to begin with. She was just led by her ten years senior boyfriend and went along for the ride as he got swept up in an irrational killing spree. It seems she could have just as easily been swept off her feet by an otherwise regular guy who made something of himself and been just fine with that as well. Even her first sexual experience with bad boy Kit seemed to be a non event, something to try out and get over with, without too much thought put ahead of or behind it.For those who've seen both pictures, this one seems like the tamer precursor to 1994's Natural Born Killers. Badlands was based on the real life 1958 killing spree undertaken by nineteen year old Charles Starkweather and his fourteen year old girlfriend Caril Ann Fugate; Starkweather's murders were truly vicious and included Fugate's two year old baby sister. When this picture was made, Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek had not yet broken out as film stars, but this was arguably the picture that launched their careers big time. "},{"Title":"On the whim","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Teenagers will be teenagers, they say. What it truly means, I do not know. But a man or woman should never be disregarded or held under contempt for their age alone. Being impressionable and manipulative are two of the greatest vices, and when combined, can cause a spiralling cascade.Everything around us affects us in way or another. The constant bickering on television, heavy gloom in the skies or eraser shaving scattered across the desk. These things all have a tipping point in us. Whether we take notice and do something or simply let it pass depends on the person. Normally, people let it go. But normal isn't what Badlands is about. Good dialogue and character development cannot be emphasized enough. Martin Sheen is an electrifying character on camera who can fill dire scenes with energy. Despite his great performance, this film just does not excel in any other way. Whether it be the spineless Holly or lack of connective dialogue, Badlands lacks an immersive touch. Although it is entertaining at moments, the young couple are too distant from viewers and even themselves.Whether this can be devoted to them being young adults and simply in their nature, I do not know. But I do know this movie failed to leave an impression on me. "},{"Title":"An Absolute Masterpiece of Fiction","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick's film Badlands was his first film, and in my opinion, probably his best film. This is one of the only films I have watched that captures me in its embrace every time I watch it. The film is based on the infamous Charles Starkweather killing spree of the 50s, but through the use of various poetic devices, ranging from music to imagery to violence, Badlands looks and feels like fiction. Not just fiction in that its a completely fictional story, but fiction in the sense of something like a fairy tale. And thats exactly what Malick wanted; for the film to feel like a pure work of imaginary storytelling. That doesn't mean Badlands is a fairy tale; there are no magical horses or magical powers, but the way Malick edits the film and tells the story make it feel like such forces can exist in the film's world.Badlands tells the story of two star crossed lovers, Kit and Holly, as they venture through the Great Plains on a spree of crime and murder. Holly narrates the film, and serves as the catalyst of what happens. Kit, on the other hand, serves as something of an anti-hero; he kills Holly's father in order to set her free and kills 8 more people throughout the film. Unlike the actual Charles Starkweather, Kit's victims are not innocent people, but are instead people that come after him with the goal of his death, and thus the separation from his precious Holly. Its fitting that most of the killings take place in the actual badlands of Oklahoma; its a place of openness and mystery, and no one is ever too innocent in a strange world. Badlands is not a film to be viewed realistically; if done so the film will seem very, very pretentious. The film demands to be viewed as a piece of fiction, and what a masterpiece of fiction it is. "},{"Title":"Malick's best work","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" While watching Terrence Malick's masterful Badlands another movie popped into my head which was Bonnie and Clyde because of the ways of how the two main characters were on a crime spree. But however Malick's film is much diverse with it's setting and time period, the movie stars Martin Sheen as Kit a garbage worker who while on the job ends up meeting and falling in love with a teenager named Holly (played by Sissy Spacek)and then Holly's father (played by Warren Oates) is curious as to the boy that she met and she says to him I told him to never bother us again just so her father can get less curious. Then after that happens Kit comes in and looks around the house as Holly's father comes in and acts curious as to what he is doing and then dies with a bullet wound to the stomach, and a day later Holly and Kit begin their lives of crime. One of the critic responses that I do not understand is why Dave Becker would compare this movie to Orson Welles' Citizen Kane (1941) when both movies were nothing alike. Malick blends crime and romance wonderfully with his perfect direction for the film, not only that this movie is one of the best crime movies ever made it is also one of the best road trip movies ever made along with Paris, Texas (1984) and Rain Man (1988). Though I really loved Days of Heaven I think that this was a better film because of way too many reasons. A modern classic. "},{"Title":"There's a meaning there but the meaning there doesn't really mean a thing!","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is always the question on everyone's lips after a young white male goes on a killing spree. Why? Badlands answers this question with a hollow inconclusiveness that leaves us with a sense of impotence and despair in the face of seemingly unmotivated violence. It would be easy to get angry with Kit and Holly but it will do no good. They are beyond our anger and outside our standards of behavior. And everyone is looking for answers &#x96; even Holly. Hidden amongst her seemingly naïve ramblings are clues as to why she tags along with Kit and to some degree what motivates Kit. I don't think that there is a better description of feeling abandoned and without purpose than Holly's when she says she felt like she was left sitting in the bath after the water is gone. Hasn't every teenager felt this feeling at one stage or another? I have taught so many girls like Holly who get pregnant to boys like Kit just because it gives them a mission. I have taught boys like Kit who don't go out on killing sprees but do finish in jail because crime and punishment fills the void. No, I am not a bleeding heart. In fact the opposite, because I know that you find sympathy in the dictionary between shit and suicide. Kit and Holly become a temporary world unto themselves and vainly try to build worlds in which they can live. They aren't so different from most children in that respect. So what goes so horribly wrong with Kit and Holly that does not with most teenagers? Is it that Kit is just another psychopath and Holly another none-to-bright, moonstruck teenage girl? Badlands does not pretend to provide the definitive answer but it does, if we are willing, take us into the alternative world of Kit and Holly. This is the genius of the film. As I have said, I have taught many students who were on the knife-edge as teenagers and, without being too immodest, helped them find purpose. If you don't provide a human being with a purpose, they will surely find alternatives &#x96; and some of them may involve crime and violence. Hitler filled the void felt by an entire country with righteous anger not so unlike Kit's and sent it on a killing spree. Badlands &#x96; feel the meaningless void in the concluding shots and voice-over and then hear its resonant echo down the corridors to Columbine and Sandy Hook. "},{"Title":"Characters analysis in Badlands","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first heard about this film, there was certain lack of understanding when it comes to it's title. So, I wondered what exactly it means and stumbled upon two definitions (Merriam-Webster and TheFreeDictionary.com)- a region marked by intricate erosional sculpturing, scanty vegetation, and fantastically formed hills - usually used in plural- A heavily eroded arid region of southwest South Dakota (exactly the place where the film plot occurs) and northwest Nebraska. The Badlands National Monument in South Dakota was established in 1939 to protect the area's colorful rock formations and prehistoric fossils. After I've resolved that mistery I'll bring up arguments in relation to my perception and understanding of this Malick's first feature film.Film starts with Holly's narration (Sissy Spacek) about her mother's death and explanation of how her father coped with that. On the other side of Fort Dupree (South Dakota), Kit (Martin Sheen) is working as a garbage collector and making jokes with his colleague Cato. Kit and Holly met each other accidentally Kit, arrogant greaser kid, was walking after hard day on job and Holly, kind of introverted young girl, was playing in her street. From the moment Kit saw her, he started conversation and flirting. Holly, who was living under strict rules of her father, liked him. It is probably much better to describe it not like her attraction to Kit, rather attracted to idea that she is likable to some young, handsome guy (at some point in film, she describes him as attractive as James Dean).As Holly's father didn't allowed them to have any kind of relationship and after Kit's attempt to talk with him failed &#x96; he tried to run away with Holly. He spied on their house, and waited for Holly and her father to leave, than broke into their house and started packing Holly's clothes. They returned earlier than he planned and after Holly's father wanted to report him for breaking in, things went wrong and he killed him. They both made decision to burn down the house (making it look like suicides) and attempt getaway. Driven by Kit's violent nature and Holly's unquestionable, naive love for him their getaway turned into killing spree.From the beginning I felt atmosphere like in Terry Gilliam's films. Not exactly surreal, but somehow magical. Everything happens with easiness. Everything is smooth. Music is so chill-out, calm and I felt movie as an adaptation of fairy tale.There is famous quotation by Jean-Luc Godard and it goes All you need for a movie is a gun and a girl. In Badlands you have it all. As the films goes on, one can think it is just that. Guns, rifles, killings and a lot of romantic clichés. But, most important element was constantly present from the moment story begins. Both protagonists have similar characters they are shallow, banal, they lack focus/attention (Holly isn't interested in anything particular while Kit is changing jobs very often...). They both seems alienated/introverted &#x96; they have no friends, no real contact with their Self; Holly's father seems to be very restrictive and introvert person while we know very little about Kit's family (only short dialogue with his uncle is captured) &#x96; if he had any.Their almost unbearable easiness of killing people is reflected in complete absence of empathy for their victims. Even though Holly didn't killed anyone she showed no remorse, sense of guilt, or any kind of empathy towards victims suffering. Even when her father was killed by Kit &#x96; she was more in the state of shock and never looked back. Also, not that Kit tried to reconsider any of his acts of violence and killing; he's rather trying to justify every victim as collateral damage and as a way of preservation of their love. It was clear from the beginning that they've no moral course to follow and their road will be paved with blood and without any redemption.When their getaway finally ended by Kit's peaceful surrender to sheriff and his assistant, we could witness interested dialogue between them. They've found him as interesting, charming and witty young man. Sheriff's assistant even expressed fascination with Kit's appearance and told him that he's something special. Suddenly, both Holly and Kit became celebrities. People come to see their arrest, they've got full media attention. At the very end, while flying in National Guard's helicopter, sitting next to soldier, Kit started dialogueKit Sir? Where'd you get that hat? Soldier State. Kit Boy, I'd like to buy me one of them. Soldier You're quite an individual, Kit. Kit Think they'll take that into consideration?At one point while watching film, I remembered saying by Jean Baudrillard We live in a world where there is more and more information, and less and less meaning. The very lack of remorse both protagonists demonstrate is, ultimately, just their inability to connect with themselves or with any other meaning human culture/society has to offer. Their killing spree isn't quest for meaning, rather attempt to transcendent state of emotional alienation and actually experience their subjectivity. "},{"Title":"My rating 6","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Strange movie showing bleak life of a man who has no education and changes unpleasant work with more unpleasant one. The lack of a guaranteed bright future makes him think and put in front of us, only by his actions, serious questions concerning the meaning of life, of love, life in society and the laws of God.At the beginning of the movie this character meets a girl much younger than him, which falls into satin trap of love, or of the diversity that on the background of her daily life, look like a giant walking among dwarfs. Eventually, the girl's father does not allowed them to see each other, which brought him to be killed by the boy who with the love of his life went on the run from his past and the law. Throughout the movie he kills people who are a threat to both of them, until the police finally caught him. It turns out that the boy behaves like a normal person with the police and is shown as someone who just does not understand the meaning of his life. Calmly accepts the assigned death penalty and willingly leaves life that offered him his all options.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Kit Carruthers (Sheen) meets and falls for Holly Sargis (Spacek). Together they embark on a journey to South Dakota and Montana, on a thrilling odyssey.","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure how to classify Badlands. It is a drama, a story of love, is a road movie, it's crazy &#x85; it's all the above. Badlands is a unique American fairy tale and it's an impressive debut to quote Roger Ebert and it's not an exaggeration. The film contains the keys and features that define much of the talented and prolific Terence Malick's short but essential work. We are talking about the visual force, precious photograph, sober beauty of things and of nature in particular, images that are pure poetry. At a glimpse, this film reminds me of Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers and also True Romance. The action takes place in Texas, Rapid City (Oklahoma), South Dakota and Montana, around 1957 to 1958. Kit Carruthers (Sheen) meets and falls for Holly Sargis (Spacek). Together they embark on a journey to South Dakota and Montana, on a thrilling odyssey. The way Malick contrasting the two characters also adorable. Kit, is described as crazy, wild and violent, of low intelligence, a bit psychotic and sociopathic while Holly is about 15 years, naive, innocent, submissive and passive. Badlands cleverly mixes adventure, crime, drama, romance and thriller. In regards to the images as poetry of nature, I'm talking about the way Malick positioned Kit in the frame, such as having him stand motionless against sunset/sunrise or simply put animals around him, like the iguana, pheasant and others. The most beautiful shot, in my opinion, is when both Kit and Holly found peace and tranquility in Badlands (wide open spaces of Montana and South Dakota, named for their wilderness and desert character). The shot of Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek dancing in the darkness of a desert landscape with Nat King Cole playing from the car's radio cannot seem to escape from my head and I'm sure most people who have seen this will feel the same. "}{"Title":"Little did I realise that what began in the alleys and back ways of this quiet town would end in the Badlands of Montana.","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is written and directed by Terrence Malick. It stars Martin Sheen, Sissy Spacek, Ramon Bieri and Warren Oats. Music is by George Tipton and James Taylor and cinematography by Tak Fujimoto, Steven Larner and Brian Probyn.Badlands seems to be adored by critics, often being coined as one of the best debuts ever made by a director. Maybe based loosely on the Starkweather-Fugate killing spree of 1958, though the makers have been at pains to ensure we know this is a case of all the characters and situations being fictional, Badlands does indeed have impressive strands. It's a gorgeous picture visually, the surreal feel that is sometimes garnered by Malick in the narrative gives the piece a haunted edge and Spacek and Sheen are very good given the characters they are asked to play. However, Malick's commentary on amoral youth of 50s America, a corruption of innocence, alienation and etc, never has the depth, to my mind, to really be as special as so many say it is. Some argue the sketchy motives and reasonings involving Kit and Holly are deliberately thought provoking, I'd argue that devoid of psychological meat they are dull characters only livened by the actors' performances. Holly's narration is a clever device by Malick, serving to keep us interested since the structure of the film is repetitious, where being in the company of Kit and Holly becomes a chore. And lets not get onto credibility either...I know I'm in the minority, but three times I have tried to grasp this supposed genius in Badlands, and I just don't see it. There's a myth and mysticism that has been attributed to it, even enhanced as the years have rolled by, but where there is undoubtedly beauty on the surface, down below there is no beast. 6/10 "},{"Title":"It's such a wonderful masterpiece!","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched The Criterion Collection edition of Badlands on Bluray for the second time. The film was of course directed, produced & written by a 30 year old artistic film director Terrence Malick ,who also made other great motion pictures with artistic cinematography style like Days of Heaven (1978), The Thin Red Line (1998), The Tree Of Life (2011), and To The Wonder (2013).Badlands was the first official film that Terrence Malick made. The film was released on October 15, 1973.Badlands takes place in Fort Dupre, South Dakota in the year 1959.The crime story of the film involves a fifteen year old girl named Holly Sargis (Sissy Spacek ), who is the narrator of the film and she enjoys reading music and movie magazines. One day Holly meets a 25-year old James Dean look-a-like garbage man & greaser named Kit Carruthers (Martin Sheen).Then, they both go on a cross country killing spree from South Dakota to the Badlands of Montana. The cross country killing spree all started after Kit shot Holly's father (Warren Oates) with a gun due to his disagreement with their relationship. Holly's narration describes her adventures with Kit. The story, though fictional, is loosely based on the real-life murder spree of Charles Starkweather and his girlfriend, Caril Ann Fugate, in 1958.I thought the movie was a fantastic masterpiece for many reasons. I really love the outstanding cinematography of the entire 95 minutes of the film. One of the reasons that makes the cinematography outstanding is the close ups of objects, animals, & plants in the film and I also find that to be very artistic. I especially the love acting roles of the characters and that's one of the things that makes the movie entertaining. I like the way that 33 year-old Martin Sheen (Charlie Sheen's father) made himself look like James Dean for his role as Kit. I also loved Holly's narration of the motion picture because I love the way she describes her life and adventures with Kit and that's what made the film extremely entertaining.This film kind of reminds me of another crime film Bonnie & Clyde (1967) but, they both of course robbed banks during the great depression. Badlands also has elements of coming of age and road film. I highly recommend this movie for people in general. This film would also inspire people to become a film maker due to its artistic film making style. I personally think the film is fifth best film on my top 20 best films of the 1970s list. I also personally think Badlands is the number one best film of the year 1973.I give it 4 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"An oddly poetic road movie","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is Terrence Malick's debut feature. It tells a story of a young couple called Kit and Holly who are on the run from the law in the wide expanses of the American mid-west. It begins with the boy shooting the girl's father and then escalates into more and more murders. Martin Sheen is very good as Kit. He is a character who evidently seems to be a psychopath, yet for most of the time he is extremely laid-back and gentle-natured. This makes his underplayed acts of spontaneous violence all the more jarring. Sissy Spacek is Holly, the naive young girl who falls under his spell; she projects just the right amount of innocence mixed with underlying morbidity. Her father, played by cult favourite Warren Oates, is similarly a complex character; while on the one hand he is entirely unreasonable when he shoots his daughter's dog as a punishment for her hanging around with Kit, on the other hand it would seem that his initial insistence that she stay away from the boy was ultimately clearly the correct advice. All of the actors put in naturalistic performances and this adds to the realism. The pacing and tone of the film overall really makes you feel the mundane slowness of the sun-baked environment it is set.The narrative is propelled not so much by action but by voice-over. The excerpts are taken from Holly's diary. This, coupled with the attractive cinematography, gives Badlands a very lyrical feel. The story itself really is somewhat limited and it doesn't, in truth, always engage. The characters are so distant that this is perhaps inevitable. There is a very non-judgemental view of their actions. It's really left to the viewer to decide what they think of what they see, and this isn't such a bad thing. It resembles Bonnie and Clyde in a lot of ways, a movie that was clearly an inspiration. While going forward, it's distinctive and delicate percussion-only music was used in the later True Romance. Showing that this is a road movie that continues to influence. "},{"Title":"Chronicled American Film History","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've tried, but Malick's first film, Badlands (1973), whilst superbly moody in its drowsiness and visual splendor, has never affected me the way his later work has. Indeed, both Days of Heaven (1978) and The Thin Red Line (1998) are staggering, the few last moments of The New World (2005) are among the most scintillating moments in film I've ever seen, and The Tree of Life (2011) represent the apex of modern American film for me.Not that I don't appreciate this and what he does. Much of it is driving toward Days of Heaven, a clear watershed in Malick's career. Chronicled American film history, one can smell the dirty prairie-dust sweat that dries up on one's forehead, it's that strong in creating and preserving atmosphere. It just doesn't speak to me that loudly, and that might be the dullest and most vacuous thing I'm going to write in a while. Perhaps I'm still looking for a key that might unlock it, but for the time being it re-mains distant.Curiously enough it works better if not with Days of Heaven (1978) but with Peter Weir's contemporary Picnic at Hanging Rock (1975). The kind of sunward, painterly dreamscapes they present make them something like close siblings that might benefit from each other's company. "},{"Title":"An Intelligental and Enjoyable Neo-Western","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick is one of the most revered directors ever with many actors wanting to work with him and he is a director who thinks very carefully about his projects for good and ill. His first film was the drama Badlands, which films like True Romance, Natural Born Killers and Stoker owned a debt to.Holly (Sissy Spacek) is a 15-year-old Texan girl who lives in a small town in 1950s South Dakota. She soon starts a relationship with a man ten years her senior, Kit (Martin Sheen), an unemployed garbage man. But after Holly's father (Warren Oates) forbids their relationship Kit kills him and the end up on run. After trying to live out in the wilderness Kit ends up going on a killing spree and Holly forced on the ride as her feeling of love and romance are conflicted with Kit's violence nature.Malick is known for making visually impressive films and giving them excellent soundtracks Badlands is no exception. But many of Malick films have long sequences without dialogue, with backstory told in voiceovers and can non-linear. Badlands is more traditional film, telling a straight forward story in a typical three act structure. It is a film that is more accessible for more mainstream audiences, but also has plenty of themes and ideas that will keep art-house fans happy.Badlands is a very engaging and interesting film as we watch two actors give to very grounded, understated performances. There are surface themes of a Romeo and Juliet story of star-crossed lovers and forbidden and also how someone would try to justify their crimes. But there are wider themes as well, class prejudice, how people may be escape able to escape civilisation within America and how some people within America long for escape and have a distrust of authority and society. The stark cinematography illustrates this as you can see how someone could travels for miles and not come across any other person. The film mostly focuses on two characters, a teenage girl and a man who is seemingly able to act normal, but has no problem killing people.Some of the action, violence and setting gave Badlands the film a Western feel. The film takes place in a rural setting, the guns used and exit wounds made Badlands looked like what were used in Westerns made at the time. There is even a reference to bounty hunters who are trying to capture Kit and Holly.Badlands is a thoughtful film that will appeal people with a more mainstream mindset. It is a enjoyable piece of entertainment as well as being a study of how and why someone can ask so coolly when killing people just for his own self-interest. Out of all the Malick films I have seen I think Badlands is his best. "},{"Title":"Sheen as killer","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick directed Badlands, basing it loosely on the killing spree by Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate. Martin Sheen is Kit, a drifter with little ambition who meets Holly(Sissy Spacek) a teenager who has typical adolescent disagreements with her father which Kit solves by killing him. Holly narrates from the beginning with a dreamy eyed perspective of optimistic youth. Reality hits quickly as her traveling companion takes her on a road trip of murder and generally unacceptable social behavior.After a series of nasty encounters with unsuspecting members of the public, the dynamic duo finally run into law enforcement officials, putting a damper on their adventures. Sheen and Spacek are excellent as the two main protagonists and Mallick has an interesting style. "},{"Title":"As beautiful as Sissy Spacek","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is a high number of reasons to love this movie, mostly related to a very good direction. Malick has been able to bring up the best from the locations, the script and his own creativity. What he didn't need to do (and her career proves it) was to enhance the qualities of Sissy Spacek although she was young and with a very little experience. She has a key-role in the story and her character is built up through regular acting and voice-over. She appears to be passive because you almost don't see her crying or loosing control but she connects constantly with the viewer describing the story with her simple and straight voice. The film has got ups and downs of fun, violence and adventure and Holly's voice provides you the clue of what is going on. She explains what she knows about her man with a frank honesty that makes you love her. I've seen her recently in A house at the end of the world and In the bedroom and it's amazing how she still transmits the same sense of comfort. Despite Badlands is truly considered a masterpiece, I guess that Holly is the one and only cause of Kit's madness and boldness. "},{"Title":"New Frames","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story is something we've seen before from 'Bonnie' to 'Born Killers'.  What's different is the focus.  Oliver Stone missed it on his attempt since he was too focused on the media and characters.  Arthur Penn aimed for the typical narrative film.This is your only spoiler warning...Here we have Malick, someone who understands the medium of film--not scripting--so we see this as an example of visual abstraction.  Notice the perspective of Spacek and comparing what the she sees in present tense to her reflective tense.  Her thoughts, as in 'Thin Red Line', are what this is about; not characters but ideas.  The characters exist to illustrate the ideas, not the script.So, Malick uses the camera to augment those ideas.  Unlike 'Thin Red Line', he isn't very understanding here.  He wants what Coppola finally got with 'Apocalypse'.  Still, for such ambition he deserves credit.  It's his new look with an old story that makes this interesting, but he established his views right the next time with 'Heaven' and its followup.  I put this on the high end of my midrange group (probably in the level 4 range).Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"Charlie & Caryl get gussied up","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thinly veiled and highly romanticized tale of the spree killings of Charlie Starkweather and Caryl Fugate in Nebraska during the late 50's.  The choice of Sheen and Spacek glosses over the lack of likeability of the real characters.  Hardly a James Dean type the real Charlie oozed loserness. Caryl garnered more sympathy because of her young age but she still was clearly involved in the murders.  Although the film creates an image of estranged yet endearing youth against the system it ultimately is a fairy tale.  Read a book about the Starkweather/Fugate muders and you will find them about as heroic as OJ Simpson and Kato Kaelin "},{"Title":"The Dark American Dream","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film captured perfectly that quality of American life which we choose to hide from ourselves, but which surprises none of us all that much when it manifests itself The desire to grab a gun, break loose, hit the road, and then just let things play out as they come along. There are many more people in our midst like this than we care to admit, and many, many more who are no more than a hair's breath away from taking that fateful first step. And we are fascinated by this tale precisely because most Americans sense within themselves (more often than they care to acknowledge) that desire to drop everything, clear out and start afresh. This film is the dark side of that impulse. "}{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Made in 1973, it is amazing how accurately this film portrays today's youth! Dull emotionally disconnected soulless or overly impressionable! Martin Sheen would be today's basic YouTube junkie, self centered, dazed and confused,a lost youth! Sisie could be any teenage girl, following after Sheen like the latest hip hop trend! That is the formula that makes this believable though! Their surreal road trip is shown to us through the mind of the teenager, that has no grasp on the reality the rest of the world live in! Intentionally Funny dialog helps the pacing out nicely! If you are looking for trendy road trip killing spree action i.e. True Romance, NBK? Look elsewhere! this film is far more mature than Tarantino could have ever written! "},{"Title":"announced the arrival of a master filmmaker","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terence Malick's remarkable debut feature offers a unique variation of the Bonnie and Clyde myth, following two young fugitives on a bloody but apathetic crime spree across the northern Great Plains in the late 1950s. In outline it may sound like violent exploitation, but under Malick's sensitive and sympathetic direction the film becomes an unsettling slice of Americana, restrained almost to the point of invisibility but shaded with quiet insight and dry wit (says Sissy Spacek about her trigger-happy boyfriend Martin Sheen while driving across the prairie monotony of eastern Montana Kit told me to enjoy the scenery, and I did.) Malick's original script is a model of both moral and emotional detachment, presenting each murder as a crime of dispassion sparked not out of anger or desperation, but by simple convenience and an almost childlike disregard for consequences (reflected in the equally innocent music score). Both lead performances show a posture-perfect understanding of teen boredom and naiveté, rendering each character even emptier than the northern plains setting. After listening to Spacek's banal, deadpan voice-over diaries, it's easy to understand how in the small town wasteland of Middle America nothing is as simple as pulling a trigger. "},{"Title":"I wanna find one place, I wanna spit in the face of these...","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...Badlands, from the great Bruce Springsteen song of the same name. The film came first and while I'm not sure if it directly inspired Springsteen's writing, both film and song stand up as great examples of their respective arts.A film with at its centre a casually psychopathic trigger-happy youth with a James Dean fixation (the setting for the movie is late 50's America, only a few years after the star's early death) who picks up an almost equally casual if non-homicidal teenage girl-friend, the film combines a study of their strange relationship with the panoramic scope of a road movie to great effect - both aspects work superbly.No explanations are offered for Kit (Martin Sheen in a live-wire performance) and his actions - the first time we see him with a gun he's using it to shoot down the father of new girlfriend Holly (Spacek). Something just snaps in his head when her father forbids their relationship. Both leads' performances are naturalistic and totally immersed in their characters - director Malick often leaves in pointless, sometimes incoherent even nonsensical pieces of dialogue and one suspects a degree of improvisation in their playing, but it works to convince the viewer that they are watching real people living in the here and now (or more accurately then). There's a sense of detachment to the extraordinary events we witness, enhanced by Spacek's cool voice-over narrative and the often naive-melodic musical soundtrack permeating the piece. The violence is delivered wholly matter-of-factly as Kit in succession mows down Holly's father, a workmate who offers them accommodation, a young couple who accidentally stray into their path (Kit locks them in an underground bunker, randomly fires two shots into it and off-handedly asks Holly Do you think I got them?) and of course a succession of pursuing law-men.Sheen and Spacek dominate screen-time so much that you hardly notice the supporting actors. Credit to both, Sheen brilliantly translating the contradictions of his character and Spacek, as ever convincingly acting a part many years younger than her true age. The director is careful and right not to sentimentalise this odd couple and by the end the overall feeling you get from witnessing their actions is a mixture of horror and bemusement - just as we tend to react to any act of brutal criminality (how could they do that?).The road aspect is beautifully rendered with superb shots of the desolate badlands they follow as they try to escape their fate. There are some idiosyncratic moments too which only further add, strangely enough, to the feel of off-beat authenticity (Holly's dad shooting her dog to punish her for going out with Kit, Kit's encounter with her dad as he paints a massive advertising hoarding, the couple's dance to a sentimental Nat King Cole song and the scene near the end where a captured Kit almost seems to bond with the soldiers at the army base before the police take him away. Other-wordly but real, I'd call it.In conclusion, a disturbing but very effective piece of cinema which stays in your head afterwards for many different reasons. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece doesn't even begin to describe it.","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick gives one of the finest examples of quality direction I've ever seen. He takes a film full of elements that are great in their own standard, but he combines them all so well that it creates for a final result that is absolutely perfect. The haunting score is one of the greatest I've ever heard, but is even more brilliant when it's paralleled with Malick's usual gorgeous cinematography that finds beauty in the authentic feel of the open country. The detached acting from Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek is made all the more compelling by the brutal violence and chaos that surrounds them. It's a touching love story mixed with seeing how one mistake can turn into a domino effect as more and more goes wrong and more blood has to be shed. For me the most compelling aspect of the film is in the reactions of the characters. The way that Kit went through the story killing with such ease, as if he didn't care about what he was doing or the consequences of it, was so intriguing. When mixed with seeing how Holly's initial interest in Kit turns into naivety as she follows him around while he kills, the film became one of the most engaging I've ever seen. It's a film that shows how perfect direction can bring everything together to create a truly magnificent final product. "},{"Title":"Good debut from one of the most talented directors alive","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is Malick's debut from 1973 and uses elements typical for all of Malick's films outstanding cinematography, voice over, a prominent roll for nature&#133; The story is about a morally alienated young couple and their killing journey across the country.We see everything in the film through the eyes of the 2 protagonists who seem almost devoid of emotion when it concerns their actions. Kit (a good Martin Sheen) shoots anyone who stands in his way without much emotion or thought and although Holly (Sissy Spacek) doesn't participate in the killings her reactions and comments to what happens are cool and neutral. The brutal actions and the cold reactions to the killings stand in contrast with the beautiful images of nature they travel through. Yet those desolate places are at the same time symbolic for Kit and Holly's alienated morality.Kit and Holly let themselves be caught and surprisingly Kit's guards seem very friendly towards him and some seem to even admire him (you're quite an individual, Kit). The viewer starts to like the person who was just before a cold-hearted killer. Although society condemns Kit to the chair, Malick seems to say here people admire rebels regardless of the morality of their actions. Or maybe Malick doesn't judge at all and the guards' reactions represent Kit's view on how he wants to be remembered and admired for his actions. Anyway, the message of the film is of minor importance &#150; it are the beautiful images and the moods that stand central in this road movie.In short, a good debut film with beautiful cinematography, very good directing, a good cast and a fine music score. It's not easy for the viewer to get involved emotionally though. The film would lead via Days of Heaven to Malick's best and fantastic masterpiece The Thin Red Line. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" How come the events of the story was true? Even though, the changes were made just for the movie. Because they can. Kit(Martin Sheen) works for garbage collector and he throws the keys into the sludge, that's enough for a reprimand. So when he meets 15-year-old Holly(Sissy Spacek), things go from bad to worse. Kit and Holly get into a man's Cadillac, kills hims and her family, and the run off into the badlands shooting and killing people. This isn't quite Bonnie and Clyde, it can just like though. Holly is a good little girl, why would she get mixed-up with a man like Kit? Who knows or why? They did love each other though, she wasn't terrorized, or forced into doing things against her will. She didn't show any reluctance whatsoever. The chase scene is one of my favorites. One of the police cars flips over, and stills runs after that. Then when Kit spins out, he shoots the left front tire to feign a blowout. When they got caught, Holly wasn't a outcast by the people, she got leniency from the law. The events was real, as I figured, I ought to check it out myself one day, but the movie is amazing all the way! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"It was better to spend a week with one who loved me for what I was than years of loneliness.","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Kit (Martin Sheen) and Holly (Sissy Spacek) are hiding in an improvised tree house in the forest. They ran away, because Kit killed Holly's father who didn't want that his daughter starts dating that garbage man. Holly has brought a stereoscope with her and looks at black and white photographs of street scenes, ships, sights, people who died a long time ago. Underlied with Carl Orff's score, Holly laconically speaks about how she becomes sensible for the own transience and her unavoidable destiny while looking at the pictures. A compressed, magical moment a subtle reflection and, at the same time, a dusky prospectus on the end of the film.In the best moments, the plot steps back completely. It gives away for depictions of atmosphere; we see shots of animals and nature, grass, clouds, and streams of a river. Basically, Badlands is a simple road movie, the story is not very original. But the horrifying parenthesis, though, the waiver of displaying violence and Holly's narrative voice makes it much worthier to look beyond the genre conventions.On their escape, which leads from South Dakota on the wide prairie to the badlands of Montana, Kit kills their pursuers as if he acts out of banal knee-jerk reactions in everyday life. What is so striking about this is, that Malick never tries to find simple explanations for Kit's violent behavior, and that he evades moral valuations on the protagonists and the society they live in. Anyhow, you sense his point of narration the subtle distance of a precise observer.Five years later, Malick produced Days of Heaven, and twenty more years until The Thin Red Line came into being. But Badlands alone, maybe even just a few scenes, would have been enough to make him a legend. "},{"Title":"Permanently affecting scenes and imagery.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The scenes and imagery of Badlands have remained with me, both awake and indreams, for the more than 20 years between first seeing it on a black-and-white TV and watching it recently on DVD. By taking so much time on each scene, by having even less incident, Malick creates a texture as rich as the finest literature. The writing, the cinematography, and the performances of Spacek and Sheen all seem flawless. "},{"Title":"Who's afraid of the big bad....","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lovingly photographed tale of a middle American crime spree.  Skirts around the likeability of the murderers, like most movies of its kind, but it also manages a realism that is only precedented before it, as far as I know, by In Cold Blood.  Sheen is the James Dean-style slayer and Spacek his more or less complacent co-conspirator.  Really, all the killing is pretty random and joyless.  Better than Natural Born Killers, a movie that is in every way indebted to it.  Good music, but the scenes of the two dancing in front of the car and in the forest are a bit too much for me, though they might suggest how David Lynch got quite a few of his ideas, too. "},{"Title":"The most mesmeric of spree-killing films","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The quality of understatement in this movie sets it apart from all others which tread similar territory. Remove the killings and it becomes some strange, strangled love story between people who never connect with one another or anyone else. Only the land across which they travel evokes any emotional response from them. Communication is so staccato, so inadequate yet seems to convey the full contents of their minds - the numb ignorance of Holly and the posturing fantasies of Kit.Where other spree movies have drama, cruelty, malice, misanthropy, this has a parodic quality, not least in the scene before the plane arrives, where Kit conducts himself like a politician up for election, smooth, empty, charming, seductive. There is a commentary here on the adoption of available roles - from the currency of their reading (Marco Polo and Hollywood gossip) through to the vapidity or absence of authority figures, where Kit can invent and reinvent himself in mediated roles, Holly remains a blank, a landscape unshaped by human understanding.A remarkable film, untrammelled by the subsequent genre norms, which will frustrate a viewer more familiar with Natural Born Killers, but which rewards a quiet watching, not for the thrills, which are few, but for quality of thinking which went into making this movie. "}{"Title":"A bit boring at times,slightly disappointing on a whole","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I expected quite a lot from this movie since it was so highly recommended by a lot of people.Maybe it's my problem but I didn't see it's so called brilliance.Sure it has some nice moments but hardly enough to make it an all time classic.The acting is good though and some of the shots of the badlands are very beautiful.Still,at times I almost fell asleep during the long conversation scenes.Maybe it was that my expectations were too high or it was the fact that I saw Mulholland Dr. for the second time just before that,after that film almost everything pales in comparison... "},{"Title":"Gorgeous and resonant","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Badlands is one of those films that really can't be compared to anything else. Other films seem so mortal and thoughtless when held against what this film seeks to do with the medium. It is, like Days of Heaven and Thin Red Line, an utterly unique confluence of story, picture, and sound, one that plays each element off the next to a mysterious and mind-blowing effect.Malick taps into the deepest and most resonant strains of the American character with Kit Caruthers the lonesome, violent, yet extremely likeable fellow who will never be as big as the land, who will never get any closer to those Montana mountains. Holly's voice-over seemingly belongs in another movie; her disembodied narration deepens the mystique of the characters and their journey even though she can't possibly be describing the same things we are seeing. Most voice-overs usually pinch-hit for real storytelling and are there to just fill in the blanks the pictures are leaving out. Malick uses it to express the distance between people and their actions and to make islands out of his characters.The film is endlessly beautiful. There is the land, so wide and promising yet so insurmountable. There is the treehouse, the fantastic land set up against the rest of civilization. There are those distant thunderstorms, those city lights, that old boxcar on the plains . . . these images defy the words that would dare to describe what exists within the frame. These images start to show us just how much there is in this land and country that will remain forever unspoken. What a wonder this must have been on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"(Cliché) love is overrated.","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If there is anything that I learned from my midget ex-girlfriend with blue hair, it's that most relationships people get themselves into are a complete waste of their time. Similarly, so are most movies about relationships. Why? Because as genuine and compelling as the main character's emotions seem on screen, it is almost always hallow, conventional, and, in the end, completely predictable. Movies turn love into a stage-play, in which the viewer says Aw! That was cute!, claps, then walks away and forgets all about it. I can count the movie/books that portray love accurately, in its full non-cliché way, understanding that it means something different to everyone, on one hand. I find is amusing when people who gush about a certain romantic film, then try to form-fit their emotions around it. Or, vice versa, try to form-fit their emotions into a movie that is a total black-and-white cliché like Badlands. I'm not saying every single person is going to find nothing compelling about Badlands. I found it compelling at certain points&#151;that's human. I also realized there wasn't a single moment of the film that wasn't a generic Hollywood convention&#151;that's intelligence.A friend of mine once told me once, in defense of the entire romantic genre I love romantic movies. Who cares if they're unoriginal? Love is unoriginal. As true as this statement is, the original way love is PRESENTED and how REALISTICALLY love is presented is where I place my harsh criticism. With Badlands, the overall story is a complete rip-off of Tarzan to Bonnie and Clyde to everything in between. The only thing that has even slightly changed here is the background, and even that has been used in other generic romantic films before it. The outcome of the movie is completely predicable, as is the rest of the film. Even for its release date, Badlands is so predictable, the way it unfolds is completely second nature to the viewer. There is no suspense or mystery more than once I knew what was going to happen in 20 minutes from the scene I was watching, right down to the last detail. There is simply no excuse for a film being this basic and unoriginal. You cannot argue with me that romantic films can't be original, because they can. And when they are, that makes them infinitely better. When Bonnie and Clyde first came out, it wasn't a copy/paste plot, it was something new. Something controversial. Because of that, it still has had a major influence on pop culture today, while Badlands is nearly obscure.Due to this predictable plot line, Badlands is possibly one of the most boring movies I've ever witnessed. I struggled to even stay awake, and giving it my attention was a downright chore. There are a few unimpressive action scenes thrown in, but even they are few and far between. Most of the runtime is spent with the characters staring at each other as if they were dying animals with mild retardation. There is absolutely no emotion here, and I fail to see how this can be touching, much less life-changing, as some have said.But it seems that is the best the renegade artists can think of Staring. Staring = love. I've written about it in a handful of other reviews, and I'm sure I'll write about it in hundreds more in the future. Staring. Instead of actually trying to create a visible emotional bond, Badlands resorts to the same method as every other cliché romantic film. Staring. Stare at me, I'll stare at you, and the audience will think we're in love, it works every time, because I have absolutely no idea how to show genuine expressions of love on film. So let's just stare. I'm sick of it. I don't have time for it. If I wanted to watch people stare at each other, I would adopt a couple kids with Down syndrome. But I didn't, I just wanted to be entertained by a movie. And do you know what is sadder than any of this? I just had to write and entire paragraph complaining about something as seemingly irrelevant as staring. If that doesn't tell you that this movie is worthless, I don't know what else will.Back on the Down syndrome subject, it seems that both main characters have it. As Forest Gump would later prove, cliché characters with slow speaking patterns never fail to pull at the audience's heartstrings. When someone can't come up with a character that actually has a personality, NEVER FEAR! Retardation is here! Though the characters in Badlands aren't necessarily mentally handicapped, they act like it. Slow speech, lack of moral judgment, lack of social judgment, lack of maturity&#151;yes, you've seen these characters in thousands of other movies. Usually I would use the metaphor that these characters are about as interesting as a dying tree, but I'll give them a little more credit. They do have a few pseudo-weird actions throughout. Thus, they're about as interesting as dying trees wearing sweater vests.No matter what good I try to find in Badlands, I simply can't. It is a 100% unoriginal mash-up of movies that came before it. Every character is a shallow Hollywood cliché, even for the time this film was made. Every compelling scene is, really, just hollow because it fails to recognize how real love works. It's more than staring. It's more than a few melodramatic We fell in love . . . monologues. Love isn't black-and-white, copy/paste. It's sad to see it portrayed so shallowly, then gain such a cult following.Don't listen to the hyper-emotional teenage girls, or the divorced middle-aged women, or the pseudo-sensitive boyfriends Badlands is not a genuine love story. It's a stale Hollywood excuse of a love story. Imagine the relationship between your great- great-grandparents. If they still even remember each other's names, then that's about how much genuine emotion is in this film.0/10 "},{"Title":"An okay movie.","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A young girl and a guy from the wrong side of the tracks meet with devastating consequences.Starring Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek.Written and directed by by Terrence Malik.This is an okay movie. It's better than average but falls short of ever becoming anything better.Martin Sheen is passable as a rogue from the wrong side of town but Sissy Spacek's performance is a little ropey. I got the impression she was cast because of her looks more than anything else. I'm sure she's a better actress than this performance merits. The plot kept my attention but didn't excite me in any way.The cinematography is good and I liked the location filming and the offbeat musical score. Badlands was released in 1973 but it does stand the test of time pretty well. Okay7/10 "},{"Title":"Thank You Terrence Malick","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is an exceptional example of how fine a movie can be when it is straightforward. Badlands is, without doubt, one of the finest directorial debuts of all time.Director Terrence Malick's feature film debut is a beautifully shot, elegantly crafted & fluidly narrated crime drama. Beautiful film, with a great soundtrack and memorable characters. The performances from Spacek and Sheen were exceptional.The prelude to their killing spree is one of the most impeccably rendered love stories ever captured on celluloid. The movie is just as free, experimental, and unsure of itself as its main characters are, and thus fits like a glove. No matter how much Kit and Holly make their mark in the cultural landscape through their actions, they will still wind up, at the end of the day, two more souls wafting through the universe, so small in comparison to the encroaching nature that surrounds them. "},{"Title":"Excellent artwork that goes into the depth of mind","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is the movie that truly embraces the word Romantic in it's core. It may not necessarily be out of love between two people but the very romantic ideals which often rule our mind and our world view. In Badlands, these ideals get manifested through the couple's adventures into the unknown. To understand truly and to explore the depth of this romanticism, one has to be very patient, calm, relaxed and so the film is! It grasps your mind with it's calm narration,surprising unfolding of events, development of characters and above all a beautiful music to support the narration. One has to contemplate over the human nature while watching and after watching film to really understand the essence of this masterpiece.The debut film of Terrence Malick marks very commendable achievement for this very talented director. Though the basic theme of the film is love, it explores it in very different fashion. This is romantic, serene, peaceful, not greedy or lustful and still it is dark. It's the excellent example of how fate take it all with very little in hands for the lovers completely subdued in their romantic and fancy thoughts. The theme is very similar to another subsequent masterpiece of Malick, Days of Heaven. In both the films, the protagonist in deep love is driven by his criminal intents to achieve some kind of ulterior motives. In Days of Heaven, it's quite clear but in Badlands, it is not easily discernible and that's why even after killing spree, we feel pity for the protagonist in Badlands. Because of obscurity and inability to differentiate between right and wrong, probably because of love, the female protagonists in both the films become accomplice in the crimes of their lovers. Still in this case also the sympathy goes to the tender teenager Holly in Badlands.The performances of Martin Sheen and Sissy Spackek are excellent. The role of poised and calm temperamental Kit suits Martin Sheen and this comes as the best age defying performance for the actor. Sissy Spackek impresses with class narratives and matching acting performance on screen. The film also scores on count of beautiful background music and theme.A must watch film but without any preconceived notions, it's enjoyable if we look at the plot as it comes and unfolds while contemplating about the human nature and subconscious mind. "},{"Title":"Malick made his definitive. Impressive un-dramatical piece at his debut. Cult classic!!","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick is not a kind of productive filmmaker. There's only few films that he made since he's 1973 debut in Badlands. But I think he made special things, something definitive parts that he keep turned on until today. There are always dark behind the light in every Malick films, and he expressed the feeling with mood- stylish-angle photography, soul of nature landscape shoot, and zoomed in human inner conflict. I think, that was so Malick.Badlands is the first film that I can identified all of Malick elements, and probably the best of his films until present day. It's a raw script perhaps, there are no dramatical inside, Malick just made it honest, make it flow with the reality and the true event which this movie guided to. But, that's the best part, we invited to look the insight human perspective. Tried to make us to understand the Kit Carruthers's mind and feel the confusion of Holly about right and wrong. In other words, Malick want to avoid the audiences judgment, and believe me, he made it.Anyway, Badlands is reflecting, a cult classic. It's an honest work and people judgment is a hole. A hole that probably makes big influence to future cinema. The hole that Quentin Tarantino and Oliver Stone take an advantages from it. In True Romance, Tarantino sees something humor vision. In Natural Born Killers, Stone sees a sensation, a social hysteria that occurred in this event. But, you know what, in every manner and greatness of cinema, they still can't beating Terrence Malick and Badlands. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie for an Excellent Debut !","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is my first movie that I ever reviewed, which shows just how much I actually enjoyed it ) .If you didn't see this movie yet, I don't really blame you, because this is a movie that you just don't see on the top of the lists, when browsing thru best movies of all time, or even best movies of 1970's.But, in my opinion, this movie has everything, and with just a little touch of of that not very popular it gains something that, I believe, effects viewers and really makes a great impression even though, you didn't except something mindblowing.Movie is very quiet in the beginning, showing us a boring life of people living in a boring little town, and two teenagers who are willing to make a change in their life.Change does happen along the movie, along their very quiet friendship, along the beautiful nature that this film presents.Change effects both of them, but in an opposite way.He seems okay with running away from his previous life, he sees excitement in hurting people and just living day after day, not caring too much what is going to happen next, what is going to happen when they get caught, what is going to happen with his life and what is going to happen to her...He seems to have the same look on the face throughout the whole movie, face that says I'm just living one day at a time, and i don't care about anything in particular, which perfectly describes almost every teenager living in a small town, with no perspective, especially in the 70's. On the other hand, she gets scared after a while.She just wants to get back to her quiet life, in the same house she used to live, go to same school she used to go, and spend time with her father, but she knows that she won't do that ever again, that her life has completely changed the second she met him, and all of that you can see in her face...Mental state of characters in this movie is in such a high level, that you can instantly connect with both of them, with their fears and hopes, with their feelings about each other and with their emotional backgrounds.Badlands is one of those movies which you hate or love, either it is boring or you enjoyed every single second of it, movie that you will either remember, or watch again and again, and be mind-blown every single time you see it.That is certainly how i felt like when I saw the movie the first time, and after watching it couple of times more.I don't even how to talk about breath-taking nature in this movie, about excellent acting or about Director's Debut which is absolutely perfect...I don't need to talk about it because everyone who saw this movie, and liked it, will certainly watch it again, and enjoy it again !-sorry for my English ) "},{"Title":"Bleak and beautiful poetry","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands was my first Terrence Malick movie and I was interested in it primarily because I love stunning cinematography and Malick's films are full of it. For his first film, and the only one of his that I've seen which wasn't to long, Malick makes a film with a seemingly simple story of 2 lovers on the run and on a crime spree in the South Dakota Badlands but fills it with depth and insight. With its themes, beautiful imagery and heaps this is not your conventional movie; rather dazzling poetry which could rival that of Carol Ann Duffy. As usual, this is Malick so it won't be to everyone's taste. It's slow and can test the patience, despite it's short length and it is pretentious. However, unlike The Tree Of Life it's pretentious in a good way. The film knows what it's about and knows its themes but never truly says quite what it's about. However, that ultimately adds to the impact. The slow pace can be irritating, but it ultimately adds rather than detracts to the haunting, yet strangely beautiful experience that is Badlands.As the lovers on the run, Martin Sheen is mesmerizing and Sissy Spacek is great as well. Her narration is almost as good a voice-over as Morgan Freeman's. It's a well written screenplay as well, and Malick's direction is spot on. As a filmmaker, Malick has a habit of going overboard but he doesn't do that here. The cinematography is mind blowing and the movie is full of great shots, the highlight being Martin Sheen watching the moon in South Dakota. I didn't entirely understand what Badlands was trying to say but it was a very disturbing and chilling movie which really got under my skin. You won't forget this one in a hurry. It is unbelievable Badlands was a directional debut but it was incredibly made by Malick when he was only in his late 20s! Badlands is a fine film; perhaps not straight forward enjoyable and not for more mainstream audiences but this one will definitely stay with you.9/10 "},{"Title":"Terrence Malick's Feature Film Debut Is A Must For Both His Fans & Detractors.","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Terrence Malick's feature film debut is a beautifully shot, elegantly crafted & fluidly narrated crime drama that wonderfully exhibits his cinematic eye for detail & breathtaking imagery and also happens to be his most accessible film to date. Having gained a significant cult following over the years, this cult classic has a lot in store for both fans & detractors of this filmmaker, as the former will find an early glimpse of Malick's blossoming talent while latter will be pleased with the absence of those rambling philosophical voice-overs.Loosely based on the real-life murder spree of Charles Starkweather & his adolescent girlfriend Caril Ann Fugate in 1958, Badlands tells the story of Holly Sargis; a young teen who falls for an older rugged guy, Kit, with whom she elopes after he kills her father who was against their relationship. The film is narrated by Holly in which she describes her romantic adventures with Kit which continues to clash with his increasingly violent behaviour from start to finish and also covers Holly's dreams of having something more than just running away from the law all the time which ultimately leads to their downfall.Brilliantly directed by Malick, his first attempt at filmmaking hits all the right notes to come out as an exciting debut that unfolds its events with remarkable simplicity & yet there is a certain quality about it. Cinematography offers moments of pure bliss with some stunning imagery, editing presents a controlled pace & music has its little moments too. Coming to the performances, this was Martin Sheen's acting debut at which he does a fabulous job plus his screen presence is instantly gripping. Sissy Spacek as Holly also impresses greatly both as a narrator & a character and the best part about these two characters is that despite their remorseless killing spree, we do grow to care about their relationship.On an overall scale, Badlands is one of the strongest first features for any director in cinema which manages to find a fine balance between its elements to come out as a period drama that has & will continue to endure the test of time. It has so many moments that aren't even related to the plot yet without those moments, this film wouldn't feel the same or better in any way. Exquisitely crafted, skilfully captured & showing a quality level of stability despite being a first attempt at filmmaking, Badlands is a must for every cinema lover out there whether they're admirers of Malick or not and is one of the finest gems to come out from the glorious decade of cinema; the 1970s. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"The face of crime","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The word pre-moral kept floating through my head as I watched Badlands. I've never used the word before, but it seems particularly apt in describing Kit (Martin Sheen) and Holly (Sissy Spacek), two abnormally naïve lovers on the run. Movies often present amoral psychopaths, but these are two carefree souls&#x97;one of whom kills without any notion of consequences&#x97;who see everything with unmitigated wonder; conscience doesn't yet exist to them. When Kit kills, not only is he unaffected by the act, but he views it as an almost natural course of human relations. A young teen, Holly's just happy to be with a loving someone, fascinated by her newfound freedom. Spacek narrates the film's events in a tone of childlike fascination, rife with questions about her destiny and matter-of-factly bearing witness. This is her coming-of-age story.The couple's primitive exposure to the world is beautifully dramatized in their Edenic forest safe-house, in which Kit hunts for food and sets traps as Holly tries on makeup and peers through her father's stereoscope while musing on what might have been and what will be. The leisurely pace of these sequences and the exploration of their peaceful, makeshift universe is incredibly disquieting following Oates's murder. Their pie-eyed fascination with forest sounds and cloud shapes&#x97;captured photographically in impossibly radiant tones&#x97;evokes Thoreau's ideals about subsistence and rebirth through nature, but since the subjects lack the intellectual (let alone spiritual) capacity for such ideas, the cinematographic beauty creates a cognitive dissonance that lingers and haunts. This contrast of sublime creation and human underdevelopment gives Badlands its consistent, implacable power.Malick brilliantly tips the film's moral equilibrium further askance by inserting disarming touches&#x97;e.g., Spacek grabbing her school books from her locker so she won't fall behind; Sheen's irrelevant dusting off of his fingerprints&#x97;to illustrate the couple's youthful ignorance. However, rather than justifying or diminishing their crimes, Malick sees this inexperience as dangerously seductive. (Pace Bonnie and Clyde, their recklessness is not an expression of antisocial rebellion, just the natural drift of arrested children suddenly unleashed on the world.) Skip ahead to the ending, specifically in how Kit's fresh-faced geniality appeals to the officers. Seduced by his easygoing attitude, the guards warm to Kit's amiable display of disaffected machismo (just like James Dean), the likable flipside to a fanciful grip on reality. Everything he knows he's learned from magazines and movies. With this movie, Malick explores the face of crime, implicating no one and everyone, somehow staying true to the complexity of human experience. It's a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, beautiful....Seed of future Independent Work","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to give it to Malick, he has an eye for the lens. In recent years, his films have been lambasted for cutting actors roles and lack of focus, but here he really shines. Small budget and it still feels like a big budget film with the long shots of flatlands that capture this disturbed young couples feeling of solitude. The cast is perfect, Martin Sheen shows just enough charisma and Sissy Spacek emotes an innocence to the carnage that surrounds her. Also, Warren Oates in a small role is perfectly stoic as an over-protective father. As far as the music, spot on. Ethereal and bright (just ask Tony Scott who borrowed it for True Romance). On a side note, comparing it to Tarrantino's adapted screenplays for Natural Born Killers/True Romance is really a moot point. Considering a slight similarity in subject matter, but this movie is less about shock-value and witty banter. "},{"Title":"A Film Unlike Any Other","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's interesting to see what talented, game changing and notorious filmmakers created before they became big names in the industry. Steven Spielberg's first theatrically released film is a little known Goldie Hawn starring popcorn flick called The Sugarland Express (1974) while Christopher Nolan full length student film was a black-and-white mind-bender called Following (1998). First films have their faults of course but they're exciting to see in a before they were famous kind of way. Lacking signature touches and emphasis on niche placements, the only commonality between a truly great director's freshman film and his entire repertoire is unbridled energy coming from behind the camera. Like a lost treasure, these films can give a cinema-phile like me quite a high.I had that feeling watching Badlands (1973) for the first time the other day. I wouldn't go as far to say director Terrence Malick is among my favorite filmmakers of all time, but every film I've seen of his has managed to surprise and impress me. He's an artiste unlike any other, often employing an expressionistic narrative coupled with an uncompromised visual composition. His 1978 followup to Badlands, Days of Heaven is one of the most visually beautiful films I have ever seen while The Tree of Life (2011) is not only a beautiful picture, but a movie that touched my very soul.Badlands is an excellent beginning to a revelatory career. The film doesn't employ Malick's omnipotent observational narrative quite to the point of The Thin Red Line (1998). The camera remains objective while Sissy Spacek's Holly informs the story with voice-over that is not entirely neutral from the story but opaque and third person. Like most of Malick's films, the dialogue is minimalistic and occasionally cryptic but the consequence of this is the audience becomes fully immersed observers. The film bids us into the world of Kit (Martin Sheen) and Holly from their detached perspectives; inviting onlookers with original photography of the eerily empty northern American plains.The film begins with Holly and Kit first meeting each other in their small, desolate South Dakota town. Kit is a garbage collector ten years her senior. He emphasizes everything he says with a sad-sack swagger but cannot cover up his desperation for recognition. He looked just like James Dean, swoons Holly when first getting to know Kit. Her personality is also informed and defined by the fantasies of disaffected youth. A world populated by vapid movie star magazines and escapist fairy tales. When Kit shoots her father, they run away, at one point even abandoning roads in favor of driving his Cadillac through open range. They leave the civilized, adult world of responsibility in favor of a romanticized life on the run. Holly notes that at one point, The world was like a faraway planet to which I could never return. I thought what a fine place it was, full of things that people can look into and enjoy. The body count starts racking up throughout the film as bounty hunters, the police and innocents are ensnared in their world of violence. Neither Holly nor Kit reacts with any kind of remorse or regret or even fear. They see little meaning outside of their idyllic odyssey filled red helium balloons and buried buckets filled with meaningless trinkets, why would they have feelings of any kind towards complete strangers? Badlands postulates perpetual violence as our natural state made most evident in youth. Holly spends most days on the road reading stolen teen magazines contemplating love affairs of movie stars. She experiences wearing makeup for the first time and dances around one of their hideouts like she was in a ballroom. She never actively participates in the killing yet doesn't cognitively recognize it as an evil action. Kit maybe in his twenties but his actions is ones of a child. He uses his gun to ward away minor trivialities from bothersome people to a pointless football. At one point their heading is decided by an empty Coca-Cola bottle and in another they construct a tree house and spend their mornings coming up with the password of the day.Characters that claim responsibility and assume adulthood seem envious of Kit's stature as one of America's most wanted; that is when they are not dispatched or displaced. Kit revels in his new found glory much like the titular characters of Bonnie and Clyde (1967) did. Unlike that movie however Badlands doesn't succumb to gallows humor, preferring an adult attitude of contemplation; an attitude that would come to permeate all of Terrence Malick's subsequent films.The Japanese word Shibusa I feel perfectly articulates the meaning behind Malick's work. It's a word literally meaning spirit of poverty His approach to his art is similar to that of artist Jan Vermeer and poet Walt Whitman contemporary yet timeless, affective but therapeutic, humble yet grand. In the words of film critic Chris Wisniewski, (Terrence Malick) is a filmmaker with a clear sensibility and aesthetic who makes narrative films that are neither literary nor theatrical. To put it another way, Badlands is one hell of a first feature.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"It takes all kinds","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Inspired by the true life case of Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate, Terence Malick's debut feature film follows two young lovers who go on a short-lived crime spree, like a bored and jaded Bonnie and Clyde. It all starts when Kit, a garbage man, takes a liking to teenaged Holly. Holly's father warns Kit to stay away from his daughter, leading to a showdown of sorts between the two men that ends with an act of violence. Kit leaves a record player playing a recorded message claiming that he and Holly are going to kill themselves (to throw off the authorities), and sets fire to the house before escaping with Holly, setting off on a journey whose course is foreshadowed by something Kit says in the aforementioned recording Nobody's coming out of this thing happy...especially not us. From their makeshift home in the woods and a brief, violent visit to an old friend of Kit's, to their dash for the mountains of Saskatchewan (which to Kit represent freedom beyond the reach of the law), we are given a window into Holly's private thoughts through the use of voice-over, a sometimes vapid, sometimes rambling commentary from a young girl that can also be frightening at times, like when she thinks after Kit commits a triple murder At this moment, I didn't feel shame or fear, but just kind of blah, like when you're sitting there and all the water's run out of the bathtub. Holly chitchats with a teenage girl, who is likely not much older than herself, surely knowing that the girl will most likely come to a bad end, and soon. Kit records nonsensical advice (for whose benefit, we're not quite sure) into a Dictaphone while holding a man and his housemaid hostage. The pair politely ask a man if they can borrow some gas before Kit pulls out a gun when the man refuses. Kit and Holly dance together in the glare of headlights while listening to Nat King Cole. We watch them drive though a great emptiness under painfully blue skies, heading somewhere, reaching for something, while seeming to not quite know where or what it is they are searching for. And all the while we remember those words spoken earlier in the film, ...especially not us. But as Kit concedes in that same recorded message I can't deny we've had fun, though. And the reason for it all? There is no reason here, no logic to these senseless acts of violence. It's best summed up in a line from the short story Nebraska by Tennessee Jones, a story inspired by the Bruce Springsteen song of the same name, which in turn was inspired by this film. When the girl asks the boy why he killed a man, he answers simply I don't think I need a reason for that. He was doing what he does, and here I am doing what I do. "},{"Title":"Badlands (1973) &#x96; Terrence Malick (Darrell Ron Tuffs @ aworldoffilm.com)","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Many would say 2012′s The Tree of Life but for me Terrence Malick's first film Badlands is still his best. The subject in hand is a horrific one. However the film never gets too brutal or violent, we see the innocence and inexperience in the young main characters even at their most monstrous. The film seems to never look down on them even after the murders they have committed, it simply follows them along, showing their good and their bad as they experience a short lived complete freedom of the world around them.The film is a disturbing look at what an inexperience of the world can do if it has been forced too fast. Holly, an innocent 15 year old girl runs away with the wild and edgy Kit after he kills her father and burns down their house. The two then live in what seems to be a perfect world surrounded by nature with a treehouse, unknowing to the fact that soon the world will catch up with them.The film at its core does not judge these two young people, but at the same time it does understand that the decisions they have made are very wrong. The pair go on to get involved in increasingly stressful incidents killing a number of people and showing no remorse what so ever. The whole scenario seems to be a game to them, the lives of people in their way seem to be so worthless to them that not for one moment do either of the pair really stop to think about what they have done and the mess they are in. Their innocence, love for each other and at times psychotic nature are the only things keeping the pair on this rampage. They are the young Bonnie and Clyde and they don't even know it.Despite its harsh subject the film is never aggressive to look at. It remains in beautiful imagery filled with colour and the bright openness of the land. The film's main musical theme manages to be playful, innocent and inspiring but still holds something very dark within its structure, something that I feel the song doesn't even know is there.The two main performances from Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek (both being a lot older at the time than their characters) are iconic and have a timeless element. They work perfectly for the love-on-the-run genre of film but bring with them a high degree of young James Dean like outlaw persona that takes the story to a new and unseen level.Badlands feels like a dark tale of rampage and murder told through the eyes of a child. It is playful yet disconcerting and comes to a resting conclusion that is both reassuring and partly sad. Malick's style is electric to watch and is still highly influential even to this day. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This might be the greatest performance I've ever seen from an actress. Gloria Swanson is simply magnificent here and I kept getting mixed feelings from her character throughout the film as she can be vulnerable, manipulative, caring and obsessive, always imposing a strong screen presence. Sunset Boulevard is a masterful work on all fronts. From the technical standpoint, there are some very creative and stylish shots like the underwater pool sequence and the majestic closing scene. There's also strong character development as you notice how one's preconceptions towards the other can easily change as the story progresses and the dynamics between them also evolves. Even the secondary characters are memorable and lead to interesting turn of events. Another aspect I really enjoyed was the meticulous narration by Joe Gillis. He gives a detailed description of his thinking process and the presence of witty humor constantly made the film a very entertaining as well as absorbing watch. Sunset Boulevard works brilliantly as a metaphor to the end of an era in Hollywood and is certainly deserving of its cult status. "},{"Title":"A beautiful piece of imagery and art","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first watched this film, I was watching it from a narrative and contextual point of view. This kept me from realizing the stunning cinematography and direction. If you look at the way this film is simply crafted you see much more. The reason it is better to see it from this way is because the acting and story is not what is usually seen. I originally felt the reactions of the characters, especially Spacek, we're strange and often unusually. It wasn't until I looked back on the film that I realized these reactions and acting styles were a stroke of genius, as a way of portraying this story in a realist and powerful way. Amidst the incredible backdrops of wide open deserts and lush Forrests, we are given these absolutely incredible performances by Sheen and Spacek. You feel so invested into the characters and plot, you really care for them, even though Sheen's character, Kit, is rather cold-blooded. Spacek portrays a naive Holly brilliantly, going along with everything Kit says, as she feels they are deeply in love with each other. It's as if she sees the world through these eyes that create a dream-like reality, and these acts that Kit commits are alright, because he's older and loves her. Kit also looks at the world obscurely. He seems to see himself as a much greater, important man, instead of the mysterious and confused boy-like greaser he is. Sheen plays this brilliantly. They both believe, in some way, that they deserve more than they can have. Malick's simple yet powerful direction really gets this across, as the young and lost couple make their daring way across the Montana Badlands. "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot, but not totally convincing.","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen this one before, a long time ago - most likely more than once - but (this time) somehow the account felt somewhat aimless and inane (beyond the intrinsic aimlessness and inaneness of the case, of course). This is Malick's artistic interpretation of a killing spree, based on the true case of Charles Starkweather and Carol Ann Fugate. It is beautifully shot, has great settings, but the story didn't really grab me as I had expected it to. Maybe it has to do with the fact that the reality of the Starkweather-Fugate case was far more horrendous than what is brought to light in 'Badlands'. I was this time also surprised to learn from the included featurette that Fugate was actually involved in the making of the film, to the extent that Malick wanted her permission to make the film. He later even met with her and showed her the film and she even stayed in touch with Martin Sheen for years; read all about it on the Empty Mirror website.Then there's the performance of Martin Sheen that I'm not crazy about. It turns out he was way too old (31) to play the role of the young boyfriend 'Starkweather' (18), but beyond that I had a hard time believing him to really be the cool bad ass he's supposed to be - somehow - even though I respect the fact that Carol Ann Fugate herself described Sheen to be ''hauntingly like Charlie''. Sissy Spacek, on the other hand, is brilliant and enchanting (as always, I should add); I couldn't get enough of her dreamy, distant performance - even if Fugate thought thís performance to be (innacurately, according to her, I assume) ''psychopathic''.All in all I did enjoy the greater part of the film, but to me this isn't the classic that it is to many, many others. 7 out of 10 from yours truly. "},{"Title":"Should we say it's crazy or true love","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It is a true story that a girl fled with his boyfriend who killed her entire families. It sounds like terrible right? However there no explanation that why the girls doesn't resent to the criminal. Honestly, this movie is a little bit boring. It mainly talks about their running life, generally depending on robbing. So failing to give a reasonable describing of the struggling inside the girl. There's no doubt that the girl is beautiful and the boy is handsome enough to attract each other. However their love thrived so quick that I don't even get a reaction to it. It's OK that they have date everyday, even if making love will not be surprise to me. However the girl surprisingly didn't blame the boy murdering his father even a little bit. I am quite confused that is that because her father treated her not well or I can only convince myself with that the girl is retarded.The boy is really cold bloody killer, exactly crazy volatile guy. He even can shoot innocent people without any touching. But in the end we found that his only true emotion is deeply loving the girl, and he made the right decision helping the girl lie out of the law. This kind of biographic movie can be very overwhelming only when getting a perfect role performing. However, what I say is the boy is just OK and the girl didn't do a well job. So it looks like two retarded young people try to tell us they don't know what they are doing. But it should be two lost youngster who want to seek their own paradise. "},{"Title":"Watchable thanks to Sheen and Spacek, above all","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based loosely on real events, Badlands is a kind of criminal road movie focusing on two young people a James Dean look-alike greaser Kit Carruthers (Martin Sheen) and an introvert teenage girl Holly Sargis (Sissy Spacek). Viewers can follow their journey towards inevitable catch, paved by multiple thefts, trespasses and shootings (the latter executed by Kit); killing-related reactions both by the couple and others (included the fatally wounded) are strange, however there is neither hysterics nor shouts, everything happens as in another dimension, leading to a media and police circus towards the end. But all the deeds seem a bit arid to me, so characteristic to the director Terrence Malick, for what I am not a big fan of him (The Three of Life, for example, I found rather boring). At the same time, Sheen and Spacek are great actors and thanks to them the movie in question provides mostly positive moments. On the whole, a good movie, but as for similar creations, I still prefer Bonnie and Clyde, for instance. "}{"Title":"Emotionally remote","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In treating the killing spree of Kit (a 20-something) and Holly (a young teen) this movie remains at a distance, creating the perception that it is told strictly in a direct this is just what happened style. I say it creates that perception, since in fact this is a stylized and artistically presented movie and not a documentary.As we follow Kit and Holly on their escapade from South Dakota to Montana we are treated to some beautiful western landscapes, mostly filmed in Colorado. On the one hand these landscapes tend to dwarf the significance of the dreadful acts committed, but on the other hand they bring those acts into sharper focus by questioning how such alarming behavior can exist against such magnificent natural backdrops.In later movies Malick concentrates more on personal and societal struggles concerning the dual nature of man, however you want to phrase that duality good and bad, sacred and profane, nature and grace, harmony and conflict. Here he seems to be directing his attention to the bad. It's a step removed, since Kit and Holly are so affect-less that there is little indication that they recognize the true horror of their acts. The outer extent of Kit's compassion is to lock the owner of a house he has robbed in a closet, rather than killing him. And those who finally capture the pair show little disdain for them. Those present at Kit's being taken away to prison vie for souvenirs that he tosses their way. I have tried to figure out why Malick would use his considerable talents to make this movie, since, as presented, I did not find Kit and Holly to be particularly engaging characters. They are just there, following an apparently preordained path of evil--does that alone makes them interesting? We never get much insight into their motivations beyond Kit's being rejected by Holly's father because he was a garbage man and not good enough for his daughter. A lot of suitors are rejected for a lot of reasons, but they don't go on protracted killing sprees. If this film is meant to be a condemnation of a society that could produce and even romanticize a sociopath such as Kit, then I think it is not totally successful, since I believe such aberrant behavior is more the result of some genetic predisposition rather than provoked by society. Or is a comment being made about violence being fostered in a person of Kit's predisposition in country where there are almost as many guns as people? Is the emptiness in the lives of Kit and Holly meant to represent the emptiness of 1950s America? A bit heavy handed that. Since we are left with so little understanding of Kit and Holly, maybe the point is that there is no understanding to be had of such people. But then, maybe Malick just felt like telling this story in his own unique style with no higher purpose in mind. An interesting question is why stories such as this fascinate; is it the same impulse that makes it virtually impossible not to stare at a car wreck?Martin Sheen is good in the role of Kit; he has a physical presence that holds your attention. As Holly, Sissy Spacek did not appear to me to be challenged in the role of acting the part of a spaced out and clueless teenager.As in his other movies, Malick uses classical music for effect (in this case Orff and Satie). The more rhythmical work by Orff oddly contrasts with the dispassionate tone of the movie. While recognizing its many virtues as a fine piece of filmmaking, I came away from this having reacted to it with the same emotional distance as the movie maintains with its characters. "},{"Title":"This is one of the Debuts","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In a film that was secondary in my introduction to Terrence Malick, his world of estranged people took in my mind what would have been essentially a film like Rebel without a Cause and turned into an allegorical narrative, inspired by Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate, about the seemingly halcyon lives of Kit and Holly. Kit in a fierce tragedian move killed Holly's Father for her love; obviously in this quixotic world, it was more hobson's choice then a behemoth dilemma about which lives she takes. It's in the same vein as a Shakespeare story and the film couldn't make its lucid poetry any more clearer then the conflagration, which is orchestrated by music of spontaneity.As we go through the film, the narrative, relayed by Holly, would seem pretty monotonous and quite graining, but here it speaks the soft and wondrous sounds of a world with which acts in opposition. We see Adam and Eve, we see the life on a farm and we see them act like moguls; Malik also plays on individual alternate paths as Holly looks at genealogical pictures and knows that her life could never be the way it's.The film is seemingly facile, but as it goes on, it pulls at the heart strings, makes you feel detached from any possible sense of wilderness and comfort and it culminates in the end when the last thing on Martin Sheen's characters mind is whether or not he can get a hat. It's really marvellous in doing so; some flaws would come from how realistic the story is in communicating the events of 1958. But I felt chilled to the bone, like I did with Mirror by Andrei Tarkovsky or even further back to 2001 A Space Odyssey by Kubrick is that the world is rendered in the eyes of two young people who decided to go adrift into a world of chaos and most beautifully and swishing framed landscapes, which Kitt just wanted to embrace. Every errand is with a gun - it's as though his only resource isn't by sociological means, but by a pathological need for things to be done his way. In a way he's a selfish reprobate. And this is what makes the film interesting - there's no protagonist, not even bounty hunters, as they're looked at as though they're prey.The part that put me in a very tentative position to judge the film was when they went to the Moguls house. I look at that now as an adventure like we're going through their terrible journey as well and it may not make a lot of sense, but I consider it to be part of an unduly ride. In the end, the films dialogue, powerhouse acting and naturalistic look make it a must to pick up. Completely imperative and it just goes to show that Maliks profession underlay in poetry because he certainly made it into transition as a film maker! "},{"Title":"Badlands","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands is a film about loneliness, or solitude as Kit prefers it to be called. Terrence Malick, in his directorial breakout film, is exceptionally strong in crafting a convincing story about two lost souls. Kit, the failed garbage man is disillusioned with the downfalls of life, much like the character played by Richard Gere in Days of Heaven. This frustration is the ultimate catalyst to the murderous events that scatter throughout the film. The innocent Holly is forced to go along for the ride following Kit's murder of her father. It becomes clear that Kit only puts up with Holly because he finds her mildly interesting and he needs someone to keep him company. The strongest part of this film is the development of Kit. During the climax, the true persona Kit is conveying exposes itself. Kit aspired to reach celebrity status, he yearned for attention on a large scale, he just never thought he would have to go to such extreme ends to achieve his goal. The conventions of Terrence Malick are seen her, but not to the extent that we see in Days of Heaven or Tree of Life. Those beautifully executed floating and gliding camera shots are missed, resorting to a more standard form of camera employment. The film, however, doesn't fail to make significant commentary on life philosophy. So many lines are short and cute but pack a punch in substance and depth. Some evocative lines from Holly truly left me stunned. I leave you with one of her quotes One day, while taking a look at some vistas in Dad's stereopticon, it hit me that I was just this little girl, born in Texas, whose father was a sign painter, who only had just so many years to live. It sent a chill down my spine and I thought where would I be this very moment, if Kit had never met me? Or killed anybody... this very moment... if my mom had never met my dad... if she had never died. And what's the man I'll marry gonna look like? What's he doing right this minute? Is he thinking about me now, by some coincidence, even though he doesn't know me? Does it show on his face? For days afterwards I lived in dread. Sometimes I wished I could fall asleep and be taken off to some magical land, and this never happened. "},{"Title":"Great and moody debut...","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have heard a lot about Terrence Malick, and I felt like I should finally give him a go. So I started with his debut.Although the film is a crime film, it doesn't have the tone of one at all. If anything, Malick's direction is sublime, melancholy, and has a mood unlike anything else. It isn't a visual-effect driven film, but simple images, together with the film's editing and musical score, help to give the film that tone. I was very intrigued by those scenes of startling beauty. Sissy Spacek's face is captivating in itself. I was on my way to probably giving the film a perfect score but in it's 2nd half I found that the plot was almost bare... not that it mattered before, just that the film's tone was sort of lost. It was still great, but on a more routine level than the first half, and that is why I am going to settle on a 9. Still, what a great and impressive debut. "},{"Title":"A perplexing experience","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick is a director shrouded in secrecy. He is said to be one of the most meticulous artists in all of Hollywood as it takes him years to release a new film. With only four films to his name, not including The Tree of Life which comes out this month, he has made a very big name for himself as a master of cinematography and an auteur when it comes to his poetic writing style coupled with his majestic directorial style. Badlands is the film that started this legacy. It is a dramatization of the Starkweather-Fugate killing spree of the 1950's. Martin Sheen plays Kit, a 25 year old garbage man who fall in love with Holly, a teenage girl who is heavily sheltered by her father. The two are head over heals in love and when Kit expresses his love of Holly to her father he refuses to let Kit see her anymore. Instead of accepting this fate, Kit murders Holly's father and the two run from the law, killing many others in their wake.This film requires you separate all of your emotional convictions about right and wrong and sympathy and apathy. Kit and Holly are horrible people, obviously. Kit is a spontaneous murderer and Holly is too blinded by love to realize how much trouble she is getting involved in. But the story completely revolves around these two young lovers and we have to separate ourselves from real world beliefs and accept this story for what it is. This effectively makes Badlands a much deeper story on the human condition. It becomes a parable of love and rebellion in the most horrific of extremes. It isn't something that is easily accessible through normal human convictions of good and evil, and it is in fact a much stranger dynamic than what we are accustomed to. Badlands accomplishes something very different and very peculiar. It possesses a lot of insight into the human condition and, in retrospect, becomes a fascinating film.Too often a film with this much insight and profundities lacks any kind of unique style, becoming too preachy or something that ends up trying to hard to be profound. Badlands doesn't have this issue because Terrence Malick is a true auteur behind the camera and he directs this film with such a subtle and quiet uniqueness. There is so little on the surface to this films visual style, which is almost what makes it so interesting. The lack of grandiose in the visuals makes it a very different kind of film that really captures your attention and your emotion. This is still a very small film and it really requires a lot of thought to recognize the great things about it. It is a film I feel like I need to rewatch in order to really comprehend the core of this film. It accomplishes a lot through a little and by the time its over you are in a kind of trance, perplexed by the unique profundity of the film that only really packs a punch in hindsight. It doesn't exactly amaze or blow your mind, rather it makes you feel a kind of uneasy fascination. It is difficult to pinpoint just what this film does to your mind, but it undoubtedly does something.Badlands is just one of those films that means a lot more to cinema than the average film. It is smart yet strange, unique yet dull. Not dull in a negative way, rather dull in so much of this film's excellence comes from within, rather than being delivered to you on a silver platter. I look forward to watching this film again so that I can take it in and understand it to the best of my ability. For now I will recognize that Badlands is an excellent film that began the secretive yet astounding career of Terrence Malick. "},{"Title":"Mind-bending Malick.","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was flabbergasted to read after my viewing that this 'Badlands' was a directorial debut. I found the cinematography absolutely stunning, the dialog interesting (and original as always with Terrence Malick) and the acting great. Two young, but soon to be legendary, actors like Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen form a perfect 'modern' Bonnie & Clyde.Malick paints a disturbing picture of the dangers of youth's apathy & depravity, Sheen's character being the culmination of it. He starts a killing spree, never relenting to think about the effects of his actions, never regretting or even feeling the need to decently justify his actions, not even to his sweetheart or himself. This is why I can see the reason why many people call him the epitome of pure evil. But more so, what makes this film so disturbing is the truth behind it. Usually in crime movies, we see an animal slaughter people, a raging gunslinging monster...it's easy for us to wrap our head around his motivations. He's insane, or a bad person, although it is arguable that there are no bad men only sick men. Malick doesn't give his audience that easy way out, we see two people who are completely detached from morals but they act rational all of the time, they're even highly sympathetic and friendly. Malick shows us the true nature of evil, that it is very often ineffable. It characterizes the ambiguous nature of the homo sapiens itself, the primitive inside of us. Many people don't like this answer, namely that man isn't as civilized as they like to think and don' t have a solution for a lot of things, especially mental illness.The form in which it's presented cleverly positions itself opposite of the horrifying nature of the events. We have a breezy narration by Spacek's character, nearing the form of a diary being read in which the events are described as if it were the everyday boring occurrences of country life. But we see a deluded madman killing innocent people as if they were cattle that needed to be put down. That is about as close to an explanation as the audience gets, that the murders were all a necessity.Needless to say Badlands is the strangest Malick movie I've seen, but it's definitely interesting to see a so unconventional approach to a crime movie. "},{"Title":"An American Fairy Tale For A New Century","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the summer of 1972 with a shoestring budget of $300,000 and a non-union crew working behind him Terrence Mallick began shooting principle of his debut feature. Inspired by the real-life murder spree of Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate, Mallick crafts a meditative film about the forces that drive people who refuse to be held to society's restraints. 25 year old James Dean lookalike Kit stumbles upon an enchanting 15 year old redhead who goes by the name of Holly, after a simple walk down the street nothing is ever the same for these two. What starts off as a fairy tale romance quickly escalates into a series of constant confrontations that become increasingly out of the couple's hands. Considering the subject matter Mallick does a meticulous job at keeping Kit and Holly likable to the audience. Mallick's decision to tell this story from the perspective of Holly gives us added insight into a character that often may seem resigned on screen. The narration works as an almost dream-like that she has written for our ears only, it gives the viewer a very strong sense of intimacy and connection with Holly. As for Kit no matter how violent or idealistic he might come off as it is impossible not to admire his wit and determination even if it might not always be in his best interest. The couple's hopeless romanticism help to counter balance the violence that sometimes becomes necessary in order to continue their bold adventure together.Something that really stands out and contributes a huge deal to the entire film's mood is Mallick's choice of score. The short composition Gassenhauser by from Carl Orff's Schulwerk is the perfect companion to Mallick's dream like imagery. Violent outbursts are followed by moments of idyllic affinity made all the more powerful by Orff's whimsical score.Badlands unfolds like an American fairy tale gone awry. In a world that seems destined to pull them apart two young lovers filled with overflowing optimism decide to take matters into their own hands no matter how tragic the consequence. "},{"Title":"Spellbinding atmosphere","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The singular most dreadful thing about this movie is that one can't help being attracted to the psychopath/sociopath Kit Carruthers, here brilliantly portrayed by Martin Sheen. Everything about this film is haunting; it is aimed at ensnaring you and transporting you into Kit and Holly's bizarre and amoral world, whether it is through the special effects, the scenery, the inspired soundtrack, or the amazing beauty of both of the leads Sheen and Sissy Spacek. Spacek's monotone narration is almost hypnotic in its quality, bewitching you from the outset. I believe that rather than distancing the audience from the horrendous deeds perpetrated by Carruthers during the course of the movie, director Malik instead intended to create a thoroughly involving film that illustrated to his viewer how easy it is to cross that thin line between what is acceptable and what is not acceptable behaviour. For this reason, for this realisation, the spellbinding atmosphere of the film becomes evermore chilling. This is a film that sears the brain and stays with you forever. Film-making had never been like this before and I doubt that it will ever be like this again. Beware; this movie is not for the fainthearted. "},{"Title":"Malick's best film to date","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Long before The Thin Red Line and The New World, director Terrence Malick gave us this powerful and dramatic film in the tradition of Bonnie and Clyde, loosely based on Starkweathewr/Fugate murders. Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek are perfectly cast, and it's no wonder they went on to huge success. Lesser actors would have overplayed these roles, turning drama into exploitation. Not that there isn't blood galore, but it's not about the killings, it's about the people doing the killings. Warren Oates also delivers a strong supporting performance, and the camera-work is stunning. In all, Badlands is one of the most thought-provoking films of the '70's. "},{"Title":"Badlands","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the few films that director Terence Malick has made in his life as of today. In fact I can count his directing career on one hand, but what I can't do is begin to contemplate the technical prowess that went into making this films. In Badlands, a young Martin Sheen (Kit) and Sissy Spacek (Holly) essentially roam the plains of Colorado killing people, usually to cover their tracks and to keep themselves from being caught. The story is simple enough, but it's the characters and the photography that make this movie, hands down, the most intriguing films I have ever seen. Everything is an enigma, if not a pretense for a hidden desire or message. Take for example the scene where the two characters encounter their own images of death. Young Holly decides to throw out a sickly but curable catfish into the yard rather than to watch it die in the far too small bowl in her house. She later regrets doing it after being scolded by her two male role models, her father and Kit, but what does her initial decision speak about the innocence of youth. Kit's work on a cattle ranch leads him to come across a cow dead on the ranch floor. He looks at it and puts his arms on his hips. He halfheartedly taps it with his foot. Then he sort of kicks it. He looks around suspiciously and steps on top of it and walks over to the other side. Are Kit's actions a byproduct of not being told what death is or are there other wheels turning in his head? Where is the father figure in this movie; the role to give explanation to the actions of the movie's young characters. Well, there isn't one, and this movie's youthful explosion of freedom in a world where the characters don't even know the rules makes this an intriguing character study. And finally there is the cinematography. Amongst the vast and nearly desolate plains rises the image of the mountains in the distance more than half way through the movie that serves as the maguffin of the film (any object or idea that inhibits the story's central focus). But the mountains are only an illusion created out of desperation for hope by Kit in an attempt to free himself from his past. The mountains represent hope and opportunity to him, but in actuality, they represent and would solve nothing even if he had gotten to them. Cinematography works when the camera's eye is focused on a central theme of the movie. By embedding the ideas of the movie into the viewer' brain, the images we are shown on screen are given new freedom for interpretation and personal analysis. Terence Malick knew what he was doing, and this was his first feature length film. I picked this up at the University library. "}{"Title":"Evil, Banal, Masterful.","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Not just another serial killer movie. It's a kind of fictional rendering of Charlie Starkweather and his captive/girlfriend, the fourteen-year-old Carole Fugate, both of whom became famous in the early 1950s for a murder spree in the Midwest. It's also much more than that.It was Terrence Malick's first feature film. He wrote, produced, and directed it, and he brought virtually no film experience to the project. But his academic credentials -- wow! Cum laude graduate of Harvard, Rhodes scholar at Oxford, philosophy instructor at MIT.Of course that doesn't necessarily mean much. There are lots of professors who don't go to movies at all. What it does suggest is that Malick is smart and, if he didn't have good taste in the beginning, he acquired it somewhere along the way.The photography is exquisite and the location shooting in Colorado puts us in the vast, empty, majestic middle of the country with its periwinkle blue skies and scant forests of corrugated cottonwood.But it's the characters that register most powerfully. They do the most unexpected things. After shooting and killing a friend, Martin Sheen walks behind an abandoned railway car, out of Sissy Spacek's sight, and does a weird dance with his rifle, shaking his head, throwing his arms out in fitful spasms.While holding a wealthy man captive in his house, he plays with his host's dictaphone, leaving banal lessons for future generations. Keep an open mind. Listen to the majority. But don't ignore the opinion of the minority. Spacek rides along in the passenger's seat along the dusty roads of Flatland, half bored and half in thrall, and we listen to her unenlightened narration. I'll never again fall in love with the hell-bent type, she tells us after four or five murders. And she taps out entire sentences with the tip of her tongue on the roof of her mouth where nobody can see them. There's a car chase but no shoot out, and not an exploding fireball in sight. Malick seems to have put his intelligence to use in avoiding all the usual clichés of the serial killer scenario. For that alone, it should be applauded. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made.","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands was Terrence Malick's first film, although looking back at it now you would never know it. It's a rare gift for a director to have such a distinctive vision right off the bat, but watching this you know that no one other than Malick could have been behind the wheel of it. It's certainly his straightest narrative, but there's something about the simplicity of it all that makes it feel even more free. Telling the story of a young couple in Dakota in the 1950s, Badlands takes us on the journey of Kit and Holly (the young Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek) as he kills and she tags along. The progression of this dark journey is fascinating, made more so by the fairy tale structure that Malick gives the film.We open with Spacek in voice-over, watching her play with her dog on her bed, almost as if coming in on a young girl's dream, and slowly more and more blood is shed across the land. Through the use of Spacek's ethereal voice constantly playing over sequences of the two on the lamb, along with a hauntingly energetic and child-like musical score, Malick creates a stark contrast between light and dark that sets this tale of young love and violence wildly apart from any others that had come before it (or the dozens upon dozens that tried to emulate it afterwards). Spacek is wonderful in her part, and Sheen explodes on the screen like a born star, taking on the James Dean persona of his character like he was made for it. He's alluring and rebellious, a dangerous combination for any young impressionable girl.A lot the structure feels as though it owes a little to the Godards of the time, taking the audience on a journey that feels as open as the one did for these two kids. Nothing feels staged, it's just as though we drift from one location to the next, giving us that same feeling they had that we could go anywhere and anything could be around the corner. There's a precision to Malick's approach that rarely misses a beat and this is his most finely tuned picture, an excellent start for one of the most rare and innovative filmmakers America has ever seen. "},{"Title":"Malick's debut, and a very impressive one","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am now highly appreciative of Terrence Malick's style, his films I agree are not for all, but even if I didn't like the director much(not the case here) I would make an effort to appreciate him/her.Badlands is Terrence Malick's debut, and while not my personal favourite of his work(The Thin Red Line), it is a very impressive one. His direction is superb and very poetic as it consistently is, the story is compelling and very moody in its tone and the dialogue is beautifully and thoughtfully written. Effort once again is made to make the audience care for the characters, but it isn't a Malick film without astounding visuals and a haunting emotionally resonant score, Badlands has both.The acting is top notch especially from Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek and Warren Oates gives fine support too. All in all, a very impressive debut. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Good Spree Killing Movie","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Dramatization of the Starkweather-Fugate killing spree of the 1950's, in which a teenage girl and her twenty-something boyfriend slaughtered her entire family and several others in the Dakota badlands.I am familiar with the story of Charles Starkweather, whom this film was based on. Of the different variations of this story (also in Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers and a song by Bruce Springsteen), I think I like this one best. It makes the girlfriend (in this version Helen) out to be a victim, and the killer (here Kit) out to be a charismatic man, even admired and liked by the police. The very casual feel really makes me think it is more realistic. Of course, the focus for Stone was on the media, so he was telling a different story in that respect.I have a general dislike of Sissy Spacek and still have not figured out how she ever got as big as she did. However, I did not mind her here. Granted, she is rather hideous with her skull face and ginger freckles, but at least plays a character we can feel sympathetic for. I recently watched The Straight Story and have never liked her less. Sissy Spacek met her future husband, Jack Fisk, on this film, which in turn connected her to David Lynch for Eraserhead.What more can I say about this film? Probably a lot, but I will not. It is a good movie, and worth watching. I would say any fan of serial killer movies would like it -- and this is true -- but the interest should go far beyond that, as the perspective is not that of the killer but a young girl coming of age. "},{"Title":"An amazing debut from film-maker Terrence Malick","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a steadily paced but truly amazing film.Writer/producer/director Terrence Malick has taken a very original, fresh approach that is challenging to the viewer, and in that context is similar to Stanley Kubrick, albeit their personal philosophy is different, and that manifests itself in their films. Kubrick's films place the viewer as a detached objective observer of the events taking place. Malick's key characters in the film are very grounded but flawed and pitiable, but you engage with them within a visually awe inspiring natural environment that is what draws you in emotionally and viscerally. Malick draws you into the habitat of the characters through wonderful photography and the effective use of montage. This is supplemented with a deliberately immature and naive retrospective narration by the Holly character, very well played by a young Sissy Spacek. Malick choice of shots and editing is very impressive, engaging the viewer with a simple story of Spacek's isolated character hooking up with a young James Dean like man-boy rebel Kitt, well played by Martin Sheen, who is very effective in portraying a character significantly younger than Sheen was at the time. The plot is a road-trip movie, but also feels like a pilgrimage, albeit to what is deliberately never clear in either of the characters' minds, as both Holly and Kitt are immature. In fact these characters seem to find their paradise quite early on in the story, and then from there it becomes a chase film as the authorities discover them, and then close in due to criminal acts created by Sheen's character throughout the story. The characters are fascinating due to the fact that their behaviour is subtle and understated throughout the story. Kitt's violent outbursts are extremely brief, and when they happen they are not shocking because of the violence, but because the contrast of this violence with the fact the the environment the characters are in is portrayed with such beauty and grace. It is also refreshing to see how the characters react as their predicament worsens, which is different and certainly Kitt seems to accept his fate as the best outcome possible.Only one supporting character features. Kitt's fellow dustbin worker Cato is played as gentle, quiet and inoffensive very effectively by Ramon Bieri, and I felt genuinely saddened as the character's fate. Warren Oates is solid but is nothing more than a cameo as the Spacek character's strict father. Malick also links this very personal story into the wider world, showing clips of news footage as a result of the impact of the Kitt and Holly character's deeds. However it concludes that life goes on and the point that these escapades just fade away from the collective consciousness of society leaves you thinking and pondering long after the film is finished.Technical kudos has to go to the fabulous photography, which was a joint effort by Tak Fujimoto, Steve Larner and Robert Probyn and no doubt Malick himself. Larner and Probyn were already experienced cameramen, but this was Fujimoto's first major picture and he has had a prolific career since working on a series of high profile films. Editing by Robert Estrin and Billy Weber is accomplished, very polished yet incredibly subtle. Some of the source music chosen works very well and is used carefully and very effectively.If you are patient stick with it and you will see what an excellent and thoughtful film it is, and that in no way feels dated. "},{"Title":"marimba music meets amorality","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick made his directorial debut with Badlands. After that, he directed Days of Heaven, then waited twenty years and returned to the screen with the so-so war epic The Thin Red Line, and most recently directed the really lame historical epic The New World.Malick's debut is a really good one. Based on the true story of a young man and his teenage lover who go on a killing spree and make their own life in the countryside, the movie clearly knows its direction. We see that Kit (Martin Sheen) leads a pretty amoral life but clearly loves Holly (Sissy Spacek).I've read comparisons to Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers. While the idea may be similar, the latter depicts its protagonists as characters with a murderous desire driving their very existences, this one shows that its protagonists simply don't care about what they do. The marimba-like soundtrack (although it was probably a xylophone) truly drives the plot along. This is definitely a movie that I recommend. Also starring Warren Oates. "},{"Title":"The Surreal Midwest of the 1950s","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" SYNOPSIS A teenage delinquent and his girlfriend go on a killing spree / road trip in the American Midwest.CONCEPT IN RELATION TO THE VIEWER Youthful angst, ego and love set against the bleak landscape and rigid fabric of conservative middle America during the 1950s.PROS AND CONS Even though there is a disclaimer that the characters in the film are fictional, it is evident that this is a stylized depiction of the Charles_Starkweather killing spree that gripped America in 1958. While this film gives a human and somewhat likable persona to Starkweather's image it is still a disturbing film on several levels.The cast is dominated by a young Charlie Sheen and an even younger Sissy Spacek as the doomed lovers on their cross country killing spree. Sheen's character, Kit, is an unmotivated loser with no real ambition or drive. Spacek's Holly comes off as a shy and introverted young girls who is mostly heard in voice over as she waxes poetic about her doomed relationship with Kit.It dosen't seem that Holly is actually in love with Kit and she often times appears to just be along for the ride in an attempt to escape her repressive past. She finds Kit endearing at first, but grows tired of him throughout the course of the film, eventually abandoning him in the end. Sheen's character is a bit more interesting to watch. Taking a stand and questioning authority for the first time in his life, he comes to realize that he has power and prestige based on his random acts of violence. Much like a wolf coming of age in a land full of sheep.Having grown up in the Midwest, I was struck by how this film captured the tone and feel of the vast American heartland in the 1950s. It is seen here in almost surrealistic terms, with townscapes and landscapes that are mostly devoid of people, as if the world were empty except for the main characters and odd people that they happen to come across.Near the end of the film, Kit knows he is doomed as the society he has run amok in starts to constrict around him. Instead of making an earnest effort to escape, he becomes wrapped up in his own notoriety and is transformed into one of the first media stars. In his final scenes he is seen charming his captors and giving away trivial person possessions, knowing they will be worth something simply because 'he' owned them.The scenes of violence in this film are almost happenstance and their deaths seem random and without meaning. No reason is given for them and until the end, the killer goes unpunished. This film is a prelude to the pulp fiction dramas of the late 90s where violence is a central theme of the story (think Pulp Fiction or SinCity). The viewer can't help but be captivated by this film and its' dream-like journey through a time and place that seems asleep or in some sort of malaise. In essence, a film that documents the end of innocence in the societal sense and is a prelude to the turbulent times that were to follow. "},{"Title":"A Grim Fairy Tale","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Like Bonnie and Clyde, which came out a few years earlier, Badlands represents a dark, sinister variation on the traditional American road movie. It was inspired by the real-life series of murders carried out by Charles Starkweather and his girlfriend, Caril Ann Fugate, in 1957 and 1958, the same murders upon which Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers was also (although more loosely) based. The film is also set in the late fifties, although it is relocated from Nebraska and Wyoming, where the Starkweather/Fugate killings took place, to the badlands of South Dakota and Montana (hence the title).The main characters are here named Kit and Holly. Like the historical Starkweather, Kit works as a garbage collector and is obsessed with the film star James Dean , who had died shortly before. (At 25, however, he is rather older than Starkweather, who was only 20 when he was executed). The film is narrated from the perspective of his teenage girlfriend Holly, who accompanies him on his cross-country killing spree. Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek, who play the young lovers, were both rather older than the characters they were playing (Sheen was 33 at the time and Spacek 24) but both seem completely credible. Sheen's Kit, who does indeed bear a physical resemblance to Dean, is a rebel without a cause, a young man brimming with arrogance and contempt for the rest of the world. Spacek's Holly is a strange, fey girl, desperately in love with Kit despite the fact that he is a murderous psychopath and that her own father was one of his victims. The romantic clichés with which she describes her adventures contrast oddly with the grim reality of the violence perpetrated by Kit. There is some doubt as to whether Fugate ever participated in Starkweather's killings or whether she merely remained a passive spectator; in the film, Holly takes no active part in Kit's crimes, but is clearly guilty of aiding and abetting them.Badlands was Terrence Malick's debut film. There have been a number of directors, such as Orson Welles (Citizen Kane), Sidney Lumet (Twelve Angry Men) and Bryan Forbes (Whistle down the Wind) who have made a masterpiece with their first film; I would not class Badlands quite so highly, but it is nevertheless a very fine piece of work. There are, I think, three reasons for its success. The first is that Malick was able to draw on two very good performances from his stars, Sheen and Spacek. The second is the haunting musical score, making repeated use of a short piece by Carl Orff.The third reason is Malick's visual style. The photography is restrained and understated, yet beautiful. Malick uses a very restricted palette, one appropriate to the austere Mid-Western scenery and dominated by browns, greys and dull yellows and oranges. Bright colours are used very sparingly, although in the latter part of the film there are occasional glimpses of red, such as a Coca-Cola advert. (Possibly these were symbolic of the increasing levels of bloodshed). Malick said of his characters that Kit and Holly even think of themselves as living in a fairy tale, and there is something otherworldly or dreamlike about the look of the film, a look that contrasts sharply with its grisly subject-matter.It was brave move on Malick's part not only to deal, in his very first film, with the subject of serial killing but also to tell the story from the point of view of the killers themselves. Most films about such killings concentrate either upon the detectives investigating them (such as The Silence of the Lambs) or upon the victims (such as Psycho), and those which concentrate on the killers tend to be unsuccessful. Natural Born Killers is a nasty and thoroughly reprehensible piece of pretentious trash. Patty Jenkins' more recent Monster has its admirers, but in my view never succeeds in its aim of arousing sympathy for Aileen Wuornos, the real-life killer whose story it tells. Badlands is much more successful, in part because it never attempts to arouse sympathy for Kit and Holly. Nor does it try to explain their actions, because no explanation is possible for those who kill for no motive other than pleasure in killing. The story of Kit and Holly is presented objectively and dispassionately, a cold-eyed look at two young lovers whose love for each other was expressed through the murder of others. If it falls just short of greatness, it is because it lacks the human warmth which most great films possess, but by most standards it must be accounted a very accomplished piece of film-making. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A uniquely American film","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What can I say about Terence Malick except that he's done the most with the least. Only three films, but he's a legend. He seems to break every rule. He uses voice-over narration, which is a no-no by conventional screen writing rules. He loves showing nature and never met a leaf he didn't adore. His films have a low-key tone and are never fast paced. His characters are stoic and don't show a lot of emotion. But his movies are brilliant. He mixes violence with vapidity in a way that is uncomfortably American. Kit and Holly kill. Then they dance in the dirt to Love is Strange. Then they discuss Hollywood gossip. Then they kill again. At one point, Kit tells Holly he has fatally shot a man who has sat down in his house to await death. Holly's question Is he upset? They don't even get what sex is about.Their invasion of the rich man's house is a stunning set piece in tension. It's clear Kit and Holly may kill. Or, they may not. There is absolutely no way of knowing because they don't know themselves what they are going to do. It seems to depend not on them, but how the mood is in the house. There's real terror in that.Martin Sheen turns in his greatest performance. Sissy Spacek's Holly is chilling in its bland naivete.Badlands is an American masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Masterpiece A feast for the eyes, ears and heart.","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This compelling film by acclaimed director/ writer Terrence Malick is the first in his three part trilogy; a beautiful, meditative exploration of the human condition. Badlands is nothing short of an artistic masterpiece. Malick uses the camera like Monet uses his paint brush. Under his brilliant direction, film is poetry, screenplay the prose. With Malick, films such as Badlands are taken to new levels of meaning and interpretation. Throughout most of his films (which unfortunately are few and far between), he builds his story around the recurring theme of duality in nature. The viewer is exposed to repeating sequences of nature that act as effective meditative interludes between scenes. We find the same approach being used in The Thin Red Line, as well as The New World. As mentioned previously, his meditation on nature is consistently two fold. First, Malick's characters in Badlands are naive and carefree in an uncontrollable expanse of space and time that will not conform to their desires or problematic situations. In a sense, causality and action are enveloped in mother nature, and mother nature herself is a ceaseless cycle of cause and effect, impossible to slow or control. One could also view Malick's extensive use of nature as a paradise lost. In a world gone mad with misdirected human action, hostility and violence, a meditative glance at nature is a reminder of a beautiful paradise lost. The latter interpretation is used effectively in The Thin Red Line, while the former pertains more to Badlands. Malick's use of film is closely related to that of visual art. Breathtaking cinematography is used consistently and to perfection. In my opinion, Terrence Malick is the best American director in cinema history. I would legitimately place him at the top of the list ahead of Martin Scorsese, Steven Spielberg and Alfred Hitchcock.Voice-over is used effectively in most of Malick's films, especially Spacek's narration in Badlands. Her voice is innocent, which is everything her character encompasses. The philosophical implications of the film are deep and prevalent. Badlands expresses the naive qualities of human action as it relates to cause and effect. Holly falls victim to her naive qualities, which place her at the mercy of an uncontrollable state of affairs. Kit is naive on a completely different level. He attempts to bask in the rough and rugged personification of James Dean. Obsessed with the excitement of being a bandit on the run, he takes Holly on the most fearful and uncontrollable journey of her adolescent life. Growing up in a household void of fatherly sentiment, Holly is quickly snared into Kit's trap, and her fate for the rest of the film lies strictly in his hands.Badlands is a magnificent film on every level imaginable. Terrence Malick has developed film-making into an exquisite art. His films are visually, philosophically, and sentimentally stunning. A+++. "}{"Title":"Response to Badlands screening at LSIFF","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I vaguely remember watching Badlands on television when I was a kid. I don't remember my reaction much, but I'm quite sure I wouldn't have liked it back then. Of course, anything formatted for my TV, edited and chock full of commercials isn't really worth seeing anyway. What really impressed me was Martin Sheen's brief speech before the film where he mentioned he was most proud of his work in this film, above all, including Apocalypse Now. Although, the only copy available was on DVD (Sheen wasn't too happy about this), I'm really glad I caught it on the big screen. It's really one of those films that needs to be seen, so if you haven't seen it, go rent it. After seeing the film as an adult, I suddenly found myself wondering what all the fuss was about with Natural Born Killers, for after viewing this film, you just don't need the Oliver Stone film. It's entirely unnecessary and arbitrary by comparison. "},{"Title":"Although by no means a bad film; you wonder how good it could've been if Malick hadn't tried to be so clever.","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There can be no denying that Quentin Tarantino has seen this film; probably about a dozen times, if not more. The reason for this is so evident; it's not even difficult to spot since Badlands revolves around a couple; one very young and female, one elder, looser and more violent and their cross country rampage of America. I say rampage but in truth, it's an adventure &#150; what makes it even better than your usual film like this is that the characters know it'll probably be their last ever adventure. The kids in question are Kit (Sheen) and Holly (Spacek); two people who don't seem like they have much to loose except a dustbin man's job and a possible talent in playing the flute. What follows is a bizarre journey in more ways than one as they cross dustbowl America.The reason for the mention of Tarantino refers to the whole idea surrounding this film. Tarantino wrote True Romance and Natural Born Killers; two films that revolved around young couples going on rampages (albeit for different reasons) but ended up two very different films thanks to Tony Scott and Oliver Stone respectively. Then there's Pulp Fiction and its two characters Pumpkin and Honey Bunny; another young couple obsessed with travelling around and robbing places rather than killing people; again, the same idea and penned by Tarantino but True Romance even manages to take Badland's theme song and use it for itself.I am not ashamed to admit this was the first Malick film that I've seen. He hasn't made many films and those that he has aren't as accessible as you'd think but watching this, I immediately know what sort of a filmmaker Malick is. Holly narrates a film in an eerie and depressing way that makes you wonder from about the third time she does so why Kit isn't there narrating with her; Malick uses odd music to juxtapose various events that the characters do and the film frequently cuts to bizarre acts the characters get up to in-between seemingly travelling and killing. What major problems I had with Badlands pretty much consists of its lack of attention to formula and its lack of consistency to which way it's going. The film feels very real with seemingly real life people dealing with real life things Kit is supposedly in love; Holly's father is concerned with Kit's interest in Holly; the police act and react in logistical ways and Kit has to use his brain to get out of certain tight situations but this is inter-cut with bizarre scenes involving Kit and Holly dancing at certain points; Holly putting on makeup whilst experimenting with certain things and indeed; the first place Kit and Holly do upon starting their adventure is live in the forest like they're trapped on a desert island.Badlands also seems to suffer from its transition from the second third into the final third. Throughout the trip, interesting narration tells us in diary form almost exactly what Holly is thinking and feeling and we definitely get the jest Kit is starting to loose his mind a little day by day but Badlands is just an alternative way of looking at a film that you've already seen; with some odd scenes and moments thrown in to boot. Despite spending the entire film with these people, you never really get to feel much for them Holly starts off a naïve and slightly rebellious 15 year old but by the end, she makes out like the trip has done her some good; likewise, the way Kit plays it in the final twenty minutes of the film makes you think he just didn't give a damn the end would happen this way &#150; loosing Holly or not loosing Holly. There is no remorse, there is no development when you put a hamster in a maze and wait for it to pop out the other end, it is still a hamster with the IQ of about one and a half; regardless of the journey it's just been on; and there is no real life to the film &#150; don't let the 'artistic' scenes and shots inter-cut with the familiar tale fool you.Even if Holly is fooled, we are not She states that Kit would have wanted a girl by his side to be by his side and to cry out his name as he dies a glorious death but if she and us believe that then we are all fools because Kit is a hothead who would rather talk politely to and actually apologise to any trooper he inconvenienced when the film enters its final breaths. This suggests that the rampage stops not because he knows a glorious death is imminent but because he simply gets bored &#150; he never needed a girl by him in the first place. Despite being a film that seems great on the surface (for the record, I probably like it more than True Romance and Natural Born Killers), Badlands is a film that will not wow you with its subject matter, cinematography or characterisation but will probably entertain you for what it is two kids on the run getting into mischief over murder, not stolen sweets. "},{"Title":"Sure Beats Slinging Garbage Cans","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1958, a kill-happy Charlie Starkweather and his 13 year-old girlfriend Caril Ann Fugate came boiling out of high plains Nebraska to terrorize a section of the country that seldom appears on the 6 o'clock news. Behind, they left a trail of 11 dead bodies. If Charlie saw you, he killed you with no more thought than throwing away a gum wrapper. In the slumberland of 1950's suburbia, it was almost as if Beaver Cleaver had gone mad. So what was the point of all the merciless blood-letting. Malick's terrific little movie makes the point that in fact there was no point. It really amounted to something to do. A way to escape a dead-end job with no prospects, no respect, and who knows, maybe other teen-agers would make a comparison with that reel rebel idol James Dean. In a bit of cultural perversity, it seems Starkweather succeeded. The night of his execution, young people gathered outside the prison gates. In his own way, he did make the movies, just like his idol. This is a disturbing film that thoroughly de-glamorizes the two fugitives and is a long, long way from Penn's Bonnie and Clyde. Kit (Martin Sheen) and Holly (Sissy Spacek) are not just callow kids; they're dull, unimaginative, and barely aware of the gravity or consequences of what they do. Holly lives in a detached world, where her story-book narration contrasts vividly with the mayhem that surrounds them. She shows no tears or remorse for her slain father, creating instead little fantasies about a roller-coaster ride with a hell-bent type boy. It's all really just a fairy-tale dream, after which she'll wake up and go to the prom. Boyfriend Kit Carruthers has all the moral sensibility of a happy-go-lucky clam. He kills because he really can't think of anything else to do. Besides, how else could such a hopeless dead-ender become an outlaw legend in his own time, marking the spot of his capture with an improvised rock pile. There's absolutely nothing here to romanticize, and it's to Malick's credit that he doesn't. Too bad Malick disappeared from movie-making. He had a rare alertness as to how the natural world shapes people's behavior. Here, Holly and Kit are adrift on the vast empty prairie of the horizonless Midwest (actually, southeastern Colorado). The dreary landscape stretches out to a nowhere mirroring the fugitives' own inner emptiness and existential void. At least the act of fleeing provides proverbial meaning to an otherwise barren existence. There are many nice touches. Notice how Kit and Alan Vint's police deputy develop a budding friendship-- just a couple of good- ole'-boys who might have gone hunting together, except one of them doesn't shoot rabbits. In fact, the states of Nebraska and Wyoming treated the spree like a Soviet invasion, calling out the National Guard to reassure panicked civilians. Malick brings in the Guard formations casually and impressively at film's end, when the real impact trailing behind these two malt-shop fugitives is finally revealed. In 1958, wholesale killing was still the prerogative of adults only. Over the years a number of films have been based on this mindless binge. In my book, Malick's remains the most compelling. "},{"Title":"Dreamlike story of the young in love","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Martin Sheen is a 25-year old garbageman called Kit Carruthers who looks like James Dean.He falls for a 15-year old Holly Sargis, played by Sissy Spacek.The girls's father, played by Warren Oates, won't allow these two to go out so Kit kills the father.After this these two become outlaws and Kit starts a killing spree and feels no mercy.Terrence Malick's Badlands (1973) is a terrific movie.This man who rarely makes movies both directed and wrote this one.Martin Sheen is at his finest in this movie.Sissy Spacek is amazing.Together they make one terrific couple.Badlands is based on a true story that took place in the late 1950's.The names of the real persons were Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate, who made themselves legends in a very bad way.Those killings were real but this movie reminds more of a dream.Even though the movie has a lot of killing it's also a beautiful story.It is a love story, a different kind of love story, but a love story never the less. "},{"Title":"Chilling Drama","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a true story, a young couple goes on a killing spree in the Midwest in the 1950s. Malick made an astounding directorial debut with this stark, disturbing, and visually compelling film. An enigmatic figure, he has since directed only three films over a period of more than thirty years. Sheen is terrific as a disenchanted young man who hooks up with a young woman (Spacek) and casually goes about killing people who get in his way. In Malick's fine script, the dialog is darkly funny, with Spacek providing the wry narration. The characters are neither glorified nor vilified, but just observed in the manner of a horrifying documentary. "},{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I live in Las Animas, Colorado USA, the town to which this movie was primarily filmed. I remember the making of it. Although its based on the real-life murder spree of Charles Starkweather and his girlfriend, Caril Ann Fugate, in 1958, but in a fictional setting, Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek play awesome roles. Las Animas has changed and grown a little but the downtown area and mainly the house look pretty much the same. The house is just down the block from me on the Southwest Corner of 5th Street and Locust Avenue and is STILL the same canary yellow with white trim.. Martin Sheens plays the role of Kit and he plays it well. Unstable, Untrusting, and Unsure. But he does try, and he had tried to play the nice role with Sissy's character role as Holly by asking her father's permission. He had jobs, although didn't want to hang on too. The typical rebel. This is a great movie, a must see.. "},{"Title":"Like the Badlands of Montana themselves","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Like the Badlands of Montana themselves, the movie is bare and flat and vast, and that's okay&#133;The wide plain plains of the American Midwest, if treated as a metaphor for life, where can we find a meaningful dream, a dream beating and breathing on its own, not needing somebody else's breath to sustain it.&#133;&#133;.............................That dancing scene is inspired&#133;it's perfect. It's so down-tempo. Is that really necessary? Is it organic. It seems too intentional, by which I mean that it seems imposed upon the movie rather than a discovery made about the essence of the movie by the filmmakers and then executed. The music is really great though; I haven't heard anything like it anywhere else. It is full of timbres usually connected with thin cheesy 80's music, and in spite of this, or perhaps because of it, the music is deeply felt and compelling. "},{"Title":"Malick's National Geographic Film on the American Tribe","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" With his debut film, Badlands, writer/director/producer Terrence Malick presents a fictionalization of the story of the Starkweather-Caril Ann Fugate murder spree that took place throughout the Midwest in 1958. Malick's work focuses on the 25 year-old James Dean wannabe, Kit Carruthers, played by Martin Sheen, and the freckled 15 year-old, baton-twirling Holly Sargis, who is skillfully played by Sissy Spacek. The story is narrated by Holly in a monotone, pulp romantic literary style. The couple meets in when Kit walks up to Holly who is twirling her baton in the street. Soon after, the two fall in love, but Holly's father, played by Warren Oates, refuses to let Kit, who was formerly a garbage collector and has taken on work as a ranch hand, see his daughter. When Kit goes back to see Holly after her father had told him to stay away, he is further reprimanded for his steadfast disregard for the father's wishes, and responds by hastily shooting Holly's dad in the stomach. In an attempt to avoid the law, the couple burns the house down with a recording of a staged suicide note by Kit. The film follows the two empty souls on their run from the law and the half-dozen killings that ensues. Both characters are played as emotionally immature social outcasts. Kit is devoid of any sense of guilt with the numerous killings he commits, and Holly is just as emotionally empty, watching her father die without the slightest hint of psychological disturbance. Presenting his story from a distance -- both a visual and psychological distance from the characters and their unflinching blah-ness as Holly describes it -- Malick forces the audience to see the film, but not connect directly with it in any way. In Badlands, Malick uses the distance from the characters and the theme of emptiness to present an objective realism that operates as a counterpoint to the deception of the Hollywood morality and psychology which fell through in the complex times of social upheaval and violence that surrounded the 1970's generation. Most widely accepted as one of Malick's greatest contribution to film with Badlands is the beautiful photography most often attributed to Tak Fujimoto. The film has received comments on how the beautiful imagery is incongruous with the emptiness throughout the film. Environmental awareness was another social issue that made itself apparent in the 70's, and Malick's film is untarnished except at the hands of humanity. His odd close-up of the ugly grinding of the trash truck at the beginning of the film works to foreshadow the theme of man's ugliness that makes itself known throughout the film. In the same scene, Kit finds a dog dead by the side of the road, a brutal image against the beauty of nature Malick points out early on in the film. Malick's shots all work to lead us to an acceptance of the harshness of humanity, and by having beautifully framed, colorful, Maxfield Parrish-esquire (as Kael somewhat contemptuously describes it) landscapes destroyed in the audience's eyes by images of violence in the beautiful wilderness. This commentary on the brutality of man on the environment is furthered with the burning of Holly's house after the murder of her father. Shown in all its blazing glory, the flames of the fire suggest man's use of the untameable force of nature for destructive purposes. Similarly, Malick's focus on animals throughout the film, with several close-ups during the Swiss Family Robinson tree-fort in the wild scene, seems to imply the bestial nature of Kit's killings, and in turn presents the violence that occurs as a necessity for survival in Kit's eyes. Malick's approach to the film, in this sense, closely resembles an educational wildlife documentary. The narrator and the characters are unable to convey their emotions to the audience, and the distancing of the audience has a powerfully objective effect; we are forced to try to understand these wild animals. We end up examining ourselves without the preconceived notions of morality and psychology ever-present in the Hollywood films that failed to address the concerns of the generation and attempt to translate the characters' actions into human emotions as we would with the attack of an alligator on a pack of hydrating gazelles or a group of apes sitting around picking at themselves and signing to kittens. Kit kills Mr. Sargis in what is shown as if part of an accepted courting ritual. Kit is an animal and dies like an animal at the hands of the other animals in the film, us. Kit is chained to a leash after his capture while the onlooking guards ask him questions and observe this exotic rarity, the sociopath. It is also of note that Malick probably knew of Charles Starkweather's media title of the Mad Dog Killer, a title that even furthers the interpretation of the film as an observing of animal action-reaction to threats. There is no implied statement on the rightness or wrongness of his death, but it is generally accepted that his death is necessary. These visuals are so compelling and the storyline is there so that we unconsciously lend the occasional emotion to the actions of the characters, but tend to accept the actions as necessary and place no judgment on the harshness or brutality of Kit's otherwise unexplainable actions. Badlands is, as Kael says, an art thing, but Malick's unnerving absence from the film -- not counting his actual appearance as the man in the white hat who leaves a message at the rich man's mansion -- is the major success of the film. His ability to separate himself, the characters, and the actions entirely from the audience is off-putting for the traditional critical approach, but Malick uses this separation extremely effectively to open a wide forum of discussion for the condition of humanity in the height of social and political unrest. I liked it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick's masterpiece of alienation is actually what NATURAL BORN KILLERS could have been had it not been all cartooned up by Oliver Stone. As Kit and Holly, Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek travel the southwest killing anyone in sight and deluding themselves that they're just two love struck kids --- Sheen is an amoral cup of coffee waiting to be spilled and Spacek is the blank slate hypnotized by him. Sheen, who never quite made it to the A-list in feature films, gives the performance of his career. Spacek is great and her narration is part funny/part scary, particularly when she describes Sheen as looking JUST LIKE JAMES DEAN. He does! Malick, who has not directed a watchable movie since, peaked early with BADLANDS. He went on to make the beautiful but empty DAYS OF HEAVEN and the deadly dull THIN RED LINE. "},{"Title":"A reflection of the lost Ämerican Dream which is no longer to be","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As a psychological writer, I have read many viewer comments, and also hope to contribute.Stephen King once wrote that he grew up in 1950's America, with much disillusion, hope, confusion, and hatred. Most of us have seen his films, and understand.Badlands is a masterpiece, which goes beyond the early Stephen King stories. It shows, for example, Kit on a farm, with a dead cow; he is still young, yet sees the cheapening of human (and animal) life,(dead cows are routinely recycled and sold to the American public) due to increasing commercialism in America; We see the alienation and hatred which exists ad infinitum in this country. Anyone who has read The Bell Jar; or Sinclair Lewis, will recall the initial effects of corporate fascism in America. (This was the 1950's, so use your imagination to understand how extreme it is now).To shorten this dissertation, I will simply say that I hope younger generations watch this movie, and do not buy into the myth of American superiority. "}{"Title":"An awesome characterization","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Malick's thriller is a bit different, slow, but sucks you in a like a well-written book. The characters are written so well which is makes this thriller work. The performances are great, Sheen plays a young man who runs off with a 15 year old and goes on a mad rage. Sheen is great in his role but the highlight of the film comes from Spacek who gives one of her best performances here. Warren Oates was also great as her dad's character. The film is done in a very original yet classic manner, its amazing because i knew exactly what would happen, but yet as the film ended it left me satisfied, very well done. My hats off to the director who keeps the audience involved throughout, a well-written, directed and acted thriller, one of the best, now i realize why this film has such a cult-like acceptance. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A strangely beautiful sleepwalk through slaughter","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Badlands' was the second part of a Sissy Spacek double bill on BBC 2 last night, the first having been 'In The Bedroom' and I'm very glad I decided to stay with proceedings, although the first had been rather on the long side. As the continuity announcer commented it was interesting to experience a double bill where the films concerned were nearly three decades distant from each other.'Badlands' is one of those films that is absolutely perfect for late-night viewing, its almost sleep-inducing nature coming into its own at that time. It is so beautifully shot and directed that it is easy to forget that it is actually a pretty violent offering, Sissy's deadpan narration adding to the effect of unreality.One thing that was a constant thought running through my head was this - and this is where one really pulls oneself up - the most 'sensible' people in this film is the couple on the run.I look forward to its next showing (I don't go in much for videos and DVDs!) since I don't recall it being on British network TV before, although it must have been, surely. "},{"Title":"Terrence Malick  the work of genius","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" No words can describe what it's like to watch a Terrence Malick film. After viewing THE THIN RED LINE over five years ago, it is still my # 1 movie of all time. Every new viewing is like watching it afresh. I had no idea until recently that his other movies were available to watch and I definitely wasn't disappointed. This movie, at first, was a small disappointment compared to something as grand in scope and vision as TTRL but (and it's been a week since I watched it) even now I can't stop thinking about it!! He really knows how to make the most dramatic of situations seem so surreal and beautiful and has this amazing way of capturing the true beauty of life. He is a visionary to all filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly, Malick is a Georg Stevens fan","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" * spoilerAs in his later movie  days like heaven , Malick presented many motives which are almost a pure plagiarism of George Stevens's Giant. *The long shots of the Texas vast and never ending plains, the wind pump, the outdoors dinner, driving away from the ranch, under the ranches gate, the drive in a convertible on the open road, let alone mentioning the name of the idol Jimmy Dean....* The movie itself is very absorbing, and it reminds no little of Bonnie&Clyde.Young Shean is quite non-challenging, easy going character and not quite understood as well as his motives. It's a pity that Malick has done so little since his days like heaven and thin red... "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Masterpiece In A Class Of Its Own - Almost","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Ever since I first caught Badlands as a late-night movie broadcast, I have been mesmerized by its haunting mood, earthy characters, photographic brilliance, and perfectly matched soundtrack music - so much so that I am compelled to watch broadcast after broadcast. After buying first the VHS then the remastered DVD, I am still left wanting the ultimate package that would feature not only better widescreen video and richer surround sound, but also a separate bonus audio soundtrack with all the musical selections, especially those by Carl Orff and Gunild Keetman. Fans of this movie have long lamented the absence of a published soundtrack. For more info on the actual Badlands Orff/Keetman cuts, see my review at Amazon 'Soundtrack for the Terrence Malick 1973 movie Badlands?'.vv - temp Update As of August 15, 2009 - vv See my eB@y auctions ending soon under seller ID thedoorsguy for both the 6-CD set & the 10-LP set w/ Buy-It-Now Bonus mp3s of the 6 Badlands pieces! ^^ - temp Update As of August 15, 2009 - ^^ We who hold Badlands in high regard have also bemoaned the two-decade drought of directorial output by Maestro Malick that ended with a poorly edited theatrical release of The Thin Red Line. Days Of Heaven was nearly on par with Badlands, but then did Orson Welles ever have a realistic shot at surpassing Citizen Kane with HIS subsequent efforts? Perhaps the least prolific writer/director to create a masterpiece in a class of its own - almost - was Charles Laughton, who wrote and directed ONE movie in 1955 called The Night Of The Hunter with Robert Mitchum as a demonic preacher, Shelley Winters in a fine role, and Lillian Gish at her best.Charles Laughton was 7 years from the end of his 55-film acting career (that began in 1928) when he made Hunter, a film that had little commercial success upon its release, but has since achieved cult status. When I first caught Hunter as a afternoon movie broadcast, I was mesmerized by its haunting mood, earthy characters, photographic brilliance, and perfectly matched soundtrack music. Decades later upon first seeing Badlands, I remembered a movie from my distant past that evoked the same awe, starred Mitchum, and was directed by Laughton. It was at this IMDb site years later that I was able to ID it as The Night Of The Hunter. My most memorable similarity noted between the two masterpieces was the cinematography - clever camera angles, sweeping stark landscapes, menacing crime scenes on land and water, and above all the frequent close-ups of animal and plant life, the latter with time-lapse growth montages. Hunter was a remarkable directorial debut for Laughton as was Badlands for Malick, whom I suspect was somewhat influenced by his predecessor.Interestingly, 43 years passed from the premiere of Hunter until the soundtrack CD was finally released in 1998 with narration throughout by Laughton (never before published)! I just discovered the existence of this CD today while surfing IMDb prior to writing this review. Perhaps there is hope we may see a Badlands soundtrack release before 2018, maybe with some Sissy Spacek narration and Martin Sheen dialog as separate tracks. "},{"Title":"Pure art","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Perhaps the most naïve Sissy ever &#150; her character, Holly, is a blank slate with no past and no future. Like a pubescent Bonnie Parker waiting for her Clyde, Holly is swept away by the expansive charms of Kit Carruthers (Sheen) &#150; but she could have just as easily been swept away by a toy or a new dress. Like a talking parrot regurgitating the Tao of Kit, Holly is deeply impressed by the attention her new boyfriend is giving her. Sissy adds a plaintiveness to Holly that creates sympathy for her &#150; and she needs all the sympathy she can get. She is a disassociated and disturbed young woman who virtually stands around while Kit murders her father (Oates) in front of her, and then burns the house down. The fire sequence is a masterpiece of film-making, and it is evident that the house is not the only thing being destroyed. And the pair is off on a spree of senseless killings. Kit is the triggerman, but Holly's guilt in the crimes is not only by association, it is by omission &#150; it is what she does *not* do that makes the crimes so horrific. The cinematography is breathtaking. As lusciously beautiful as Malik's *The Thin Red Line*, but without the pretense, we are awed by visions of purple mountains' majesty, and close ups so tight you can almost see the leaves changing color. The forest that shelters their primitive hideaway comes alive when they are invaded, seeming to whisper its urgent warnings. Winning many European awards, including British Academy Award for Best Newcomer for Sissy, *Badlands* continues to cast a strong spell. "},{"Title":"example of great 70s film","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  the cinematography is great with many shots of wildlife as in Malicks later two flicks (Days and Line); I love every one of these shots. the unique percussion-only music is terrific and is the perfect way to show the passage of time as sheen and spacek play in the wilderness. the location of malick's script is similar to that in Days although days features rolling farm fields; both are terrific. voice over narration is also repeated in films 2 and 3, and here, spacek's girlish voice is a great one for this. in fact, the voice sounds remarkably similar to the voice over in Days, did terry specify this or was it coincidence? the voice over in Line also has a southern accent which is shared in his first two films as well. sheen plays a great bad boy and spacek is the perfect innocent girl along for the ride. definately see this film as part of a malick-a-thon. it's a great example of great film of the 70s. "},{"Title":"love is not caring your a killer","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film is a classic. from start to finish the tone is perfect. dialogue as if it came out of fresh air. always a good sign. two lead players who look as if they where born there. always a good sign. supporting cast doing their job. martin sheen playing a sociopath with such conviction I was scared. the scenes where he killed and looked genuinely sorry, but a minute later showed no remorse were truly frightening. the mind of a sociopath heck he still remained a likable guy, that's what's frightening.WHICH IS GOOD SOMEHOW.. 9 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"An ethereal masterpiece","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many films of this era (60's & 70's) had a dream sequence where we were lifted away from the reality of the film's story into another, dreamy world. Badlands IS a dream sequence.  It is beautiful, ethereal and surreal, made more so by Eric Satie's music. Its depiction of the brief but savage crime career of Starkweather and Fugate is irrelevant, but its lyrical charm and forthright innocence will insure its continuance as a remarkable bit of film.  As 15 year old Holly, Sissy Spacek is at her freckled and wrinkle-free height of fragile beauty, and one can't help falling in love with her as her character falls for the heartless murderer of her father and anyone else who crosses the path of Martin Sheen's Kip. Sheen, at this tender age before he became full of himself and just another Hollywood cliche, also plays a lovable character, even as a cold blooded killer. We almost feel bad for Kip as he is led off into the sunset toward his eventual meeting with sparky. Don't look for heavy meaning, don't look for answers, just sit back and take it all in. It's that kind of film. "},{"Title":"Bad-lands aptly named (Spoilers)","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Where to begin, I was astonished to find the rave reviews this film has garnered from various sources. I found it to be one of the poorest I have ever sat through. Not offensive at all, or disturbing ...that I could maybe appreciate as part of the film's intention...but just poorly done overall and very very boring.The film is so slow paced as to be standing still, and when it does move it's excruciatingly predictable. I found myself sitting there saying 'Oh great, bet he shoots someone else and runs away now and sure enough blam someone's dead and they're running again. I like slow paced films sometimes, but this went past slow to simply dead. The acting on the part of the two leads was incredibly poor, and there was no chemistry whatsoever between them. While I understand that the lack of chemistry between the characters is, in a way, part of the story, there must always be a little chemistry between the actors themselves on the screen in order to make a decent product, otherwise their performance is simply painful to watch. If I had ever given consideration to watching another Sissy film this has completely wiped that idea from my mind...there was not a single time in the film that she actually seemed the least bit interested in what was going on in the film... the flatness of her acting made her character completely unbelievable and extremely annoying. I mean come on...her boyfriend shoots and kills her father and she not only doesn't cry, but goes with him! Oh yeah that's really realistic.I wish I could find a single redeeming feature in this film, I really wanted to like it...but with the dull sameness of the setting, the repetitive nature of the plot and the extremely flat characters and poor acting I simply cannot bring myself to find any good. Take my advice save the rental money for something a little more worthwhile.  "}{"Title":"*** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Beautifully shot, well told story about a girl (Sissy Spacek) who falls for a guy (Martin Sheen) and his free lifestyle, and their subsequent killing spree.  Superb filmmaking - the music and cinematography are excellent. However, the story doesn't get interesting until a little bit in the movie. Malick's visuals in Days of Heaven more than made up for it's narrative coldness, but it's clear here that he was still a talent in progress, and his visuals just aren't as breathtaking as those in Days of Heaven. Still, an excellent movie all around. "},{"Title":"A beautiful realism","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films, perhaps my top favorite.  The utterrealism of the characters is unforgettable.  Director Malick and theactors--from Sheen and Spacek to the incidental parts (includingMalick himself in a brief part)--have managed to create a sensethat no acting is going on.  These are real people we view in thelanguid, slowness of life, set in vacant, open spaces andmindless, incoherent towns of the northern plains.  Yet here beatsthe human hearts of Kit and Holly, constructing their ownplatitudes of self-worth with little direction other than movie starfantasies and a defeating sense of being nobodies with littleprospects, conducting their killing-laden, half-accidental,  life onthe run with a strange passivity.  The movie is a bit disturbing, a bitfunny--but it is without the usual signals that elicit theseresponses.  They come to us spontaneously, as they do in reallife, from a little comment here, a seemingly random gesturethere.  The violent moments, when they happen, are similarlysudden, awkward, then eerily still.   A disquieting, yet beautiful filmthat should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"Homage was paid by True Romance","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a fantastic film which I loved when it first came out (Terence Malik can do no wrong -- Days of Heaven, Thin Red Line as examples).  Got to see it at the Uptown in DC -- largest existing screen possibly in US that's not IMAX -- yay!  Saw it about three times in theatre -- must see the 10x3, not the 3x2 TX screen version.  Also interesting is that True Romance (a good film) is a either a total rip-off (which I doubt) or an homage to this brilliant film with Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen.  Even the music (Faure, Carnival of the Animals, I think) is the same.  Creepy sociopathic behavior which is later replicated in the Stone movie, Natural Born Killers.Great! "},{"Title":"Very Visual","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film on DVD is a visual treat. Each new scene is composed with a photograph eye to color and imagery.  The sound track is empressive also. It is only the plot that is depressing as is any story and especially any movie that has the need to portray the lives of a killers.  This story is well told and has meaning beyond the acts, but it is just not the type of story I feel comfortable recommending to others regardless of how the much the cinematography, sound and acting rates a 10. "},{"Title":"A mesmerizing study of post-war suburban American angst.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director Terence Mallick used the actual events of a young serial killing couple from the 1930s and recast it as a poetic depiction of frustrated youth and alienation in the cultural wasteland of 1950s middle America.  (SPOILERS!)  Martin Sheen and a very young Sissy Spacek portray Holly and Kit, the disaffected couple who wind up on the lamb after a run-in with Holly's  disapproving father. The victims they leave behind are collateral damage in Martin Sheen's futile bid to maintain the rebellious identity others have imposed on him because of his resemblance to James Dean. Sissy Spacek is more a passenger than participant and she narrates the proceedings with the cliched banality of the gossip magazines that she endlessly devours along the way.  Beautiful images,  perfectly nuanced music (Karl Orff) and low key acting styles by the leads create something that's more a tone poem on America and the shallowness of mainstream culture, rather than the sensationalist rant that Natural Born Killers presented 20 years later.  "},{"Title":"Landmark Film, Difficult to Watch","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film takes one giant step further into the realm that Bonnie and Clyde opened up a few years earlier. The utter detachment with which this film presents two dim-witted characters, roaming across the American landscape committing senseless violence with sweet little girl narration evokes a humor of the blackest kind. Where Bonnie and Clyde humanized the villains, this film simply holds up a mirror on them and submits it for the eye to observe.There's no denying the enormous amount of influence this film add on subsequent film makers. I can not say that any that followed achieved the same degree of unsettling, morose and undercurrent darkness that this film does with it's boldface, non judgmental look at the nature of violent, sociopath behavior. The soundtrack too is one of the oddest and seemingly disconnected that you'll find, perhaps reflecting the disconnectedness of the central characters but at the same time effective, adding to the overall feeling of creepiness.  This movie was a bit exasperating to watch and had me squirming in my seat but I have a feeling that it's creator's would be pleased.         "},{"Title":"a slice of cruelty (possible spoiler)","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i was mesmerized by this movie. the cinematography is breathtaking. most of the scenes should be listed in the credits as part of the cast and the james taylor score whisks the viewer right along into the couples naive dream. but its malicks writing and the characterization, done to perfection by spacek and sheen, that makes this movie sing. anyone who thinks this is about a couple on a crime spree is taking this movie at face value only. the slice of cruelty, i speak of, is the unhappiness of a reality that says you're a garbage man(and not even that because you've just been fired) and you're an unloved daughter. both of them live in worlds where they feel they have little say and question their own value. then they find each other, they feel connected and that breathes life into their love. once that happens, what else can they do but feed it and protect it. take a close look at the two houses. what's really being burned to the ground with the first one and what's really being built with the second one?this movie is a 10!!  "},{"Title":"the greatest movie ever made","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terrence Malick probably didn't mean to make the greatest movie ever made; but he very quietly succeeded. This is the film that inspires script-reading parties at Bruce Willis' house and all over LA to this day. This is the film whose lines and musical score continue to resurface in Quentin Tarantino's movies (like True Romance). This is it. Make no mistake. Watching the self-aware and self-determined Martin Sheen play out the hand he has been dealt as the serial killer (nearly Charles Starkweather) in love explains the sleaux of poor imitations that followed (Natural Born Killers). See this immediately! "},{"Title":"Interesting 1970's Social Commentary","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The America of 1973 was an America that was taking a deep introspective look at itself, and in many respects, not liking what it was seeing. The long, divisive Vietnam War was finally over for America, ending in an anticlimax, a soon-to-be defeat for our allies. The civil rights movement had resulted in legislative and judicial victories, but the prize of racial equality was still unrealized. For these reasons and others, the country continued to be politically and socially polarized. Why was this so? What was wrong with America? It was in this milieu that Terrence Malick made his directorial debut with Badlands a fictionalized account of the Starkweather-Fugate killing spree of 1958.  I think Mr. Malick was trying to explain how we got to where we were. The character of Kit as played by Martin Sheen is a small-town loser and dreamer, a failed garbage man. He is also a man without a moral compass, who feels he can do what he pleases. Holly, played by Cissy Spacek, is a 15-year-old woman-child, a soul-less, unfeeling creature who falls under Kit's spell. Once together, it doesn't take them long to embark on a murderous crime spree across the High Plains. The pacing of the film is slow and languid; the cinematography wondrous. The land in Badlands, the Plains, is actually physically rich and productive. But the open physical space serves as a metaphor for the barren, direction-less America that spawns this duo.   Spacek and Sheen play the amoral duo to perfection. Nothing over the top like the two protagonists in Natural Born Killers. In Badlands, the viewer is drawn slowly in to the killer's odd personalities and thoughts. Only to find that in the end, there's not much there, the people are empty.  "},{"Title":"Quite fascinating","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very well done film. Surprising that this was Malick's first, an amazing debut. Do not, however, compare this film to Natural Born Killers because they are two completely different films conveying two completely different messages. Simply beautiful cinematography and another astounding directing effort from Malick "}{"Title":"Without this, there'd be no True Romance or Natural Born Killers","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  That soundtrack, that photography, that acting.  These are just the standouts of a truly classic exercise in movie-making.  A subtle, chilling biopic of Charles Starkweather, this is about as hip as movies get, but also has that strange old-fashioned feel to it.  The films it has inspired, try to hard to be hip, this just is.  Sheen and Spacek have never been better, Malick will never do better and no matter how many times he copies it neither will Tarantino. Probably second only to Apocalypse Now in the photographic beauty stakes, forget renting it, go out and buy it NOW! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Long before Terrence Malick made the hideously overrated Thin Red Line, he made this quiet, haunting and poetic masterpiece. Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek are peerless as Kit and Holly, and cinematographer Tak Fujimoto does a superb job a capturing the arid beauty of the vast, endless desert Kit and Holly travel through. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Minimal but very interesting","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is really wonderful. It is obvious that Malick is immensely talented. Had 'A Thin Red Line' been more thoroughly planned, in terms of editing, it would have been the best film of the nineties.Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek are perfect. They don't exactly show some major acting skills but they just really fit the roles. I think the references in the script for Kit to look like James Dean, which are true, were no accident. There are some similarities between Jim Stark and Kit Carruthers.  The section of the film set in the forest is not as engaging as the other parts but Malick attention to wildlife and nature does help to put the story in perspective. The script is minimal which is exactly the point. Teenagers find it hard to express things in detail or talk about their real feelings, unlike Dawsons Creek, I feel few films show this truly. The alienation between Kit and Holly is well shown. This is where Spacek's narration comes in handy. The narration is a very good touch and obviously Malick likes it, judging by his other films. It helps us to the see inside the mind of Holly and so we know when she has stopped loving Kit, but he doesn't.This is a great film. It has a real insight into the psyche of the teenager which is more complex than adults remember. "},{"Title":"Fine piece of cinema.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent debut film making by Terrence Malick. Great story and great acting make this poem on celluloid a must see. Should not be missed and if you like this one be sure to see his second film Days of Heaven.Tagline In 1959 a lot of people were killing time. Kit and Holly were killing peopleEven if that tagline for Badlands doesn't interest you the film will.  "},{"Title":"An amazing character with a great story surrounding him","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Couple-on-the-run movies are pretty popular. Most people consider Bonnie and Clyde the best one because of it's exciting story and fun characters. These people have probably not seen Badlands. It's not about character or story, although both of those things are handled excellently. It's about a lifestyle. Martin Sheen gives a spectacular performance as Kit, a guy who just doesn't care enough not to shoot anyone who annoys him. He lives by doing whatever he wants when he wants to and he is happy this way. Sheen is so great in the role that, as insane as it is, he nearly convinces us that lving free without worries is better than living with them. Movies try to get inside the head of killers all the time. American Psycho attempted it and was a good movie, but not nearly as good as this film. It is successful on so many levels. The character, Kit, is great. So is the scenery and direction by Terrence Malick. The same goes for the narration by a confused Sissy Spacek and the couple-on-the-run story which is better here than I've ever seen it before. "},{"Title":"Haunting offbeat tale of 2 morally disconnected kids","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Finally saw this after hearing about it for 20 years, unfortunately on a little screen. Always confused it with Sugerland Express- Speilberg's debut- another killer chase film around same time. Am huge fan of genius Mallick- Days of Heaven is by FAR the most beautiful film ever made- an incredible film of love, betrayal, + murder under the impossibly lush midwest skies that literally slows one's metabolism. Thin Red Line combined the mad dreamy detachment of war with an unparalleled view of a running shooting attack. This is what Nam vets must want to return for- to see the incredible beauty of the jungle uncontaminated by the horrors of war.Amazing to see Martin Sheen do his best James Dean in a young buffed body (when you just saw him as the Prez in West Wing). Forgot how good he was before he got big. Interestingly in '73 I was hitchhiking some 11,000 miles over 45 states in my first Great Trip.  "},{"Title":"Sheen, Spacek and Cows.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only way to describe Badlands is, it's Natural Born Killers meets Thelma and Louise meets Wild at Heart.Badlands is a showcase of talent for both Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek. Watch spellbinded as they journey across America's heartland, gun in tote.Spacek plays a young, oblivious and naive girl in search of herself and along for the ride as her crime-committing boyfriend (Sheen), flees the law.  Meanwhile Spacek doesn't know what's goin' on, she's like a lost soul just killin' time so to speak, just tagging along as Sheen goes on his murderous rampage.It's fun to see Sissy Spacek in all her flair and style circa the 1970's. Her funky white shorts fit so snuggly as her daddy long legs chase after Sheen like a lost puppy.The only element I did not enjoy In Badlands was the animal cruely factor present in the film.  I did not like seeing Sissy's father shoot her pet dog in the field.  And the whole cow thing just had to go.My favourite scene is when Spacek and Sheen take a break from the crime spree and do a sweet little dance in front of the car's headlights.  Old fashioned romance at it's finest!I believe Badlands set the tone for a lot of other road movies that followed in it's footsteps. "},{"Title":"Dialogue and acting that is perfection. A young couple seek romantic bliss. As they wend across the prairies, Holly stands by her man, Kit, who shoots the people who are a threat to their dreams.  Doing what","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sissy Spacek (Holly) narrates a seamless, lyrical blend of cliches from high school English and romance magazines. Martin Sheen(Kit),within the ethos of the heartland, is doing what a man has to do in this case, beginning with Holly's father,shooting everyone who is a threat to their idyllic dream. Kit's manly, idealized statements, dictums, pronouncements, judgments which osmose into Holly's romanticised constructions of their relationship. The dreaminess is her reality. And Kit, except when shooting people, Kit is genuinely likeable and endearing. The title Badlands refers to Kit's inner topography, but it also refers to a place, the drab, monotonous plains; thus it may also refer to the heartland, and possibly beyond that, to America. At the start of the movie, in the town where they live, subdued lighting, empty streets, an austere atmosphere, evoke a sense of alienation. In the late 60's and early 70's a number of films, such as Easy Rider, Five Easy Pieces, Macon County Line, idealized the role of the outsider; outsider status was a sign of innocence and humanity in contrast to the vain strivings of parent figures. A deceitful government was justifying an unjust war. Kit was both Outsider and America the killer. "},{"Title":"The Velvet Underground of films","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Badlands is a terrific film, no question about it, and others have noted the homages to the film evident in both True Romance (which intermittently aped its style, even copying the same Carl Orff tune at the end) and Natural Born Killers (which riffed off its content - though, to be fair, Badlands itself was seen at the time of its release to just be following in the footsteps of Bonnie and Clyde). Though I don't know whether Tarantino indicated in his scripts for these films or if the directors themselves looked to Badlands for inspiration, the influence is doubtless.However, I'd also like to hold up Badlands as the film that singularly influenced a large number of filmmakers who would mature in the years following its release Tarantino, Jim Jarmusch, David Lynch and Atom Egoyan, just to name a few.For Badlands was the first mainstream feature to establish many of the film trends we now take for granted ironic placement of pop music (compare its use of Mickey and Sylvia's Love Is Strange to the purely nostalgic use of oldies in American Graffiti that same year); the leisurely - and thus bold - pacing of a story of violence; deadpan black humor; sudden bloodshed played for a wry laugh; Malick's taste for holding inanimate objects and unpeopled landscapes in the same regard, and relevance, as his human actors.Hitchcock and the James Bond series might have been the primary encouragement for today's movie audiences to laugh smugly at graphic violence, but it was Badlands that pulled the same stunt while reminding us that these were still quite human beings who met their grim ends, and that if a violent death is laughable, it is only because of its randomness and pointlessness. Sadly, something must have been lost in the translation. "},{"Title":"A Genuine classic movie","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing BADLANDS one has to say that the director, Terence Malick, was a sad loss to the industry for the two decades in which he didn't make movies! This, his debut feature,is so beautifully crafted and so elegantly acted that it really should have swept the board in that years academy awards. Based on a true story it (and remade in the 90's as Natural Born Killers with none of the quality and ten times the violence) it focuses on Kit (Sheen)a restless garbage man with a James Dean look and attitude.He snares ugly-duckling schoolgirl , Holly (Spacek)&  kills her dad before the pair drive across the heartland of America in their own dreamworld as if every cop in the country is solely interested in them.The action is always top notch, the acting from Sheen and Spacek is eye-wateringly good.The dialogue, by director Mallick is ultra-natural,nothing sounds out of place or show-biz, it's just the kind of talk one hears every day but at the same time it conveys the atmosphere and tension in every word. A strange yet utterly transfixing score includes a haunting main theme by James Taylor which stays in the memory long after the credits have finished. The photography is bright,dusty,full of open spaces and big skies but also full of intimacy and beauty.On every aspect of the film one can see and here the class of those involved.It all has a look similar to Bonny & Clydeand constant comparisons are made of the two by movie critics. I would say Badlands is the better film, less rambling and less starry in production. Put it on your list of ten films you just must see if you haven't already.A genuine classic. "}{"Title":"Mythic","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've heard the word mythic tossed around a lot in comments about Terrence Malick's work, and I think it may hit the mark as well as any.  Anything, any image, that takes on a meaning greater than what is there explicitly, any image that is more than the sum of its parts, could be called mythic. Some critics of this movie turn a blind eye to its myth-making, and write it off as another lesson in the banality of evil...which makes some sense Martin Sheen kills with as little affect as Jean-Paul Belmondo in Breathless.  But, like the characters in the movie, Malick seems much more concerned with the ride than with the destination.  The movie doesn't seem to be pushing a message as pushing a medium.  Really, the film splits into three parts  the actions of the character (the plot), the images through which their actions are told, and the precocious, dizzyingly wrong-headed narration of Sissy Spacek.  Her words whitewash their adventures in dime-store novel romance, and the images of nature are so stunningly photographed that you almost forget what's going on in the foreground.  But it's the very mismatching that makes a myth out of a massacre.  And the sublime sequence when the two build a mansion of a tree-house in the woods looked like something out of One Hundred Years of Solitude in its absurd, self-contained logic.  And there's also an absurd beauty to the scene when Martin Sheen shoots his friend with a shotgun, only to hold the screen door for him when he needs help inside.  Badlands is based on a true murder spree, which is both a blessing and a curse.  A blessing that it gave Malick the inspiration to write the movie.  A curse that he's doomed to end it as it actually ended.  Although the end is almost as inspired as the rest of the movie, I sensed that it was also a little restrained.  Regardless, Badlands is a movie unto itself, and anyone who places it under the same heading as Bonny and Clyde or another semi-surreal crime movie, has missed something along the way.  It shouldn't be watched for the message, but for the myth. "},{"Title":"An amazing character study","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Badlands is an amazing psychological study of two very different individuals (named Kit and Holly) drawn to different facets of life which most normal people would consider morally wrong.  Yet Terrence Malick has directed a film which allows us to sympathize with their lifestyle; indeed both characters are trapped in their predicament and neither is willing to find a way out until it is arguably too late.  It is a great testament to the director that we are never questioning their motivations.  Instead we know why they are doing each action and the film holds off judgment (but does not justify) because it makes too little sense to condemn these characters outright; Kit must kill to keep himself mentally stable, Holly is young and impressionable and is easily manipulated.Badlands chooses to focus squarely on who its characters are and uses the crimes they commit, not as spice for the film, but as defining moments in their lives.  Perhaps that is why it ages so well, unlike many imitators who have followed. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my top ten films, it breaks my heart that this film is not more widely known. From the opening scenes in which the two main characters meet and their destiny is sealed, the dreamy diary-style narration by Sissy Spacek and the haunting theme soundtrack ('Migration' by James Taylor) draw you in and float you along so seamlessly that you are sorry that it ever has to end.On the face of it, a simple tale of a couple on the run from the law, it takes on a mythical quality. Every scene is etched instantly into the memory and you feel you've always known the story. The sequence in which they live Robinson Crusoe-like in remote backwoods always sticks in my mind, as does the sequence near the end where they are driving off-road through the desert. In both cases they take on a dream-like, innocent, Adam and Eve-like quality completely divorced from the modern world and the reality of their situation.Beautifully shot, career performances from Spacek and Martin Sheen (oozing more palpable charisma than James Dean - with whom he's compared in the film), an original and highly satisfying ending... this is one of those rare films which has ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG WITH IT.About a thousand times a better film than 'Bonnie and Clyde' or 'Thelma and Louise', you must seek out this film if you've never seen it and you must tell your friends if you have!P.S. The narration-style/music-style combination is so powerful that even though it was shamelessly ripped off in 'True Romance', I rate that film in my top 30 as well.  "},{"Title":"Peter Pan Motif","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Martin Sheen & Sissy Spacek star in perhaps the most polarized American director of our generation, Terrence Malick (Thin Red Line, The New World). Either loved or hated, Badlands was Malick's first full-length, directorial debut that really broke the mold of first-time films of first-time directors very informed by its time, completely understated, well-paced, intelligent, and above all, extremely quiet and contemplative. This atypical style would continue to pervade Malick's later pieces, which, given his 40 years in the business now, has amounted to only six total. That said, Malick has clearly been one of the more thoughtful directors around.Badlands was released at the tail end of the Vietnam war and depicts certain guerrilla warfare tactics as personified through Malick's two main vehicles, Kit Carruthers & Holly Sargis&#x97;a sort of insurrection resurrection of Bonnie and Clyde. Together, the two go on a crime spree, escape from urbanization and set off to live life in the wilderness. The story is said to mirror the classical tale of Peter Pan, and, conspicuously so. Holly's Once upon a time&#x85; voice-over acts as the motherly Wendy figure throughout the film as she embarks upon a rebellious adventure in the lost wilderness with her equally lost and confused boyfriend, Kip.Outside of the occasional murderous outbursts, the beautiful scenery yet bleak atmosphere is really what this film is all about. It's not my favorite Malick piece, but it is a worthy springboard that gave rise to his much more quietly epic masterpieces. And soon to be, with much anticipation, his newly Tree of Life is set to release in 2010. Can't wait! "},{"Title":"How a Girl Spent Her Summer","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There's a searching nature to all of Terrence Malick's films, which don't ethically assess their characters. This can be felt most in Badlands, which follows Martin Sheen's 25-year-old garbage collector Kit, who starts an affair with Sissy Spacek's 15-year-old Holly. Their bond is hidden from Holly's father, played by the excellent Warren Oates, who wouldn't accept her seeing Kit. This scenario leads to cold-blooded murder. Kit and Holly flee from the law. Numerous more die en route to the Canadian border.Badlands determines the inimitable cinema Malick would form in due course. It's set in the 1950's. No Malick film is set in the present-day. He shoots in natural light, many scenes happening during the magic hour which encompasses sunset or sunrise, endowing scenes with an atmospheric sensation uniting long shadows and mellow orange tints with the immensity of the North American wilds. All of Malick's films include narration through naïve eyes, in this case Holly, whose predicament she can scarcely understand. There's also the groundwork of Malick's favored study the mistreatment of nature and American history's legend attributes.His theme of humanity's controlled exploitation of nature begins with Kit's killings, all fostering into a complete dismissal of life. People add footnotes to Kit's appearance, likening him to Dean. Kit takes pleasure in this unruly facade. His assumed role engulfs him, even checking his hair during a car chase. Indeed, Badlands is the most plainly violent of Malick's films, pitiless, indifferent. In perhaps the most disconcerting scene, Kit asks Holly to soothe his friend as he dies. Holly asks about his pet spider. This is neither callous nor malevolent but just aloof. This is a child's inquisitiveness, sans a child's compassion. Spacek is so understated, with a voice of strange profundity.We face the pair's unsettling impassiveness. Kit's principles are confounding and variable. Sheen is never better than in this film. He highlights that he gives a James Dean impression, the first rebel without a cause, but Kit's not revolting against whatever. He lets a wealthy man live but murders penniless ones, he desires to live the American Dream, wants to assimilate but can't. At one point he becomes clearly aggravated at the media for vilifying him and Holly, then soon after makes the most of his fame and infamy. What constrains the pair to do what they do? Why does Kit kill? Why doesn't Holly leave? She's not scared, so why not bail when she has the opportunity? Or maybe that's the key to the issue in itself. This is all part of the mystery of Badlands. Kit and Holly are pursuing a breakout from their everyday selves. But there's a murkier poignancy in their story, and deliberately they long to defy social boundaries, but intuitively they seem to do the antithesis.Like its characters, Badlands is also ironic in its approach. Moments of acute brutality are not punctuated dramatically. When music plays, it's a divergently pleasant, idealistic score, with a childlike wonder that starkly contrasts with the images and skews our feelings about them. Nevertheless, the barrenness of the characters' lives, their impassive response to bloodshed, their indifference to what happens, and the apathy with which they confront the future are harmonized by their environs. The bareness of the streets and towns, the sterile scenery through which they journey and the unoccupied roads, as if existing solely for them, work as descriptions of separation and for the nonexistence of any structure. Malick's visual tone throughout the film evokes a sinister fable, a storybook. Holly says pensively at one point, Sometimes I wished I could fall asleep and be taken off to some magical land, but this never happened. We feel she has. "},{"Title":"it was down hill from here","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  a simple story and situation (though the subject is seductively wicked) but told with style and vision while creating a sense of understanding for the subjects - this is terry's best work.unfortunately it was his first film.   directors are to get better with age (up until a point - see spielberg) but unfortunately both 'days of heaven' and 'thin red line' fall short of his first.  'days' was a sleeper and though 'red line' has some great tension it too has large pockets of boredom. "},{"Title":"Terrence Malick's Hypnotic Directorial Debut.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Badlands is one of those quietly dark and disturbing films of the 1970s that struck a chord with many. Youngsters Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen decide to kill Spacek's disapproving father (Warren Oates in a very short role). This means that they must go on the run and try to elude the advances of the authorities. The greatest thing that makes this film stand out is the amazing cinematography and the hypnotic tone that Terrence Malick uses. The reclusive director's debut is an interesting part of the cinema and this work would lead to even greater accomplishments for Malick (Days of Heaven and The Thin Red Line). 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"An ineffective film which also lacks depth and any intensity","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As you know there is a sub genre in cinema as killer lovers movie I can say that I find this this kind of films interesting despite most of them end by the same finals. As for Terrence Malick, my favorite Terrence film is The Thin Red Line, the least is Badlands. The problem of Badlands is that there is nothing stunning, there is nothing intense in the movie, also it is not deep or sophisticated or a character study as some people think or say. There are two very important actors, Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek, but the movie itself is simple and flat. Therefore, Terrence Malick's well direction cannot save it. This movie has a forest scene too like some other killer lovers movies and the house scene at the beginning was intense, but nothing more. The rest of the film is not salient. According to some sources, it is one of the most successful debut films ever, but simply I disagree with that. Yes, the direction was well especially for a first movie, but as said the film lacks depth and any intensity. "},{"Title":"Disenchanting","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Talk about the perfect response to Bonnie and Clyde! Based on the same real-life modern anti-heroes as the former movie, Terrence Malick's debut feature, Badlands, is a much different monster. Gone is the counter-culture coolness of Bonnie and Clyde, their ultra-violence as protest, and their death as martyrism. Instead, here you have Kit and Holly, a good ol' boy and his creepy young lover, blasted in an empty and surreal landscape made of their own fantasies. Where Bonnie and Clyde makes a heroic epic, Kit and Holly narrate their own idea of what story is happening (Holly as a voice-over, Kit with a constant stream of dialog). Where the movie Bonnie and Clyde delights in the visceral shock of violence, Badlands makes it surreal. And where Bonnie and Clyde stand as icons set against the backdrop of society, Kit and Holly are merely dazzled by their own fame.There's a bit of a problem with untrustworthy narrators, here. Kit is constantly involved with trying to explain and relate his experiences to Holly and others, and yet his real motivations are maddeningly undefined. Holly shares in Kit's Romanticism, but her brooding introversion questions just what she is supposed to be getting out of the relationship. It is difficult, even, to try to delineate who is in control, if either of them are ever in control. And the parts of the movie that are the most active are the ones that seem all the less real.All of it is for a very precise effect a new disenchantment of youth. Gone are the glory days and all that is left is celebrity, but even that is a vague and misunderstood notion. The act of doing things is not fulfilling, but the knowledge of having done them is. --PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of the greatest films ever made.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Badlands is quite simply one of the greatest films ever made.  The performances of Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen are spot on and never has narration in a film been used as well as in this one.The film has a haunting beauty to it and director Terrence Malick use of music is perfect.Beautifully made and thoughtout.  Badlands is the must-see film from the '70's.  "}{"Title":"Badlands vs. Lord of the Rings","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It´s really funny to come across with comments in which the author considers Badlands as a dull and artificial, pretentious and boring movie. This kind of comments come from the kind of people who think that Lord of The Rings is the Holy Grial of cinema. OK. You don´t have to watch 1,000 or even 100 movies to realize that Badlands is a real gem and Lords of the Rings and sequels are some sort of  goofy entertainment, mostly for teens and dreary adults. I only recommend to review a list of 10 classic hits Breathless, Taxi Driver, The Godfather, Picnic at the Hanging Rocks, Easy Rider, La Strada, Cul-de-Sac, Solaris (the original Russian flick), Walkabout, Aguirre. These movies were made with the same stuff of Badlands. They are real, they are powerful, they are masterpieces. Lord of the Rings should be compared with Seven Flags, Disneyland or Ringling bros. This is another business, nonetheless much more profitable than making cinema as art.   Badlands and Lord of the Rings aren't the same ballpark, they aren't the same league, they aren't even the same f...sport, as Jules (Pulp Fiction) would say. Let me tell you this Terrence Malik made a piece of art. Not flawless, not entirely funny, but is art, and he does not insult our intelligence like most of Hollywood-made flicks. 9/10  "},{"Title":"American fairy tale","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Holly Sargis (Sissy Spacek) is a sweet 15 year old girl new in Fort Dupree, South Dakota. Kit Carruthers (Martin Sheen) is a rebel school dropout fired from his garbage collector job. Her sign painting father objects to their relationship. He runs away with Holly and shoots her father as he tries to leave. They go on the run which would end in the Badlands of Montana. Along the way, they leave a trail of murders.Sissy Spacek is the perfect innocent. She does it without being boring. Her highly romanticized narration adds to that character. It's like reading a teenager's diary. Kit's casual cruelty is very compelling. Their performances are terrifically natural. The violence comes off very easily as if it's an everyday occurrence. The film moves slowly. An exciting plot is not the main concern of first time director Terrence Malick. This is a movie of lyrical tone and unflinching violence. It's a disturbed American fairy tale. That xylophone music is the perfect companion piece to her childlike narrations. "},{"Title":"A simple, yet powerful masterpiece","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Before going into Terrence Malick's powerful 1973 film debut, Badlands, I feel that I have a need to backtrack a little bit.In 2002, I had the great pleasure of discovering, and falling in love with, my all-time favorite movie - True Romance (1993), which has the fortune of having been Quentin Tarantino's first completed screenplay, yet being the second script of his to be made into a movie (behind his infamous 1992 directorial debut Reservoir Dogs), but was instead directed by the late Top Gun Tony Scott.I'll make no secret of my requited love for that picture, but in learning about that film's production history, I kept coming across assorted references to Terrence Malick's Badlands; most of the references I stumbled across rose from Malick's appropriation of Carl Orff's xylophone-based theme for Badlands (the Badlands score itself was done by George Tipton, from a composition titled Gassenhauer from Orff's work Schulwerk), which composer Hans Zimmer based his main theme for True Romance off of. Having completed watching Badlands for the first time in its entirety and listened to the score, I've now seen the connection between the two films fully.Badlands is a simple, quiet, and powerful masterpiece. Malick wrote, co-produced (with co-producer Edward Pressman) and directed the picture, which is loosely based on the real-life crimes of teen outlaw couple Charles Starkweather and his girlfriend Caril Ann Fugate, who went on a nine-day crime spree in 1958 that ultimately claimed the lives of 11 people. Badlands came hot on the heels of another outlaw-couple-on-the-run movie, Bonnie and Clyde (1967), which was also based on a true story - albeit heavily fictionalized and romanticized. Badlands is not a romanticized portrait of the Starkweather/Fugate crime spree, but is more of a simple portrait of a pair of aimless youths who engage in violence if for no other reason than to apparently give their lives some kind of meaning.In 1959 (one year after the real-life Starkweather/Fugate murders) in South Dakota, 25-year-old Kit (a then-33-year-old Martin Sheen, perfectly cast and modeling Kit, and himself, after James Dean) meets 15-year-old schoolgirl Holly (Sissy Spacek) while she practices twirling her baton in her front yard. The two strike up a casual conversation that over the next few weeks gradually develops into a delicate teenage romance, a teenage romance that Holly's stern, disapproving Father (Warren Oates) frowns upon. Before you know it, a brutal murder puts Kit and Holly on the run from the law.I'm often amazed at the power of low-budget independent cinema. While so-called low-budget indie cinema was all the rage in the early '90s (thanks to the breakthrough of Quentin Tarantino), many of today's most prominent mainstream Hollywood filmmakers - Francis Ford Coppola, George Lucas, Martin Scorcese, Steven Spielberg and yes, even Malick himself - were themselves a part of this growing wave of struggling young filmmakers back in the '70s, all of whom were on the verge of huge break-out success into the mainstream in their respective careers.I just had to get that off my chest right there.Badlands is a stunning little film. It doesn't glorify its subject matter, nor does it attempt to make out its two lead characters as anything more than they are - even though we do sympathize with their plight to a degree (and even though that sympathy is debatable or even warranted). Malick uses the wide-open settings to great effect here in creating strong feelings of loneliness and isolation. The cinematography - by the trifecta of Tak Fujimoto, Stevan Lerner, and Brian Probyn - really makes the barren plains of the South Dakota landscape stand out. The wide expanses of farmlands and prairies conveys a sense of freedom to the audience, yet ironically it all seems like a prison that's gradually closing in on the young lovers as they soon grow to realize that their time on the run together is surely, rapidly running short. (As an aside, I was equally impressed with how Arthur Penn used the American countryside to similar effect in Bonnie and Clyde just six years earlier.)The legendary Martin Sheen has long been one of the most impressive acting personalities I've ever come across in the movies (Apocalypse Now, anyone?); why he has yet to receive any Academy Award recognition for his long body of work over five-plus decades is beyond me (I've also been impressed by the work of his son Charlie Sheen - yes, that same one & only, wild & crazy Charlie Sheen!!! - who also appears in this film, at the age of eight, in an un-credited cameo). Three years before the international recognition she'd receive for her title role in Carrie (1976), Sissy Spacek is also a wonder in an under-stated performance that betrays her fading youthful innocence and her witnessing (and occasionally participating in) of the seemingly random, sudden bursts of violence that her much-older partner in crime is all too capable of perpetrating all on his own and without hesitation.Yes, the film is violent, and no attempt is made to shy away from that fact, nor does the film ever attempt to glorify it. We simply witness violent actions as they happen, as raw and unflinching as it can be, and nothing more. Yet, the film is also rated PG (which quite frankly, baffles me, given the frank depiction of its subject matter, but whatever). It's just that I've seen movies far less violent than this one get much harsher ratings, but again, whatever.Badlands is yet another entry into the young-outlaw-lovers-on-the-run genre. It's a poignant, powerful little masterpiece of almost-unrivaled filmmaking skill and beauty. Leads Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek are another daring young couple on the run and are perfectly matched and cast. Terrence Malick has never been better.10/10 "},{"Title":"Drags a Bit Toward the End, but I Dare You to Forget It","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Terrence Malick's directorial debut is this small, drab, brilliantly acted, haunting mood piece loosely based on the Charles Starkweather/Caril Ann Fugate killing spree of 1958. Called Kit and Holly here, the murderous couple are played brilliantly by Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek. Sheen was not yet a major star and Spacek was a virtual unknown, with her breakthrough performance in CARRIE still three years down the road. Yet these two relative youngsters inhabit their roles like seasoned professionals. Kit is a bit of a show-off, likes to think he looks like James Dean, and when the film begins is employed as a garbageman, a job he soon chucks when he gets bored with it. He sort of runs across Holly by accident, they exchange a few words, and before we know what's what, Kit has murdered Holly's father, they set fire to her house, and set off down the road in Kit's car.This is a fascinating portrait of a pair of psychopaths. Everything Kit does appears to be driven by his ego, despite his attempts to sustain an I-don't-give-a-damn attitude. But it is Spacek's Holly who really haunts you. Spacek has a blank expression that she uses to great effect here; outwardly, one might be forgiven for thinking Holly a little slow (with the exception of one scene where she is reading a book to Kit). But in voice-over Spacek delivers an internal monologue that reveals that there is a lot going on behind that blank stare and raises the question who's the real psychopath here? For on the surface Holly just appears to be going along for the ride, yet her inner monologue suggests motives much more sinister though we never really know what they are.And to top it off, the whole thing is wrapped up in a magnificent score by George Aliceson Tipton that throws the viewer even more off balance framed at the beginning and at the end by Carl Orff's Gassenhauer (Street Song), a good portion of it sounds like the sort of music you'd hear in a film of children playing in a schoolyard, with Nat King Cole's lyrical A Blossom Fell thrown in for good measure. The cheeriness of the score somehow delivers more menace than John Williams's legendary Duh-duh shark attack warning from JAWS.BADLANDS is not a long movie, at just under an hour and forty-five minutes, but unfortunately it runs out of steam at about the hour-and-fifteen minute mark. Holly begins to tire of Kit and the remainder of the film degenerates into a conventional cops-and-robbers chase film with the climax inevitable.But this is a small quibble. For a director who had done nothing but one short film and two actors whose careers were still in the early stages, Malick, Sheen, and Spacek deliver a powerhouse of a movie. If the engine runs out of gas before the end, keep in mind that far too many movies never make it out of the starting gate. And for it's flaws, I dare you to forget it. "},{"Title":"They said it was Malick's best... They weren't wrong...","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are some moments of sheer cinematic brilliance in this film that I found quite beautifully done. The way Malick uses imagery is quite stunning sometimes. The film hinges on the performances of the two central characters and both Martin Sheen as Kit and Sissy Spacek as Holly stepped up to the mark and put in stellar performances (IMO). In fact Sissy Spacek was nominated for the Most Promising Newcomer to Leading Film Roles BAFTA in 1975 on the strength of this performance.A very slow deliberate pace is one of the hallmarks of a Terrance Malick film and this is no exception. If anything, I did find it a little too pedestrian for my taste, however, the strength of the characters was enough to keep me interested. I must admit I was pleasantly surprised at how good this film was, especially the cinematography. A stunning piece of work and one I have no problem in deeming Highly Recommended.My score 8.9/10IMDb Score 7.9/10 (based on 23,833 votes at the time of going to press).MetaScore NO DATA (Based on 0 critic reviews provided by Metacritic.com at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score 98/100 (based on 43 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score 89/100 (based on 21,580 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"An Adventure to Freedom","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite its minor flaws, Badlands by Terrence Malick is an exceptionally brilliant film. Especially when one looks at the time it was made in. The time when American film industry was beginning to fall down to its eternal state of misery. When money was taking over purity. Only a few good American films can be found here but Badlands and Malick's Days of Heaven are definitely among them. In fact, these two are parallel works of some kind; or variations of each other. For both of them portray individuals in pursuit of happiness; feature a naive first-person-narrative; and deal with freedom and love in a poetic manner. Days of Heaven is often seen as superior but this shouldn't affect the high quality of Badlands and its appreciation.Badlands is loosely based on a true story when two youngsters went on a killing spree in the 1950's. However, Malick only took the milieu (the Southern States) and the characters from it. He was much more interested in the ethical analysis of killing and the American society in the 1970's. Yet, the basis of the film is in the adventure from a small town to the badlands of Montana.The story line is extremely simple and, therefore the themes can blossom freely; almost in their natural state. Due to this, I find no need to summarize it. What is more interesting here is Malick's take on violence. Unlike Sam Peckinpah for instance, Malick doesn't see anything sexual in killing. The mechanic and sterile coldness of killing is far too horrifying for Malick. However, not in the conventional sense of it. For Malick seeing this is extremely important if one wants to understand the powers of violence in the world of today.One aspect to the subject matter is the time the film was made in, for film always -- intentionally or unintentionally -- reflects its own era. In the year 1973 the US began to retreat from Vietnam but the images of burning children and destroyed villages had already been recorded to the minds of the people. Numbed by the media, the new generation had no conception of what killing really is. However, the protagonists of Badlands -- Kit and Holly -- aren't heartless monsters but sympathetic human beings for Kit, killing isn't real and Holly, in turn, doesn't understand what killing a man is.In addition to this social aspect of alienation, loneliness and teenage angst, the themes of Badlands have a deeper connotation as well. For isn't the film really a portrayal of an adventure to freedom? But, what is more, the question whether freedom is real remains unanswered. The protagonists' idea of freedom appears to us as twisted and illusory but who are we to judge. As a matter of fact, this realization takes us to ethical nihilism where moral is extremely questionable for it cannot be justified. Of course, the viewer can shed a tear or resent what he or she sees but the issue stays the same.These themes of freedom and ethics also draw a luminous parallel to existentialism. How each individual is a law unto himself. How each individual is thrown to the world and doomed to be free. Let alone the scene where Holly studies her pictures and wonders the fragility of human existence. During this wacky adventure the viewer will also note the obvious anarchism of the characters -- in the spirit of the time. How they have no respect for private property or family institution. They have freed themselves from the ancient laws of morale. Kit for one sees the actions of the police as justified but cannot accept the deeds of the bounty hunters. For the latter is only motivated by money where the former is by work.In conclusion, this fierce and brutal adventure to freedom is characterized by absolutely stunning imagery. However, the seeming beauty of the landscapes feels to highlight the fact how reality and the truth can only be found below the surface. How there is always an image after an image until one gets to the absolute image which can never be seen. How freedom is really just an unreachable sun behind the clouds. "},{"Title":"The Beginning of Terrence Malick's art","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The debut for Terrence Malick is a moody and philosophical piece of American cinema. It is a look into violence and love simultaneously told on the backdrop of the badlands of South Dakota. The quiet and gut-wrenching thing about Badlands is how Malick shows us how such a good-intentioned man ends up becoming a serial killer in the end. Based off a true story, the film provides the poetic filmmaking that would characterize Malick's career. The trick to watching this and the other films of Malick is to interpret the symbolism, tie this into the setting he places it in, and understand how the two tie so perfectly together. "},{"Title":"Malick Without Compulsion","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Is this the best debut since Welles?Malick made his cinematic introductions with innocent style. Only kernels of the self- indulgence that would occupy his career are evident. In fact, it is in the absence of his compulsion to make every frame a work of art that we are treated to a earnestness that wouldn't be found again until TREE OF LIFE. Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek deliver absolute brilliance. Kit embodies the danger Malick saw in shifting 50's iconography. Holly is a portrait of the same danger in stripping women of their agency, forcing them to live in magazines. BADLAND's harnesses the evil in revolution and liberated youth. The visual poetry generally attributed to Malick is not the critical element here. The greatness of the film rests on the naive truths that it manages to reveal. BONNIE & CLYDE, YOU ONLY LIVE ONCE, and PIERROT LE FOU are inverted to create a unique depiction of Americana and a confident argument against the iconography of celebrity.If you find yourself averse to the demanding decadence of DAYS OF HEAVEN, THIN RED LINE, and NEW WORLD, this picture will surprise and delight you. Experience a purer and more creative Malick.93.1 "},{"Title":"Badlands (1973)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I still rate it lower than the other Malick films, but not by much. I get the sense that he isn't quite comfortable in his style yet, or perhaps hasn't discovered it. The pieces are there the beautiful landscapes and the wistful voice-over especially. There isn't quite as much confidence, though. Not that there's anything terribly wrong with the film. The sepia-tone newsreel style footage feels out of place, but it's only a minute or two. The cinematography isn't as stunning as his other films, but it definitely has some glorious moments. The fire scene is gorgeous enough to turn you into a pyromaniac. What struck me most was the attention to the magnificent details of life... a small gesture, a silly joke, admiring the flowers. These little things are the essence of living, and their quiet emphasis serves as condemnation enough of Kit. He doesn't need to be painted as an evil psychopath to get the point across. My least favorite Malick, yes, but one I'd gladly visit again. "},{"Title":"Natural Born Killers","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers ahead, also of the movie Natural Born Killers! The true inspiration for Oliver Stones take on NBK. You can see the parallels. I don't know if Tarantino had this movie in mind, when he wrote NBK ... It could be, but then again, he always said, that NBK is not the movie he would've made.But enough about NBK. Terence Malick does impress us, with this wonderfully shot and edited masterpiece. A road trip movie with excellent actors and a great underlying threat throughout the movie. Terence Malick only directs every other decade, but when he does, you can almost count on the fact, that something amazing, will be the result! "}{"Title":"Malick's First Film Sets a High Standard","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek are lovers on the lam in this, Terrence Malick's first feature film.Malick-directed movies seem to come around with less frequency than total solar eclipses, but he has almost always managed to produce a masterpiece when he finally gets around to it, and Badlands set the bar high. This kind of story always seems to work on film, no matter who's in it or who directs it. They Live By Night in 1948 comes to mind first, then Gun Crazy the next year, Bonnie and Clyde in 1967, Altman's Thieves Like Us in 1974. All of these films are very different and all of them are fantastic. Badlands belongs among them.Grade A "},{"Title":"A controversial romantic film?","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There have been many films which have caused controversy during the 70's, the main one being Jodie Foster starring as a prostitute in Taxi Driver.When reading the description of this film I was shocked to see a 25 year old man dating a 15 year old girl.It has controversy written all over it but nevertheless, just like Taxi Driver, I found the love story very intriguing.Sheen and Spacek perform greatly as the somewhat odd couple and through their relationship we are able to see a passionate and devoted love tale between two very quiet characters. Having two isolated characters in lead roles creates a new and interesting concept for audiences and I myself can say it is one of the most bizarre but also THE most interesting love story I have ever seen, and because of this ideology I recommend it.The story does falter at points becoming too slow for its own good and can't create the passion that was required but it is more often consistent and definitely engaging with sharp dialogue, involved scenes with the characters and action scenes, keeping the viewers on their toes.It is good because of the slow scenes in particular which explore the characters feelings. The best feature of this film for me though has to be the narration by Spacek which was sheer brilliance as she told the story from her perspective and therefore makes the story more involved and interesting.A must watch if you like drama, interesting romance and great acting7/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented out this vid in the hope it would provide a few hours of violence-filled entertainment, but instead was bitterly disappointed. I had expected a tale of two vicious serial killers going around killing people but instead could barely sit through the two or so hours. Anyway, here's by brief summary...Firstly, reasons why I didn't like the film. I won't retell the plot (as others have already done so) but basically Kit (Sheen) meets Holly, kills her father and then goes on the run from the law, randomly killing people (we are led to believe) solely to keep the cops off his tracks. What I don't understand Kit, are the reasons which make him go around killing people. Although he is obviously psychopathic in one sense, many of his murders make little sense. Anyway, I'm not going to analysis it. I also don't really get the Holly character, but then perhaps I'm not smart enough to get the subtle message of this movie.On to the more elemental issues. I found this movie far too slow moving, almost languishing at its own pace. For example, the scene where Kit and Holly are hiding out in the forest was needlessly long. This may sound strange, but the scenes where Kit shoots people were just not SATISFYING to watch. Not that in real life it is enjoyable to watch people getting killed, but in a movie there is usually a killing is particularly thrilling to watch if the motives are particularly heinious. The shooting scenes were also not very violent at all; indeed, I have to wonder why it was given an R-rating in Australia when I know many MA movies were are far more violent. Perhaps its the context of the violence.Anyway, the story itself is simple and predictable, and is bare as bones. Personally, I don't think there were enough plot twists or events to keep the audience glued to the seat. In conclusion, it is one of the 70s 'contemplative' movies which makes you think when all you want to do is tune out for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Malick's Best!","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant essay on apathetic 50's!  Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek were never better and the three cinematographers were really on target!  Great script as well.  THE THIN RED LINE is also a 10 out of 10.  It's too bad T.M. doesn't make more movies.  Ms. Spacek is conveniently out of touch with her surroundings and falls into Mr. Sheen's favor and a lot of people pay for it.  Warren Oates is totally authentic as always.Best performance = Sissy Spacek.  She would go on to give more fine performances (CARRIE, RAGGEDY MAN, COALMINER'S DAUGHTER, CRIMES OF THE HEART) and is never more touching and yet frightening than in this bleak and interesting film.  Kudos to all those connected.  No Oscar nominations for this film (Go Figure!).  I can't say enough about this film.  My #10 of all time! "},{"Title":"pristine","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  an almost immediate contender for the film most beautiful to look at. but everything else seems to fall under the spell of the scenery.the plot is drawn out, and never really goes anywhere. and while it is interesting, and at times addictive to watch. something better seems to always be 'on the way' and the something better never comes.the script is poetic, almost couplandesque, in it's way of bringing life's small moments and thoughts to the foreground. the xylophonic score creates a whole other world, dreamy, and sinister, and the acting is spot on, with sheen and spacek giving their characters real blood. but, as a whole, badlands does leave a lot to be desired.   "},{"Title":"We'll keep pushin' till it's understood And these badlands start treating us good","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Springsteens wonderful hit from 1978 made me see Badlands.Badlands is a contemporary, interesting edited masterpiece with a well thought-out and lavish direction by Terrence Mallick combined with a perfected matched music that together creates the perfect tune. Badlands is a very unpredictable movie. The script and dialogs are perfectly made.Reminds much of one of the best movies of the 90's - True Romance, which is more or less a remake of 'Badlands.Badlands entertains and keep your attention from start to end.Rating 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"Surreal, liberated revision of Fordian mythology.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now that Terrence Malick is a 'great', 'important' 'poet' of the cinema, we might forget what a cheeky, audacious, humorous filmmaker he once was. There is something of the nouvelle vague (Godard's 'A Bout de Souffle' especially) in the way he uses the crime genre to shoot off in strange, unexpected, anti-narrative directions.  Yet for all the Euro- and fairy-tale influences, this is a great American film, a riposte to the Fordian myth of progress, with some stunning American surrealism, the bright, inchoate signs in the desert, the Hopper-like composition of the social security scene, the bizarre bathos of the finale. "},{"Title":"modern times  fresh films,","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" dear movie lovers. before i write something about this film, i have to say i hope that this is not a remake of some other American movie, i have'not seen. it would be a shame because of it's freshness.OK let's talk about this film. the story is about  human-bloodspree a very delicate subject especially in Bangalore. you have to approach a story with such a heavy subject in a subtle way.the story is actually divided in three chapters. the first and the last are simply amazing. chapter 2 lacks the subtle way a little.but why complain , this is a heavy duty subject, packed in a exceptional- entertaining way without getting ridiculous, with a brand new actor who can be measured with the likes of keanu reeves or Orlando bloom. And one of the finest villains i have seen in along time.its fresh its modern see this one "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Badlands (1973) *** 1/2 (out of 4)Terrence Malick's cult classic about a garbage man (Martin Sheen) and his girlfriend (Sissy Spacek) who go on a cross country murdering spree. This was a big influence on True Romance, which is a film I like a lot but this one here is certainly better due in large part to the terrific performances and the beautiful music score, which was also used in TR. This is another film of the 70's that doesn't have any point but instead simply tells a story, which is why this is my favorite decade for film. "},{"Title":"Malick's rhapsody on Starkweather/Fugate killing spree hollow at heart","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In 1958, America was mesmerized by the killing  spree of Charlie Starkweather and his girlfriend Caril Fugate, young Nebraskans who had internalized the cool attitudinizing of antiheroes like James Dean (whose death cult was just burgeoning) and the romantic nihilism of movies such as The Wild One and Rebel Without A Cause.  Their murderous flight across the Great Plains was not only destined to become a movie, it already had been a movie &#150; several movies.  Parts of their story &#150; star-crossed lovers on the lam &#150; had been told in Nicholas Ray's They Live By Night and Douglas Sirk's Shockproof in 1949, in Felix Feist's Tomorrow is Another Day in 1951, and elsewhere before and since.Not until 1973 did their quasi-official story reach the screen, in Terrence Malick's Badlands. But the director declined a documentary approach.  He cast then relative unknowns Martin Sheen as Kit, the Starkweather character, and Sissy Spacek as Holly (Fugate).  He sets them in a town out on the Prairies where anything is better than nothing, and where a loser like Kit offers Holly more excitement than a life of clarinet lessons under the choleric gaze of her father (Warren Oates).  From the start, in her voice-over narration, Spacek inflates the banality of their falling in love and fumbling attempts at sex into the stuff of medieval romances, using the high-toned but tin-eared diction of stories in fan magazines.  When Kit escalates to killing, starting with her father, she rationalizes his hair-trigger lethality away with the same tabloid verbiage, a callow teen trying to parrot the wisdom of the ages.Malick keeps viewers at a chilly distance through all of this, at first a refreshing stance but ultimately a bit too noncommital.  Vista after vista displays the awful, empty beauty of the northern plains while Orff and Satie, rather than the expected Country/Western ballads, estrange us further.  As the story moves toward its doomed conclusion it grows repetitious, and the cold, Kubrick-like detachment grows pretentious and irritating.  (This kind of glacial irony worked better a few years earlier in The Honeymoon Killers, where clearly there was no Great Statement in the offing.)  The question arises, is Malick keeping us at arm's length because he really doesn't have a point of view?   Badlands remains an interesting experiment, and an important movie in that it opened the floodgates to a slew of similarly themed successors, but, from the retrospect of almost 30 years, its chief virtues are its young stars Sheen, and, especially, the unforgettable Spacek. "}{"Title":"A great film, but I didn't like it.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this one time when I was younger and just hated it. So, I watched it again. I find it to be much better than when I first saw it, and I see why some call it a great film. But, it's just not for me. The extra slow pace is just to slow for me. I'm not saying it needed to be a big blow up feature, but just too many scenes of silence and nothing else. And both the leading roles (they did great jobs) but they bored me. A great work of art but not for all taste. If you can watch a 90 minute feature that seems like a 150 minute feature, than this is your movie.  Great film but low entertainment value, so I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"seed","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" few events as seed. a good director. inspired actors. and strange story. a film about sense, love, self hate and need of adventures as cure of gray rules. Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek as a couple in search of a form of happiness. a film like first part of a long chain. and this is its basic virtue - create a way to present frustration and dirty innocence, cold love stories and heroes with some reflection of Far West/ prohibition figures. after years, as in Carry, Sissy Spacek has same dust light. like an aura. or only, like sign of a special precise manner to translate the role as complete character. a beautiful film as seed of a large series. and nice occasion to discover few extraordinary scenes. "},{"Title":"This Ain't  No Country For Old Men, but...","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The two films have absolutely nothing to do with each other, they felt the same way for me though. Towards the end of Badlands; there is shot of a father holding a young child in his arms and showing him the cops take away Kit and Holly toward a plane, I always thought that the kid was Sheriff Ed Tom Bell in 'No Country For Old Men'. However, The details don't match. It might have been the V.O. or the vast acres of barren land or even the sheer anonymity in the murders, anyway Badlands and No Country For Old Men are the twin brothers of heavy silences. The Officer near Kit in Badlands says You're quite an individual, Kit. Kit replies Think they'll take that into consideration? Anton wouldn't have answered the same way but Kit could have grown up to be Anton. "},{"Title":"Bad movie (rental)","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Recommended from a book about « lost highway », i expected this movie to also feature Death Valley desert  NO ! Then, i thought it happens in the Badlands I visited in south Dakota  NO ! Next, i discovered that the movie features Spacek and Father Sheen  AWFUL  the former just can't be a gentle kind babe i would run for and the latter as his son just belongs to the bag of boasting, complacent, irritating actors that I just can't stand ! So this was a long boring movie, totally crazy and filled with gratuitous violence ! It's funny to notice that the thematic was close to « Sugarland express » but Spielberg's sensibility and craft just do something more griping than this Mallick's soup ! "},{"Title":"Good, beginner film","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terrence Malick has done some pretty good films (noting that he's done only three). This was alright, and his latest film, The Thin Red Line was flawed, but had some brilliant moments and was overall great. However, Days of Heaven just bored me. Of the three films, Malick knows the dark and cruel side of human nature, and has a great eye for photography like Kubrick, although he seems to be stuck with the south and if not in America then all the characters have to be from the south, and narration. This film had some great moments, but some poor too. There was too much narration, which is a main complaint for all his movies, strange music, and should have been like Bonnie and Clyde. You could not relate to any of the characters, and Martin Sheen became tiresome as the one-dimensional James Dean-like character. The end was worthy though because we finally got to know his character, but waiting until the end just takes too long. There were times when I thought that Sheen was practicing  for Apocalypse Now. This should have been moving and brutal like Bonnie and Clyde but was a predictable, one-dimensional film. But there are some great moments, and the film is quite memorable. Worth a rent. "},{"Title":"a vastly overrated film by a genuinely talented director","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was recommended this movie by several people. i've seen natural born killers and true romance, two films allegedly based on badlands. (enjoyed TR, hated NBK.) perhaps my mistake was expecting to have a strong reaction to badlands the way i did to its narrative successors. perhaps i need to watch it again. however i'm not sure i can bring myself to.i didn't hate badlands... i just found it increasingly flat, and by the end of it, very very boring. the first 20 minutes were textural and interesting, the next twenty minutes had me interested enough in leads kit and holly to await the development of their characters...which never came.spacek's acting is without shape or form, and her narration is wooden and irritating; if holly is meant to see numbed to her situation, it felt more like it was spacek that was indifferent to it (much as her own commentary on the film denies it). sheen's somnambulist stroll through the movie as the sleepy james dean-esquire antihero nearly worked, as it did seem to sit well on the shoulders of his character, but i found it impossible to care about either character. the director's attempts to present their awful actions as the numb, unthought-out actions of two disaffected and naive young people were valiant, but unsuccessful; it simply left their crimes seeming insignificant and disconnected from the apparent fact that there was an enormous manhunt on their trail. by the end of the film i was barely watching, and simply didn't care what happened.it's testament to terence malick's growth as a director that his most recent film, the thin red line, was such a masterpiece and such a full, fleshed out study of humanity; from somewhat average beginnings he's come a very long way. "},{"Title":"weird for weird's sake","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie would be a lot better if it didn't try to be so darn weird throughoutan obvious comparison movie would be bonnie and clyde. the big difference being that bonnie and clyde have a purpose.. robbing banks. and both characters, however misguided they might be, still breath the same air as we dothe 2 central characters in this movie (their names do not matter) could quite easily have been beamed down from mars and for this reason the movie lacks credibility. if you really want to purvey a message, then do so with characters (minimum 1) who are sharp and on the buttonit could be considered 'cool' or 'with it' but for me there are far better movies with a similar message around.. rebel without a cause, bonnie and clyde and true romance spring to mind as they are all related to this movie in one way or anotherbadlands itself though is mediocre in my view "},{"Title":"I was very disappointed .","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie which was said to be about a 1 1/2 hour long seemed to be nearly 5 hours . Flushing a toilet is more fun than this movie . Although it did have one of the best fire scenes ever . This movie had too many moments where they're just standing or sitting , not even talking . I was looking foward to seeing this movie but now I must tell if your thinking about renting this movie I say save your $1.50 or whatever you pay for old movies .  "},{"Title":"Would Watch It Again","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Would Watch It Again - This is basically why I hate movies from the seventies. There is no point to this movie, no structure, no plot. It was designed to be carried by the shock of the happenings. In today's life and cinema, that usually adds up to bupkis (like The French Connection - one of the worst movies ever). However, Badlands takes it's pointlessness to interesting areas. It kept surprising me (to a point) and Martin Sheen was FABULOUS as a disturbed disillusioned hick youth. I honestly would have given this a 2 or 1 were it not for Sheen's remarkable performance (and this is coming from someone who usually doesn't really care/notice acting - especially not someone like Sheen). Overall, it was intriguing enough beginning to end to keep me interested, once I got past saying What the Hell? every couple of minutes. "},{"Title":"Badlands","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Terrence Malick (The Thin Red Line), this is seen as a similar film to Natural Born Killers, and it certainly was like that in its day, and featuring in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die it was one I looked forward to. Basically, set in 1959, in Fort Dupre, South Dakota, twenty five year old garbage collector Kit Carruthers (Martin Sheen) and fifteen year old Holly Sargis (BAFTA nominated Sissy Spacek, three years before Carrie) meet each other and quickly become boyfriend and girlfriend. She likes his rebellious bad boy side, and he likes her simple and quiet nature, but Holly's sign painter Father (Warren Oates) does not approve of their relationship, even shooting their dog in anger. Kit and Holly are forced to go on the run after Kit shoot her father dead, and burn the house down, and as they travel across the Badlands of Montana they are filled with massive paranoia. With these feelings come the numerous murders, many people are killed along the way as they hide and run in the wilderness and across the country, and Holly being so vulnerable does not really comprehend Kit's sociopathic attitude. After many crimes of robbery, theft and murder, by the end the couple are finally caught, and with the narration of Holly we find out that Kit was executed, while Holly got probation and married the man who got her off. Also starring Ramon Bieri as Cato, Alan Vint as Deputy, Gary Littlejohn as Sheriff and John Carter as Rich Man. Sheen gives a good performance as the James Dean lookalike rebel who murders because of his unsettled state, and young Spacek is also very good as his love sick and loyal girlfriend, together they make a good early substitute for Mickey and Mallory. The psychopathic rampage is evident in many of the scenes of murders and other crimes, the romantic element of the story is interesting, and based in part on a true story it does convince you, I did prefer the more modern Natural Born Killers, but you have to keep in mind this is older, and I admit there could have been more blood and stuff, but overall it is a watchable crime drama. It was number 50 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die. Very good! "}]