[{"Title":"History in the making","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS ON WHOLE SERIESI'll not say I like this movie - it IS pants, but having seen it recently after all the other 4 in succession I realised something I had never understood before. Some of you might already know this and hence think I'm dumb .. OK, others might disagree with me .. also OK but this is intended for those of you who had the same viewpoint on the series as I previously did.I had thought that the films III, IV and V had simply explained events prior to the first movie but after seeing Battle again, I saw that the past had been changed due to the apes going back in time after the destruction of the earth. Here are my reasons, and the evidence grows stronger as episode 3 progresses to episode 5 Episode 3  In the timeline before episode 1, no talking apes had arrived in the 20th century therefore the past has already begun to change. Cornelius claims an ape named Aldo had been the one who first spoke the word 'No' to his masters. He also revealed the plague of cats and dogs was in another century than the 20th (I forget which).Episode 4  The plague of cats and dogs has already taken place - the bacteria obviously having been brought back from the future by the 3 apes in the spacecraft. Cornelius' son is the ape to give rise to revolution - not Aldo as he had claimed in part 3.Episode 5  The entire film can basically be forgotten except for the ending. The battle scene is particularly useless, having been more like an end-of-episode fight from the A-Team rather than a battle for the destiny of a planet. However, we end with the statue of the lawgiver as Caesar (a chimpanzee), and not one of an orangutan as shown in the first two movies. We also see ape and human children sitting side by side as equals, which is perhaps the biggest hint.For me, this put the series into a new perspective and I appreciate it more now. What had previously appeared to be inconsistencies between episodes turned out to be intended differences.Any comments on the above are most welcome - agree or disagree or just call me stupid for not realising this is blatantly obvious to the rest of you! I apologise in advance for any factual errors I have made due to this being all from memory and no references being consulted.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie...","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely the weakest in the series...but alas...my favorite.  The final human battle to take over what's left of the Earth is good.  One major flaw in the actual battle is when the battle starts we see Aldo and his cavalry charge----then we don't see them again until the battle is over...throwing grenades in the bus.  I had this film on Super 8 back in the seventies (the color 9 minute version) and it was a favorite of the neighborhood. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining sequel","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as I know, this one usually gets a bad rap, but I've always liked it a lot (but then, it was only the second one I saw, right after Conquest). How can you NOT like Severn Darden as the leader of the mutants? (He really walks a line between being serious and funny, being mainly a comedy actor.) And France Nuyen (in probably a smaller part than she'd been used to), as his aide, who's a little like a secretary with a crush on the boss, only in this weird setting. And Austin Stoker (an actor I know from hardly anything else) as McDonald, Caesar's human friend, was very believable. And of course, it was probably the Ape movie with the most well-known actors in ape roles - Claude Akins, Lew Ayres, John Huston, Paul Williams. There's one thing I never completely thought about till the last time I saw it (only days ago) - practically the last moment of the story (apart from the crying statue) does something that almost deflates the message of these movies - after all the endless strife between the apes and humans in these stories, the last thing you see is the little ape jokingly pulling the hair of the little girl. So even in the sequels (not just the original, which does get credit for this), the writers didn't really take the whole thing TOO seriously. "},{"Title":"A review from North America, 2004 A.D.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So the final entry in the Planet of the Apes series takes liberties with the timeline and the plot wanders through other prior installments, but I feel the movie delivers a degree of pathos seldom seen in a sequel. The bookend scenes involving the Lawgiver, John Huston in heavy make up, speaking to a group of schoolchildren--apes and humans--tie up the saga nicely, leaving open the future for more sequels.(Tim Burton in his dreadful remake should have filled in the blanks instead of reimagining a different world of apes. Only my opinion.) Things I like include the character Mandemus, keeper of the armory(Caesar's conscience), the trek to the radioactive city, Caesar's viewing of his dead parents in the Hall of Records and the final ambiguous shot of the movie. The money allocated to Leonard Rosenman's impressive score was well spent. The pop singer Paul Williams display a deft touch for acting in his debut. Try and catch this screen gem on Fox Movie Channel and you will be treated to additional scenes involving the always looming doomsday bomb. And special praise to J.Lee Thompson for delivering more with less.  "},{"Title":"Afternoon type of thing","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This final installment in the series may be a bit corny, but it sure as hell does provide us with some action. Humans and apes are again at war, and as a result a lot of stuff explodes, that's pretty much the summary. The usual philosophic remarks are thrown in, but they just work up to the battle the title promised. The action scenes are pretty chaotic but still look good, especially the scene early in the movie where they enter the forbidden zone/undergrond parking lot works out well. By this time the actors knew what they were making and seemed to be loving it, Claude Akins hams it up like crazy. His portrayal of man-hating general Aldo has one dimension, and that dimension is really built to last. We meet Aldo and he's angry, we see him again later and he's angry, and then finally he's well what do you know, angry. His best scene comes near the ending though, you'll know it when you see it. You can say a lot of negative things about this movie, but boring it ain't. "},{"Title":"Apocalypse Apes Redux","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rarely does the restoration of deleted scenes added back into a film work to its benefit. The Extended Edition of Battle for the Planet of the Apes is one of those rare exceptions. The fifth and final chapter in the Apes theatrical series is generally regarded as its weakest link. It had the lowest budget of all of the films in the series and it painfully shows and looks more like it's a made-for-TV movie. In fact, it feels almost like a pilot for the Planet of the Apes Television Series.The film begins in the year 2670 and is bookended with John Houston as the revered ape Lawgiver reading from the sacred scrolls like a bedtime storyteller. From here the story is told in flashback and the viewer is left scratching their heads by the befuddling logic. Events not clearly explained are left to the viewer to make assumptions or draw conclusions about the contradictory order of events. It must be assumed that a nuclear war had devastated the Earth immediately after the ape uprising in Conquest and somehow only a decade afterward the ape society had unbelievably evolved their verbal powers of speech and intelligence. These facts are inconsistent with Cornelius' explanation of the apes' evolution in Escape in which he explains that the plague that destroyed all cats and dogs occurred some 200 years later than it did in Conquest and that Aldo was the first ape to utter human speech when he said the word No which was spoken by Lisa in Conquest, and that Aldo led the revolt against the humans which was led by Caesar. We can only conclude that the incongruent events in Conquest and Battle are the events of an alternate timeline forged by the creation of the temporal paradox from Cornelius and Zira's arrival in Escape. The apes also adorn costumes similar to the fashions of the ape society from the first film which had evolved over several thousand years but again this is only a decade after their revolt against the humans (one explanation could be that since this story is told as a flashback to ape and human children we are seeing it as depicted by their imaginations as a point of reference). MacDonald in this film is not the same MacDonald who was the Governor's Adjutant in Conquest but rather his brother which is confusing since Caesar appeared to have found a human sympathizer and ally in the MacDonald from Conquest and the only reasonable explanation for the deliberate change of character is that MacDonald is played by a different actor this time, but if you aren't paying close attention, you are likely to miss that inference. Ape City is located in a very lush and hospitable forest area within miles of the inhospitable desert wasteland of the annihilated Forbidden City. Automobiles such as jeeps and school buses still work somehow and were not rendered inoperable by the EMP of the atomic detonation. Radioactive half-life apparently only affects the surviving humans living within the irradiated remains of the Forbidden City and the apes can somehow sustain bombardments of high levels of radioactive fallout for a few hours while they search its archives for a videotape of Cornelius and Zira which also amazingly happened to not be vaporized or magnetically degaussed by the atomic blast. The mutated humans all wear skull caps for the purpose of (take your pick) A.) protecting their craniums from high radiation levels B.) to hide the fact that their hair has completely fallen out due to radioactive fallout C.) to enhance telepathic reception of their now-suddenly mutated telekinetic minds or D.) All of the above.The newly restored scenes with the human mutants and the Alpha-Omega bomb at least help to make some sense of the rather weak narrative and gaps of logic and provide some continuity to the rest of the series. These scenes are significant because it shows the mutants beginning to hone their developing telepathic powers and it establishes the fundamental doctrine of their quasi-religious sect that will worship the Alpha-Omega bomb in future generations. It almost feels more like a direct prequel to Beneath now. Why this subplot was excised is almost as baffling as the film's logic but one reason perhaps is the fact that the film ends with a more optimistic outlook suggesting that the timeline of events were changed when Caesar united the apes and the humans and that the crisis of Beneath may have been averted but it is left open for the audience to decide from the ambiguous tear of the weeping statue of Caesar suggesting that perhaps the fateful events of the future cannot be avoided after all.Battle is definitely the worst of the five apes films but compared to most low-budget sci-fi shlock I've seen, it's really not as bad as it's made out to be, but judged against the superior standard set precedent by the first film it is a quite a disappointment. In addition to the restored scenes, there are few highlights that make the film worth at least a viewing if you have enjoyed watching the other films in this series at all. Of particular interest are the sets of the melted down post-apocalyptic Forbidden City that are just visually interesting to look at, even if the obvious matte paintings were composited into the background. It gives the film a future-coda feel in a way that evokes images of James Cameron's The Terminator but pre-dates it over a decade. If nothing else, Battle was at least influential in inspiring other science fiction films in the genre and was the template for subsequent franchises and was more than influential to George Lucas and his Star Wars mega-merchandising empire that would follow only a few years later and the Planet of the Apes series would forever be buried under its apocalypse and reside in the realm of Saturday afternoon and late-night television broadcasts. "},{"Title":"who could hate this movie?!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is a thousand times better than what these people have said in the past comments! Battle for the Planet of the Apes is such a good movie!In my own opinion, it's not as good as the first movie, Planet of the Apes (1968) but, have anyone ever seen a better 5th movie?? (no) I thought so.it's a beautiful movie, and deserves a lot more than what other people have commented on it. "},{"Title":"Quality-wise this isn't up to movies 1, 2 or 4, but it's still a must for fans","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, by now the series had just about run its course and it was obvious that it would be concluding soon. However, there was one final film for the original series to go and they actually managed to come up with a credible reason for a followup. It was NOT so easy to make movie #3, as the Earth had just blown up and no logical reason could resurrect the series (so, in the 3rd film, they came up with a totally illogical reason!).This film was set only a few years after the fourth film, CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES. Unexpectedly, the new society that Caesar set up after the last film was pretty egalitarian and the humans were not all confined to become slaves--though there were a lot of rumblings from the gorillas who for some odd reason carried a grudge after being tortured and enslaved by the humans! One serious flaw with the film, though, is that although this only takes place perhaps a decade later, all the apes are civilized and can talk, use guns, etc. as well as any of the humans! I am a school teacher and I only PRAY that I get students this smart!! Anyways, back to the review. It turns out that although this society is functioning pretty well, not all the humans have fallen to the apes. Nope. Ignorant and nihilistic humans STILL hold out hopes of wiping out the basically decent apes and re-asserting mankind's hold over the planet. Well, without getting into the complex plot, the film boils down to a final battle with the bad humans. The apes win, but in the process the evilness of the gorillas is exposed, as they murder Caesar's son! It seemed the bad gorillas SHOULD have teamed up with the bad humans after all!! The film concludes leaving the viewer to ponder what will become of the perfect ape society--will it actually degenerate to what it would become in movie #1 or would all the positive changes in this movie avert that awful future and the destruction of the Earth?!? I guess we'll never know.The first time I saw this movie, I didn't like it very much. However, in seeing it again, it had a good plot, acting and was a worthy conclusion to the series.A few points in conclusion it was cool to see the singer Paul Williams as an ape in this movie (it probably took less make-up than usual), there was a short-lived TV series that followed, and if anyone thinks the remake from 2001 was great is an idiot. "},{"Title":"Full circle?","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had big ambitionsthe hero,Ceasar,Cornelius's and Zira's son,has to change the future,like Bruce Willis would have to do a quarter of century later in twelve monkeys -no pun intended-.But the results are not up to scratch,by a long shotthe last two sequels are the poorest of a saga which brilliantly began with Shaffner's classic in 1967(adapted from Pierre -Bridge on the river Kwai-Boulle's absorbing book).One should note than the first five minutes are footage from 'escape from.... which tend to reinforce Ceasar's Christlike nature ;and it's even enhanced by John Huston's patriarch lawgiver (sic) character. And if we consider there are still two or three minutes of footage of escape in the middle of the movie,one realizes battle is really short weight.No character on the screen ( in spite of Roddy McDowall) can sustain interest as Taylor,Nova,Cornelius,Zira,Zaius and co used to do. Better watch the first one again and again,and avoid Burton's remake. "},{"Title":"Missing 10 minutes crucial for film!","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very good film, not anywhere near as good as the first four of the series, but for only one reason. 10 minutes.The Japanese release of 'Battle' contains an extra 10 minutes of footage that I feel is not only important to the storyline, but it completely changes the feel of the film. Without those crucial 10 minutes of footage, the viewer is thus given a somewhat watered down t.v. series type version of the film, originally done to attract a more younger audience. I personally love this film either way, Trust me, before critisizing 'Battle For The Planet Of The Apes', seek out the Japanese release (I have it on laserdisc) and see for yourself just how different (and better) a decent film can become with only 10 minutes of added storyline.  "}{"Title":"Exciting  A blueprint for the television series","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Battle for the Planet of the Apes makes for a fantastic conclusion to the Apes saga. The plot involves morality, revenge and evil, and all this is handled pretty well by director J Lee Thompson. Roddy McDowell establishes himself as the ultimate Ape actor with this movie. His performance as Ceaser this time around is more mellow, but all the more enjoyable. The central plot revolves around the ancient Ape theory that Ape should not kill Ape, just as in real life worlds Humans should not kill Human. McDowell handles the scenes withn the death of his son at the hands of an evil Ape, who goes against the theory, excellently. His portrayal of an anguished Ceasar is a memorable and haunting one. Singer Paul Williams turns up as a friend to Ceasar and the movie contains excellent make-up, matte work and Battle scenes. Battle for the Planet of the Apes would in turn inspire the future Ape adventures in the medium of television. The final shot of the statue of Ceasar crying is well handled, memorable and hopefull. "},{"Title":"Last and lackluster sequel in which mutant humans battle the simians led by Caesar","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Again the Apes along with an underground civilization of mutated human beings living on remains of a nuclear catastrophe . Average and stirring science-fiction movie with a first rate Roddy McDowall and special intervention of John Huston as the Lawgiver who literally disappears in the beginning and re-appears on the ending . This known story is the last and inferior of the primates sequels ; it starts on a culture where simians rule over humans and they are divided in three lineage  gorilla , chimpanzee and orangutan . Humanity has gone awry and Earth has been reduced to a wasteland . Militaristic General Aldo (Claude Akins) wishes humans to be treated as animal of burden and regarded as scum . A couple of chimps formed by the chief Caesar( Roddy McDowall) and his wife Lisa (Natalie Trundy replacing the usual Kim Hunter) think otherwise and even agree a peaceful existence with humans .Caesar is son of Cornelius and Zira from ¨Escape from the planet of apes¨ and was the leader in the ¨Conquest of the Planet of the apes¨ Caesar attempts to ease disputes between apes and men . Meanwhile, an expedition commanded by Caesar , Virgil (Paul Williams) and MacDonald (Austin Stoker ) sets out the forbidden zone where live human mutants ( Seven Darden, France Nuyen among them) who survived a nuclear explosion several years before . The group finds an underground civilization in the ruins of a bomb-blasted city and the battle begins . Meantime , mean gorilla Aldo is itching a coup de état and take over from Caesar and murder every human in sight . At the ending happens a spectacular confrontation between a human army ruled by governor Kolp and the simians commanded by Caesar . This is an average , lackluster sci-fi flick plenty of metaphysical significance with thoughtful reflexion about origin of human being , racism , atomic danger and nuclear catastrophe , though also packs action, adventures, intrigue and entertainment. The performers , particularly Roddy McDowall, Natalie Trundy and Claude Akins are pretty good , the characters are well drawn and in spite of makeup they are still oddly convincing . In spite of time and being mostly a mediocre follow-up of the former stories , some moments of energy remain and turns out to be a B movie full of action, battles and suspense . Writing credits by habitual Paul Dehn from Pierre Boulle novel , however his screenplay is not just clever and was cut , eliminating the violent scenes and obligated to happy end . Acceptable production design with passable sets and great visual effects by means of matte paintings reflecting the ruined city inhabited by mutant survivors . One of the important attributes of this work, is the magnificent and luminous cinematography by Richard H. Kline . Phenomenal make-up by John Chambers, a first-rate expert, such as proved in 'Blade runner, Ssss, Island of Dr Moreau' among others . Sensational musical score by a top-notch Leonard Rosenman though imitating sounds from the great Jerry Goldsmith .The picture is lack budgeted by usual Arthur P. Jacobs , producer of whole saga, in his last film because he suffered a stroke . It's regularly directed by J. Lee Thompson , using sometimes a nice visual sense. It's followed by a short-lived TV series, again with Roddy McDowall . "},{"Title":"That's More Like It! The Tense, Stunning Conclusion To A Big-Screen Legend","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" People have massacred this film, criticizing its choppy length, its performances, and its special effects. But I say bravo to J. Lee Thompson for it-- the man who failed so miserably at Conquest of the Planet of the Apes.Caesar (Roddy McDowall) returns, as does Lisa (Natalie Trundy), his chimpanzee wife, and Aldo (now played by Claude Akins), a gung-ho gorilla who constantly dreams of getting rid of Caesar. Conquest sub-villain Kolp (Severn Darden), now governor of an underground, radiated civilization of humans, is also along for the ride.Were it just for them, this film would be a total bore (except McDowall and Trundy). The one who really stands out in this film is Virgil (Paul Williams, Little Enos from Smokey and the Bandit, which, suffice to say, is not one of my favorite films), a clever orangutan who speaks in terms of scientific poetry and is Caesar's most trusted adviser. Also good are Lew Ayres as Mandemus (keeper of Caesar's armory and conscience) and John Huston as the Lawgiver, who acts merely as a narrator for the film's opening and closing sequences. The story follows the conflict that arises when the underground humans and the ape society discover they each exist.The resulting battle is one of the greatest in science fiction history, a landmark thanks to the special effects people seem to loathe so much for their simplicity. And Leonard Rosenman (composer for the second POTA film, as well) provides a musical score that does this film justice-- a feat unheard of in the series since Jerry Goldsmith's riveting original.Overall, this is one of the best in the series, and a fitting conclusion. And for a series like this, that's good to know. "},{"Title":"A nice ans slow adventure with some vivacious action","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" That is the last episode of the film series. That's the end of the saga and the beginning of the myth. The strangest thing in it is that it is in a way the sequel of what precedes but since it is supposed to be what precedes what was shown at the beginning there is a gap that is un-understandable. It ends with apes and humans being equal and living together but in the first film, one thousand years later the humans had run wild, had lost the power to speak and were nothing but fun game for the apes or decoys for the gorilla ape army. In other words the loop does not close, we are missing one link, and a big one. Too bad this series of five films will have no extra episode to explain the shift. There sure is a remake but that is for tomorrow. Why has that film, or those films had such a tremendous success since the Planet of the Apes has become a sibylline and enigmatic motto in the minds of those who believe in the regression of man and in the progress of all animal species? It probably has to do with the period when it was done, the last 7-8 years of the Vietnam war, the time of the near impeachment and final resignation of a President, the Watergate scandal, the doubt and the uncertainty of a giant that had let's say transit problems and could not find the proper coal to pacify it. The questions are serious but the treatment of them is simple, direct, understandable even by children. It is a series of film done for families and that could be enjoyed, including in its simple humane principles, without real heavy discussion or thinking. Simple principles of liberty, equality, pursuit of happiness, and life. Simple principles and objectives like education and science and trust. And those who did not like the symbolism of the apes could not even derisively laugh at it because then they would appear narrow minded and bigoted. So they can only make it into a motto that is at least double entendre and has at least double meaning. That's like in the Planet of the Apes, with a sneer or a smile, a giggle or a laugh and a big slap in the back or a tap on the shoulder, and everyone gets the meaning they want in the catchphrase, punch line or rebuttal without ever really knowing what is the meaning the person who uttered the sentence actually wanted to mean. That's why it is interesting to watch these films again because they are the lasting testimony to a past period in history and because they are still rather arcane and inscrutable. Enjoy this last episode before the remake, and if you have patience get the DVD of extras and watch them all. 126 minutes of documentary.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Why does everyone hate this film?","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never known anyone say a good thing about this movie! To me it would have been far better if they had never made any sequels, the original movie was on a far higher level than the sequels ever aspired to. It was a ci9nematic masterpiece which I can't praise highly enough. I hated Beneath...it was hammy, boring and dull, with some badly judged humour and really could have been made without any actors in ape make-up, just a standard adventure. Escape had its moments, veering from cringe inducing slapstick to dark moments of intelligence, and Conquest is certainly depressing but badly misguided. Then came Battle. To be honest it looks like a tv movie, has no cinematic scale or visual ambition. What it does possess is compassion, which the other films lack. It tries to end the series in diminuendo, and for me works. The insight into the middle stage between human and ape is fascinating, and the gorillas have the menace again they lacked totally in Beneath. The most fascinating aspect is the ape has killed ape subplot, which is a great piece of moral soul-searching, big budget or not. Lord Of The Flies seems to have invaded the concept somewhere and the movie is pensive and reflective, and the ending is gorgeous. The allegorical tone of the first film is returned, albeit very heavy handed, but the chimp/ gorilla conflict and the school/ war games mixtures made for me a very sensible way of closing the book at long last. It's the only sequel I would dash home to watch of them all. I guess you might say they just joined the human race.  "},{"Title":"Why does everyone hate this film?","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion this film is underrated it is not a great film by any means but is better than Beneath The Planet Of The Apes and Conquest Of The Planet Of The Apes. This is the fifth and final chapter in the ape saga and in my opinion it didn't disappoint the planet is a desolated place, Ceasar wants apes and humans to live together however ape has the edge over man as leaders and the humans fight back... This film stars Roddy McDowell, Claude Akins & Natalie Trundy this film was directed by J.Lee Thompson i recommend this film even though it has a low rating on IMDb it is an enjoyable film so watch and enjoy THE FINAL CONFRONTATION***/***** "},{"Title":"Hail Caesar the King! But Every Caesar has his Brutus","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A point raised by Caesar's enemy, Kolp (Darden in a mustache-twirling snidely elegant turn at maddened villainy), in this 5th and final Apes film. But a king usually has more than one enemy, as Caesar finds, to his grief. A predictable and mostly logical follow-up to the previous Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, this one, like Beneath the Planet of the Apes, stresses sci-fi action rather than any deep themes related to slavery or culture shock. Several years after a nuclear war, we find a surprisingly peaceful yet primitive village occupied by both apes and humans, governed by chimp Caesar (McDowall), who began a revolution in the previous film, as a young radical. Now much older - either about 10 or 30 years older, depending on various sources - he projects a benign fatherly personality. It's not quite paradise though not the slaves as apes were previously, humans have shifted to 2nd-class citizens, despite an image of equality, and tension escalates due to local bully gorilla Aldo (Akins - 'call me by my proper rank, General, huh!'). Then Caesar himself opens the door to other possible problems by visiting a nearby nuked city (obviously the same one from the previous film). There, the human governor from Conquest... has been replaced by his security chief, Kolp, who was bad enough as 2nd in command - now he's bored just sifting through the rubble with his few mutated followers - time to work off the doldrums and teach a clever ape how to show respect.This entry is generally regarded as the worst of the 5 films, if most fans had to pick one, but it's not a complete waste by comparison. There really is a battle at the end, a mini-war between the invading mutants and the village - but then the final confrontation between Caesar & Aldo is slow going. This film is almost like a precursor to all of those post holocaust sci-fi pieces in the eighties (Steel Dawn, etc.). The biggest weakness is that nothing really new is added to the saga. The new character, Virgil (Williams), for example, is a genius orangutan, but he's a retread of the genius chimp from Escape... What this film does, really, is bring things full circle for the 5-film saga, though not in a very creative way. As with the previous film, Conquest..., events that should occur over the course of decades or centuries are depicted in the span of days. The filmmakers got all the old costumes from the first 3 films out of mothballs and outfitted the apes here the same way, against logic. The mutated humans from the bombed out city are the ancestors of the mutants we've seen in Beneath... - they even show the alpha-omega bomb which, though almost detonated here, remains as is until it supposedly destroys everything in two millennium. However, a prologue and epilogue set about 600 years from now with the orangutan Lawgiver (Huston) shows that the future is not set, so now we're left guessing. This movie was followed by the short lived TV series, which took place about a thousand years in the future. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter of a Classic Series","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Ape uprising has taken place so many years ago, and now in 2003 (by my figuring) Earth has went back to a primitive state in the new era of Apes and Humans living together, yet not equal.Roddy McDowall reprises his role as Caesar in this one.  He is more benevolent than in Conquest... in that he is mellowed out and Humans are not as evil as he visioned them in the last film.  McDonald is his Human companion and voice of reason when the anti-Human sentiment comes to his mind.  As in the end of Conquest..., McDonald is the Human advocate for mercy for the Human race.After the Ape uprising an offscrean nuclear war took place, demolishing the big cities of Humanity.  Apes are now the superior race, yet rely on them to teach the Apes grammar and such.  The Humans are subservient to the Apes, yet under Caesar's rule, they are given latitude when they inadvertently revert to the days of old (when the word no is uttered by a Human to an Ape, a grave misdeed in these times).  A general by the name of Aldo seems to harbor visions of seizing control of the Ape civilization and directing it in a way much different than Caesar.Caesar verbalizes his wish to have heard some words of wisdom from his long deceased parents, Cornelius and Zira.  McDonald says it is so since the parents were under surveillance upon their coming to 1970's Earth, and that filmed records exist as to the revelations about the future of the Earth. Caesar immediately organizes a party of himself, Virgil, and McDonald to visit the Forbidden City (which is radioactive due to the fallout of the nuclear war) to learn about his parents.  They go to the archives and find the records they were seeking.  Yet meanwhile, there was a group of survivors that lived in the forbidden city that found out that Caesar was there.  These humans were terribly disfigured due to the vast nuclear fallout.  They recognize Caesar right away and want to gain vengeance for their fate.  Caesar and his entourage flee from the Forbidden City once the Human Mutants go after them.Anything past this will spoil the ending.  This was decidedly the last of the POTA's films, and they left an open ending as to whether Humans and Simians can live together in peace. "},{"Title":"Battle for the Planet of the Apes (1973) **1/2","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here is the final chapter in the PLANET OF THE APES series, and it's one of the most unjustly maligned sequels in film history. Sure, it's easily the least of the five movies, but it's still entertaining and has something to say, which is a quality that's usually missing with most fifth entries of a long franchise, and definitely in science fiction films in general these days.It's now some years after the events of CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES, and we learn that much has happened in the interim; most importantly, man must have pushed a panic button during the subsequent ape wars, as much of the Earth (or at least the North American section of it) has become radioactive wasteland, thanks to the detonation of some kind of bomb. BATTLE FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES centers on one small community of survivors - who are not necessarily supposed to be considered the entire world population, as so many detractors mistake when they like to condemn its small budget - but just a relatively modest group of apes and humans in one specific area who try to re-build their lives in peace. Can it ever be done?Roddy McDowall returns as Caesar, who is more benevolent than he was in CONQUEST, but still has trouble completely trusting humans at this point in time - and even, as he grows to learn, some apes! Probably due to that plague that befell the world decades ago, the simians are still increasing in speech and intelligence at an incredible rate. While apes are the dominant species in this particular neighborhood, humans are treated with at least a moderate amount of respect, except by self-appointed gorilla general Aldo (Claude Akins), who would prefer to exterminate all of mankind instead of tolerating them.There's still a point to the series, although by now it has reached the level of repetition -- will man and ape ever be able to survive together as equals? Not only do Aldo and his gorillas despise the humans of their own village, but a group of mutated human survivors from the old city are still alive and vow to wage war on Caesar's tranquil little town. It should also be noted that there was a very poignant subplot originally filmed which involved the mutants and their devotion to an Alpha/Omega bomb (making these beings the likely ancestors of the ones we'd later see in BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES). Without these scenes, the film isn't as intelligent as it might have otherwise been, and as of this writing the footage has only been made available on a Japanese laserdisc.I think the casting was wonderful this time around. I mean, was Claude Akins perfect for a gorilla general or what? And Paul Williams was a natural for his part as Virgil, the wise little orangutan. John Huston as the Lawgiver and Lew Ayres as Mandemus were also interesting choices.Yes, again the money was still tight for this chapter, so those expecting a huge blown-out, full scale war should be advised that it's more along the lines of ... well, a battle. The movie is supposed to take place in a barren, scantily populated wasteland; why so much more money was thought to be needed under those circumstances is beyond me.As a big fan of the APES films, I waited almost 30 years for Twentieth Century-Fox to revisit this series. There were still plenty of possibilities that could have been explored what other forms of life and civilizations still existed in other locations throughout America? Whatever happened to apes and people over in the other countries? Apparently, none of that mattered to Fox. Like many, I guess they just don't get  this saga. Instead, when they finally got around to making another film it was yet another needless re-imagining that was rushed out with no idea as to what made these films so engaging to those who liked them in the first place. "},{"Title":"Just a few words...","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are plenty of reviews that provide synopses here, so I just have a few comments. I recently caught this film on the Sci-Fi Channel for the first time in twenty years, and I thought it was fun. Personally I think the whole series would've been better if NO sequels had been made. Regardless, I noticed something was missing. I distinctly remember a scene in this film, after the ape-mutant war and after the apes and humans agree on equality in their society, that depicted Mendez and the woman of Asian descent in the Forbidden City playing chess. She looks at her watch or a clock and announces that 72 hours have passed and she has not received Kolp's signal. As per Kolp's orders, she is now going to launch the nuclear missile at Ape City. Mendez talks her out of it, telling her that the missile is the Alpha-Omega Bomb and will destroy not just the ape city, but the world. He tells her that Kolp got what he asked for and that they should stay together and guard the bomb in peace and, thus, talks her out of it, while laying the groundwork for the cult of mutant bomb worshippers we see in Beneath. This scene has been cropped out for some reason. It's a shame, as it really helped with the series' continuity. If any of us are alive in 2067, I'm sure the studio will put it back in for the 100th anniversary slip-cased edition they release. Or whenever they think it will be profitable. Whichever comes first.  "}{"Title":"Least of the series....but still enjoyable","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **1/2  out of  ****For starters, it's true that this film is the least in the series. But it's still enjoyable and it's got values (something we could really use these days). The missing scenes involving the nuclear missile were essential to the intelligence of the film; without them, it suffers. I'm basing my review on the full, uncut edition (as a major APES addict, I have it). If there is a real problem with BATTLE, it's mostly due to the lack of a great story and new blood. Each of the previous films gave us some kind of new direction to explore, whereas this fifth movie is more of a rehash.I disagree about the casting of Paul Williams as Virgil. I mean, was that guy born to play an orangutan or what!? Similarily, I think Claude Akins as gorilla general Aldo was also an inspired piece of casting.BATTLE FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES should be a film anyone can enjoy somewhat, and especially by someone claiming to be a fan of the series. Can anyone tell me what film series has an exceptional fifth chapter? "},{"Title":"Planet of the Apes Series.","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Battle for the Planet of the Apes (1973) was the final film of the Planet of the Apes series. Every film after the first film has suffered from a smaller budget (despite the fact that the films actually turned a profit). The movie takes place years after the rise of the apes lead by Caser (Roddy Mc Dowall) that was beginning to occur in CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES. Years later, Caesar is trying to keep the peace between human and ape and wants their peace existence to continue. But a power struggle in occur between the simians. The gorilla leader General Aldo (Claude Akins) want to take control whilst the chimpanzees want to live with the humans in peace.Meanwhille an uprising of humans who want to return to the old way of life is brewing in the distance. Can the apes and humans continue to live in peace or will dissension destroy everything that Caesar has tried to create? Will the events that occurred in PLANET OF THE APES come to fruition or has it been changed forever? To find out what happens, you'll have to watch the final chapter to the PLANET OF THE APES film series. Followed by a not-so-memorable t.v. series.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A great, must see, movie!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Battle for the Planet of the Apes is the last of the Planet of the Apes sequels. It's a great movie, showing what happened after Conquest for the Planet of the Apes, with their new Ape CityRoddy McDowall, again plays Caesar.It's a great, great, a must see movie! I rate it a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"The fourth & final sequel.","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Battle for the Planet of the Apes starts ten years or so after events of Conquest of the Planet of the Apes (1972) as a nuclear war has decimated human society & the Ape child of Zira & Cornelius who called himself Caesar (Roddy McDowall) has grown up, lead a Ape rebellion against man & is trying to start an Ape city where he dreams humans & Apes can co-exist in peace if not quite equality. Wanting to know the future & how he can change it for the better Caesar learns that the human archives contains tapes that feature Zira & Cornelius talking about the future. Caesar, human MacDonald (Austin Stoker) & wise Ape Professor Virgil (Paul Williams) travel to the archives in the ruined city & find the tapes but also alert a race of underground humans contaminated by radioactivity of their existence, in a decision of kill or be killed the human tribe decide to wage war on the Apes & wipe them all out...Directed by J. Lee Thompson this was the fourth & final sequel to the original Planet of the Apes (1968), recently released on DVD & Blu-ray in a ten minutes longer than the original theatrical version 'Director's Cut' it's this longer 96 minute version that I will be basing my comments on. The film & it's continuity isn't that great but it's sort of fun in a silly sci-fi action sort of way, although within the space of ten years since Conquest of the Planet of the Apes there's been a nuclear war that has wiped out humanity & the Apes have learned to speak plus the ending in which Ape & human seem to co-exist in harmony is definitely at odds with the future that is clearly set out in the original two Planet of the Ape films & maybe it's no great surprise in retrospect that Battle for the Planet of the Apes turned out to be the last one. Although Battle for the Planet of the Apes does alter some continuity it retains some as it sets up the whole mutant human race & the atomic bomb plot from Beneath the Planet of the Apes (1970) & it refers to previous character's such as Zira & Cornelius. The film moves along at a decent pace, there's some alright if workmanlike action scenes & it's watchable but the dialogue which seems to try & have character's say something profound every time they open their mouth's is badly written. The whole role reversal is here again too as the makers try to point out humanities flaws with the story like the dangers of war & not to put animals in cages & stuff like that.The make-up effects look cheap here as the executives at Twentieth Century Fox kept cutting the budget of each subsequent Planet of the Ape film, the original Planet of the Apes had a budget of nearly six million while by the time Battle for the Planet of the Apes was made it had a budget of less than two million. The battle scenes are rather flat & sure there's a few explosions & some gunfire but nothing terribly exciting or particularly well shot.With a supposed budget of about $1,800,000 this looks alright but nothing amazing. Roddy McDowall again stars but this time as Caesar who is the son of Cornelius who he played in the previous films. Oscar winner John Huston has a cameo while future director John Landis has a small role early on in his career.Battle for the Planet of the Apes isn't a total disaster & if you like the franchise then this is worth seeking out, even if your not it does have a few good moments & it entertains although the heavy handed morals can get tiresome as in the rest of the series. "},{"Title":"The War to Settle the Score","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Battle for the Planet of the Apes is the fifth and final film in the original Planet of the Apes series. It was released in 1973 and was produced by Arthur P. Jacobs, directed by J. Lee Thompson, and written by John William Corrington and Joyce Hooper Corrington. It stars Roddy McDowall, Claude Akins, Natalie Trundy, Severn Darden, Lew Ayres, Paul Williams, and John Huston.This movie is a sequel that I do believe requires the viewer to watch Conquest of the Planet of the Apes before watching this film. You'll be able to enjoy it however even if you haven't seen the other movies, but there will be some unanswered questions if you are not familiar with the other Ape films.It's been nine years since the events of Conquest of the Planet of the Apes - Due to so many Ape-uprisings, as well as a nuclear war among humans, the Apes have taken over the world. In a place called Ape City, under Ape leader Caesar's leadership, all Apes have learned to talk and speak English, as well as do many other things. Almost all human beings have been enslaved by the Apes and are kept to serve their needs.Caesar and his human friend MacDonald desire for the Apes and humans to live in peace. However, a militant gorilla named Aldo believes the Apes should become more strict on the humans and that all humans are evil and violent by nature, and must be punished for all their past crimes against Apes. Aldo plots with the other Gorillas to carry out justice.Meanwhile, a group of radiation-scarred human rebels who live amongst each other out in the desert, far away from Ape City and any Apes, and are lead by a crazed, Ape-hating fanatic named Kolp, have plans to invade Ape City, rebuild society, and put the Apes back into slavery. What will happen when two civilizations go to war and battle for control of the Earth?Like the previous Ape films, this one is also anti-racism, and is full of political, historical, and social parables. For example...In Ape City, the Apes (of all ages) are getting educated on a variety of topics such as reading and writing by going to a school taught by a white human man schoolteacher. Because there are no Ape teachers, and because the more intelligent Apes are too busy doing other things to help build the city, Ape leader Caesar had no choice but to bring on a human teacher to do the job of educating the other Apes in basic things such as reading and writing. The school is the final and only place where a human has any type of authority over Apes. There is a moment where the schoolteacher inadvertently says to Aldo - No, Aldo, no! - This is met with shocked silence by everyone - Apes and humans. It turns out one of the first laws enacted in the new Ape civilization was that no human may say No to an Ape. The reason being is because a long time ago when Apes were learning how to be slaves to humans at a place called Ape Conditioning School, one of the things Apes were forced to do was lay down on a table while being electrically shocked over and over again while a recording of a human saying the word No was repeated on a speaker. This was done so that the Apes would learn to fear the word No. And when an Ape became a slave to humans, if an Ape did something wrong, their human masters would shout No and that quickly put the Apes in an act of fear and submission. Humans said No so much to Ape that is scarred the Apes emotionally, and now, in this new society where Ape rules over Man, a human's right to say the word No to an Ape is a highly offensive crime. The year was 1973 when the film was released, which was around the same time Whites and Blacks started going to school together, so I thought the issues in the classroom scene were touching on the topic of the tensions that were going on in schools all across the U.S.A. There's also a scene where Kolp and the mutant humans invade Ape City via a school-bus, which was symbolic of the time when Whites and Blacks were being bused together. The bus is indeed a very symbolical item to appear in the film, and I think the presence of the bus subconsciously reminded audiences of the racial tensions going on in their very country, and gave the scene a more creepy atmosphere for audiences since actual acts of violence were going on, and a school-bus was largely connected to all of it. This is a film that does not tell you who the heroes are or who the villains are, and suggests to you that you think for yourself. When I first watched this movie, I honestly did not know who to cheer for. One of the reasons why I like the film is because it doesn't really pick a side. It let's the viewer have his or her own opinion, and doesn't really tell you who to root for. The film respects it's viewers intelligence.Characters like Aldo and Kolp are both faces of rebellion. Dark faces. Characters like Caesar and MacDonald are the light faces of rebellion. But all four characters are indeed rebels who are against the system, and in most cases, it's always the system that is the true villain. What is the system in the Planet of the Apes films? - Tyranny.All and all, I enjoyed Battle for the Planet of the Apes very much. It is wonderful, and entertaining. It's full of parables that will appeal and educate the subconscious mind. "},{"Title":"The final scene will have YOU weeping with regret!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horrible. What exactly gets this disaster started? There's a conversation that goes something like this Hey, Caesar. You wanna see and hear what your mother and father used to look and sound like? There's a forbidden city not too far from here that has an archive, and in that archive is some footage of your mom and pop doing some interviews and stuff. Wanna check it out? Caesar Cool, let's go! And it's all downhill from there. Two major cities less than a days ride apart and no one knows that the other exists or is populated? Give me a break. When the forbidden city army came rolling out of their ruins in an old dilapidated school bus and a couple of jeeps left over from the old Rat Patrol series I just about keeled over in hysterics. Did those cool goggles, man. I suffered so much brain damage from this film that I find it difficult to continue. An armory made of sticks protected by an elderly ape who administers logic tests to separate the riff raff from the honest weapon seeking populace? A mutant club whose only requirement is that you have a scar? Any scar. Anywhere. Any size. And don't forget those ruby goggles. When the mutants first open fire on a pair of apes it reminded me of something out of Monty Python. The shell explodes right between the two guys who are about 6 feet apart and when the smoke clears they're still standing! A quick follow up shot takes care of those pesky apes for good. The battle, such as it is, is a dismal failure. More of a squad of soldiers trying to secure a choke point than a battle for a planet. Things do go boom, there's some dirt flying in the air and a lot of extras running around screaming but that's about it. There's an extremely heavy handed comeuppance of a murderous ape and even a weeping statue at the end but not one shred of redemption for the time you just wasted watching this piece of trash. I can only wonder why Roddy McDowall agreed to participate in this tragedy unless he was forced to do so under contract with penalty of execution by firing squad if he refused. Here's a suggestion Grab your kid's dolls, dress 'em up like apes and make your own final ape movie. It's gotta be better than this. "},{"Title":"For a Planet of the Apes fan, it's entertaining at best","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, this film has a lot of problems... obviously. Another example of churning out sequels just for money. But even if it was just for money (it was), the film is still very entertaining for a Planet of the Apes fan. It has the great Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter, along with many other famous faces covered behind Ape Masks. The acting is stiff, and the effects are awful, but isn't that what makes this series so much fun? It's something to watch for entertainment. The $1.7 million dollar budget didn't help them, but they tried and that's the important part. The school bus is notorious as an example of the film's minuscule budget. But it's hilarious, and I have to say I love the school bus, despite the silliness. If your not familiar with the series, or have never even seen the movies, I recommend to see them first. Because the average movie goer will not appreciate this Sci-Fi classic. If your looking for some Oscar quality fare, then check out McDowall in Cleopatra instead. But for now... WATCH THE MOVIE LIKE APES! "},{"Title":"Saw it for completeness...never forgot it.","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the forty years since it was made, I understand myself a lot better; and I know why I like this film. John Huston as the Lawgiver is priceless.More than that the Lawgiver has woven into psyche of even the casual Ape fan. Taylor was told about the Lawgiver. The mutants evoked his image in a failed attempt to drive off a gorilla army. Cornelius testedified about him to a Presidential committee. They could have done worse.Battle for the Planet of the Apes is an essay on the craft of making an Apes film.Talent is needed. Roddy Mcdowell never looked better. Claude Akins is a suitable bully.Now fight like Apes! works.I realize it is easy to dismiss the movie, but I believe it actually has a lot more merit than other tales out there. As mere essays go it gets a pass.Hard to do five of anything. "},{"Title":"A new simian world","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this final installment of the Planet Of The Apes quintology, Roddy McDowall has emerged as leader of the Ape civilization and is now trying to create a new simian dominated world. His task not unlike George Washington as our first president. But he's got both human and simian opposition to consider.Severn Darden leads a race of humans in an underground city to which McDowall goes to find out about his own origins. He's quite mad, suffering the effects of radiation, no doubt human kind went nuclear to stamp out the ape revolt.On the homefront a militant and thug like gorilla played by Claude Akins is challenging McDowall for leadership of the simians. Akins is a ruthless opponent, but when he breaks the first new simian commandment, that's his downfall.I have to say I enjoyed seeing both John Huston as the profound lawgiver in the prologue and epilog and Lew Ayres as keeper of the simian armory in heavy ape makeup and costume. Their voices are unmistakable as is Paul Williams playing McDowall's confidante.Battle For The Planet Of The Apes is a fitting end to a grand set of science fiction films. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fifth and last Apes film is set after a nuclear war has decimated the human population, and left them subservient to the surviving apes, who are building their own civilization, and can't decide whether humans will be allowed to live or not, especially after a determined group of militant humans decide to wage war, rather than serve...Unlike the previous two films, this one is less reliant on implausible and contrived plot devices, which is a welcome change; trouble is, it is also less effective dramatically, bordering on the mundane.The extended version on the new DVD is an improvement, since it restores key scenes involving the radiation scarred humans that is quite interesting, but film still feels perfunctory, and inconclusive. "}{"Title":"A cut price ending to an inventive series","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Less a battle for the planet, more a scuffle in a field, the final chapter dangles weakly at the end of a series that kept up a high standard for an unusually long time. This could have been a classic war movie, couldn't it? An ape army and its human allies fight off a desperate attack by radiation-scarred men in the ruins of a post-apocalyptic Earth! But without the budget to do the idea justice, 'Battle' has to settle for a few explosions and some stuntmen somersaulting about. The screenplay suffers from a similar lack of ambition, although the interesting political machinations and xenophobic tension between the humans and the gorillas add some much needed depth. I dunno, it's not a bad film. It wraps up the chronology quite neatly, and it's fun. As the conclusion to a series as grand as 'Planet of the Apes', though, it falls short. "},{"Title":"Well it lives up to it's name.","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was neither disappointed or impressed by this film. being the 5th film in a series, naturally my expectations were not too high. Still, the film never really accomplished anything. It basically is just, a battle for the planet of the apes, as the title suggests. The whole question if time can be changed, and if apes Will rule humans (like seen in Planet and Beneath planet of the apes) is raised but never answered. I guess they wanted to have a happy ending, and decided to leave the question unanswered. Undertsndable, since the first two films have a very grim view of the future, but still unanswered sagas can be a little annoying. So for you who simply want to know what happened to Caesare and his planet of the apes you won't be disappointed. But for you who want the final question answered; will ape rule man and eventually destroy the planet, well you might be disappointed. All it really does is open the door for your own interpretation of what will happen.So I give this film a 6/10. It lives up to it's name, but nothing else. "},{"Title":"Hey, now!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The bomb worshippers from Beneath couldn't be the mutants in Battle.  Beneath was set in the future New York.  Battle was in the future Los Angeles, as seen by the return of Kolp.  I guess they could have hauled it cross-country.I like this movie, like them all, but I think it is the silliest, therefore, worst, film in the series.  "},{"Title":"Missing Scenes","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The last writer is correct in that there are missing scenes in Battle For the Planet of the Apes.  Before Kolp and the mutant army leaves to fight the apes, he shows his assistant Alma the Alpha & Omega doomsday bomb and instructs her that if he should fail to return, she is to fire the missile at ape city.  When Kolp fails to return, she proceeds to carry out her instructions but is prevented from doing so by Mendez and explains why the missile should never be fired, thus laying the groundwork for the future worship of the bomb.This movie is not as bad as some have made it out to be, but it's not a great one either.  It would have been better if Fox had stopped the series at Conquest but with the success of the 4th movie, the execs at Fox got greedy and tried to milk the series one last time.  But like the other writer suggests, the bean counters at Fox cut the budget so much, it was impossible to made a quality film. "},{"Title":"Swansong of the apes","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the unconvincing and rather racist Conquest, this final instalment is a great improvement. It might even be said that the odd numbered POTA films (1,3,5) are the ones worth watching. It is good that this film series should end on a high after the promise of the original POTA which was only intermittently realised by the subsequent films. One is immediately struck here in Battle by the far greater range of character (As opposed to the stereotyped legions of all-white sadists in the previous film) and the greater subtlety with which they are handled, much more in keeping with the original film. In particular the keeper of the arsenal is an interesting character, something of a Voice of the conscience made manifest. Every society should have one. The story is essential that of original sin depicting not the fall of man, but the fall of apes. The sin in question is the breaking of the most holy rule of society ape shall not kill ape. When a militaristic gorilla kills the son of Caesar (Roddy Mcdowell), this great rule is broken for the first, but not the last time. There is also some tension with the mutant human survivors who still live underground. These, although primitive versions of the villains who appear in the second movie Beneath, seem more rounded characters and are written with a certain degree of wit. Indeed, the dialogue through out has a great deal of wit in it which compensates for the lack of action. "},{"Title":"Around and around we go...","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Heres the hardest part of it all to swallow about THIS movie in the series. One MUST take into account that Taylor (Charlton Heston in the first film) and company took off for space BEFORE Cornelius and Zira arrived on Earth a few years AFTER his departure (in HIS ship no less) and change the course of the history yet to be written. They claim it was Aldo who leads the revolt against humanity and establishes the brutal human-persecuting society seen in the first two films.Yet now its their son Ceasar who leads the revolt and establishes the kinder, gentler society seen in the fifth film and its epilogue.Bear in mind that Taylor is STILL in space and will arrive in the 40th century. If he arrives in a world that humans are treated well, he will have no need to blow up the planet, thus Cornelius and Zira will have no need to go back in time and there will be no Ceasar to change the course of history, thus the 'Aldo time-line' will take hold thus provoking Taylor to blow up the world, thus provoking Cornelius & Zira to go back in time have their son who will lead the revolt instead...ad infinitum, ad nauseum...Tim Burton should have considered this when making HIS film and maybe have Taylor (new actor) arrive at his destination point and after some adventures send Cornelius and Zira back in his ship, realizing that this is the only way to insure the movies title; Destiny of the Planet of the Apes. "},{"Title":"Dire","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made it Ma! After the disappointment of previous instalment #4 me and me Mum didn't bother going to the pictures to see this final part at all, but 40 years later I felt I had to complete the circle now (some circle!) and just saw Battle for the first - and last - time. I was expecting worse, but there are plenty of crappier films than this clinker.Caesar, the King of Ape City - which is apparently a rather sparse collection of trees and tree houses and random twigs strewn about &#x96; is encouraged to go on a few seconds arduous trek to the Forbidden City (the radioactive remnants of New York, which is apparently some rather dark boiler rooms and random bits of metal strewn about) by his pair of advisors to view an old videotape of his Mum and Dad talking. He gets to see a couple of clips of it, but the cost of it is that a train of events is initiated leading to a deadly war between mutant (and mad) humans and the apes spurred on by impatient gorillas. Except that the Battle with everyone shouting Kill and Guns is more akin to a tightly packed affray from a Monty Python film or a Monogram mob scene. A key part is the attempted murder and the subsequent death of Caesar's son &#x96; this is poignantly portrayed for 10 minutes but is utterly jettisoned giving the outrageous impression the attention span of chimpanzees must be minimal! The entire film would probably have made a convincing episode from the TV series this incredibly spawned just afterwards, as it is it's almost unbearably drawn out. Maybe a more coherent timeline would have helped those of us ordinary people who had made it this far &#x96; as it stands the convoluted chronology is only comprehensible to dedicated geeks. Did MST3K or Rifftrax ever get round to this one?There are occasional good moments amongst the irritating laughable dross good photography maybe, or some surprising subtlety or acting &#x96; but definitely nowhere near enough for me to recommend you waste a part of your life you might end up wishing you hadn't. "},{"Title":"How not to end a movie franchise...","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all long-running movie franchises, only 'Jaws' fell further in quality between the first and final installments. Both the plot and dialogue for 'Battle' were either aimed at (or maybe actually written by) a bright eleven-year-old, whilst the production values were ridiculously low. Science fiction is a notoriously costly genre, and so we get an 'ape city' which looks like a hastily-erected squatter's encampment and a 'battle' highly reminiscent of a threadbare small-town Civil War reenactment. Yes, the titular 'battle for the planet of the apes' also refers to Caesar's 'peaceful co-existence' scenario versus Aldo's 'conquest is good' mindset, but with such a plethora of 'bad movie' moments distracting the viewer, it is not immediately obvious. In a multi-review site such as IMDb one should always try to say something which hasn't already been said, and to that end I draw your attention to the final scenes, set six hundred years in the future. Absolutely nothing has changed. Frankly, judging from the 'Biblical' austerity of this outdoor 'teach-in', society has actually regressed. Now there's a happy ending, eh?Just as a postscript, it has always amused me that the 'cute, cheeky' chimpanzees were cast as the 'Apes' movies' most endearing and peace-loving characters whilst the gorillas were the violent warlike thugs. In nature it is very much the reverse. "},{"Title":"Not a particularly exciting climax","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So, the series ends with a less than involving action movie. I do admire the director though, who, with a low budget used great economy and ingenuity, to choreograph battle scenes that give the illusion that a movie of a far grander scale had been produced. Like part four, again, for me, with apes as the protagonists, I was less riveted than I had been by earlier installments. 6/10. "},{"Title":"and finally Ape Killed Ape!","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Battle for the Planet of the Apes is a disappointment for what the director doesn't accomplish that he already had so well in his previous installment (the dark veneer is gone, as are any relevant comparisons to the present with any level of satire), and it's the kind of cheese that a little kid will wrap in tiny balls and hurl at the screen whenever it comes upon him to do so. This time it's war! Caesar butts heads with Aldo, a war-monger gorilla with a thick skull and a less than one-sided personality who is reminiscent of the Michael Biehn character in Planet Terror Give em the guns! Give em ALL the guns! And so, war is waged between the straggling humans and the now powerful apes and gorillas. Will there be a voice of reason? The plot doesn't have much cohesion except to make it clear that this one will tie up whatever loose ends there needs to be with the first part, just in case anyone really wants to take notice (of course, there are some more than thousands of years in gap space between five and one, but who's counting). In the most crucial scenes in the picture, where the battle is waged harshest and Aldo has to answer for a horrible atrocity, Thompson only films it adequately enough so that it doesn't ring badly on TV. There are some ambitions in the script, even to include the original Lawgiver, played by none other than the great John Huston. But it's not for much trouble; there's even a lapse of judgment in seeming to put in lots of footage from the PAST films for some reason, which must be attributed to laziness on the writers and editors.Probably on par, if not maybe a smidgen above, the 2001 remake of POTA, 'Battle' doesn't end with a bang, but with a bunch of bangs that amount to the emotional wallop of a whimper. "}{"Title":"The quality of the makeup speaks volumes","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Lawgiver tells the children of the future a tale of the planet earth and the influence of two apes who went back in time and had a son Caesar.  Caesar liberated the apes on earth and brought mankind and apekind together after the war.  However an exploration into the ruined cities brings the apes into conflict with the mutants and the humans get trapped in the middle.The final of the films is the real low point of the series.  The plot here lacks the dark undertones and fatalism of the first two and an attempt to `get deep' at the end doesn't do it alone.  The basic plot is a war between the mutants and the gorillas with the peaceful chimps and loving humans in-between.  The action is average at best and the dialogue leaves no room for subtexts.Worse still is the makeup which has declined far away from the standard set in the original.  Here the actors clearly wear rubbery masks &#150; General Aldo being the worst by miles!  The mouths barely move and certainly don't move in time with the words.  It's a shame but it does show how the standards of the first two films had fallen so far by this stage.The cast are OK but the majority are trapped behind unhelpful masks.  Even John Huston looks trapped behind a mask that almost totally renders him unrecognisable and unemotive.  McDowall continues his monkey madness with yet another role and he's actually quite good.  The human roles are the best as they are free to talk and the mutant leader (Eastham) even manages to get a few funny lines out before all the fighting kicks off.Overall the quality of the makeup reflects the effort put into the film.  The makeup is shoddy and the plot and subtexts are back of matchbox stuff.  There are a few nice touches and it tries to add insight in the last 10 minutes but by then it's all a bit late......mind you it's still better than the remake of the original! "},{"Title":"Lame what if? story","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The last in the original Planet of the Apes film series and easily the worst and least interesting of the lot. Surprisingly, they still managed to draw in much of the same actors, including Roddy McDowall as Caesar, the original smart ape in this timeline.This movie suffers largely from the same problems as its immediate predecessor, Conquest of the Planet of the Apes. It tries to bridge the time gap between the third and the original film, explaining how the events and the world of the original film could have come to be, but it does so wanting to use the characters from the two previous films, which forces the timeline to be too compressed, thus not allowing it to make any sense. Things have happened unrealistically fast, destroying the illusion and making you question the whole thing.But, whereas the fourth film at least had some good characters and a grand ending, this one is just boring. Caesar is barely in it, the villains are boring iterations of characters we've already seen in the previous films and even the battle scenes lack the intensity and scope of the ones before them.Watching the series, you can also really see how the budgets kept getting smaller and smaller with each subsequent film. So you can only imagine how this, the last one, looks. Like so often happens with long-running series, this one ends as well, not in triumph but with a whimper. "},{"Title":"little more than a B-movie remains","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 12 years after the conquest in the previous movie. This is the 5th and last of the original apes movies. Caesar (Roddy McDowall) rules Ape City trying to live in peace with the second class humans. There are two main rules. Apes do not kill apes. Humans are not allowed to say No to apes. Caesar is married to Lisa with a son named Cornelius. His human assistant MacDonald tells Caesar about an archive in the ruined city. They travel to the radioactive city with orangutan Virgil and find Cornelius and Zira's testimony predicting the end of the world by the gorillas in the 3rd movie 'Escape from the Planet of the Apes'. The surviving irradiated humans chase them away. Gorilla general Aldo is barely literate and plots to overthrow Casesar. Human survivors led by Governor Kolp attack the apes.The story isn't too bad but the battle fails the movie. There are problems in tone especially considering the humans are now second class citizens. The movie is able to mostly finesse that problem. The ruin city is weak. It's no more than a bunch of industrial sets. There are some other weaknesses but it's the battle that is truly weak. The humans walking up to Ape City is silly. The apes winning by ape combat is even sillier. The franchise is no more than a B-movie series aiming to wring the last few bucks. "},{"Title":"All Knowledge is Good","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're this far in the franchise you know how campy and dated these films are, but if you liked the first 4 films, there's no reason to not at least enjoy the final film in the series. 'Battle' is definitely not one of the better ones. It's probably the second worst, next to 'Beneath', but there are some redeeming qualities. Of course, now being it 2015, we have seen Dawn of the Planet of the Apes, which is the best Apes film to date, but it also is a loose remake of this film. A lot of the same plot points and story arcs, just executed far better.It's told as a flashback from 600 years in the future by the 'lawgiver' and explains the anguish that the world was in at the time. Apes and humans had split off after the downtown explosion. But even some apes have split off from one another as they have grown tired of Caesar's reign as leader. This is evidently the last time we see Roddy McDowall brilliantly play an ape and it was nice to see his arc come full circle. Humans and apes back in ape city are technically working alongside each other and Caesar, played by McDowall, serves as the link between the two groups. Aldo is an ape who despises the humans no matter their agendas. The fact that some humans survived the radiation back downtown is ridiculous. And the fact that they maintained the cameras and weapons is so far fetched, so I understand if some people cant get by that. The human villain is also very straightforward without any layers so it's difficult to get into the conflict at times. But to me, these movies will always be more guilty pleasure films than anything else. If you don't take them too seriously, they can be a joy to watch.The film doesn't do much to address what's happening globally but it does give us a sense at the future for apes and humans after the film. I found that aspect to be the most rewarding. It's the one thing that the new apes films do so well, is the relationships between humans and apes, and whether or not it's possible to live alongside one another. So even if 'Battle' was a weaker film to end the series on, I think it did the films that came before it justice. It concluded a lot of what was proposed in the first films and even suggested new ideas going forward.+McDowall's last ride +Cool ideas +Concludes the series on a profound note -Battle scenes are dated -Contrived human plot -What's going on globally? 6.0/10 "},{"Title":"All knowledge is for good. Only the use to which you put it can be good or evil.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fifth and final of the original Planet of the Apes series. In between the last film and this one, there's been a nuclear holocaust and the remaining humans are slaves of the apes. Caesar (Roddy McDowall) tries to rule in peace but gorilla General Aldo (Claude Akins) wants to eradicate all humans. While searching the ruins of a city for recordings of his parents, Caesar comes across mutant humans who attack the apes. This leads to inevitable conflict between Caesar and Aldo as to how best to deal with this new threat.The least of the Apes movies is still quite good. It has solid acting and a script with good ideas, although it crams in a little more than it should. This was such a good series and it is, I believe, under-appreciated. Yes the first movie is widely praised but the sequels are rarely given their due. They're all smart, entertaining movies that tell a very interesting saga. "},{"Title":"In the beginning God created beast and man so that both might live in friendship and share dominion over a world of peace.","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Planet of the Apes film franchise closes down with a whimper as budget restrictions, general screenplay lethargy and contempt of familiarity swamps the production. Plot finds the apes and humans trying to live in harmony, but find their efforts stymied by a tribe of mutant humans living in the nuked underworld and a power-hungry gorilla general.What follows is a film that sees various simian and human species throw exposition at each other in the vain belief it's literately smart. When the action comes it's half hearted and perpetrated by the least amount of actors possible. The make-up is shoddy, the fun element gone, while the acting is very uneven across the board. There's enough value in the various characterisations to at least keep fans of the series interested, and the photography belies the cheapness evident elsewhere, but really it's a sad closure to what had been a smartly entertaining franchise. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A satisfactory, if occasionally somewhat uninspired, conclusion to the film series","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A bit of a curate's egg, really. It's definitely the weakest of the original films but it's very good in places. Its first 30-35 minutes and its last 15-20 minutes are definitely the best bits. The stuff in between seems rather listless. On the bright side, Roddy McDowall is as good as ever and Severn Darden is very good as Kolp, the only villain other than Dr. Zaius to appear in more than one of the films. It's a shame that neither Don Murray nor Hari Rhodes returned though as Breck and the first MacDonald are two of the strongest human characters in the film series. Unfortunately, while I liked him in everything else that I've seen him in, I didn't really enjoy Claude Akin's performance as General Aldo. It was far too over the top, I'm afraid. Natalie Trundy, who appeared in all four of the sequels, is very effective as Lisa. Though they only appear in small roles, Noah Keen, France Nuyen and Paul Stevens are very good as Abe, Alma and Mendez respectively.Of the new characters, Virgil (in particular) and the second MacDonald were my favourites. The film also featured very nice cameos by film legends John Huston and Lew Ayres as the Lawgiver and Mandemus respectively. I watched the version which restored the deleted scenes concerning the Alpha-Omega bomb and, while they are both quite brief, their inclusion helps bring the series full circle as it ties in brilliantly with Beneath the Planet of the Apes. It also makes the tear from Caesar's statute all the more tragic / poignant since it helps remind us of the world's ultimate fate. (I've always taken the view that Cornelius and Zira were fulfilling their role in history in travelling back in time rather than altering it).While it would have been nice if the film series had ended on a high, the film is still quite enjoyable, if rather uninspired in parts. "},{"Title":"An all out battle  for what is left.","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The franchise getting ho-hum for some; but this is still fascinating science fiction action drama. Primarily told in flashbacks with the closing battle taking place in 2670 A.D. Ape leader Caesar(Roddy McDowell)wanting to live in peace with enslaved humans is told of a pocket of human survivors...atomic bomb mutations. When the survivors discover the ape city, they actually think they can take back control of civilization. Meanwhile there is inner strife caused by a militant gorilla General Aldo(Claude Akins), who rejects compliance with Caesar's habitation ideals. The strong-minded general wants nothing more than to shatter the peace with an ape civil war. The best sequence is the finale...an all out war between two determined factions fighting for what is left of earth. Cinematography is hard to equal in this the fifth and final episode in the PLANET OF THE APES franchise. Kudos to director J. Lee Thompson and to Paul Dehn for an intriguing story. Also featured in this crowded cast Natalie Trundy, John Huston, Lew Ayres, Severn Darden, France Nuyen, Noah Keen and singer/songwriter Paul Williams. There is even an appearance by famed director/producer John Landis. "},{"Title":"The same thing with a few twists","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Battle for The Planet of The Apes is the final chapter of the Ape series and I must say thank God this is the last one. This film is nothing but all of the plots from the last four movies tied into this movie with a few character tweaks and fighting twists. We start off with Apes and Man living together in peace, something new. But then we meet General Aldo, a gorilla who hates living with humans. Say, didn't we already have a General gorilla in part 2 who hated humans as well? Then we have the great Caeser, his fellow human friend MacDonald, and a smart orangutan named Virgil go to the forbidden city to find tapes of Caesars parents. Now this whole idea of the forbidden city is a twist of the Forbidden Zone from Parts 1 and 2. Then they encounter mutated humans from a nuclear bomb which radiation has turned them into mutants who want to exterminate the apes. And that is a total recycled idea of the mutated monks who praised a bomb in part 2. Then we have ape vs. ape and ape vs. man blah, blah, blah which is what we saw in the last ape film Conquest. Now this film isn't bad but it isn't good either, huge plot holes with Aldo killing Caesers son, and lame ideas. This film gets the big 6, rips off of it's own films but it's good for at least a rental. Enjoy it if you can. "},{"Title":"Great dialogue!","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the dialogue in this movie. Battle is graced with chunks of hilarious, explanatory dialogue and cheesy lines.The black man is the brother of my predecessor's personal assistant (What?... Give me a second while I work that out...)So that they can come back here and exterminate those of us that the bomb has not already exterminated? (Try saying that after a few beers).No wonder mankind thirsted for my blood and wanted my birth aborted! (Hey, nice reminder to the audience of previous events)Who wouldn't? Living in this hell of radiation for all these years. (Ah, so you are one of those disgruntled mutant types, are you?)Poor old Severn Darden as Kolp. You can feel his vocal chords struggling to churn out these clunky lines. Roddy McDowall is as good as ever, though. The cinematography is pretty nice and the score by Rosenman is quite strong. Probably the most emotional of the movies, it's also the most juvenile. "}{"Title":"This movie makes no sense","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers, spoilers, spoilers&#133;I'm really confused about something; evolution. How can the apes evolve so fast? There was no evidence of any genetic alteration or anything else that could have sped up the evolutionary process, so how come all the apes can talk? Only one of them could speak in the previous movie, but his parents had traveled back in time from an era where apes could speak, but that made no sense either since they supposedly had evolved and became more like humans only after an evolutionary period of only 2000 years (still too short). Paleontologists, archaeologists, and science teachers have taught us that it took hundreds of thousands of years for human beings to evolve from primitive primates to what we are today, yet the writers of this and the previous movie expect us to believe that apes only took about 20 years? It seems to me that maybe this movie should have taken place hundreds of years after the previous movie, still not enough time for proper evolution, but at least the movie might have seemed more plausible, then again probably not.Another thing that made no sense was the fact that all the apes in this movie now dressed and acted like the apes from the future; chimpanzees wore same green outfits as Cornelius & Zira did in the first movie and were non-violent, orangutans wore the same orange outfits as Dr. Zaius and were the keeper of history and were very knowledgeable, and gorillas wore the same black outfits and were very violent. The writers are implying that the social evolution of the ape population took only a few years and that structure will remain unchanged for the next 2000 years, to the time when the first movie took place. Wouldn't the style of clothing and the social structure of the ape society take longer to evolve? The changeover from the apes in the previous movie is just too drastic. Costumes from previous movies were used instead of creating ones that would have been more appropriate for an evolving society, and the social structure of the apes would probably take generations to change into the way it was in the first two movies.Another low-budget aspect of the movie was that it seemed like most of the outdoor shots were filmed in the same forest, it just looked really bad.One final point; there are other movies that do this but this movie was just too obvious; what was going on around the rest of the world? The final scene of the movie was supposed to be about 500 years into the future, a historian was teaching the events of the movie to a class of children. It was implied that those events affected the entire world. This movie focused on a small group of humans & apes that never seemed to expand beyond a 50-mile radius, were those events supposed to affect what happened in other parts of the world? And if so, how? The world is a big place and I would think that without the technology needed for global communication there would be a rise of many different civilizations that would handle the situation between humans & apes entirely different. Even today with all the technology that helps link the world together there are still vast differences in culture, religion, and the simple way that different communities live their lives; we have never been able to achieve global unity, so I would suspect that in the technology-deprived world of the `Planet of the Apes' the cultures from around the planet would be even more diverse.  To me it was just a pretty bad movie, bad plot, bad everything; it was just a bad way to wrap up the series.  "},{"Title":"Ends Series on a Low Note","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Battle for the Planet of the Apes has a very well deserved reputation as the worst (by far) of the four sequels. It's so, so sad to see this great series reduced to a few people in ape masks running around a tree house. The plot is boring in its own right and adds nothing to the overall series arc. Even the portentous title is an insult - Rock Fight for the Village of the Apes would have been more honest.This movie could only have been released in the completely cynical hope that some children would be willing to see ANYTHING that seemed to offer a continuation of the series. "},{"Title":"Ape has killed ape","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this film a slightly higher rating than Escape From or Conquest Of based only on the ape has killed ape subplot.  I am still fascinated by the power struggle between Caesar and the gorillas, and made this film stand out for me.  Beneath is still the best of  the rest.  "},{"Title":"Hate this movie!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I conclude my original PLANET of the APES film series review, with the fifth and final film, BATTLE FOR THE PLANET of the APES.After the success and mixed reaction of CONQUEST OF THE PLANET of the APES, Fox said that this would be the last film in the original series of the APES film. J. Lee Thompson returned as director. Series writer Paul Dehn submitted a treatment, but illness forced him to leave the film before completing the script and John William Corrington and Joyce Hooper Corrington to write the screenplay. This film also continued Conquest's focus on racial conflict, like the other two films for me.BATTLE follows Caesar as he leads the apes and their human subjects after a devastating war that destroyed much of the planet. He contends with both an attack by radiation-scarred human mutants and a coup attempt as he attempts to build a better society for both apes and humans.This story is actually, along with BENEATH THE PLANET of the APES, is the second worst of the series. While I like the direction of this film, I could not stand the way the story was written out. The Corringtons just took this story and ruined it in the best way that they possibly can.The make-up and effects -- this was the only movie for me that I think that none of those are really great -- the filmmakers had only a small budget of $1.2. million dollars and that is just cheap. The make-up is stupid, and the visuals are cheesy and out of place.The music in this film was terrible and the pacing of this movie is short, but is way too short. The movie is supposed to be an hour and something minutes long but this movie is just crazy and awkward in the whole darn thing.The acting is just dreadful. Only credit that will be given is to Roddy McDowall as Caesar, he does a great job. The other actors is just out there and makes very little effort to put on good performances. The only performance kind of worth mentioning is John Huston as the Lawgiver, but even then his performance is physically over-the-top.So, overall, I hate BATTLE FOR THE PLANET of the APES as well and this is getting a 2.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hate this movie!","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I conclude my original PLANET of the APES film series review, with the fifth and final film, BATTLE FOR THE PLANET of the APES.After the success and mixed reaction of CONQUEST OF THE PLANET of the APES, Fox said that this would be the last film in the original series of the APES film. J. Lee Thompson returned as director. Series writer Paul Dehn submitted a treatment, but illness forced him to leave the film before completing the script and John William Corrington and Joyce Hooper Corrington to write the screenplay. This film also continued Conquest's focus on racial conflict, like the other two films for me.BATTLE follows Caesar as he leads the apes and their human subjects after a devastating war that destroyed much of the planet. He contends with both an attack by radiation-scarred human mutants and a coup attempt as he attempts to build a better society for both apes and humans.This story is actually, along with BENEATH THE PLANET of the APES, is the second worst of the series. While I like the direction of this film, I could not stand the way the story was written out. The Corringtons just took this story and ruined it in the best way that they possibly can.The make-up and effects -- this was the only movie for me that I think that none of those are really great -- the filmmakers had only a small budget of $1.2. million dollars and that is just cheap. The make-up is stupid, and the visuals are cheesy and out of place.The music in this film was terrible and the pacing of this movie is short, but is way too short. The movie is supposed to be an hour and something minutes long but this movie is just crazy and awkward in the whole darn thing.The acting is just dreadful. Only credit that will be given is to Roddy McDowall as Caesar, he does a great job. The other actors is just out there and makes very little effort to put on good performances. The only performance kind of worth mentioning is John Huston as the Lawgiver, but even then his performance is physically over-the-top.So, overall, I hate BATTLE FOR THE PLANET of the APES as well and this is getting a 2.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"doesn't make any sense","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just began watching this and I already feel compelled to complain about it. As I've been making my way through the Planet of the Apes series I've been more and more disappointed as the acting gets worse and the plot more stupid. The original was great and in now way needed any sequels regardless of how much demand there was for one. However, Hollywood insisted, as they do, to rake in the cash at the expense of quality and Battle demonstrates this the best. For one it completely betrays the previous film from the get go and defies all logic no matter how suspended your disbelief is. How can it be that only a few years after the ape uprising every single ape can speak perfectly? OK fine, fine they just can I can accept that, they evolved whilst serving humans, learnt from them etc.But let me ask you this Virgil, now he is obviously older than Caesar, the film makes that pretty clear. Virgil is like a professor Einstein character. Now, if based on Caesar's son's age, which I'm going to say is about 10 and given that Caesar is the first talking ape how on earth can a character like Virgil come about in that time? Furthermore, who is this even older ape who guards the weaponry that apparently taught Virgil when he was a boy? Battle asks us to completely ignore the previous film if we are to believe there was an ape society in which Virgil was raised and taught by that older Ape (I can't be bothered rewinding to get his name).Yet Caesar is presented as being at most middle aged and so younger than the two of them yet also the first talking ape. I'm sorry to be one of those people who de-construct too much but this detail is too much and shows how weak this film is. You know, really good film or literature or art in general, when it creates mystery and intrigue, doesn't just go ahead and dissolve the enigmatic elements that make it attractive in the first place by spoon feeding us all of the answers. The Planet of the Apes sequels not only sell out but they do so in such poor form. "},{"Title":"Planet Of The Apes Sputters To A Close","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's truly a shame that the original Planet Of The Apes series had to sputter to such a sad close. The previous four movies (while there had been a decline in quality since the magnificent first instalment in 1969) had all been enjoyable and interesting. Then someone decided they had to make a fifth, apparently for the purpose of explaining what happened in the years following the ape revolt depicted in Conquest. Opening with a long and totally unnecessary narration by The Lawgiver (an orangutan played by John Huston) which offered little more than a compilation of clips from Escape and Conquest (and which establishes that this is a flashback type of movie, a story being recounted by the Lawgiver to ape and human children of about 600 years in the future) the movie never really hits a stride of any kind. Broadly speaking, there are three story lines holding this together - tensions between the various apes, as the gorillas yearn for power; the challenge of working out the place of humans in the society; and the war that breaks out between the human mutants and the apes (the human mutants in the city seem to be a forerunner to the events of Beneath.) The level of interest contained within the three stories is probably in that declining order. And underneath it all, the whole thing rests on a foundation of implausibility. Really, in evolutionary terms not much time has passed since the events of Conquest but these apes can all speak? And they've learned to ride horses?Roddy McDowall - as always in the Apes series - offered a fine performance as the chimpanzee Caesar, the son of Cornelius and Zira from Escape and the leader of the ape rebellion in Conquest, who's now a sort of benevolent dictator of the Ape City, whose position is being increasingly challenged by the gorilla leader Aldo (Claude Akins.) Severn Darden recreated his role as Kolp - head of security for the humans in Conquest and now the Governor of whatever is left of the city which has been devastated by a nuclear bomb, but I frankly found the issue of the battle between the apes and the mutant humans lacking and irrelevant. The battles going on within Ape City (the other two issues I mentioned above) were probably enough to keep the movie going and should have been better developed.This really was a sad ending to what had been a good series of movies to this point. "},{"Title":"The final and poorest entry in the Apes series","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As the 'Apes' series progressed the quality of the product deteriorated each time, from the excellent original movie all the way to this decidedly inferior entry. The main problem seemed to be that the budgets of the sequels were slashed every time, resulting in 'Battle' having a very cheap feel to it. The make-up is noticeably poor and the sets are very unimpressive &#x96; the Ape City appears to be a few huts and fences in a woodland plain. The final confrontation that the title of the film promises proves to be an underwhelming affair too. It's more of a skirmish between two small groups. All-in-all the whole production suffers in every way from a lacklustre feel.The story is set in a post-nuclear world. Apes and men still live side-by-side although the cracks are beginning to show. An expedition to the ruins of the old city results in mutant-men seeing and following our heroes with the intention of wiping them out militarily.It's certainly a watchable film in a Wednesday afternoon kind of a way. But it isn't anything very good at all. The action scenes are tagged on and don't have any real urgency about them; while the dramatic conflict between the aggressive gorillas and the peaceful chimps and orang-utans is not particularly well done. And in one scene a young chimp dies from falling from a tree but judging by the height of the branch in a subsequent scene he must've fallen all of two-and-a-half metres. It's daft.This is surely a film for 'Apes' completists only. "},{"Title":"I weep at the thought of John Huston in an ape-suit","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" You would think that any movie that could get John Huston to put on an ape-suit would have to be pretty good, wouldn't you? I mean, if you're John Huston&#x85;you wouldn't dress up like a big monkey just for a paycheck, right? You'd have some sense of artistic credibility or at least dignity, and you'd only do something like that in service of a worthwhile story, right? Sadly, that's not right. Battle for the Planet of the Apes is a genuinely horrible film and everyone in it, from John Huston on down, had to embarrassed to be part of it. Let me put this clearly. The fifth Planet of the Apes movie is so bad, it makes Rocky V look like The Empire Strikes Back on the quality sequel scale. While watching it, I desperately wished to be sitting in the Satellite of Love with two smart-ass robots beside me.It's almost too depressing to tell you the plot of the film, because there barely is one. Caesar (Roddy McDowell), who led the ape rebellion in Conquest of the Planet of the Apes, and a group of apes and humans somehow survived an atomic war and have created Ape City. Caesar is told by a human he can find information about his parents and the destiny of Earth in the bombed out Forbidden City. They go there, get ambushed by the radiation-ravaged ancestors of the Mutants from Beneath the Planet of the Apes, and flee back to Ape City. The mutated humans launch an attack on Ape City and&#x85;ugh. I can't go on. It's so stupid. Ape City? This is a comic book movie, both in the classic sense of being poorly and shallowly written and in the modern sense in that it solely exists in service of Planet of the Apes continuity. There's really no point or issue of the human condition being explored here. Somebody in the studio just decided they wanted one final Ape movie for theaters and didn't give a damn how much it sucked. The writing is pathetic. The acting is almost uniformly bad, including an astonishing poor performance by the mutant human leader (Severn Darden). He emotes like he was playing the fussy country club director from some forgotten Caddyshack rip-off. And the sets and the make up and the costumes look like they were purchased with the change scrounged out from between the cushions of some producer's casting couch.But even in this disgusting, hail-belching cloud of a movie, there is something to be learned. Being an actor, at its root, is a soul crushing existence. Not only does John Huston put on an ape suit for this piece of crap, but Roddy McDowell has to suffer through the entire film. I don't know how much he got paid but it couldn't have been enough. The original Planet of the Apes is a great movie. Beneath and Escape are very good and even Conquest is okay, if really over the top. McDowell was in those movies. He had to have remembered how good they were and he had to have known how atrocious this was one even while he was filming it. How would you like to do something, something of quality, something people loved, and then seen that something reduced to garbage. And then you're paid to role around in that garbage. This movie reminds me of how happy I was that Jodie Foster didn't star in Hannibal, the sequel to The Silence of the Lambs. It makes it so much easier to forget about the awful sequel and just cherish the wonderful first movie.There is one more interesting thing about Battle for the Planet of the Apes. It's G rated. There's shooting and explosions and people get killed, including an ape child, but it gets the same rating as Disney cartoon. I'm not sure if that says something about how warped our present standards of family friendly material have become, or if it says the people of the early 1970s were so stupid that they thought dressing people up like Apes automatically made it a kiddie flick.To sum up, this is an awesomely bad movie. If you turned it into a drinking game and took a shot every time there was a bad line of dialog or an actor resembled a block of wood or you saw a set that looked like something a vagrant child might build in your backyard or witnessed an ape mask actually worse than the ones kids used to wear for Halloween&#x85;you'd be dead of alcohol poisoning within 30 minutes. "},{"Title":"Worst of the Bunch","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just re-watched all five of the POTA movies. The first one is still shocking, even though you know the ending and it has become part of film folk lore. Second is good, third OK, fourth pretty bad and this was terrible.Lousy plot. Low budget, plot holes the size of Texas. The script lacks suspense, drama or anything of interest. It is supposed to take place after Conquest of the Planet of the Apes which was set in 1991, yet Ceasar is still around in the year 2760? The first three built on each other, added new twists which made them interesting. All five are very anti-war, preachy about humans are cruel and destroy nature, but by the time you get to this one, you just wish you had been on earth went it blew up in the second film.I likes the title one of the other reviews used - Don't Apes throw this stuff around? This is for hard core, I must see all five POTA film fans only. "}{"Title":"Don't apes throw this stuff around?","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is pretty bad, on so many levels. I just watched it tonight, and it's much worse than I remembered.The Apes movies were a staple for my family when I was a kid. We would see them at a drive in when they came out, and it was a ton of fun. However, we stopped after Escape as they were quickly becoming foolish. My friends and I joked around about Escape after we all saw it. It was amazing how quickly the series drifted from the first movie, which was just so fine.The film plays like a TV movie. Forget about stars like Maurice Evans or Kim Hunter. Heck, Paul Williams is short, let's throw him in there. Gunsmoke has canceled and Claude Akins is tired of Quinn Martin guest roles let's get him--and that other chick that keeps playing whatever bland female character we need at any given moment. Great! I won't go on about how timelines don't work for this film, as other writers have covered that. I can overlook that, I guess, but the bad production values are what I can't handle.The burned out city looks like a matte painting, and not a good one at that. As soon as the director gets a chance, he moves the action into obviously an underground parking lot somewhere and a boiler room with some monitors and old equipment thrown around. All the costumes are haphazard. For vehicles for the Battle of the entire PLANET if you can believe that, are a couple of jeeps and a SCHOOL BUS. All the seats are still in the bus because God forbid they take the time to pull a few seats and put in some equipment or machine guns. All the cannons and mortars look like plastic piping. The bad guys wear ski goggles.The big battle is all shot from essentially a few positions, within about 50 yards, and the same tree is shown blowing up multiple times. Somehow an entire ape city is basically 5 treehouses, a pen and a few huts. The battle also includes explosions the diameter of a paper plate, smoke, and people shooting at each other and missing completely. Then somehow the apes are all able to play dead (all escaping injury I guess) for a trap. If you're not laughing by then, you will be after McDowell blurts out Now...FIGHT LIKE APES! (But no, don't kill anyone! I swore I caught McDowell more than once rolling his eyes). There are a lot of close ups and moving camera tricks to hide the fact that the whole thing was shot in a small area. The humans are meanwhile in a tent made up of twigs, like you couldn't just walk out of there. Since there are only a few gorillas with knives at the beginning of this dreck, what kept the humans under their thumbs? A few hours of clever planning by the humans, a little poison in the food of the gorillas, and that takes care of that. Heck, I think if you shot just Aldo that would have done it.Someone in the Comments section said, watch this like it's a Saturday morning cartoon. I couldn't agree more. It's like bad TV, with the budget to match. Only McDowell and Austin Stoker rise to the occasion on this turkey. "},{"Title":"The final nail in the coffin...","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard- if not downright impossible- in this day and age (when science fiction movies are being cranked out with alarming regularity and an even more alarming lack of imagination, and the Sci-Fi Channel- or, the other Military Channel, as I like to think of it-showcases almost exclusively poorly done Canadian crap that has nothing to do with anything in any way science-fictional, and STAR WARS is often cited as the height to which the genre aspires) to convey the feeling of utter helplessness- and hopelessness- that overwhelmed die-hard fans of the PLANET OF THE APES series when BATTLE FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES hit the Big Screen. It was a turning point for some of us. We realized, at that moment, that the franchise (if not the genre itself) was dead in the water. The follow-up (the TV series, which was just as bad) set it in stone PLANET OF THE APES was no longer a viable vehicle for compelling storytelling. Fortunately, rumors of their demise were premature (though it got real quiet at the annual PLANET OF THE APES fan festivals for the next three decades or so)... The greatest mystery of all may be why such a successful franchise was resurrected just a few years ago, only to be abandoned yet again. "},{"Title":"The Series Ends, Not with a Bang but a Whimper","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strictly speaking, there was only ever one sequel to Planet of the Apes, Beneath the Planet of the Apes; the next three films in the series were all prequels rather than sequels in the true sense. Escape&#133;. told the story of how two intelligent apes, Cornelius and Zira, escaped the destruction of the Earth at the end of Beneath&#133;. and travelled back in time to the 1970s. I have never seen Conquest&#133;.., but understand that it is also set in the late twentieth century and tells of how the apes were enslaved by the humans and how they rose in rebellion against their human masters.Battle&#133;. is set a few years after the events shown in Conquest&#133;.. The world has been devastated by nuclear war. The surviving apes are living together with humans in a settlement known as Ape City, ruled over by their enlightened philosopher-king Caesar, the son of Cornelius and Zira. (Caesar is played by Roddy Mc Dowell, who played his father Cornelius in earlier episodes). Although Caesar hopes that apes and humans can live together in peace, the humans in Ape City, although not actually slaves, are treated very much as second-class citizens. (One of the city's rules is that an ape can say no to a human, but a human cannot say no to an ape). Living beneath the ruins of a devastated New York are another group of humans, aggressive mutants, presumably the ancestors of those shown in Beneath&#133;...All the Apes films touched on two of the major issues of the sixties and seventies, race relations and the fear of nuclear war. Battle&#133;.. can be seen as a Cold War parable, with the apes representing the USA and the mutant humans the Soviet Union. Like Cold War America, ape society is divided into hawks and doves. The hawks are the gorillas, the apes' warrior caste, who fear and distrust humans. The doves are the more liberal, tolerant chimpanzees and orang-utans. (In Battle&#133;.. the chimps are the rulers and politicians in this society, the orangs the scientists and philosophers; in the original Planet of the Apes it was the other way round). Governor Kolp, the leader of the mutants, wants to wipe out the apes in order to reclaim the planet for humanity, but even on the mutant side there is one individual who speaks out in favour of peaceful co-existence.The film begins and ends with sequences set about seven hundred years in the future, showing humans and apes living peacefully together as equals. This suggests (unless one goes along with complex theories about alternate timelines) that there should have been a sixth film in the series, one showing how the humans degenerated from partners and co-equals with the apes in the twenty-seventh century to their brutish, inarticulate slaves in the fortieth, when Planet of the Apes is set. In fact, Battle&#133;.. was always intended to be the last film in the series and was actually advertised as such. It was clear that by 1973 the franchise was on its last legs and the studio had lost interest. Battle&#133;. was obviously made on a very low budget; the ape make-up is less convincing than in the earlier episodes, Ape City, despite its grandiose name, is no more than a rustic village and the final confrontation between the apes and the mutants looks less like a battle to decide the destiny of a planet than a punch-up between two gangs of hooligans outside a pub after closing time. McDowell is the only big-name actor left, the likes of Charlton Heston and Kim Hunter having jumped ship long before. J Lee Thompson, who earlier in his career had made films as good as Ice Cold in Alex, Tiger Bay and Cape Fear, could do little to hide these deficiencies. Despite some philosophical discussions between Cornelius and the orang-utan Mandemus, and some speculation about time-travel paradoxes, the script is trite and banal. The film has little of the depth and complexity of the original Planet of the Apes, or even of the tragic-comic Escape&#133;.., although it is perhaps slightly better than Beneath&#133;&#133;. It is perhaps as well that a sixth film was never made.Heston had hoped that the final, cataclysmic explosion in Beneath&#133; would put an end to the series; he disliked the idea of even one sequel and it was only with great reluctance that he was persuaded to appear in it. Instead, the final image in the series is that of the statue of Caesar, now revered by the apes as a great hero, with tears trickling down its cheek. These tears are ambiguous; they can be interpreted as either tears of joy that apes and humans are now living in peace or tears of sorrow because he knows what the future holds. It can be said, however, that the Apes series really did end not with a bang but a whimper. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Bits and Bits","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Movie was interesting. I found bits of it incredibly stupid, and bits of it quite entertaining. The movie could have done way better if the ape leader Ceaser did not have a son. It also didn't seem right that most apes were peace with humans, and then all of a sudden come these goofy Mutants that drive a school bus who all the apes despise. I found that the characters (beside Cesears son and the mutants) were the best part of the movie. The battle scenes are about a six out of ten and the acting is about a 5.5 out of ten. The story is simple but incredibly weak at times and it is kind of dumb when the mutants who lived in a melted city start battle against the apes just because they find Cesar who is trying to find his famed parents Cornelious and Zira along with his human friend and his orangutan ape friend Virgil played by movie composer Paul Williams evade there precious burnt city. It is a movie worth seeing if you are a major planet of the apes fan otherwise I would stick with the first two. "},{"Title":"A great let down.  Plot just makes NO sense!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh dear.  Perhaps that should be uttered again.  Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear. This unnecessary and badly structured film is the weakest and most disappointing of the whole apes series, and falls down in almost all the areas that made the original a success.  In fact, if you forget the other sequels and look at the original and 'Battle' together, one might be forgiven for thinking that 'Battle' was no more than a very badly made spoof!The plot logic, already strained in the series, evaporates totally here. The story portrayed by Cornelius and Zira in 'Escape' of the Apes revolt was altered to better suit the needs of the fourth film, 'Conquest', but this ramshackle nonsense in the 5th entry leaves no plausible link to the first film.  Apes and humans reconciled, the world happy ever after.  Please! Where is the dark satire and menacing plot lines that made the first films great.  Where is the indication that man really does fall from grace, loose the powers of speach, and see the apes rule over a nuclear smashed world? The whole concept of a nuclear war fought (off screen, described in the introduction) between the world's superpowers while the apes were in rebellion is ludicrous in the extreme.The nonsense plot includes too many inconsistencies to list.  Most obvious of all - why have the mutants always stayed in the city, when they are so keen to leave?  Having been impressed by all of the previous entries in the series, I was very disappointed with 'Battle'.  It's upbeat ending, ultra-low budget, naf moralising and farcical plot showed clearly that the series should have ended with Conquest.  The even weaker TV series that followed Battle demonstrates these same problems all over again.Despite all of this, the film is not totally without merit.  The idea is fine, and good performances from the leading players helps to salvage something.  Leonard Rosenman's stunning musical score is perhaps all that emerges from this disaster unscathed.  The saddest thing of all is that if the same budget, thought, and attention to detail as were used on the original had been used here then I think a fantastic film could have been made.  As it is, we are left with an unsatisfactory mess, which ends the series on a bad note and is totally unnecessary.  Pity, that.  "},{"Title":"Ape has killed ape. Ape has killed Ape. Ape has killed ape. Ape has killed ape. (Repeat ad nauseum)","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MINOR SPOILERSFor the final Apes movie writer Paul Dehn carved a story whereby apes battled inhuman mutants for supremacy in a ravaged city. Well, he was born in Manchester after all. Unfortunately, despite penning one decent sequel and two very good ones, the producers weren't satisfied with the final product and called in John William and Joyce Hooper Corrington to fashion the screenplay from Dehn's storyline. Big mistake. The dialogue in all of the Apes movies, never their strong point, ranged from profound to pretentious, minimalistic to trite, often in the same scene. Here, however, it's just childish and inept all the way through.J. Lee Thompson, who did such a good job on Conquest, struggles gamely to create battle scenes on what is less a planet, more my granddad's allotment. Of course, it doesn't help matters that the whole thing is shot in broad daylight, as opposed to Conquest's nighttime. If the film succeeds in one way then it's as a direct lead-in to the ropy TV series. Produced five years after the original, yet on less than a third of the budget, the penny-pinching makes it look like a TV movie. Particular note must be drawn to the matte paintings that look like... matte paintings.Perhaps what really rankles is that the whole thing is so unnecessary. The entire logic of the series was already tied up in knots, but this pointless money-maker binds it further. There's really no purpose, nothing to say, the allegories meted out in garishly unsubtle fashion (Hasn't your father explained to you that war is not a game?; I guess you might say they just joined the human race) and the uninspired A to B plotting defies the description simplistic. It resembles one of those wargame recreations down the local park, with a plot written by a three-year-old. It's all so perfunctory, one last gasp to milk the final cent out of a once-proud franchise.A reappearance from the mutants is a decent, if derivative idea... if this wasn't set before they had scarred faces or telepathy. Isn't that a bit like having a Long John Silver film before he lost his leg and developed a taste for parrots? The mutants amble aimlessly around, dressed in black like some middle-aged, overweight S & M fetishists. Check out this opening mutant dialogue Governor's very irritable lately. Who wouldn't be, living in this Hell of radiation for all these years? Oh, thrill to the functional banality of it all! Joy to the exposition!In fairness, the scenes shot in the mutant colony are better than most, all skewed angles and encroaching darkness. Only when they break out for the anticlimactic battle (I've seen rowdier tea parties) do things get laughable. It's almost as if the two segments were filmed by different directors. The sheer mundanity of the actual battle is enlivened by a twist, though one which would be obvious to anyone who's seen Goldfinger. Continuity-strangled, watched in direct conjunction with the other Apes films it doesn't seem as bad, even reaching the giddy heights of mediocrity. Watched as a stand-alone film, where even its minimal pay-off becomes invalid, it's a washout.Acting-wise, Claude Akins does well with his extremely limited role as Aldo (We &#150; want &#150; power. Guns &#150; are &#150; power is one of the lines he's forced to utter), though Virgil must be the most irritating Orang-utan ever. And I never realised before that the character Austin Stoker plays is supposed to be the same MacDonald as portrayed by Hari Rhodes in Conquest. What, he was bland and dealt out fatuous platitudes in that film, did he? Battle's sheer inability to present any character, situation or thought that hasn't already been done to death in the first four movies makes it feel like a fan's writing of what an Apes film should be, rather than a professional endeavour.Movie closes with a shot of a statue crying. It's meant to be profound, but in context it's merely ridiculous. "},{"Title":"D.O.A.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film had potential and again failed because of the budget cuts from the bean counters.  It was childish and cheap.  I think I recognize the bus they used on this film as the same one used in the MASH TV series. There were a lot of left-overs and loose themes floating around in the plot.  The human mutants were mis-directed badly.  They could have saved the movie from earning such a poor rating.  The work here was awful.  It must have intentionally been done this way to end the film series, because it did.  "},{"Title":"Worst Mess of a Script Ever","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I see the point here is that Ceasar knows from his parents that the earth is going to get destroyed. The only positive note here is that he wants to prevent that. The trouble is this film totally screws up the time line and muddies up the results of a nuke war. The only thing consistent is the ruins of NYC.After the earlier films, it is difficult to explain where of a sudden all these human survivors and the jeeps, school bus, and guns are coming from? You get the feeling watching this one that the mess with the time line is just being done to make a movie and make money. The only part of this film that makes sense is the beginning flashbacks. After that all I can say is MASH mash, what a mess. The doomsday bomb from the earlier film magically turns into a missile. The ape city changes appearance. The apes suddenly know more about the forbidden zone than earlier films. Ape kills Ape message does parallel with the human kills human still happening on Earth Today.While it tries to end on a positive note, that is the only thing to be thankful for at the end. This film should have remained as studio out takes at FOX. Even the Simpsons have better scripts than this one. "},{"Title":"A very disappointing conclusion to the series","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the series started with 'The Planet of the Apes' it began with a great film and the following instalments were pretty good too; unfortunately this fifth and final film in the series is the weakest by far. The story is told in flash back and tells of a time some time after the events of the previous film; we hear how the Earth has been ravaged by war and its cities destroyed by nuclear weapons. In the country a group of apes and humans live together under the rule of the wise chimpanzee Caesar. There is some dissent however; a gorilla called General Aldo is not happy that they are living with humans and believes that as the soldiers the gorillas should rule. Caesar doesn't see him as a threat and till MacDonald; one of the humans tells him about recordings of his parents which tell of how ape society destroyed itself and the world in the future. To learn more Caesar, MacDonald and an Orang-utan named Virgil return to the city to see the recordings. In the city they meet a group of humans and are lucky to escape alive. The humans believe the apes pose a threat so follow them back to Ape City with the intention of wiping them out; what follows will determine the future of civilisation on the planet.The plot of the story wasn't bad but the way it was told was not up to the standards of the previous films; to be honest it felt more like a cheaply made television film rather than the final instalment of a once fine film franchise. The Ape City could more accurately be described as an Ape Village and the numbers involved in the final battle made it look more like a minor skirmish. The antagonists were very much pantomime villains; Aldo was flagged as a bad guy from his first scene where he doesn't want to learn to write and carries on that way right up until he breaks their primary law regarding apes never killing other apes. The humans from the city are if anything even worse. The acting was adequate but not up to the standard of the earlier films; even from people who had appeared in those. Overall I'd only recommend watching this if you are a die hard 'Planet of the Apes' fan and want to see how it all ends. "},{"Title":"What Happened to The 1963 Chevrolet Bel-Air Station Wagon?","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the movie when I was 17 & followed the APES series and taken to like the series. I know about the deleted scenes which featured The Alpha-Omega bomb which in the 2nd story turned the world into one big, Birmingham Sunday Incident. Mendez tells Alma that the weapon should be respected and revered and Mankind should not use this weapon of else Birmingham Sunday will come on everyone. The Mutants did have jeeps and a 1966 Chevrolet School Bus but also some civilian cars as well including a black, 1961 Cadillac Coupe deVille with a missing back window and an almost complete, 1963 Chevrolet Bel-Air Station Wagon and missing was it's hubcaps & it was a dark colored wagon & was behind the Chevrolet troop carrier when the scene when the mutant army came out of the destroyed city. It reminds me of the inner-city gang of the 1970s with their vehicles. Serven Darden was paid good playing Governor Kolp and had some Bull Conner in him coming to take out Caesar. Paul Williams did good as Virgil and Claude Atkins did a remarkable role as General Also. In the past Mr. Atkins played tough guys & played a gorilla type human thug. This time he's a gorilla. Veteran actors did good playing oranutangans & as the story goes, not all the gorillas followed General Aldo & some remained loyal to Caesar & were part to take on the mutant invaders. However when it came to Ape Has Killed Ape scene there was a gorilla extra in the background which I address him as Marcus says, Aldo, You killed! he was one of the gorilla extras who supported Caesar and a good player. I hope to get a copy of the Battle of The Planet of Apes with additional footage including The Alpha-Omega Bomb scenes. But one big question was, What happened to the 1963 Chevrolet Bel-Air Station Wagon? it was behind the troop carrier. I think it didn't make it going across the desert to Ape City & the battle scene reminds me of an inner-city gang with various kinds of weapons trying to take out a lousy-runned middle school or a high school of the 1970s. The Ape Movies I liked was #2 and this movie which I call #5 of the series. Everyone who was in the movie earned their money for this movie & Roddy McDowall did one of his performances playing Caesar & his father, Cornelius. Marcus Brainard "}{"Title":"Many Flaws","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" We can only conclude that the incongruent events in Conquest and Battle are the events of an alternate timeline forged by the creation of the temporal paradox from Cornelius and Zira's arrival in Escape. The apes also adorn costumes similar to the fashions of the ape society from the first film which had evolved over several thousand years but again this is only a decade after their revolt against the humans (one explanation could be that since this story is told as a flashback to ape and human children we are seeing it as depicted by their imaginations as a point of reference). MacDonald in this film is not the same MacDonald who was the Governor's Adjutant in Conquest but rather his brother which is confusing since Caesar appeared to have found a human sympathizer and ally in the MacDonald from Conquest and the only reasonable explanation for the deliberate change of character is that MacDonald is played by a different actor this time, but if you aren't paying close attention, you are likely to miss that inference. Ape City is located in a very lush and hospitable forest area within miles of the inhospitable desert wasteland of the annihilated Forbidden City. Automobiles such as jeeps and school buses still work somehow and were not rendered inoperable by the EMP of the atomic detonation. Radioactive half-life apparently only affects the surviving humans living within the irradiated remains of the Forbidden City and the apes can somehow sustain bombardments of high levels of radioactive fallout for a few hours while they search its archives for a videotape of Cornelius and Zira which also amazingly happened to not be vaporized or magnetically degaussed by the atomic blast. The mutated humans all wear skull caps for the purpose of (take your pick) A.) protecting their craniums from high radiation levels B.) to hide the fact that their hair has completely fallen out due to radioactive fallout C.) to enhance telepathic reception of their now- suddenly mutated telekinetic minds or D.) All of the above. "},{"Title":"A Weak Ending to a Great Series","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For the most part, the Planet of the Apes series featured some great stories with strong social commentary.  However, this film is the weakest of them all.  There is not as much dedication to the development of the characters as there had been in the previous films.  Also, this film relies to much on the action sequences unlike the others where the story was emphasized over the action.  Too bad the series couldn't have ended with a stronger story.  "},{"Title":"The last and unfortunately least of the series","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **********Spoiler Warning***************This is another one of the those little-engine-that-couldn't movies which hangs on the coat tails of the prior sequels.  It would have been better to have stopped the series at the third movie, but Hollywood still felt some money could be drained from the nearly dead POTA franchise.  Sadly even this wasn't the end, as there was still a short lived TV series, cartoons, and more toys to follow.Things are helped by some worthwhile ideas, even if the execution is bust.  I particularly liked the Keeper of the armory, who demands a philosophical argument before he'll turn over the weapons, and also some of the debate about time travel between the main characters.  Much of the rest is just plain bad or silly, such as the city blasted by a nuclear weapon that looks like someone poured plaster of paris all over everything, or the mutant survivors who have degraded into generic sixties movie thugs with their identical costumes and appearances.  (And the one going on about how long the fighting has to go on, A attacks B who attacks C, that part should have been reason enough to stop and rewrite the script.)  Sure, this is supposed to be only a few years after the nuclear war, but these don't seem like people following down the path to a cult worshiping the Doomsday bomb.The battle scene is very small and low budget, you get the feeling this project was shoved into the corner of some backlot to be filmed.  The ending where suddenly the Lawgiver is now teaching humans and apes to get along is a decent stab at trying to be philosophical, even if it flies in the face of everything that happened before.  (Such as how Cornelius and Zira need to escape the Doomsday bomb to deliver their child to start the whole talking ape biz.  If we all get along where's the mutant survivor cult and the militant apes and all that.)  But that's all right as Terminator II pulled just about the same thing.The best I can say for this movie is it tried, and more or less followed the storylines of the previous movies, but it's still a sad and miniscule fizzle compared to the landmark original. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, but does have Claude Akins AND Paul Williams....","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  AKA It Came from the '70's. I do agree this was pretty poo-poo. Low budget, goofy glue writing, strange casting-what, Paul Williams as an Orang? What, were Felix Silla or Kenny Baker busy? Yikes. Paging Billy Barty. You know it's from the '70s when you have Williams and Claude Akins in it.The logic here is the same as the last one-what, there was a Nuke out?? Off Screen? And somehow or other the Apes lived while mankind was nailed? I kinda doubt it.But anyways, is this worth yer time?Sure if you like the series or you are a Roddy/Claude Akins fan. I say watch this if you don't have anything better to do.** outta ****, nothing to jump up and down about. "},{"Title":"Worst of the bunch...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently watched a Planet of the Apes marathon, and while the others mostly made sense this last one is just bizarre.  The script seems to have been patched together from lines in the other four movies, and how the entire race of apes evolved overnight is a bit of a mystery.It'd be great camp if they'd had some more fun with it, but overall it takes itself too seriously. "},{"Title":"It can't end like this!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was expecting something much more of this movie. The first four PotA movies were at least a bit satisfying, but this one didn't really even have to be made. A better ending would have been some kind of final battle, but I guess that couldn't really happen considering we know the Earth is going to be destroyed anyway. Well, I guess a much better ending would have been what happened right after Conquest and how exactly the Earth came to take over humans and eventually man's retreat into primativity, if that's even a word. I think what this movie lacked was any familiar characters whatsoever, except MacDonald and Caesar, who were only just introduced to us in Conquest anyway. "},{"Title":"Only for die-hard Apes fans, all others beware","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has only two problems a low-budget that makes the production look cheesy, and a nothing of a script that also pretty damn silly.  Really this final Apes film was only made to entertain kids and squeeze out a few more bucks from the fans.  The original 1968 classic is my favorite movie, yet I despise this one because I can't view it without getting depressed.  The series deserved a much better conclusion than this.  >  "},{"Title":"Going Out With A Whimper","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thankfully the last of a series that had strayed way too far from it's magnificent origins just five years earlier.   The film is unbelievably dreary and dull, just like it's predecessor Conquest Of The Planet Of The Apes.I give the writers partial credit though for trying to bring the series full cycle in a sort of vicious circle theme, in which history is in effect trapped in a neverending loop of Taylor arriving, the Earth getting blown up, Cornelius and Zira escaping back to Taylor's time and starting the process of the rise of the apes, and years later Taylor arrives again......Alas, the only idea of this that gets developed is where we see in scenes that were cut from the theatrical release but restored in TV prints, how the bomb worshiping cult of Beneath The Planet Of The Apes got started (it is no coincidence that the human leader's name in Battle is Mendez, the same as the mutant leader in Beneath).   However, the writers foolishly dropped an early version of the Lawgiver's closing speech at the end which explicitly referred to the impending return of Taylor in the future, and leaving the question open of whether history will continue in the vicious circle, or whether Taylor will arrive to a world different from what he encountered in the first film.   This at least would have given the series a sense of closure I could accept.   Instead, they messed it up with a too ambiguous speech climaxing what was already a lame film to begin with (no one can seriously take Paul Williams as an orangutan). "},{"Title":"THE LOW BUDGET SKIRMISH FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES!!!!!! SPOILERS INCLUDED!!!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's file this one under LOW BUDGET TRIPE. 20TH Century Fox had cut the budgets on the APES films so badly, that the last film is a joke. CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES had been a genius, commentary on the plight of african americans and the WATTS RIOTS of the early 1970's. Despite some awkward dialouge, the film was low budget genius......then came the last film which, for the most part, was a crap movie. The blame lies with the studio. Without a ample budget to send the film series out with a BANG....all the audience got was a WHIMPER. Based loosely, on a script by PAUL DEHN, the film was dumbed down into a family film, by the writers of the OMEGA MAN. The battle sequences had about 30 extras running around trying to look like 2000. They also showed the same hut blow up about 10-20 times during the artillery attack scenes. This film should have been titled, SKIRMISH FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES! A no-holds barred fist fight would have looked better than the suck-o-rama combat scenes. There was a story here, but somehow it got lost in a cinematic truckload of 1970's cheese! Director J. LEE THOMPSON (the GUNS OF NAVARONE) has said publically, the last film wasn't all that great. He was right. However, he did all he could do with what he had. The post apocalyptic landscape was nothing more than a wooded area of California.....boy did it show! I can't find much good to say about this film, except, if the studio had done it right, this film could have been good. I mean real good. PAUL WILLIAMS in A APES movie????????? Oh, good grief! "},{"Title":"Missing Scene??","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw Battle for the Planet of the Apes again on AMC.  I think a scene  was missing.  I thought I remembered a scene sometime after Kolp and his  army do not return to the forbidden city; in which Alma and the others were  supposed to set off the doomsday bomb, but they decide not to.  Instead  they decide to become guardians of its destructive power.Also, who is that aide to Kolp who remains behind?  It sort of looks like  Mark Lenard.  "}{"Title":"Disappointing End To The Franchise","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sequel is considered to be the weakest of the APES movies and it's easy to see why . Paul Dehn's original screenplay was apparently altered by by co-writers John and Joyce Corrington . The film feels have half completed as a political subtext seems to be trying to make itself heard but is somehow silenced so any sequences in this film that mirror My Lai are entirely coincidental . The Vietnam parallels might have been very heavy handed in BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES but at least the subtext is understandable even to the dimmest mind Thee's also a lack of logic in that being a mere 12 years after a nuclear war followed by an ape revolution there's an awful lack of radiation poisoning among the survivors . The human slaves kept by the apes still have clothes that were bought from the local clothing store for example . There's the remarkable coincidence that the fascist villain from the previous film has survived the nuclear war and following ape revolution . It'd be a bit like Hitler starting of a fourth Reich revolution in central Europe in the 1950s . No wonder he and Cesear are shocked to meet each other in the climatic battle This wouldn't have mattered so much if the climatic battle had been better but considering it's the set piece of the movie it should have been much better . As cruel as it sounds I wanted , blood , guts and and a very high body count . Instead I got lots of small explosions and the occasional extra staggering to the ground . Possibly this is down to a reduction in the film's budget since the ape make is fairly unconvincing especially where the gorillas are concerned . It's a shame such an ambitious and successful film franchise ended on a fairly low note "},{"Title":"In an odd way like a really bad episode of the 1960s Batman television series meets Jesus Christ Superstar","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the last of the early 1970s Planet of the Apes sequels.  I rewatched them all after seeing Burton's piece of junk a couple of weeks ago.  Like all the early 1970s Apes sequels, Battle has so much potential, but its low-budget feel and scope just destroys that potential completely.  Again, the acting of the apes--Roddy McDowall, Claude Akins, and even the annoying Paul Williams--is OK in my opinion.  The humans don't really have much of a role in this flick, but their acting is not terrible either.  The problem is that everything in the plot is again too rushed and the sets have that $100-to-contruct feel to them.  We know this film will be rushed from the beginning as we see a rehashing of clips from the last two films. (Did Thompson have to show that dummy of Cornelius dropping again?)  Then, the characters proceed to explain everything to us, as in the first schoolroom scene with Teacher Abe and the initial scenes with Caesar and MacDonald.  The trip back to the Forbidden City had lots of potential, but the scenes with the mutant humans are just too low budget.  In addition, I find myself thinking of the 1960s television series Batman when watching the scenes with the mutant humans.  Something about their costumes and the stereotyping of the bad guys with French and German accents just brought that out.  Likewise, the battle scene between the mutant humans just doesn't hold up for me.  They keep showing the same building being blown up and that scene where Caesar tells them to fight like apes is just a joke.  Likewise, the ending is too rushed; it's like everyone's all happy, but they shouldn't be (Caesar's son just died, ape has killed ape twice, etc.).  And then we're back to the lawgiver guy and it's just like, whatever, what a waste.  Another thing  The humans in Battle look like they stepped off the set from the 1970s movie version of Jesus Christ Superstar.  I guess some would say, So what? but something about their costuming and behavior just does not work for me in this flick.  Such a pity.  Battle, Escape, and Burton are on the bottom of the Apes hierachy for me.  The original, Conquest, and Beneath are the better versions of this series.   "},{"Title":"The worst of the series...","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I ever add my choice for worst film of all time, this would definitely be up there. An almost incoherent script coupled with horrible acting, missing direction and a set that looks like a neighborhood park, one wonders why they even bothered to make this. Conquest ... (the 4th in the Apes series) was a brilliantly done film, an allegory (as director Thompson has stated) on the L.A. Watts Riots of the '60's. It definitely breathed new life into the series and it gave one high hopes that it could go on. With Battle you are happy that the series ended.  "},{"Title":"unwatchable","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The downward spiral of the POTA movies ends here. If I could've given it a -10, I would've. I loved the first two, can tolerate the next two, and can't even watch this one. It doesn't even fall into the so-bad-it's-good category. It's just BAD. To be honest, I can't even give a full review because I don't think I've seen it since it was in theaters. Mercifully, it never seems to appear on TV. What I remember most is the climactic battle with the humans riding in on a school bus. I guess that was supposed to be kind of a post-apocalyptic thing, but all it said to me was, the studio is giving us almost no money to spend on this film. A pathetic end to what had started off so well. "},{"Title":"You Might Think It's The End, But It's Not (spooky laugh) !","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not a fan of the (Plant of The Apes) series. Of course the first one was a classic, but the rest isn't as high as the 1967 movie on ALL the levels. Rather I see that this very rest wasn't necessary in the first place! Look at them. The first (Beneath the Planet of the Apes - 1970) was maybe the lousiest sequel ever made. Being totally pointless, repeating the first one yet poorly and meaninglessly. However it defined the way of exploiting the success of the original movie. (Escape from the Planet of the Apes - 1971) was the first in 3 idiot prequels. It was the funny episode, but it was also one of the silliest movies. And if it was produced for little entertainment then it would've been better if it wasn't made. (Conquest of the Planet of the Apes - 1972) was a dull version of Spartacus. And it has the worst title in the series as well! By this far I didn't know for whom exactly these movies were made ?! (and I still don't!). But I bet, the studio was happy and earning some profits out of it; again and again something was wrong with the American cinema, or strictly speaking the American audience, in the 1970s ! Now it's the winter of MY discontent. Because (Battle for the Planet of the Apes - 1973) wasn't as bad as the above. It's the best of the worst. Compared to the rest it's more snug and less idiot. This time it got solid screenplay as a decent B movie. But is it suitable for more than one watching ? I don't think so, unless you're a die-hard fan of the series (god help you!), or a fan of the old cheap western adventure flicks, or a fan of the most campy movies along the history of cinema ! I believe (J. Lee Thompson) at the time was the man who can make not bad movies out of low budgets. He managed here to give the simple movie somehow an attractive image. Looking fine as a pilot for a TV show. But the masks were horrible, the music was like any soundtrack was done for TV at the moment (it's dangerous situation so let's put some noisy wind instruments and screaming violins to horror the viewers !), the editing was artless; the black dude thought A LOT to discover the murder, suddenly you'd find a shot for Cesar's wife making up the bed while talking about his parents, and the battle at the end was nothing but many uninterrupted explosives only! And one more note  the parent's tapes were a farce ! (Roddy McDowall) tried much (by his eyes, voice, and the body performance). He even was somewhat lovely and serious. But sorry, he seemed wasted like a propaganda employee who's wearing a body suit along with inflexible character-mask, standing among badly-made toys! It's the way Hollywood industry deals with its talents sometimes. The human team's actors were pathetic. I didn't have the honor of knowing the name of the one who performed their leader who has a blood lust. In fact this guy gave me a high blood pressure! He looked like Rod Steiger' younger brother who can't act well, or just can't act ! The main apes story had suffered from high triteness to this point, running wretched and so uninterestingly thin. So, don't busy yourself thinking what it means? Ah.. there is something about saying yes to living all in peace and no to violence but don't bother, because it's an adventure movie and nothing more. Therefore the last scene with a crying statue for the dead saver was a desperate attempt to look sad or deep; it seemed over the top and out of the mood as Caesar is not Christ. Or he is if you're a devoted fan of these movies. So, as you see, it's the winter of my discontent Not the end of it ! I felt relief when I discovered that the 4 years exploitation had ended with this one, but who said so ?!! There was  one short lived TV series directly in the next year (1974), followed in (1975) by animated TV series yet short lived too ! and TV movies (have been edited from the first series) as well ! Not to mention the foolish remake of the first movie Tim Burton's Planet of the Apes (2001) which by the way looks like the 4 movies that were produced after the original but with big production and some quality. Simply all what Franklin Schaffner's Plant of the Apes (1967) did is being successful.. Damn ! It's sometimes a curse in a town named Hollywood, if you want to know why, so you have to watch all of its followings to understand that well, then you have to watch the remake to understand that the exploitations will never end! So if this treatment is the fate, and as much as I hated it  it is, so I hope someday for one good sequel, prequel, remake, (or hell.. parody!) that gives us any good time, or good idea&#x85;I'm not that covetous to wish both! Anyway, to wind it up frankly with the exception of the original one, to hell with the rest of them! They're ugly cheesy and miserably diverting at best movies, I don't know who the hell waited for them back then or even stands them together ?? The only consolation is that (Battle..) was less ugly. But still I can't be sympathetic with a talking ape that wants to make monkeys get along with humans ! I HATE THESE MOVIES, THE BAD EXPLOITATION, AND THE 1970S TOO !!! "},{"Title":"Forget this film","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film did not need to be made. They didn't really need to make another one after Beaneth the Planet of the Apes (1970). After everybody died in Beaneth the Planet of the Apes (1970), they should have stopped with the Planet of the Apes series. This film was borring me, and I didn't enjoy it that much. If you like Planet of the Apes, watch the first one and the second one. All the rest aren't very good.  "},{"Title":"Battle for the Planet of the Apes","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this film before seeing the sequels in the correct order, to be honest though, it didn't really matter, it is a terrible and tragic ending to a quite profitable series. Basically Caesar (Roddy McDowall), son of Cornelius and Zira (seen in Escape from... archive), has risen to be king not only to the overpowering ape race, but to the surviving humans (from Conquest of...) living with them. Caesar is trying to change the future to come, making the apes and humans live in peace, and creating some laws that must never be broken. He is very intrigued to hear from MacDonald (Austin Stoker) that archives of his parents are in the forbidden zone in the destroyed city full of radiation, and they enter to find it. While Caesar, MacDonald and Prof. Virgil (introducing Paul Williams) go into the city, not realising there are mutated survivors, led by Gov. Kolp (Severn Darden), gorilla Gen. Aldo (Claude Akins) plans to overthrow Caesar's rule and have the apes take over the Earth like the future sees. Caesar discovers Aldo murdered his son Cornelius (Bobby Porter) - presumably the one in the first film, he kills him, and then his army go against the might of the mutated humans. In the end, Caesar realises the apes are just as capable of cruelty as humans, and he knows the future must change, and it does, as the Lawgiver (John Huston) has told the story of how humans and apes live in harmony. Also starring Natalie Trundy as Lisa, Lew Ayres as Mandemus, Noah Keen as Abe the Teacher, Richard Eastham as Mutant Captain, Michael Stearns as Jake and John Landis as Jake's Friend. Now that I have seen the entire series in order, the first film is of course the best of all, in fact, I could almost say that sequels were a little unnecessary (although I like Escape from...), unless they were really thought out and explained properly. I will obviously say also that of all the sequels, this final one is definitely the worst, not even a quite confident and reliable McDowall can save it from being a complete waste of time. Poor! "},{"Title":"It's A horse or in this case ape of a different color as you'll see.","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just couldn't wait to comment & critique on this the most of all of the movies as you'll see & soon agree once I do truthfully. As you'll see & hear as the Lawgiver states In the beginning God created man & apes in his own image.in the year 2678 A.D. & going both backwards & forwards through time & telling this story to an equal society of both human & ape children.Forwards through time are stories from the 40th century backwards of course are to the 20th century both when Cornelius & Zira came to the 20th century in Escape& the apes took over lead by their son Milo(named for their friend they came with who got strangled by a Gorilla in the next cage later on)later known as Caeser 20 years later when in 1991 in Conquest Caeser lead the crusade of apes to take over the world & then 10 years later the story with his wife Lisa & son young Cornelius & of whom met a tragic ending via the beastly gorilla Aldo of whom broke their most sacred law of Ape shall never kill ape MacDonald explains to someone I think they've just joined the human race.As Caeser wants to spite Aldo for this. Later MacDonald then explains to Caeser You say,we have rights yet we're not your equals if you wish to release us then free us completely to live together with love.Caeser then said Can't have any thing to do with the human way, the human way is violence and death. then Virgil the orangutan had said Aldo was not human.Caeser then had said You Virgil are a very wise teacher. and then Virgil said And you Caeser area very wise King. after this they show the under ground humans about to set off the same bomb that Taylor had used to destroy the earth in Beneath with one of them saying No this is what we want to avoid knowing it's a future possibility.(Meaning they were about to after losing the war caused by the misunderstanding that those three of Caeser,MacDonald,& Virgil really came to that underground civilization in peace only to play the films of Caeser's Parents to give him Knowledge.)One of those Lady mutants even said Well perhaps they really came in peace. but because the security camera got shot at Kolp didn't agree.Then from here as the Lawgiver finished the story they showed a gorilla boy pulling an an African American girl's braids with her saying Ow! & then the Law giver said ...and we still await that one fateful day when the earth will be destroyed.All of this very compilation of which grabbed my attention for when from 1989-92 Malibu Graphics was the latest to adapt Planet of the apes & they were just as annoyed by me as they were glad to have me there for them & of which is why this film's themes along with my inspiration made Their final work of Planet of the apesThe Forbidden Zone.a great deal of it was their own fault both for inviting comment and critique as well as not doing their own homework.Also in giving credit where it's due when 20 years ago I had even told my big sister,Maureen that I was going to rent all 5 films to get a real feel for the continuity & she then said to me What continuity? I came out of Terminator 2 Judgement Day with my big brother,J. Kevin mentioning how this film didn't agree with the prior one & how the history as according to Cornelius told in Escape didn't agree with the following movie & happened centuries later.He said so when they came back through time they had sped up the history & then I said how only it still doesn't explain it right for how it already happened according them because it would've been known that they came back in time.Yes even Cornelius said that Aldo instead of Caeser had lead the apes in the crusade to what would be the take over by saying No. of which leads to the zpota website of which is named Damn it,Damn the continuity all to hell as Taylor said @ the end of the first movie & of which was also used to start the 2nd film off of Beneath also to see my final follow up on the Malibu Adaptation of the Planet of the apesThe Forbidden Zone mini series,of which I had made possible,pick up a copy of this publication's comic of Protectors #16 of which is in conclusion included @ the end of the same letter of a review of both a previous Protectors story from issue #12 of this magazine & a Miss Fury review too.As I Said on the Escape from the planet of apes review the beginning footage @ the airforce base varies a little differently than in Escape from the Planet of the apes.and this is from the beginning of this film of  Battlewhere the Lawgiver starts of with in the beginning God made both man & apes in his own image. Truthfully, Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste. "},{"Title":"The best 'Apes' movie.","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Battle For The Planet Of The Apes is quite simply, brilliant. A tour de force of great make up, special effects, performances and dialogue. Battle is far superior to Schaffner's original in the sense that is is more entertaining, better made and with a starrier cast. This film grabs you by the balls and never lets go. Roddy McDowall as Caesar tears at your emotions. The cinematography is gorgeous. The score by Leonard Rosenman surpasses Goldsmith's original. This movie will have you gripped to your seat, taking you from tears of joy to tears of tragedy.PS- I am insane. "},{"Title":"Aggressively Bad Ending to a Painfully Bad Series","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the worst movies I've ever seen. Somehow it managed to achieve the impossible and suck more than the other three POTA sequels. If I ever again see a fake evolved chimpanzee in a green leather tunic and sweat pants with their 70s accents and hideous rubber faces, that are supposed to be expressive I'm going to kill myself. I'll start with the one tiny positive thing that I can find about this movie some of the philosophical dialog is mildly interesting albeit very forced. We live in the age of Avatar, that's how good a movie can be. Interestingly it has several parallels in themes and setting. If you think about the experience of watching Avatar can you honestly say that anyone should waste their time watching these movies? Every single aspect of them is cheesy, cheap, forced, and insulting to the eyes and brain. It just begs so many questions of the idiots who made it why the ski goggles? why the leather hats with flaps? why call it battle for the planet of the apes? did the recycled costumes still stink from the sweat of the actors in Escape? I could honestly make this review a textbook of how not to make a movie, but I'll spare you that, if you just trust me and spare yourself the pain of watching this roll of used toilet paper. "}{"Title":"The last in a series of trash","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The final film, Battle for the Planet of the Apes, ends on a more positive note but the dialogue is inane, the action is boring, and the production values are cheap. There was a very small budget slated for this film and it shows. Once again, there is very little explanation as to how the series got to this point. What happened to the rest of the world and where went are all the people and apes that escaped from the flames of the previous films? They don't tell us and by this time you stop caring.  "}]