[{"Title":"Bravo, Maestro!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Beautiful and colorful Fellini's Roma (1972) is a very enjoyable film with a subtle message and a lot of heart. The magnificent Eternal City, one of the most famous cities in the world is deservingly the main character of this very personal for its creator, Maestro Fellini, film that can be described as a montage of unrelated scenes. Roma consists of three parts. In the beginning, young Federico, the student in his native Rimini, learns about Rome from movies, plays, works of art, and from school history lessons. Then, as a young man, he arrives to Eternal City, strange, loud, and confusing on the outbreak of World War II. The third part takes us to the beginning of 70th when Fellini, the famous master is creating a visually unforgettable, full of life and history portrait of Rome consisting of several vignettes that take us back and forth in time and director's memory. I think the reason I enjoyed Roma is that its vignettes have so much heart and love, irony , and interest to the master's favorite city, its past and present, to its streets, palaces, and cathedrals, and to its people, their laughs, smiles, and tears. Some of the stories are amusing (variety show, first Federico's dinner in one of the outside restaurants where everybody knows everybody) while some are very emotional. A powerful scene takes place in an underground tunnel where subway construction workers discovered an ancient palace filled with beautiful frescoes of Ancint Rome period that later slowly fade out and disappear before our eyes taking with them a mystery of times long gone.I loved the fashion show of nuns and priests; I liked the sequence with the prostitutes on display &#150; both are typical Fellini's surreal scenes, funny and sad in the same time. In improvement from Satyricon, this time, Fellini, did not have any central characters presented in every vignette; and result is more satisfying this is one of the best documentary style movies that I have seen. The main character in all its stories is Rome and that's the only character we need here.Gracie Federico! "},{"Title":"Life Has No Plot","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some people would complain that this movie has no plot, but does life have a plot? No, of course not! And so this movies goes, from scene to scene, through memories, collages, documentary footage, hallucinations, with only one continuous character but hundreds of faces, bits of conversation, music, all flowing around just like life when you are very drunk and everything in life makes sense, no matter how absurd.This movie contains some stunning scenes the ecclesiastical fashion show; the Roman traffic jam in the rain; the deli-style whorehouse; the family style meal; the discovery and destruction of Roman ruins during the construction of the subway system. You can walk in at any moment on this movie and it doesn't matter, you don't have to follow it to enjoy it. Perhaps this is true of all Fellini movies, I'm not sure -- certainly it's true of another favorite of mine, Satyricon. "},{"Title":"A non-traditional film which exceeds all expectations.","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ROMA is not the kind of film you may want to watch if you are in the mood for a made for TV movie, but perfect if you want to get away from one. The ultimate cinematic escape, it is a collection of interesting and arresting scenes and images from Rome throughout history. It does not concentrate on history per say, but excerpts Italian society and it's lifestyles from the conformity of Mussolini's time to the hippy-dippy days - in a non-narrative, non-documentary way. Some things change, others stay the same. Don't expect to find much of a plot, but rather moments of great amusement with character and sometimes very involving images. ROMA doesn't insult it's viewers with it's unconventional liberties, and that alone makes it a worthwhile trip to take - even if only once.  "},{"Title":"Whether you like or not, a masterpiece","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You may or not like Fellini's extravagance ... and there's plenty to be had in Roma. You may dislike the movie going back and forth in time, and around a period in history which you can't even relate to; you may dislike the lack of plot, the series of episodes from the director's past or fantasies. You may not share his vision of Rome, its women, its chaos, its fascist monuments and its hippies. You may not even be at all interested in Fellini's world and may find his movies, boring, or uninteresting. This one will be no exception, then. Well... After all, we did not all like Citizen Kane either.For one thing is beyond doubt Fellini's Roma is a true, genuine, masterpiece, one of the last gems coming out of the relentless, colourful imagination of an Italian director, who from La Strada to Amarcord, in some 15 years of movie-making, was able to concoct classic movies and nothing but. Fellini's Roma is a series of exaggerations (the characters, chaos, the brothels, the nights in Rome...) as Rome can be. It is an absolute tribute to a city one thousand times destroyed, one thousand times reborn, to the city of illusions as Gore Vidal puts is. It is above all a tribute to the Romans, who basically could not care less whether you are alive or dead. And who better to capture this than Federico Fellini? "},{"Title":"Forever Fellini","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Opinions may vary regarding the work of this artist.  One thing is certain the man had a genius for making any person, place or thing a Fellini subject no matter where his camera pointed, what emerged on celluloid was a Fellini image.  In Roma the shot could be a routine traffic jam; with Fellini not an ordinary one.   Along the standard highway appears darkly hooded figures--one holding a silhouetted parasol--while a bonfire casually smolders, emitting clouds of black smoke.It's no longer just a normal freeway but a Felliniesque creation mounted on the surreal palette of a genuine stylist. Contemplate the quality of his characteristically rapid-paced dialogue, and you'll discover it's less communicative discourse and more self-indulgent chatter.All the Fellini trademarks are there big breasted women, clownlike characters, rude Rabelaisian remarks, all to brassy street band accompaniments tooted on worn, cheap instruments.In some ways Roma picks up where Satyricon leaves off, minus main characters.  It's all an extremely personal vision--and not a little bit weird, rather like temporarily inhabiting the domain of a slightly warped mentality.     Recalling my own visit to the Eternal City, I don't recall experiencing anything like this purgatorian collage.  Then again, I suppose what we see is pretty much the result of who we are. Made just a couple of years after Antonioni filmed his Zabriskie Point in Los Angeles, Fellini never did the foreign thing, opting to remain working on his home terrain.For Fellini fans and others with an interest in film history, Roma occupies a valid place for observation, notation and appreciation. "},{"Title":"Yet another Fellini's masterpiece","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everything is revolving around Rome in this movie, its beauty, its decadence, its history, its inhabitants, seen with the eyes of our magnificent Maestro Fellini. The scene of the war-period theatre is one of the funniest of the whole history of cinema and no subtitle can render it in a proper way, you should live in Rome for years to fully appreciate the dialogues. It's worth seeing for the countless characteristic faces that Fellini was used to employ for his movies, giving that special taste to his works we are still call fellinian nowadays. "},{"Title":"A portrayal of a love for a city","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At the opening credits of Roma, we are informed by our narrator and director Federico Fellini that this is not a normal film in the traditional storytelling sense, but more a perception of Rome, the way Fellini sees it. Sounds interesting? Well, it is, in that one must be so in love with their city to want to show it to the world through a series of small stories and shots of random happenings. I can relate I have the same love for Melbourne.We shift from a portrayal of Fellini as a schoolboy with dreams of going to Rome, to a depiction of Fellini as a young man, moving to the city he always wanted to live at. There's also scenes of early 1970s theatre attendance, the almost ritual-like eating habits of the Romans, and then we move onto a documentary-like part of the film where we get to see Fellini's camera crew struggle as they try to capture the hustle and bustle of the entrance into Rome via a major highway, filled with drifters, animals, trucks, hitch-hikers, bikes, and more.The constant changing in scenes and stories is a bit messy, and could possibly confuse those not understanding what Fellini is trying to do with the film. At some times, I found myself questioning whether what we were being shown was a realistic dramatization of Fellini's past experiences, or some kind of farcical take on Roman culture (see the religious clothing fashion show scene!). The film is quite intriguing, taking in the sexual revolution of the era and putting it up against a city full of tradition. We are also exposed to some of the city's dirty little secrets, such as the surprising popularity of their whorehouses.It can't be denied that there is something endearing to Roma that allows Fellini to get away with a film that doesn't really give you much to take home with you, other than an idea of what Rome was like for someone in 1972, and what kind of life was lead to come to those perceptions. It is somewhat self indulgent, but Fellini does put across the impression that he has something to show you, something he'd like to share with you, because he has loved it for so long, and it still fascinates him on a daily basis. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully colourful and dazzling spectacle","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As I already knew this film was virtually plot less I had not been expecting a great deal from Fellini, but I was given more than a great deal. Fellini sets out on an almost mythical journey through the shocking but wonderfully real City of Rome as he remembers partly as a boy and as a young adult. You could be mistaken for thinking that Fellini was criticising Rome but he is actually praising its vibrancy in a way in which only he can. There is no plot to speak of, just an array of both gritty characters and breathtaking backdrops. I am not surprised that this film has a relatively low rating because most viewers would feel that for a film a plot is essential. However in my opinion Fellini demonstrates that a plot is not always needed to make a film enjoyable, funny and gripping, as he showed with his brilliant account of his growing up in Amarcord. I would definitely urge you to see Fellini's Roma, as it is not an unbelievable storyline, but a pure film, which will grip you with its continuous vibrancies. 9/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best non-fiction films ever","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is not a fiction movie. it needs to be seen with a different perspective. This is a movie about a city, one of the most beautiful and fascinating cities in the world. Fellini describes here the city, his feelings about it, his memories, the history and the people who live in it. One needs to look at this film like looking at a painting of an old master, not like at a fiction film. Then what is exposed to the viewer is a the full world of characters, some of them appearing on screen for a few seconds but stay in memory forever. It is the landscape of today, the memories and the history, the history that when touched by the air of the present melts under our own eyes as it happens in the fabulous underground scene. From the many films of Fellini this is one of the most personal, and a touching one. I loved it. "},{"Title":"A guide to Roma, Fellini style, go see it!","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whereas a film like 'Bueno Vista Social Club' depicts a poor city in a charming and loving way this depicts the not so charming aspects of a relatively rich city, still with lots of heart and irony though. We get several episodes in this non-documentary like one about traffic, one about whorehouses, one about peaceful hippies being beaten by the police, one about the digging of tunnels for the metro system and so on. There is a frame story about Fellini, first about the young Fellini learning about the old Roma, then about how Roma is now, its not so important, but its well integrated into the whole story and shows how personal this film is. We get bombarded with the rude, the noisy and the chaos, as usual for Fellini a lots of things are happening all the time so don't watch it while not up and awake so to speak. The implications are many, the comments likewise. Its never sentimental, but it still opts for change.Wait a minute, isn't the Vatican in Roma(in double sense)? Well, check for yourself. "}{"Title":"Disconnected Edition of Footages of the Eternal City","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roma is a feature with neither plot nor timeline and composed by an edition of disconnected footages of Rome, the Eternal City. Fellini makes a homage to Rome and depicts and entwines moments of the ancient and the modern Rome, such as during the fascist period of Mussolini; building the subway; in a traffic jam; a fashion show for the Church members; brothels with clients and prostitutes on display; repression; ordinary people on the streets and restaurants. For fans of Fellini and Rome, this movie may be a must-see; otherwise, it may be boring and too long. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Roma de Fellini (Fellini's Roma) "},{"Title":"With Fellini there is no need for a plot.","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fellini's films are a collection of unforgettable images, rather like reading through a photo magazine in a foreign language - you don't need to know the language to understand the pictures. The subtitles can be turned off and you can still follow one stunning vignette after another. Best of all, this film can be watched over and over because you will see something new or interpret it a different way each time.Rome is seen as a carnival and the people are the freaks, carneys and revellers. Rome has been a great city for over 2,000 years and was once THE city - the center of the world. One cannot imagine New York in 1,800 years time, and certainly not Washington. The film shows the evolution of that great city into a noisy, overcrowded, modern-day nightmare of chaotic traffic, circling around the ancient ruins. Life goes on. We all turn to dust, but others come to take our place.The most unforgettable image for me was the ecclesiastical fashion show as gaudy and vulgar as anything Ken Russell could dream up. My biggest problem was with the subtitles. Somehow I doubt that the viewers of Fellini's film choose to use vulgar American slang. "},{"Title":"Roma","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roma explores the city of Rome from several different perspectives, giving it a mystical life of its own that hangs in the balance between its rich history and its modern identity. With no real chronology, Roma is a tapestry of bizarre scenes and familiar images that blend together into a gorgeous visual carnival. Typical of Fellini, with the carnival comes a critique--and Roma tears through the city's political and religious history, satirizing the Catholic church and various faces of Italian government from Renaissance times through Mussolini's reign and on into the 1960s. While the camera lavishes affectionately over Rome's art and architecture and is clearly a tribute to the Eternal City, most of the sets in the film are constructed, reinforcing Fellini's narrative imagination and keeping viewers caught in a perpetual contradiction between reality and fantasy, history and the present, fact and fiction. "},{"Title":"Eternal city","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Federico Fellini's love for his adoptive city was unique. It was only natural he would make this film in which his awe and admiration for what became his playground is captured in vivid images which only could come from one of the most important masters of the Italian cinema of all times. The film is both a comedy and a sort of documentary in which we watch the director, himself, performing the role of what he did behind the camera, for our benefit.The film is autobiographical in many aspects. We watch as the young Federico, an aspiring journalist arrives in Rome from his native Rimini. His new home is in an apartment where he has been recommended to stay by relatives. The place was pure chaos with the many different Roman characters he found there. The heat of the summer brought everyone to the streets where dining was an art. The food in great proportions in spite of a war going on. Fellini is an observer of his new surroundings. The woman street singer that goes through the tables, reminds us a little bit of Gelsomina, an immortal character created by the director, and also of Cabiria, the fun loving prostitute.Rome, being a the chaotic place it was, is presented at a dizzying speed by the director who has taken his camera outside along a busy highway as fans from Naples arrive to attend a soccer match against the local team. The autostrada is some is a metaphor that emphasizes the confusion and the chaos anyone feels when arriving to Rome. Fellini ends it all in a massive car tie up in the street around the Colosseum. Fellini renders homage to his city in the last sequence as well taking the viewer through a night ride by motorcyclists that passes by all the best known monuments of the city.We are also taken to a neighborhood music hall that presents vaudeville acts. The atmosphere was typical of the one found in such places where everyone went to have a good time with their friends and neighbors. These places attracted a rough crowd that made a tough place for performers in which to act. Theater in Italy, although not remotely close to the scene Fellini shows, is a place where the real drama is not presented on stage; the real show is given by all the people that go to be seen without shame of behaving in strange ways.The subway excavation sequence offers an interesting aside in which the present day and the olden times come together when the workers discover a Roman home underground. The magnificence of the images that are discovered reveal the proud past of one of the oldest and most artistic civilizations of all times. Alas, it is only short lived because of the air that penetrates the hidden frescoes found under the rubble make them disappear.The brothel also played a big part in the sentimental education of the maestro. We have seen prostitutes in all of of Fellini's films in one way, or another. He wants to take us to two different kinds of pleasure houses, one for the common citizen and a high class one that closes up when important celebrities decide to have private fun. Fellini juxtaposes the scenes at the brothels with a gathering of the Catholic Church higher ups that have come to Princess Domitilla's palace for an ornate fashion show for ecclesiastical fashion that is decadent in the excesses presented. Like with other Italian creators, Fellini had an ongoing love-hatred by the institution that has ruled the lives of Italians for centuries.Fellini's Roma was a great creation by Federico Fellini. It is as important as some of the other films because it captured the soul of the city Fellini loved so much. This was possible because of the images cinematographer Giuseppe Rotunno, a amazing photographer of many of the director's work. Nino Rota's musical score is also an asset in the film. The cast is enormous to single out anyone, they all contribute to make this film a tribute to Rome, the eternal city. "},{"Title":"A rare almost forgotten masterwork","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my all around favourite film, although I like SF and Horror films also, this film, despite it being over 35 years old, still carries a powerful feeling to it-to me. It shows Rome through the eyes of someone who has seen it maybe for what it really is- a thoroughly confused and maze like place where things don't happen in any kind of an order, events just fall on top of one another, and you are left to sift through the mess in the hope of finding what you went there for in the first place. The film is a unique depiction of European society that is not seen anymore for the most part in this age of perfect films with perfect people having perfectly orchestrated experiences that are always just slightly left of mainstream with heavy nods to normal, which I think does not reflect the true nature of what it is to be a struggling human on this planet. This filmmaker has the balls to criticize the Roman Catholic Church, which he does in this film, showing them as mindless glory hounds, instead of the way they are mostly depicted in 99 percent of films. Roma is also crude in places, more so than what you might expect from a film made in 1972. "},{"Title":"A portrait of Rome","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Federico Fellini has made us a portrait of the city of Rome based on his own memories of two different times the 1970 and years of his youth in the War and post-war. We account with the voice in off the own director using guide and making it more accessible and friendly movie in which warns us that the film does not have an indent linear usual by what he earns a great freedom to show the scenes that more suitable for him, and that is precisely the most prominent of the film. There are that highlight the entry that makes in the city on the highway in the 1970, which is increasing in pace until lead to a chaos of cars jammed, rain, lights, honks and sirens of police. And of course the satirical vision of the Catholic Church in a typical parade of religious models that is the sequence more famous movie. I am with the delicious scenes of the 1940 with the arrival in Rome of the young, in which shows the roman pension, the theater, the brothels, The neighborhood dining in the street... And to whom he had happened show the architecture of Rome in a walk night seen from a group of motorcycles? Only to Fellini. "},{"Title":"Viva Roma!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With Roma, Federico Fellini continues his deliberately bizarre saga. In this case, he gives a kaleidoscopic view of the Eternal City, from his youth to adulthood. A particularly funny scene is what happens while the schoolmaster is showing the boys slides of the Sistine Chapel, and then what the girl does in the theater. Fellini also shows the political climate (Fascism was ever present in Italy back then). But regardless of anything, Roma is a great movie, if only because of what we see, including the catacombs.The Catholic Church sure must have gotten irked by some of the things that Fellini portrayed in his movies. "},{"Title":"Entertaining 'documentary' style film of Rome 30 yrs ago !","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even though lacking a plot, this part documentary/comedy film is really a mosaic of impressions of Rome, from when Federico Fellini first arrived during the 2nd world war, to scenes of Rome in the early 1970's. Personally I think Fellini's best films are the partly biographical ones,and this film is among Fellini's best ! The film is divided into mosaics or sections. Each section or 'mosaic' lasts about 20 to 30 minutes, and really is all about real life experiences of Fellini's Rome, filmed in slightly surreal, 'arty' style, dealing with the human element of Romes working class who nearly speak in the local vernacular or dialect 'li Romanaaccio', and because of that some scenes are really hilarious! (Except for the last section about the priest's/cardinals high fashion really boring, but very surealistic). The most grottesque is the visit  to the hore-house by young Federico Fellini, as it was like during the wartime...horrible,surrealistic,and a little bit sad ! The section on the comedy theatre is the most funny and famous(the most famous scene an irate spectator throws a live cat to a comedian making a poor preformance,to the ilarity of the audience !).The section  gives an affectionate view of the Italian comedy/vaudeville theater between the two world wars called avan-spettacolo (before the show).Infact,before any film was shown in Italy the cinema would entertain the restless crowds with vaudeville type shows,comedy,magic and singing(usually skimply dressed women).These shows evolved into something well established so the films were shown elsewhere !! Many of Italy's best actors/actresses came from this background,where they had to do a hard apprenticeship,under the guidance of a master actor !Only after 5-10 years apprenticeship, could they finally aspire to be avan-spettacolo stars !This explains why Italy's best actors/actresses were the 1950's /1960's stars of the Italian cinema,of which the most loved is Alberto Sordi.Here are the names of some these stars...Gianni Agus,Macario,Ugo Tognazzi,Marcello Mastroianni,Walter Chiari,Paolo Stoppa,Aldo Fabrizzi,Toto.....the list is endless..........all great actors, ...and I must say the Italian actors of today are a poor imitation ! No wonder !!,... they have no experience,but alot of pretensions,bordering on arrogance !! My vote for the film 8. "},{"Title":"Fellini's Roma is for those with a lot of patience and respect for Fellini.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every film director should have the chance to indulge in their fantasies and films are fantasies projected on the big screen.  However, Fellini's Roma is not a film for everyone and in order to enjoy this non-linear extravaganza, you must have a lot of patience and it doesn't hurt to be a fan of Fellini's work.For those who do have patience, you can learn a little about Rome (although Fellini's Rome) and biographical information about the filmmaker.  Although don't quote him, he does tend to reinvent his past from time to time. >The Papacy fashion show shouldn't be missed nor should the scenes that portray Rome in the 1940's.  But for those who lack the patience, but still like Fellini, check out Amarcord instead. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really don't understand why this movie is so highly regarded. (Could say the same for most of Fellini's movies, in fact). A rambling pointless movie with no discernible plot. At best it's a tourism advertisement for Rome.There are sparks of life and point. The Catholic cardinals prancing around as models in a fashion show was quite funny, and a bit of an stab at how the clergy tries to be hip, in a phony sort of way. Also, the stabs at the idleness and anarchy of the younger generation. Most importantly, how a city, and civilization as a whole, changes with the times.Unfortunately, these points are brief and are not followed through. Plus there is no connection between these brief sparks of life. It's all fairly random. "}{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my all time favourites. My dearest Fellini. Still breathtaking cinema. A celebration of some thousand years in history of a major capital, once the center of the world. You can feel the athmosphere touching you. Nino Rotas music is a masterpiece of it's own - listen carefully. Definately a must-see over and over again and therefore a must-have. "},{"Title":"Fellini's love-hate ode to Rome","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Federico Fellini's impressionistic tribute to Rome, Italy is both loving and disdainful, a past and present collage of a city in transition. Lots of gorgeous imagery, but the loosely-structured 'plot' doesn't warrant much attention. With action swinging back and forth in time, the film lacks a kinetic energy, and the inherent bittersweet nostalgia doesn't always carry it through. For those so inclined, a few of Fellini's trademark freaks do pass by, but the film isn't as garish--or as exciting--as Fellini's earlier works. It seems the artiste was in transition himself. Although the film won a technical Grand Prize at Cannes, it was snubbed at Oscar time. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Fellini effortlessly blurs the line between fiction and non-fiction","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fellini's ROMA imposingly alternates between two paralleled narratives in Rome, his salad days during the WWII and the beginning of 1970s, when he is an eminent filmmaker making a new film about the city, erratically charts its local customs and folk culture to pay homage to an ancient and great city. Structurally, the film doesn't stick to a linear one, instead it disguises with a pseudo-documentary style, in fact, most of the scenes were re-constructed in Cinecittà, however, Fellini stuns audience again with his majestic undertaking which significantly blurs the line between fiction and non-fiction.The film is not just an ode to the city, more prominently, it is the clashes between past and present that reverberate strongly today. His young self (played by Falcon), a doe-eyed townie arrives in Rome for college, enjoys a boisterous dinner in the street trattoria with the entire neighbourhood, watches a shoddy variety show with crude spectators which would be interrupted by an air raid, flirts with the brothel for the first time; when time leaps forward to the 1970s, the flower-child generation is consuming with alienation and torpidity, a poetic episode of the underground metro construction team encounters an undiscovered catacomb, where fresh air breaches into the isolated space and ruins all its frescoes in a jiffy. A superlative conceit encapsulates the dilemma between modern civilisation and ancient heritage.There is no absence of Fellini-esque extravaganza, the brothels during wartime are quintessentially embellished with crazed peculiarity and vulgarity for its zeitgeist and national spirit, where sex can be simply traded as commodity without any emotional investment. The most striking one, is the flamboyant fashion-show of church accouterments organised by Princess Domitilla (De Doses) for Cardinal Ottaviani (Giovannoli), consummated in an overblown resurrection of the deceased Pope, it is sacrilege in its most diverting form, only Fellini can shape it with such grand appeal and laugh about it.Two notable celebrity cameos, Gore Vidal, expresses his love of the city from an expatriate slant, and more poignant one is from Anna Magnani, her final screen presence - Ciao, buonanotte! - a sounding farewell for this fiery cinema icon. The epilogue, riding with a band of motorists, visiting landmarks in the night, Fellini's ROMA breezily captures this city's breath of life, sentimental to its distinguished history, meanwhile vivacious even farcical in celebrating its ever-progressing motions, a charming knockout! "},{"Title":"Images Looking For A Plot","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One reviewer asserted that, whether or not you enjoyed the film, you must recognize it as a masterpiece. Not true. Yes, it is colorful and full of memorable images. But that is not enough.Roma is a sometimes energetic collection of sometimes surreal moments. The fact that it is an ego-centric indulgence would not invalidate the film except for the fact that it is little else. There is some entertainment value, for sure, but it never rises to the point that it truly stimulates the emotions. Being surreal, you can insert your own intellectual interpretations, but the same can be said of inkblots.In comparison, I think Woody Allen films are often self-indulgent, but they always have something to say, they entertain, and they have significant emotional content. If Roma had been Fellini's first film, I wonder how well it would have been received? "},{"Title":"Fellini Eruption","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, don't expect a tidy linear storyline.Expect colours, hilarious random encounters, beauty and filth, majestic images from the past, the swirling phantasmagoria of life whirl-pooling form a city as seen from a great director at the height of his creativity.For people with open minds who want to be transported to another place and time.For people who enjoy poetry on screen.Laugh, and witness in awe.Rowdy theatres, underground tunnels, crumbling statues, religious fashion, prostitution venues, rainy highways stained with roadkill...20 years ago I had not the patience, now I was sad to see the end. "},{"Title":"There's the myth... there's the reality... and in-between, there's Fellini's Roma ...","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whether for literature, theater or any art of storytelling, there can't be a plot without characters to drive it. Yet characters don't imply a specific plot and this might be the area where theater slightly surpasses literature, as an art of 'presence' and 'personalities' mirroring our condition. More than anything, it's a show, an invitation for eyes, for ears, for feelings. And emotions can do without plots.And here we have Fellini draining his talent from the Antic Roman-Greek tragicomedy, Commedia del' Arte, Opera and maybe more than anything, from his Italian roots so devoted to fun and entertainment. More than any other director, Fellini understood the virtue of Cinema as a new form of theater, a show that doesn't rely on plots or screen writing techniques, he shoots first and we ask the question later. And what a show! Fellini will forever be admired and never equaled, thanks to his unique talent to inhabit his films with unforgettable gallery of characters, eccentrics, larger-than-life, decadent, greedy, gluttonous, sensual, ugly, outcasts, colorful faces with anonymous names and universal and timeless appeals. These people feel real because they FEEL. And we're so hypnotized by the images that we forget to care about a plot.My repetition of the word 'plot' is only an anticipation of some rational comments on Fellini's Roma or, Fellini's Roma, I must say. Yes, the film doesn't have a plot, even to those who set their minds for a surrealist tour orchestrated by the ultimate cinematic ringleader, Il Maestro Fellini. Even 8½ chronicled the very process of film-making from the author's boiling mind, even the previous Fellini's Satyricon was a take on a myth that had a story to tell, no matter how disjointed it felt. Even the nostalgic vignettes of Amarcord made a coherent ensemble, but Fellini's Roma has no focus whatsoever.But does it need one when the scope is so large, when Rome is the main protagonist, such a myth of a city that it transcends all the periods, visions and artistic possibilities. The film is constantly inhabited by Rome's aura from Fellini's perspective, hence the title. For Satyricon, it was a legal necessity, to distinguish from two films with the same title, to establish Fellini's independence from the original myth. Roma similarly establishes Fellini's independence. Except that this time, no other vision of Rome could ever compete with Fellini's, and approach the town with the same masterful audacity.Now, why a film about Rome? My guess is that it's one of the few privileged cities whose name evoke fascinating contradictions. Rome is the city of illusions. Not only by chance you have here the church, the government, the cinema. They each produce illusions. This is Gore Vidal speaking in a memorable cameo and it's probably the closest rational conclusion that can come out of this mesmerizing mess. And illusion is the key word, whether it's the illusion of church that ignited the faith of generation of Italians without abjuring them from that lust for life and voluptuous bodies so rooted in the Italian lifestyle, for politics which have plunged post-War Italy into the darkness of fascism and even Cinema doesn't escape criticism.Behind Fellini's eye, Rome oscillates between dazzling magnificence and nightmarish decadence. Fellini appears twice, as a young idealistic man who discovers the town, eats some spaghetti with the population, goes to the music-hall or visits a brothel, and the older real-life Fellini discussing with the new generation of Romans on how to make an accurate portrayal of the city. And it's ironic how nothing changed much between these times, O Tempora! O Mores yet Mussolini's Italy was as noisy, lusty and turbulent as in 1972, and ironically, Roma's self-referential aspect illustrates that both embellishment and derision work on caricatures, the very illusions, Fellini admits in his own filmmaking process.And illusion contributes to the film's most enigmatic moments, a parade of prostitutes tempting their clients, with sensual bodies to better hide the lucid tiredness in their faces, the scene followed by a sort of ecclesiastic fashion contest. Through the intriguing parallel, the iconoclast Maestro doesn't attack church but the myth of virtue that ignores the real sacred Trinity out of the Vatican limits life, love and lust. His fantasy vision works like a missing link between the eternal myth of Roma and reality. When thinking of Roma, we'll either have a vision of the Coliseum, of a fat Italian with huge bosoms serving a large plate of pasta on a summer evening, or maybe a beautiful red-haired and red-dressed woman sensually dancing at the moonlight of a lamppost, perhaps the greatest cinematic allegory of any town.And if the film works without characters, it does as well without a plot because Rome is that sensual woman with a history, a present, a future, and a past. You can't dig a subway tunnel without bumping on archaeological relics hidden in its prolific womb, like a woman who hasn't revealed all her secrets. And one of the most poignant moments, occurs when engineers find Antic frescoes in a tunnel, preserved just as if they were painted the day before, before oxygen destroys them instantly. That's the price you pay when you have a clear glimpse on reality, imagining how Romans were, would have been more salutary for its (or her) own history. And this is the power of imagination, of illusion over reality or any myth of grandeur. No need for a plot when you have such a wonderful protagonist that encapsulate all the values Italians will forever stand for, and who more entitled than Fellini to share with us a part of his vision. And no need for specific characters when you have the Italians. A famous Italian actor, if I recall correctly, said something like In Italy, there are about thirty millions actors, the rest of the population star in movies. This quote could have been the film's tag-line. "},{"Title":"Il Maestro's tribute to the city that made him.","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's hard for me to render an objective verdict on Fellini Roma because, while being a rather unbalanced film--containing some trite stuff along with cinematographic gold--it also includes three episodes that fascinate me. The first one directly involves something I love, that's the journey of the film crew along the tunnel of the subway in construction. There is something surreal about that segment, something that gives it an out-of-this-world quality, while still belonging to our day to day, trivial reality. In my I Vitelloni review I said that Fellini had the capacity of making classics out of the most ordinary situations and this scene proves it. Because there's nothing in such episode that doesn't belong to our everyday reality, yet the feeling is that of a magical journey, something out of a fable. For ex., when the engineer orders to activate the cutter, what comes next doesn't look like a simple mechanical procedure, the drilling of a rock, but as it he had awakened instead a prehistoric monster, a dragon who was sleeping in the depths of the Earth and who starts suddenly breathing, slowly raising on its hinged legs over the men, thrusting its Alien-like jaws towards them. Here's is where Fellini's cinematographic genius appears at its best, as scenes like that one we may have seen many times in the news in TV, in civil engineering films, yet here the thing becomes surreal, straddles the realm of the fantastic. And all those effects, the eerie atmosphere, have been achieved simply with camera angles, lightning, the hovering dust, and the fact that all we hear is the life-like roar of the cutter. But he goes even further, he flirts also with the esoteric even before the crew gets into the 2000-year Roman house, we viewers see what it's inside. Amazingly enough, one of the frescoes contains the uncannily accurate portrait of one of the crew members, who starts at that very moment feeling sick. Coincidence? Point for reincarnation? Lots to ponder there.The second episode I loved is that of the chaos in the highway, specially the night scenes. Compare the incredible vivacity of it, the joyous exuberance, the pulsating life of the city in the midst of the mass of intermingled cars, trucks; in the cacophony of innumerable horns; in all the dirty gestures, smirks, stares flying from car to car and back; in the stoic, angry, perplexed expressions in mirrors, windows, windshields--all that while the camera boom goes up and down, right and left--compare this magnificent chaos with the dead--fish opening of 8½. No way on one hand we got a Fellini in full possession of his means, at the peak of his artistic creativity; on the other, an spiritually dead, practically sterile Fellini.The third episode I love here is the Vatican fashion show. As I've said about Buñuel, fans of Fellini tend to sell him short when it comes to social, political or religious commentary. True, they may be thinking they are just throwing jabs but, as irrepressible artists they are, the end result has always had a much greater reach. Think of Cervantes, who all what he wanted was to ridicule the Harry Potters of his day and who ended up penning instead the greatest literary work in History. That's how I see works where Buñuel or Fellini seem just being mean to the Church, the elites they just can't help going far beyond that, reach new levels. Being neutral in the subject I find a subversive beauty in this scene, even if taken as mockery--not to mention the fact that there's nothing that excludes that the Church actually does some kind of exhibition when studying new trappings for its members. But the beauty of that scene, at least for me, it's in that it escapes the purely derisory and becomes--once again--a surreal experience, to which contributes much the haunting Rota score. The only thing I didn't get was the arrival of the old man with glasses who brings the house down, so to speak. Our Pope is back!. What was the meaning of that, the Second Coming, a return to happier times?.Oh, the movie itself is a itinerary through time of the historic Rome from the 1930s to 1972, all seen through Fellini's eyes and life experience, yet you are never allowed to forget that this is a city thousands of years old. From the initial shot of a stone road sign, to a school principal talking to students about Cesar and crossing the Rubicon himself; to the movies in the matinée; to the ruins of buildings & monuments that liter the landscape, we are being constantly reminded that this isn't just a city that has lived through History but one that also contains History, one that's History itself, the cradle of our Western civilization nothing less. And this is Fellini's homage to it.Fellini Roma has no plot to properly speak of, just vignettes through time & place; the lives of Romans under Fascism, during war&#x97;including the ways they used to have a good time communal diners, Variety shows, movie matinées--up to present day 1972, with the problems usual to urban sprawl pollution, subway construction, hippies and other assorted malcontents. Fellini's cinematography is there and so his weird looking people with their odd behavior. In all it makes for an entertaining film, except for the bordello scenes, which I found rather long and tedious. I give it a 7.5/10 but I'll add 0.5 just because I loved that underground scene&#x97;what can I do, it's that personal background kicking again. "},{"Title":"Pure genius","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have accidentally stumbled upon this film. I have watched his known masterpieces and liked them very much. But this is something special. This really breaks with the common use for film as a simple way to illustrate an epic story and goes beyond. Something achieved only by few, say Akira Kurosawa in Yume / Dreams. This is also unique as far as I know because the main / only character is a city. That has been tried even in the recent years with Paris, je t'aime, but they failed. Sure, if your kind of entertainment is Xmen Meet Rambo to Kill the Out-of-space Infidels you can bet you are going to be bored out of your head. Otherwise this is worth every minute of the two hours. And every time you get to see it more details and symbols are going to reveal themselves. "},{"Title":"Mixed results","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In this movie Federico Fellini attempts to contrast the Rome of his youth with modern day Rome with mixed results. The Rome of his youth is gaudy, earthy, raucous, but with a sense of community, while all that is lacking in the present day, yet Rome endures despite the changes. Fellini clearly yearns for the earlier time and provides a glimpse of a world and subculture that is now extinct. Oh, to go back to the days when neighborhoods existed, when people knew each other, when life was simpler and more fun. Yet the problem is that the movie lacks any real dramatic content. The movie is basically consists of anecdotal vignettes that show the ridiculous side of life, yet it's all based on caricatures that lack substance. As a result, the movie is dramatically flat. One can appreciate Fellini's attempt to recreate a happier bygone era but people are more than just caricatures and to portray people as such becomes a form of mockery which is ultimately unfair. "},{"Title":"Very enchanting and interesting film from Fellini","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of the five movies so far I have seen of Fellini's, Roma is my least favourite, but that doesn't mean at all that it is a bad film. It's just that I think La Dolce Vita, 8 1/2 and Amarchord are masterpieces and La Strada a near-masterpiece.Roma while perhaps being the most personal of Fellini's films for me was just very, very good. For my liking, Fellini occasionally shows a lack of intellectual rigour and when he is reminiscing and chatting with the likes of Marcello Mastroianni while mostly companionable and insightful there is the odd occasion where he comes across as a tad overbearing.However, Fellini more than makes up for it with a very interesting and insightful experimental/documentary-like approach to this film. Mastroianni, Gore Vidal and Anna Magnani are a delight to watch, the film does have a subtle message and told with a lot of heart and Nino Rota's score is atmospheric, nostalgic and lilting. Like all his films, the visuals show a genius at work. The cinematography is spellbinding and The Eternal City is gorgeous. Here Fellini's images are at their best in the 1940s music hall show, the unearthing of the ancient villa and the fashion parade.All in all, enchanting and interesting if not Fellini's best. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Essential Fellini for first 30 minutes","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first half an hour of Roma is as good as anything that Fellini has made. Not following any real discernible plot, these 30 minutes largely show the thrill of a sprawling, wild lower middle class house that a young man (Fellini?) comes to stay at in Rome in the late 1930s. The scene where all the families in the apartments come out to eat pasta and snails(!) in the open air at night is thrilling for its use of stream of consciousness switch from one conversation to another - portraying the dynamism and the cheeky irreverence of Roman street life. This is film making at its best. Thereafter we switch to 1970s Rome and the mood becomes bleak. A long sequence of cars in a traffic jam in the rain with the conversations now all separate as people sit secluded away from each other. This appears to be a bleak comment on how Roman life has lost its zest. There are more switches of mood and scene all with no clear link other than they are based in Rome. Its all a bit confusing, but the first 30 minutes make it worth it. Woody Allen was clearly watching as there are many references here used in his films. "},{"Title":"A mind trip through Rome with Fellini.","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Come and take a tour of the Eternal City with its most famous citizen from the cinema world. Here, Federico Fellini disposes of practically all normal and conventional ways of making a film and uses it for what it may have been intended for primarily. Here, the story is extinct and all we are left with are images, and in the hands of Fellini they are some stunning images. All take place in Rome, that great capital of Italy that has been through so much over the centuries and Fellini attempts to capture all of it. He uses a young man first coming to Rome (representing him), who encounters a small apartment he has to share with about ten other people and children, a huge outside venue where nearly everyone in the area comes to eat and socialize, and then takes a journey to his first brothel, then goes again.As it is with many of his other films, Fellini uses dreams and exaggerations to explore the world of his subject, in this case the city of Rome. It is as he imagines it, which makes it all the more confusing and unusual. The women are big-breasted, loud and mesmerizing, and to watch these people fight, make up, or just talk with one another alone is interesting and funny in the way they express exactly what they are feeling. This frankness is something Fellini admires and it is a characteristic of Rome where things happen because they should, not because people want them to or not. Another interesting aspect was using a film crew to show us the underground of Rome where there is so much more history to be discovered.The ending is just as unconventional as the rest of the film. Here, a large group of people (perhaps representing the city or all the people Fellini knew in his life) ride on motorcycles all throughout the city. As they turn corners and go down main streets, the camera swirls and turns to show us the famous standings in the city that represent it, all coming to an end at the Coliseum. This is the film's finest moment because it is a culmination of all things Roman and all things Fellini. In many ways, it is like the end of 8 1/2 as we watch all these aspects come together, whether you want them to or not. As much as Rome is eternal, it is with a purpose and you cannot change it to your liking, only record what you see. Fellini has done just that. "},{"Title":"A sprawling love-letter to Rome, the eternal city.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's well known that Fellini abandoned linear, narrative film-making sometime during 8½, though perhaps the seeds were already being sewn with his two episodic dramas, Nights of Cabiria and La Dolce Vita. Like those films, Fellini-Roma offers up a similarly episodic, shambolic and deeply romanticised depiction of Italy's capital. However, unlike those films, there is no central figure or narrator, like the prostitute Cabiria or Marcello the playboy journalist, to guide us through Fellini's labyrinthine concoction; only the fevered musings of it's director and the rambling recollections of a series of fanciful weirdoes. Thus, the film isn't a film in the traditional sense, but rather, a fusion of documentary style-footage and stylised recreations of characters, places, times and events.Many have criticised the film (as well as others from the same era, particularly Juliet of the Spirits, Satyricon, Fellini-Casanova and The City of Women) as being trivial, meandering and self-indulgent, all of which are true, but certainly the element of indulgence and theatrical abstraction (as well as a penchant for the outrageous and arcane) was always part of Fellini's appeal. Here, the previous hints of free-form abstraction, is taken further, with all semblance of story removed, so the film, unlike his previous two films Juliet of the Spirits and Satyricon, which were abstract and sprawling but still had a sense of character and plot, Roma instead, wanders along from one scene to the next, with no real focus on character (although there are many faces that reoccur throughout) and nothing in the way of narrative momentum. Now, this will undoubtedly be a problem for some viewers who require a sense of pace or meaning to their films, though, for those of us still interested in what Fellini has to offer, regardless of content (or lack, thereof), it is perhaps best to think of the film as a collection of scenes to dip in and out of at random.As was the case with many later-Fellini, the film has a number of intoxicating set pieces scattered sporadically throughout, amongst the most impressive being an epic fashion show replete with the trademark Fellini grotesques, social and political commentaries and a fair bit of sniping, sycophantic star-worship. Other standouts, with the film traversing a number of different time periods, include a reconstruction of Rome during the reign of Mussolini, a heated traffic jam on the autostrada and a lengthy documentary-like scene following a group of archaeologists searching through Rome's labyrinth of subway systems. There are a variety of other set pieces scattered throughout the film that probably warrant some sort of mention, but they just didn't resonate with me as highly as they have with certain other viewers.However, that's one of the great things about Fellini-Roma, with the director stringing together a series of impressionist sketches that will no doubt conjure different moods and emotions in whoever watches the film. As was apparent right from the start with Fellini, was his ability to evoke a certain time and place through his images, set-construction, sound-design, and overall iconography... and that's certainly evident here. Of course, like all of the director's work from this period, the film won't be to all tastes, with many no doubt despairing of the filmmaker's seeming indulgence, pretension and wanton disregard of character and narrative. However, if you treat the film more like an episodic tapestry (or travelogue) to dip in and out of, then you're sure to get a lot out of Fellini's majestic, carefully orchestrated imagery, bizarre cavalcade of clowns, freaks, geeks and weirdoes (not to mention the usual barrage of buxom ladies), and a collection of cameos and in-jokes from a variety of Fellini regulars.For my money, this film isn't quite as essential as 8 ½, Amarcord, La Dolce Vita or ...And the Ship Sails on, though it does rank alongside the sentimental La Strada and the similarly episodic Night of Cabiria (I'm not sure whether or not I prefer Casanova over this... I'd have to see both films again) and is much better than the free-form bombardment of Juliet of the Spirits, Satyricon and The City of Women (in my opinion, at least). Regardless of the comparisons to his previous films, Fellini-Roma is still an enchanting film with some astounding moments of visual spectacle to compensate for the overall lack of plot. Probably a worthwhile purchase for die-hard Fellini fans, though those new to the director's work would be better off starting elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The 1972 film Roma, by Federico Fellini, lies somewhere between his 1968 film Satyricon and his 1973 film Amarcord, not only chronologically, but creatively (The Clowns, from 1970, is a minor work, by comparison). It is a picaresque film, as both the other films are, and has some of the heightened imagery and poesy of Satyricon, while possessing Amarcord's humor and jabs at Fellini's Fascist era youth. That said, it is not as good a film as the two films that sandwich it for the very reason that it sits on that fence the two other films eschew. Whereas Satyricon was a freestyle adaptation from an ancient Roman work of art, with recurring characters in its vignettes, Roma is more of a travelogue crossed with memory, and the only constant within it is the city of Rome. The film was written by Fellini and Bernardino Zapponi, who collaborated on Satyricon, and, like that film, it is a visual orgy, filled with color and spectacle.The two hour film is divided into a series of hallucinogenic vignettes admixed with golden memories that recount Roman history, Fellini's past, and the present of the city. These narrative streams and themes bounce back and forth, as Fellini tries to embody the very concept of Rome as 'The Eternal City' of mythos (as opposed to the 'city of illusions' that American writer Gore Vidal calls it, in a late cameo appearance proclaiming Apocalypticism as a vision)&#133;. Of course, the film would not be Fellinian without whores and midgets, and a slew of other oddities- human or not. This parade of grotesques is not limited to the material, but also to the very habits of the Romans from all eras, such as a scene at an outdoor restaurant, where the lower classes practice vulgarianism unabashedly. The film also has a number of uncredited cameo appearances, aside from Fellini and Vidal- mostly by Italian filmic luminaries such as Anna Magnani, Marcello Mastroianni, Feodor Chaliapin, and Alberto Sordi. The DVD, put out by MGM, is spare in the extreme, with the only bonus being the original theatrical trailer. The film is shown in a 1.661 aspect ratio, and is a fine print- the colors really show what a great cinematographer Giuseppe Rotunno was; especially in the shots taken at night, where the lighting and the colors literally blaze in their contrast to the pitch. The art direction and costuming by Danilo Donati also shines, even more so than in earlier Fellini color films- especially during the stellar Papal throne sequence, which seems almost the antithesis (or genial parody) of Francis Bacon's Satanically satiric painted portrait of Pope Innocent X- replete with a throne that seems to explode in color and neon. That said, the only one of the Fellini regular crew who seems to be doing subpar work is the normally fantastic Nino Rota, whose soundtrack is barely an influence on the images. Whether this is because the music is deliberately understated or because the imagery is so overwhelming is debatable, but it's still a notable absence. Overall, Roma is a solid film with great moments, but one that has more value as a work of art that bears scrutiny for its reflection of its creator, rather than standing on its own artistic merits. It is not as daring as Satyricon, not as ribald nor tightly edited as Amarcord, not as probing of the human condition as Nights Of Cabiria, not as intellectualized as 8½, nor is it as all-encompassing as La Dolce Vita. But, after all, how many films are? It is akin to dissing a drama of Eugene O'Neill because it falls short of The Iceman Cometh, Mourning Becomes Electra, or A Long Day's Journey Into Night. If it is best as a baedeker to those greater films in the Fellini canon, so be it, for it is a sojourn worth the undertaking. "},{"Title":"weird, but well, not bad","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fellini's Rome is a very weird film it has not a clear plot, in fact there isn't any main character but the great city of Rome. We can watch different people from different times living and enjoying Rome. As a movie without plot it could become absolutely boring and annoying, but the greatness of Fellini transforms it in a curious portrait of characters that go up and down in the city. It is clear that it is an exercise of exquisite quality in directing, the main problem is that it is difficult to the film to be more than that. Had the movie a worse director, it would have been one of the worst films ever made. Being directed by Fellini, it becomes a curios strange film. I have not liked it at all, but I have to admit that the directing is great. "},{"Title":"Fellini's Rome","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roma (1972) Peter Gonzales, Fiona Florence, Britta Barnes, Pia De Roses, Renato Giovanoli, Marne Maitland, Elisa Mainardi, Galliano Sbarra, Raout Paule, Paola Natale, Ginette Marcelle, Mario Del Vago, Alfredo Adami, Feodor Chaliapin, Anna Magnani, John Francis Lane, Elliot Murphy, Gore Vidal, Cassandra Peterson. Director Federico Fellini, Screenplay Federico Fellini.Director Federico Fellini was by 1972 a noted Italian cinema director, even beloved by overseas American audiences who praised his most brilliant films, which garnered foreign film buzz. Fellini's Roma is his personal paean to the Eternal City, a dizzying cavalcade of sights, sounds, colors and iconography depicting the Rome he had known up until the radically changing 70's. But it must be understood that Fellini's vision of Rome is not everyone's idea of Rome (certainly not mine). How he bothered to make this movie when he already had La Strada 8 1/2 and Dolce Vita to his credit is beyond me. At the risk of sounding overly critical and negative, I will have to admit that this film has some wonderful things about it, especially how it is a sort of document of Rome in the early 70's and not surprisingly, Rome of the World War II period, which was Fellini's coming-of-age era. The scenes in which Fellini (who is actually in the movie itself) directs an untitled film and is repulsed and outraged by the change in the city he had loved in his youth is quite moving. Rome in the early 70's was as time of corrupt local and national government which fueled protests similar to the Vietnam protests in America, and even triggered the murders of politicians. American tourists and students introduced the Hippie Movement to Roman youth, and with that liberal concepts such as cross-dressing, gay pride and feminism. Also good are the early scenes in which Fellini first visits Rome fresh from the provinces just before World War II begins to rage. Beautiful shots of the ageless Apian Way, the grand Coliseum, the Renaissance beauty of the Trevi fountain, dozens of statuary of nudes men and goddesses and the grave majesty of the Vatican. The outdoor restaurant, in which dozens of Italian families are eating heartily and talking their heads off (though saying some pretty vulgar things) is inherently real, as is the vistas of crowded tenement buildings and dirty slums. The talent show is probably unnecessarily long and tasteless (it's one bad comic act after another, prompting the audience to spit, protest and even hurl a dead cat). But the saving grace of the film is the memorable and beloved scene in which we follow a group of archaeologists descend beneath a subway train station to uncover ancient murals and frescoes of wealthy Patricians of the Roman Empire, only to lose them to a destructive mist (symbolic of time and or the progressive industrialist forces of modernism). The final silent sequence of a motorcycle group circling the city is also praiseworthy. But for all these pretty scenes, the film lacks real substance. There is no denying the fact it is a movie without a plot. It's a dream-like array of imagery and sounds, unrelated scenes and incoherent narrative, often feeling like Fellini was connecting several films at once. To counter all the lovely scenes there are many bad ones, not the least of them being the blasphemous Fashion Show in which the Pope makes an appearance (Fellini's subtle attack on the Catholic Church). Also bad is the fact that women are not portrayed in a good light and nearly all the women who are not Italian mothers are whores, prostitutes and temptresses. The movie is long and phantasmagorical. It's a perfect follow-up to his equally absurd and sexually radical Satyricon. Ultimately, you have to be a devoted fan of Fellini films in order to appreciate this otherwise bizarre movie that attempts to be a serious work of art. "},{"Title":"Parade of the Grotesque women","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another legacy of genius filmmaking from the late 60's/early 70's era of super creativity. Fellini at his height was simply incredible, the sheer volume of interesting/grotesque/hilarious/realistic face's and characters he would cram into any single one of his films were more than most directors captured in a lifetime. Like a dizzying phantasmagorical parade of comical historical realism captured as no artist ever could or will again. And visually in many ways he was the italian Spielberg of the time, except more interesting than Spielberg, Kubrick, Coppola all put together. I can't understand why Criterion didn't put out the DVD on this one, they did a beautiful job on all his others but somehow missed this one. Grant it, MGM DVD's look perfectly fine, but if any DVD could have benefitted from a super-remastered Special edition, this one could have. It often seems somehow the most incredibly brilliant works of art get slightly overlooked/underrated and or forgotten about. I guess the mainstream public can only handle a certain level of brilliance "},{"Title":"Stunning collage of images","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fellini's camera weaves in and out of the landscape, thru the rain, thru heavy boisterous outdoor meals, thru maddening traffic jams, thru time, and war and history. A hypnotic ride around a great city, into its people and culture and humor and sadness. You won't be able to stop looking. It improves with age, too, like a fine bottle of Scotch, and the haunting motorcycle parade that concludes this great pastiche is a fitting montage, as if to say the present and the past have joined forces. Fine colorful characters and even more colorful cinematography will stay with you long after it's over. What Woody Allen did for New York in Manhattan, Fellini has done here for Rome. Wonderful stuff. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i mean people who complain about plot are idiots... well most are =D.this movie is the best living description of a life in a city.i mean hardly any movies are as lively as this... it has some magic that other movies don't have.little aging has happened. i'm a very realistic in my giving points... i mostly give 2-4 points to movies... so this one is a masterpiece...i think that these should be the movies shown to people on TV. no it's crap after more bull after more shaissenburgen... =D but people like only bad movies. (not all) but my old friends who have gone through college, and work. they seem reasonably intelligent, but when it comes to culture these people fail miserably... oh well =D definitely one of the best of fellini... "},{"Title":"Fragmented mess but still Fellini","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fellini's Roma falls somewhere between Julliet of the Spirits and Amarcord. Both were directed by him in 1965 and 1973 respectively. The first was a mess and virtually unwatchable. The second is one of the greatest works of cinema. So Fellini's Roma too is a fragmented mess. There is no coherent story and absolutely no plot. The fragments are not inter-related and some of them are completely surreal. The one with the papal fashion show immediately leaps to mind. However, there is great beauty too - the Fellini touch. The scenes with the eating out and the fresco discovery were shot with a master touch.The bulk of the action takes place over a 24 hour period in Fascist Italy. Its worth a look for Fellini fans but don't try to derive any sense from this. Ciao! "}{"Title":"A stage in Fellini's journey","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fellini's (1920-1993) final turn into the post-modern. Compare this film with The White Sheik (1952) which was straight narration about a couple's trip to Rome. And, compare with 8 1/2 (1963) which probed painfully into Fellini's midlife crisis. Roma is an irreverent and surrealist look at the noisy, vulgar and self-absorbed Romans. It is autobiographic, but not a documentary! This is the place that a provincial lad had always worshipped. This is his final rejection of the church, authoritarianism, neo-realism and progress. It is the place of chaos, of the grotesque and unrestrained. Flash forwards to Fellini the young filmmaker. Back to the cabaret chapter which has a cast of hundreds (neo-realism preferred an amateur cast). The air raid shelter with the fascist tirade follows that. Then, forward to the mysteries discovered in the construction of the subway. The highlight may be the satirical church fashion show. Existential ending? The big budget was spent on sets/costumes and techniques. Interesting film, but not loved unless you have traveled the same road. "},{"Title":"Director's Memories","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fellini's Roma(1972) goes into some themes that the filmmaker, Fellini explores in Amarcord and some of his eariler work.  Mixture of the Neo Realism period of the 1950s with the Excessive period of the Mid to late 1960s.  Follows some of the same patterns as Fellini Satryicon(1969).  In the top five of Federico Fellini's films from the late period of his career.  Part of the story uses a film within a film structure.  Available in DVD in the cut 119 minute version.  I would love to see the complete 128 minute version get the Theatrical treatment like Fellini Satricon or Juliet of the Spirits.  All Fellini's Roma(1972) shows is that Federico Fellini was Italy's answer to Luis Bunuel. "},{"Title":"Yes-This is art (Don´t be affraid!)","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This portrait of the maestros italien universe is pure art of cinematographie. The autostrada-takes are some of the best without words sequences one can see in a movie - and the rest is pure eye- and brain candy as well! 100 percent recommended (4/4). "},{"Title":"Fellini's Roma","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although this is not a film in its traditional sense, it presents another unique quality for Fellini. Its non-linear pattern may seem very confusing. In a sense you can say it is filmed like a documentary. Roma is an offbeat look at how Fellini perceived Rome in the 1970s. Fellini here is insisting that Rome is filled with nothing but freaks. In order to enjoy this film you must be a die hard Fellini fanatic, which I'm not although I do respect his work.  "},{"Title":"It's now official Federico Fellini is an overrated hack!","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fellini's Roma is the third film I've watched this week by director Fellini. The other two were And the Ship Sails On and City of Women. I can now say with certainty that Fellini is overrated. I almost feel sorry for anyone who wishes to mention his name in the same sentence with other more capable French directors such as Goddard, Bergman, Resnais, Tarantino, Scorsese, Belmond, Truffaut, Brando, Antoni, and others. Many of these directors have had their disappointing films, but each has made at least one significant contribution. On the other hand, I have seen Fellini's three most popular and critically acclaimed films, yet none of them were particularly impressive.Before delving into my review of Roma, let me first give my abridged comments on Fellini's other two films mentioned above.(Spoilers Below) Not recommended.The Roma is, unfortunately, the worst of the bunch. The first 20 minutes of this movie have some of the most outrageously stupid scenes ever filmed. Thousands of CGI bulls run through a ravine chasing roadrunner-like CGI slaves, which gives their opposing army an opportunity to use lots of CGI weapons and arrows. The film continues with CGI traffic jams, CGI bishops, CGI feathers, CGI backgrounds, CGI water, etc. In other words, there was no point in making this a live action film with so much obviously fake animated tomfoolery present. Unfortunately, making a film pretty does not, in and of itself, make it entertaining. The dialogue is horrible, the storyline is misguided, and the cheesiness flows like Niagara Falls! One scene in particular has a main character scream Ma ma!, which literally had me clutching my mid-section in wrenching laughter. In addition, the action scenes were average at best, using sloppy choreography. All in all, this movie is the epitome of commercially driven cinematic fluff. Roma makes The La Dolce Vita look like a masterpiece. Your only hope is to gawk at the incredibly daft Mr. Fellini and revel in the unintentional laughs.I must say that I am completely dumbfounded at the undeserving recognition that Federico Fellini receives. He's apparently gifted at wetting the palates of paid critics with art-house sensibilities. Although, considering the low-quality character of some the films that earn high accolades nowadays, it's really not much of a surprise at all.To top it off, I've recently been accused of being uncultured for not liking these films. I'm an American who has seen over 1,000 non-American movies, yet somehow I'm uncultured for not liking a few badly made Chinese films. Go figure. Perhaps Federico Fellini should consider making a movie that's actually good. I'm sure I'd like it.As a fan of french cinema, I basically watch anything I can get my hands on, while using online reviews as a priority guide. All I can say is that IMDb and the paid critics successfully tricked me into watching these Federico Fellini flicks, thereby wasting 7 hours of my time. Never again. Never again. "},{"Title":"Romans don't like it!","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I show this movie to my friends when they visit from Rome. They usually hate it. As one character in the movie complains to Fellini, why do you always show the bad aspects of Rome? However, having been to many of the non-tourist travailed areas of Rome, the film is on point -- if also exaggerated. Only Gore Vidal is given homage by Fellini and not satirized in this film - everything else, socialist students included -- are fodder for a Juvenalian display of Roman characteristics which make this an eternal city. My Italian friends still despise the film. This movie does not require a plot. It is a biography of Rome and the Romans who live there. However, the documentary is told through the perception of a non-Roman and lessons taught to school children who grew up outside of Rome. "},{"Title":"Rimini!","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hey Don't mean to be pedantic but Fellini's from Rimini, not Rome "},{"Title":"Proof that once famous, Fellini could put anything on screen yet still be adored","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film consists of many different mini films within a film and all are tied together because they have something (no matter how tenuous) to do with Rome. Some are rather touching, some are very crude, some are meant to be very offensive but none of them were boring and all were accompanied by the usual cast of Felliniesque extras (ugly people, huge breasted whores and the like).If I had been in Fellini's shoes back in the early 1970s, I might have been tempted to do what he did with ROMA. Instead of a traditional narrative or plot, he just took disparate images and segments having to do with Rome and tossed it all together into a compote of sorts without a lot tie it all together. What could be easier? While a new or struggling director would have probably been ignored or castigated for such excess and lack of discipline, since it was the great Fellini, then it was the work of an artiste. In other words, since he'd attained great international fame by creating some wonderful films, now he was free to screw around and do anything he wanted and STILL pack theaters and make the critics happy! Talk about a great life! Now as for me, I have a habit of being a nay-sayer--someone who often tries to see things from a different point of view. And while I used to think Fellini was an overrated genius, in recent years I have come to realize he was a great director as evidenced by LA STRADA and so many other great works. Unfortunately, because I also buck conventional wisdom, I also feel that starting in the 1960s, sometimes the director created some awful films that were adored by snobs but left the common man wondering if either the critics were nuts or they were. Frankly, after seeing SATYRICON, CASSANOVA and ROMA (all films that often carried Fellini's name on the title), I think I know the answer to that! If you like surrealistic and artsy films that make you feel smug in your own sense of self-importance, then by all means watch and enjoy this film. As for me, I just think all these films were really a form of self-parody and Fellini was just having a laugh at the expense of his die-hard fans. As for me, I think I'd rather have a migraine than see this film again--no matter how good some parts of the film were.FYI--A warning to parents. This film has quite a bit of nudity featuring very unattractive women's breasts. There is also a scene where a little kid pees in the aisle of a theater--something I didn't need to see. Additionally, there is a rather irreverent jab at the Church near the end, so parents should exercise some caution before letting their kids see this--but on the other hand, what kid would WANT to see this?! "},{"Title":"Fellini is for coffee drinkers","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fellini is for people who drink excessive amounts of coffee. (And if you're sitting there saying, I drink coffee but not excessive amounts of it, you're deluding yourself.) Fellini is for people who would like to make the world a better place, but they don't know how, so they just avoid it and concern themselves with the absurdity of life. And drink more coffee.When watching Fellini films I am infected with a violent desire to throw popcorn at the screen and quote Bruno Kirby from _When Harry Met Sally_ in the scene where he's frustrated at Sally's inability to convey her ideas while playing a game of Pictionary Draw SOMETHING resembling ANYTHING!!! "}]