[{"Title":"It may be cheap and revolting, but it's got style.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"90 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"       I first saw Pink Flamingos in the mid 70's, back before VCRs.  A college dorm had rented a print, and in a drunken state I've not achieved again this past quarter-century, I went to see it.  Having finally seen it again only recently, this time sober, I'm here to tell you... it looks a hell of a lot better when you're drunk.  Those who call it great or a masterpiece are plain wrong, they don't recognize what they are seeing.  The camera work is a hair's breadth above home movies; the acting and story are... well, they are better than in porn flicks and even some straight-to-video movies, but, jeez, not by much.  And then there is the primary purpose behind Pink Flamingos -- to make the most disgusting, revolting movie possible, perhaps even conceivable.       But... BUT... Pink Flamingos is distinctive.  Even if you - yes YOU out there - the reader, wanted to make the most disgusting movie in the world and even if you had the money and the skills that John Waters lacked in 1972, you couldn't make a film as good as he did.  Yes, GOOD!  You couldn't because, first of all, I doubt you have the same quality of acquaintances that Waters had and put into into his early movies.  And it's not just a matter of WHAT they will do, but HOW they do it.  Waters' actors had a style, no matter how bizarre, that is rarer than most depravities.  Could YOU recognize the virtues of, let alone even find, someone like Edith Massey?  I doubt it.  Which leads to the second point.     Pink Flamingos has panache!  It has a free-wheeling sense of daring-do that borders on innocent fun. So, although the movie is so disgusting that I wish it had never been made, it is not a squalid film.  And I don't think YOU, the reader, or anyone other than Waters could have pulled that off.  It doesn't make Pink Flamingos a masterpiece.  It does make it unlike any other film. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully filthy classic.","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"67 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is a cult classic.The plot of this film revolves around the throwdown challenge to Divine's supremacy as the filthiest person alive.Pink Flamingos contains some memorably repulsive scenes like a sex scene with a chicken and the scene where Divine eats fresh dog feces.Yes,the movie is shocking and funny at the same time,but the biggest laughs come from the actors' lines.Check out especially this line from DivineKill everyone now!Condone first degree murder!Advocate cannibalism!Eat s***!Filth is my politics!Filth is my life!.On the whole,I really enjoyed this film.Still its tagline An Exercise in Bad Taste should be taken to heart and even those used to the gross out movies today may find this gem hard to stomach.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"They just don't make 'em like they used to.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"55 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" On the surface Pink Flamingos could easily be dismissed as a nostalgic piece of shock cinema. With an unparalleled level of notoriety -- based almost entirely on the final scene, the film has become a curiosity of sorts and a right of passage for those testing their own boundaries of decency. Beneath this seedy exterior however, lies a brilliant and biting satire of society's obsession with fame and the lengths one will go to in order to achieve it. This theme is relevant even more so today than it ever was. Just consider the over abundance of reality TV shows, for example 'Fear Factor' &#150; a show boasting contestants eager and willing to outdo one another by performing a variety of dangerous stunts and eating unimaginable specimens &#150; how is this any different than the characters in 'Pink Flamingos' attempting to outdo one another in an effort to claim the dubious title of the filthiest people alive? Society is (and has always been) captivated with sensationalism; from the Roman era and the coliseum packed with bloodthirsty audiences, to modern day and the likes of the 'Jerry Springer Show' (of which Babs Johnson and the Marbles would make excellent guests!!). The purpose of Pink Flamingos is to not only put a hilariously depraved spin on the fascination with celebrity but to also provide a cautionary tone to the dissolution of society itself. The performances are all top-notch; especially the ever-dependable and over-the-top Mink Stole, as heartless Connie Marble; and scene stealing Edith Massey, as Edie 'The Egg Lady'. It's amazing that the film is over thirty-years old because the message is just as fresh today as it was back in 1972. "},{"Title":"The Original Trailer-Tacky Barf-O-Rama","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"47 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Like those who listened to radio reports about the attack on Pearl Harbor, every one who has ever seen PINK FLAMINGOS can tell you exactly where they were when they first saw it--and some thirty years later the movie is still one of the most unspeakably vile, obnoxious, repulsive, and hilariously funny films ever put to celluloid, guaranteed to test the strongest stomachs and the toughest funny bones.Filmed with a close-to-zero budget and some of the shakiest cinematography around, PINK FLAMINGOS tells the story of two families that compete for the tabloid title of The Filthiest People Alive. Just how filthy can they be? Plenty the film includes everything from sex with chickens to what I can only describe as a remarkable display of rectal control to a heaping helping of doggie doo, and I guarantee that you won't want to eat an egg for at least several weeks after seeing it.The cast is either wonderful, atrocious, or atrociously wonderful, depending on how you look at it. The star, of course, is Divine... and to describe Divine as the BIGGEST drag queen on the planet would the understatement of the year. She is a mammoth creature given to BIG eye makeup, BIG orange hair, and BIG expressions--she is the Charleton Heston of drag, and whether she is almost running down a jogger, pausing to use the bathroom on some one's front lawn, or startling real-life shoppers by taking a stroll along a Baltimore sidewalk she is both unspeakable and unspeakably funny. Others in the cast include Mary Vivian Pearce, Danny Mills, and the ever-appalling Edith Massey as members of Divine's family; and Mink Stole and David Lochary as the white-slaving, baby-selling couple who challenge Divine's status.It should be pretty obvious that PINK FLAMINGOS is not exactly a movie that will appeal to just every one, and viewers who know director John Waters only through such later films as HAIRSPRAY and CRYBABY will be in for a major jolt. But if you want to see something so completely different that even Monty Python couldn't imagine it, this is the movie for you. Just make sure you eat before you see it, because you probably won't want to eat afterward--and you might want to keep a barf bag handy just in case.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Y'all Ain't Ready For This...","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"44 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  There is no film to put beside Pink Flamingos by way of comparison. It is a film genre of it's own. I read and hear reviews of this movie that express disgust and horror and I picture John Waters chuckling. This was the intent, it was meant to upset the status quo and in politically correct times that we live in, isn't it a small surprise to see this film come to the forefront again? This is a movie that will freak out the uptight for as long as it exists in any media. It was meant to. As much as Clockwork Orange talked about ultraviolence this movie is all about ultra-bad taste. We can numb ourselves to sex and violence but Pink Flamingos is a movie you just will never get used to. There will be something in this movie that will get to you. As a last resort to make sure everyone is offended before you leave the theatre, John includes the always discussed poodle scene. No reason for this scene, except to make sure he gets you and also to make sure you leave talking about it. Obviously filmed on a budget, and using Water's stock cast, this is a movie simply about a contest to see who are the filthiest people alive. All the characters are bizarre in one way or another. This movie reminds me of Rocky Horror Picture Show in that everyone in the film has something odd about them and both movies joyfully celebrate these uniquenesses. Not a movie to buy for Mom on Mother's Day... but worth seeing just to say you did. "},{"Title":"Yep, it's real!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" My 10/10 rating of course applies only if you're willing to get completely and utterly grossed out*. Because you know that only John Waters can do that. In Pink Flamingos (his directorial debut), he portrays two families locked in combat to see who can be the filthiest person alive. What Divine famously does at the end pretty much answers the question. But even aside from that, the movie is basically an excuse to shock people beyond what anyone would usually imagine. You had better have a very strong stomach to watch this movie. Even some of the lines are rather mind-blowing.*Otherwise, avoid this movie like you would the ebola virus! "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  A very strange, disturbing but intriguing film.  I don't think I ever needed to see what a human being can do with his butt, and I doubt if I'll ever want to see it again.  That said, there is much to be amused by, like Divine's take on Jayne Mansfield's classic walk in The Girl Can't Help It and putting slabs of meat between her legs in a grocery store.  A gritty feel very much like a Russ Meyer film.  Generally poor acting, with the notable exception of Divine. "},{"Title":"Boring.  Really, really boring.  With terrible acting.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Mild spoilers I like it when a filmmaker is able to surprise or shock me.  .  I hate people who only go to movies that make them feel good and never challenge them.  I admire directors who try to push people's buttons.  I bring this up because while watching Pink Flamingos (1972) my most profound feeling was one of extreme boredom.  Apparently a lot of people are convinced this movie is disgusting and shocking, which leads me to believe they've been living under rocks or the roof of a protective, loving family.  Throughout most of PF, the bad pacing and incredibly bad acting were enough to obscure whatever `shocking/disgusting' things might have been happening on screen. The acting in PF is by far the worst aspect of the film and no doubt greatly contributes to the shoddy pacing.  No one gives anything even approaching an amateurish performance.  The actors shout out their extremely bad lines with great force yet at the same time manage to sound as if they're reading from a cue card.  Either that or they seem so self-conscious that it impossible to ignore the fact that they're trying to act and are failing miserably. Take the four reporters at the end who show up to cover the trial of Raymond and Connie Marble.  They were not even for one minute convincing enough to portray fake reporters let alone real or even satirical reporters. So we sit through truly agonizing conversations, which makes scenes seem even longer than they really are, as we sit and endure and finally beg for the people in the film (I refuse to call them actors) to shut up. Eventually they do, but Waters mostly fills these pauses with long shots of something or other (often people walking), followed by brief spurts of `action' (in the kicking down of doors sense of the word) and confrontation, which inevitably lead to yet more excruciating discussions.  Basically, it takes far too much time and far too much talk to do anything in Pink Flamingos, which at 108 minutes would still be too long if cut to 60. There are perhaps 35 minutes of concise action and less than 10 minutes of salvageable dialogue that could be culled into a far better film. In truth, there was one aspect of the movie that offended me.  I refer, of course, to the scene in which Crackers has a three-way with Cookie and a chicken and in the process swings the chicken around by its neck.  It didn't bother me at all that he seemed to be raping Cookie, but I was incensed by the abuse suffered by that animal.  As if swinging it around and stuffing it between them wasn't bad enough, the actions taken by Danny Mills (the man playing Crackers) appeared to have killed that chicken.  I understand that animals are often used in movies and may come to be injured or even killed by accident, but when that injury seems to be the direct result of abuse by a cast member, I find that utterly unjustifiable.  In fact, I find it so reprehensible that that removed any possible impact the film may have held. I went through the rest of the film thinking `Crackers is a filthy asshole being played by a guy who is a cruel jerk.' Perhaps part of the problem is that I wasn't even born until 9 years after PF was released and didn't see it until a full thirty years after it's first screenings.  Whatever it is trying to satirize means nothing to me.  I can understand why it might have been offensive to audiences in the 70's (the swearing, the violence, the full frontal nudity) but most of it is old hat to me (okay, except for Divine eating dog feces at the end.  I will admit that I found that relatively gross).  South Park, Meet The Feebles, Dead Alive, all of these not only shocked me more, were more gruesome (the climax of Dead Alive used 300 liters of blood shooting out at 5 gallons a second - from a lawnmower), but are also far more clever than Pink Flamingos  "},{"Title":"A must-see----kind of","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Babs Johnson (Divine) lives in a trailer with her son Crackers, her daughter Cotton and her mother Edie (Edie Massey). She's in competition with a couple named Connie and Raymond Marbles (Mink Stole, David Lochary) to be named the filthiest person alive. The film shows their attempts to outdo each other.This film is very much NOT for everyone. It's a in your face no holds barred assault in bad taste. Crackers has sex with a woman with a live chicken between them while his sister watches; the Marbles pick up female hitchhikers, impregnate them, keep them chained in the basement and sell the babies to lesbian couples; Divine and family have a party which includes cannibalism etc etc. It's disgusting but, in a way, not unwatchable. It's SO over the top and is so unapologetic about it that it's kind of fascinating. As director John Waters might say, it's bad taste done well. Also it's kind of amusing to watch--the acting is so wretched (especially by Massey) that you just watch it in disbelief. A friend laughed out loud at how bad Massey was (she improved in later pictures).This is NOT for people who are easily offended. Even though it's over 30 years old it's STILL shocking. However if you have an open mind and can take a lot of extreme behaviour this is a must-see. The only part that really was too much is what Divine does at the very end. "},{"Title":"Pink Flamingos Sucks","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This movie has absolutely no cinematic value. Orgasmo would win an Oscar compared to this piece of trash. I don't see anything entertaining about screwing a chicken. John Waters stated that they got the chicken from a slaughterhouse and it was set to be killed anyways. WHO CARES?! Waters is going to die someday, too. Maybe we should just shove a watermelon up his butt and see how much he's willing to do for the sake of a movie. At least he would have a choice. The chicken was raped and killed. It doesn't matter if you like chickens or not, or what worth you think they have. They are a living creature that does feel pain. And anyone who is okay with that is a morally desensitized individual. I pity them. "}{"Title":"Who's the filthiest woman alive?","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos will always be known as the film with that doggie-poop scene. Starring the divine Divine, the film explores the outer limits of sick humor. Divine and her brewd compete with another family to see who is the filthiest person alive. Have a guess at who'll win that one!?John Waters' early camp films are not for the average viewer. You must appreciate this man's form of art, but it definitely IS art! Later films like Hairspray, Cry Baby are geared at a main stream audience, for which the filmmaker had to tone it down considerably. For the College Camp Scene though, there is no substitute for the original 70's camp mastrpieces.For anyone who is a John Waters virgin and would like a recommendation for the next project, I suggest Female Trouble . There's so much more to John Waters' vision, realized through his muse Divine. The visually stunning, grotesquely overweight transvestite is quite credible as Dawn Davenport, the high schooler who burned her small-town bridges when she didn't get her cha-cha heels for Christmas in Female Trouble. There are many scenes that are definitely not for the squeamish, highlighted by the moment where Dawn gives birth (alone) and bites the ambilical cord (like primates would do), then, without losing a beat, gets up to confront the newborn's father via a pay phone.If Pink Flamingos entertained you without giving your stomach a turn-over, then you can handle anything delivered by the creative genius John Waters. As all directors, Waters has had a few duds, even if they were box office successes. Avoid the made-up-as-they-go Pecker, a total waste of time. The musically sparcling Cry Baby was trashed by critics, but the sound track makes up plenty for a lousy script. The one to beat is the 1988 Hairspray, Divine's swan song. Pink Flamingos is the ONE that started it all and put Waters on the cult-city map of the world! Just to be safe, have the movie first -- then the dinner!  "},{"Title":"Don't defend this useless piece of film.","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" if i could rate it a zero i would , coming from someone who likes shock/exploitation films of the time and Waters overall i must say this is useless.It does nothing , serves nothing , an idiot with a camera and a urge to prove his cleverness by rebeling against social standards is all this comes off as.Its entirely amateur , both in principle and execution , it doesn't have a point , its digusting for the sake of disgusting ,obscene with the wit of a neanderthal , its useless.Someone said Waters was probably chuckling over all the bad press and disgust others gave with this film , but why? If i made a short film depicting a man in a bathroom taking a sh*t for ten minutes straight surely it would receive the same accomidations but why would i be proud or chuckle at that? Would it be because i am so unintelligent that i have to resort to this so i can say HA! Take that censors and mainstream! Im so rebellious ill do whatever i want and film it! No.Waters shouldn't be proud of this mess , fans of waters shouldn't watch it , its useless , that is , without any use.Its doesn't even fit under the criteria of art for arts sake.To like or defend this movie is to defend something that was designed purposely as being anti-culture to be pushed for the mainstream audience , in modern terms this film is the Hot Topic of films.Useless and Obsolete. A Poser film that demands it be acknowledged as rebellion . "},{"Title":"Outrageously Sick, Disgusting and Grotesque&#133; But Also Funny","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" The filthiest person alive, Divine, is using the codename Babs Johnson and living in a trailer in the woods with her retarded mother Eddie (Edith Massey), who loves eggs; her mad hippie son Crackers (Danny Mills); and her mate Cotton (Mary Vivian Pearce). The envious couple Connie (Mink Stole) and Raymond Marble (David Lochary), who abduct and impregnate female hitchhikers to sell their babies to gay and lesbian couples, using the money to invest in heroin and sell in schools, hire Cookie (Cookie Mueller) to have sex with Crackers and spy Divine to compete for the title of the filthiest people alive. When the competition begins, Connie and Raymond Marble learn why Divine has this title.The underground Pink Flamingos is outrageously sick, disgusting and grotesque&#133; but also funny. John Waters' intention is certainly to shock the audiences and is certainly very well succeeded. The bizarre characters present some of the most scatological and gross scenes I have ever seen, like Divine chewing excrement of dog, or Crackers singing with his anus, and there is no limit for the sick mind of John Waters. The viewer has to have empty stomach to see the whole movie. In the Extras of the DVD, John Waters presents deleted scenes, inclusive with the fate of Cookie. The trailer used to promote the film in 1972 is hilarious, since it does not show any scene, but people being interviewed about the movie. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Pink Flamingos "},{"Title":"That little SHED's just PERFECT!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" What's there to say about Pink Flamingos? It is beyond criticism or even explanation because it doesn't really aspire to be like any other movie you've seen. You will either get it, or you won't, laugh at it or roll your eyes in disgust (or both). John Waters is an odd filmmaker (putting that mildly), mixing both innocent, childlike humor with shockingly offensive moments intended to...well, who knows what his intentions were. It is like a form of assault, albeit a funny one.The thing that makes Waters's humor so infectious and effective is that his characters inhabit a world that can seem both alien and completely familiar to the viewer, like the petty rivalries that form the plot of Pink Flamingos. Surely everyone has experienced this kind of thing at some point, but almost certainly the matter at stake was not the title of The Filthiest Person Alive. What makes the movie compelling viewing for me is the way that Waters creates giddy, self-contained environments and doesn't let you in on the joke right away. The people in his films are completely in tune with one another. For instance, when Cotton tells Babs that she doesn't want to accompany her into town because Crackers is bringing his lady friend out to the trailer, Babs reacts with a knowing smirk and says to her, in a conspiratorial aside, That little shed's just PERFECT... At this point, we do not know yet that Crackers plans to take his lady friend out to the shed to thrust live chickens at her naked body while Cotton watches orgasmically through a window, but this weirdness is totally commonplace and understood by the characters in the fictitiously degenerate world that Waters creates.Another example would be the conversations between the girls in the basement and Channing, the Marbles' deviant butler. The first time we see them, Waters cuts jarringly from a scene in Connie's cozy office to Channing descending into the basement, where we see that there are two women down there, one dead and one very much alive and p***ed off. Susan is not a cowering victim, but is enraged and abusive to Channing, leaping up to launch a full-scale verbal attack on her jailer. They both have a weird understanding of the bizarre situation, and she is not so much intimidated by her kidnapping as she is violently insulted and righteously furious. She does not let up for one second while Channing is in her sight, and the two scenes that feature their delirious banter are two of the comic highlights of the film. Later in the film, when Divine and Crackers break into the Marbles's home and discover their crimes of keeping abducted women in their basement, it represents the total lack of support that Divine and her family have for the brand of depravity that the Marbles are pandering--here is something Divine is unfamiliar with, a corruption devised by her newfound rivals, and she despises it. Furthermore, while kidnapping does not seem like something Divine would think twice about, she is indignant that the girls are being held down there and happily sets them free, relishing the revenge that they take on Channing.At the other end of the filth spectrum, Waters occasionally reminds us of the line between his twisted fantasy world and the real world. The first time we see Connie, she is belittling a minor character named Sandy Sandstone, who has never heard of Divine. Cookie, on the other hand, reacts with a hilariously matter-of-fact evaluation of Divine's title as the filthiest person alive, revealing that she inhabits this world of unspoken and understood lunacy as well.Something also must be said for the way the players are in touch with their respective roles, especially Divine, who doesn't miss a note. Not once does he falter in the ridiculous garb and character he's been given, and it takes Pink Flamingos to a new level or weirdness. People actually believed Divine was like this in real life, and it's easy to understand why, because while watching the movie, you're not really thinking about the movie, you're thinking about these people who made it. Since they're really doing the outrageous things in the script, you start to think that maybe this is not a story but a bizarre documentary.But even more so, Pink Flamingos is not so much a movie as it is an event, or something that happens to you. Even though its shock value is mostly gone for me now (I say mostly because the a**hole scene and the chicken scene still make me wince), I still find this film to be hilarious and habit-forming. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood could have made a better movie.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I've heard so much about this movie for so long, I finally rented it out of curiosity.  For the record, I *LOVE* off-beat, unusual, irreverent and offensive movies.  This film, however, just plain STINKS.  It looks like every scene was shot with a hand-held camera by someone who just drank twenty cups of coffee (tripods aren't that expensive).  I was going to mention how terrible the acting is, but it isn't really fair to call it 'acting' - it's just a bunch of talentless shmucks shouting their lines. And the dialogue - pathetic and unbearable.  I actually had to force myself to sit through the whole thing just so I could say that I had actually seen the entire movie.  I honestly think that a group of twelve-year olds could make a better film.  It's not even bad enough to be good, like 'Plan Nine from Outer Space'.  One out of ten. "},{"Title":"if you are going to waste ninety minutes of your life, watch this movie","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Someone told me that Pink Flamingos was, in a word, insane. Now I'm doubting whether this guy actually ever saw it, because that isn't the way I would summarize it in one word. Disgusting, absurd, um, more disgusting...would do it. Every time you think it can't get any more filthy, it does. One of my particular favorites was when Divine had her birthday party and when the cops came to bust it up, they were butchered and eaten by the guests. I admit that it's one of those movies where it's so grotesque you simply can't look away, but this is by no means a creative work of art. It's pure shock value.On the upside, it makes the Jackass guys look like a bunch of pussies. "},{"Title":"Shock for the sake of Shock","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Minor spoilers, maybe.I saw this movie for the first and only time in 1987 at a free movie night in college.  The fact most of it still sticks in my mind vividly fifteen years later says something; if making a movie people can't forget if they want to was John Water's goal then he succeeded.  The film is more or less about a hero(ine) and her son in a contest with another couple to out gross each other.  Some people see the film's grainy look, unevenness, and complete lack of inhibition as something worthy, a fatal stab to make the straight-laced squirm.  Had it been done with some restraint and taste it could have been very funny, but the images (and more properly the ideas behind them) are too disturbing to let it be enjoyable.  If nothing else Pink Flamingos shows that almost anything can be seen as high art if presented as such.    What I have noticed is fifteen years and ten zillion gross out comedies, show-it-all violence action, and hold nothing back horror movies later is that by comparison Pink Flamingos doesn't stand as the icon of revulsion it once was.  It depends on your point of view as to how our society has become so desensitized and unempathetic.  Ultimately the only purpose to this movie is to shock, which it does well, but it's something I really wish I could forget. "},{"Title":"Fabulously Filthy, Gloriously Gross","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" After 38 years, Pink Flamingos is still one of the most brilliantly distasteful films ever brought to screen. John Waters is widely known for very crude humor and grotesque perversions as a main theme of his films, and this is doubtlessly his most extreme, and most memorable film. The obese transvestite Divine plays Babs Johnson/Divine, matriarch of a demented family, who has been justly crowned the filthiest person alive. Divine's family members are a granny obsessed with eggs, her son Crackers (Danny Mills) who has slightly unorthodox coital preferences, and a Miss Cotton (Mary Vivian Price), their trailer-mate who has a somewhat unorthodox relationship with Crackers. An equally bizarre married couple, the malicious Connie (Mink Stole) and Raymond Marble (David Lochary), who abduct women and have them impregnated by their house servant in order to sell the babies to lesbian couples, are obsessed with stealing the title as the filthiest people alive from Divine and her illustrious family...This small summary will hardly prepare anyone for the outrageously filthy and magnificently offensive scenes in Pink Flamingos. Even today, this film includes some of the grossest sequences ever captured on screen, and one is often not sure whether one is about to puke out of disgust or laughter. Some disgusting highlights include Crackers having a date that includes sex acts with chickens, a man with a 'singing' anus, Divine performing oral sex on her film son, and Divine eating actual dog-crap (for real!). This truly isn't for the easily offended, and even I, an avid fan of controversial cinema, find it hard to look at at times. However, it is a positive disgust, as the gross stuff on screen is simultaneously insanely funny. I first saw the film several years ago, and, in spite of knowing about its reputation, I wasn't prepared for it to be such a magnificent exercise in epitomizing bad taste. I have since seen it several times, showing it to other people, who were usually about as surprised as I was when first seeing it.Pink Flamingos is a film that is absolutely gross and should probably be avoided by squeamish, easily offended pansies. However, it is also an incredibly hilarious gem that must not be missed by anybody interested in crude black humor and cult-cinema. This film truly is one of its kind, and simply has to be seen to be believed. I cannot even imagine what controversy it must have caused in 1972, when it still stands proudly as the ultimate highlight of grossness and filthy hilarity. See it! "},{"Title":"An exercise in poor taste..","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" ''Pink Flamingos '' is...disgusting! I don't know a better ''adjective'' to give to this movie right now. It is bizarre,politically wrong and has a lot of unexpected things, such as the final scene, where Divine eats a dog's feces.(And this is only ONE of the shocking scenes,since I am not including the sex scene involving a chicken,Divine performing oral sex on her son, a musical scene with a fully exposed gesticulating anus, and so on!)The plot Divine lives under the pseudonym Babs Johnson with her mentally challenged mother, Mama Edie, her son Crackers, and Cotton, a travel companion. They reside in a mobile home on a road, far away from any people who could annoy them.After finding that Divine had been named the filthiest person in the world, a rival family, the Marbles, set out to destroy the tight-knit family but come unstuck in the process. By the way The Marbles own an adoption clinic, which is actually a black market of babies. They kidnap young women, artificially inseminate them with sperm from their manservant and sell their babies to lesbian couples. The proceeds are used to finance a network of dealers selling heroin in inner-city elementary schools.Ps This movie is not for everybody, so, if you are the type of person politically correct, don't watch this movie. I personally think it is funny, but I know this movie is not to be taken in a serious way. "},{"Title":"Poor in 1972 AWFUL in 2010","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Trying to not overanalyze it&#x85;the film seemed to be trying to shock the audience, but in today's Two Girls, One Cup world it was anything but shocking. I guess in 1972 (pre-internet days) we were not as de- sensitized. Anyway if you take away the shock value, I'm not sure what is left. The one really funny bit (to me) was the second flashing incident where the girl flashed him back and the flasher fled in panic. I don't know why but that was just plain funny to me. The BJ scene was pretty good but was edited out during the theatrical run. Also, I'm trying to remember when Deep Throat came out. It seems like around that time people were trying to push the borders of what a legitimate theater might show (remember Fritz the Cat?). I'm glad they pushed, but even so, have we made progress in showing nudity in mainstream theaters? I don't think so. Even today, I don't think the DVD BJ scene could be shown in a legit theater. Again, thank god for the internet. Nowadays anyone with a cell phone and a computer can be a filmmaker as good as this film (and they frequently are). "}{"Title":"One of the few movies that I've walked out on","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I like weird, I like obscure, I like camp. I HATED this movie.I have liked some of Waters' later movies, and in interviews, I like the man himself.But this movie turned my stomach from the get go.  I think I only lasted 20 minutes top.If you are determined to see this movie, I would suggest watching it at home with soda, crackers, and the stop button on your VCR remote handy. Perhaps in small doses it would be more bearable. "},{"Title":"Pink Flamingos Is Too Much...","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is a vile movie.  Not only does it deserve a deffinate X rating... But it shimmies it around with pride!  What comes over someone's mind to make such a movie is beyond me.  The only thing good this movie shows anyone is what this world is coming too... or rather where it (saddly) has already been.  I have find it hard to say I like something that is a little over the line in the past.. but have I have... but this takes the cake (so to speak).  I can't say that eveyone won't dislike it nor can I say that everyone will like it... but what I can say is that I would honestly question my humanity after watching this movie.. if I liked it.  Sure... 'it is' just a movie.. but there is a place and time in life when we must take a stand... and if this movie 'does' do anything it shows us that.  How is having sex with a chicken, eating people alive, incest, and pornography entertaining?  That I don't know...  Saddly I honestly can't say that this movie doesn't strike some curiosity.. but I asure you that that is all that it does.  Pink Flamingos has a deffinate unforgettable ending... that you wish you could forget... which you probably have already heard about. Pink Flamingos is not well made or will it ever be a 'true' classic... I acually sit down wondered what would come out when writing this review.. its a good thing I did, so I too can understand why I couldn't or rather shouldn't like this film..... "},{"Title":"Ugh...","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, the most disgusting, most vile thing I have ever seen.  I thought I had a very strong stomach.  Oh, dear Lord, I have never felt so violated in my entire life.  By the film getting ONLY an NC-17 rating, John Waters got off so easily!  The very last scene, with the dog, is the most vomit-inducing scene I have ever seen.  I don't know if I like it or not.  I just know that I would think long and hard about seeing this movie again. "},{"Title":"Not the worse.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  After seeing Forever Hollywood, it would be natural to want to see a John Waters film. At least, one get to say that they have joined the legions of cinema cognoscenti who have experienced the unique cinematic stylings of perhaps the best known non-mainstream director. It's worth the effort, and PF is a lot better than Eraserhead,and there is a certain campiness about his films which his followers find addicting. "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst movie ever made.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Amazing to see that people actually like a movie that intentionally was meant to be a bad one. Bad script, bad acting and bad filming. From the top of my head, the three main elements to make a bad movie. Quite clearly, Waters made a huge effort trying to make this movie suck. He sure did succeed. So sad to see the sheep flock that tries to make arguments for why Pink Flamingos is a good movie. It's worthless sh*t, and it was supposed to be. Try to imagine music, literature or art that is made bad by intention, which probably have been done a lot of times, and it will probably give you some perspective on why a bad movie isn't a good one, in ANY context. "},{"Title":"Not disturbing or ironic in any way... just crap.","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  In technical respects, this film is total amateur night. I've seen freshman film students handle a camera and a razor blade far better than this. Content-wise, Waters clearly tries to push the envelope as far as it will go, but to what purpose? Like the awful iThe Last House On The Left/i, the way iPink Flamingos/i tests the censors has very little impact or meaning in the post-iA Clockwork Orange/i era. Incidentally, iOrange/i not only pushed the envelope further and did it earlier, but it also did so to espouse a powerful message--iFlamingos/i has no such message. As a result, this ineffective piece of shock cinema is both completely empty and devoid of any sort of entertainment whatsoever.Zero out of four stars. It's pure crap. Avoid it.  "},{"Title":"Low budget trash... and it's awesome.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" More entertaining than all the gay orgies in 300 combined. More heartbreaking than a Shakespearian tragedy. More poetic than even the most melodramatic poems about lost love and blah blah blah. And on top of all that, the greatest trash ever made.A black comedy testing the limits of the human senses, John Waters's cult movie Pink Flamingos is a story about the conflict between two families that ends in humiliation, death and of course the eating of dog feces (yeah by the way that is not actually the humiliating part). No no, this is not about the impossible love, there are no Romeos or Juliets on these 90 or so minutes. This movie is about the battle for prestige if you could call it that. The battle for the title - Filthiest person alive.On one side we have Divine (played by the cross-dressing Waters regular... umm... Divine) a caring daughter, good mother, cannibal, murderer, pervert and current owner of said title. She loves her son Crackers a bit way too much. Crackers himself sports a sexual attraction to both chickens and young ladies sometimes mixing them up in threesomes. Family friend and loyal accomplice Cotton gets her satisfaction from watching Crackers during some of his... acts involving the mentioned earlier objects of attraction. Last but not least Divine's mother and grandmother to Crackers, Edie. A 400 hundred pound woman, sleeping, eating and basically living in a baby cradle. She is addicted to eggs and loves the egg-man (the man who brings the eggs...lol).The four of them live peacefully in a caravan outside the city until the moment when they become a target for the Marbles. Exhibitionists, manipulators, cheaters, very evil people actually. Their main source of income comes from the kidnapping and impregnating of young women. For the impregnating part they use their trusted and loyal cross-dressing butler to provide the semen. After that they sale the birthed child to the highest bidder.It was the Marbles's envy towards Divine and her title that will lead to an inevitable confrontation between the two families. An Epic battle of filth, perversion and violence.Pink Flamingos is an unsurpassed masterpiece in the trash-movie genre. Loaded with oddities and strange acts, John Waters's movie is loathed and hated by traditionalists, critics and the average movie-going audience. But for the few that remain unscratched by these generalizations the Flamingos is an unforgettable experience. Funny and sick, violent and poetic. It truly is an exercise in poor taste "},{"Title":"Babs Johnson ... Filth is my politics! Filth is my life!","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" It took me a week after I received Pink Flamingos from Netflix to watch it. I was very well aware of its reputation and especially of the last scene and I was literally afraid to see it. At last, I made up my mind, took all my courage and watched the impossibly obscene, terribly disgusting, outrageous to a limit, shocking to a nausea, but at the same time extremely funny criminal cult comedy. The film that was made on the shoe-string budget by the self-proclaimed king of bad and nasty taste, native Baltimorian, Mr. John Waters, in 1972, still has not become outdated and would shock you like no other. If you only imagine something disgusting, mean and dirty, rest assured - Waters uses it in the film, his debut feature, and has a lot of fun with it. He does not care a bit how shocking the characters on the screen are and what moronic things they do to each other but somehow, the film maintains light,playful, and comical feel about it. If someone had told me before I saw Pink Flamingos that the graphic scenes of exhibitionism and incest could be hysterically funny, I'd suggest they should seek a medical help but these scenes and many others ARE funny maybe because the first time writer/director and his friends performers did not take any of what was happening on screen seriously, did not try to make any sense, did not rebel or make a statement or try to prove something. All they wanted to do - to shock the viewers and to make them laugh. They achieved their goals. I would not urge everyone to seek out and to watch Pink Flamingos but its unique niche in cinema makes it one of its kind event. If you decide to watch it, do it on empty stomach - as much as I tried not to look at the screen during the infamous final scene, it is still hard to ...well, swallow. "},{"Title":"Divine Fury","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Italy had Pasolini. Germany had Fassbinder. Spain has Almodovar, but there was a time when he was daring to go that extra mile and rip the concept of what a movie should be to shreds, before he became a respected director and has gone to mainstream yet high quality films. England had Jarman. We still have John Waters, and thanks to him, we can enjoy the Hunh? kind of movie that PINK FLAMINGOS is.Give an extremely subversive, creative person enough freedom of expression and a camera and you will have a bona fide movie director. Way back in a time before the advent of YouTube and viral videos, you had those people who genuinely, despite their almost nonexistent academic knowledge of cinema per compounded many times over by this genius that, like the fire which burns Divine's trailer down, raged through their finished product, had something special -- something indescribable, indefinable -- that made them automatic cult figures and icons-to-be for an entire future generation.It didn't make them a threat to the movie industry and it doesn't now. Such people, like Luis Bunuel back in 1929 when he did UN CHIEN ANDALOU, live in their own Universe and It moves at its own pace. John Waters could hardly be called anything at all his movie, which premiered nearly 35 years ago, was greeted with dazed reaction. Some called it the best thing since CRIES AND WHISPERS. Some called it trash. Pure filth. People didn't really know what to make of it then, and even now, when purportedly we've come a long way, it stands on its own pedestal, defies explanation, defies a rating, and shrieks out its outrageousness by ways of the furious persona of Divine who does things that can only be summarized in one word gasp.What plot there is, well, here it goes Babs Johnson (Divine), also known to tabloids as the Filthiest Person Alive lives in a trailer outside Baltimore with her son/lover Cracker and her daughter Cotton. Another couple, the Marbles, have plans of becoming themselves the Filthiest People Alive. They run an illegal baby ring for lesbians via two kidnapped girls via the man servant who gets them pregnant. Once the Marbles burn Babs' trailer down, Babs vows revenge. Then she takes it just a little bit farther up the scale, and what happens later has to be seen to be believed.Does it aim to shock? Well, for those who like their movies classy and elegant, this one will probably kill their party. It features some of the most bizarre scenes ever filmed, and there is that one moment right at the end when Divine decides it would be rather fun to do something unspeakable with what comes out of a small dog's rear end. The music John Waters uses is so jarringly out of place that it makes the scene insane, and it will take a strong stomach and willpower not to scream (in equal parts laughter and disgust) at how there the movie goes.Now, here is the hard part can I recommend PINK FLAMINGOS? I would have to say yes, because it's become a part of outrageous cinema. Its documentary, home-movies style is a main part of its charm it makes a complete mess of a movie brilliant. Even when it touches certain themes best left for the Marquis de Sade (such as coprophagia, rape, incest, dismemberment, voyeurism, bestiality) it does so in such a balls-out hysterical way it's impossible to take it seriously. All anyone can do is watch in awe, and see the man who in later years became tamer and went mainstream with HAIRSPRAY, who once was as punk as Sid Vicious. This is as hardcore as hardcore gets for Waters. And that is a compliment. "},{"Title":"Only for the sick and depraved","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Okay... now hold on a minute... this movie is absolutely sick and twisted. If your reading this review, don't waist your time with this garbage. I honestly don't understand how ANYONE can get a kick out of this movie. I really don't want to type anymore about this awful awful film. If you find this movie entertaining you should seek therapy.0/10  "}{"Title":"Pink Flamingos No stars.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I have seen worst films than Pink Flamingos.But that doesn't mean I am letting this film off the hook.This film is sensless,revolting and is such a mess that I was asking myself where is the plot?Oh,yeah.I remember.The plot was about the battle on who is the filthiest person alive.That's the best that director John Waters can do.I am not a John Waters fan,but I did enjoy Serial Mom and I thought Cry Baby was one of the stupidest films of 1990.Pink Flamingos,with its grotesque gags and its offensive sexual situations makes this film a film that unfortunately I am going to remember.I had no problem watching this film because I knew that were films that I have seen that were far worse than this.This film has become a cult classic according to fans of John Waters and is definitely one of the most time wasting films I have ever seen.After watching this film,I was asking myself,how low can filmmakers go to repulse an audience?Pink Flamingos is the worst film of 1972. "},{"Title":"RIGHT(tm).","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  The Divine and Doggie bit at the end is a bit much for me; I have to turn away. But a lot of it's pretty hysterical -- and it obviously works since folks are complaining why anyone would make a movie like this.The answer, of course, is to annoy folks who would complain why anyone would make a movie like this.Don't be fooled by those who would have you believe that there's some deep meaning in, or mark of genius on, this film. There isn't. There is, though, a kind of bizarre, kinetic and desperate energy to this nonsensical enterprise.I didn't hate it. There, that's my review I didn't hate it.I tend to agree with Ebert in this regard this film is an object. It simply is, and no amount of explaining will settle your nerves after you've seen it, nor convince you to see it in the first place. "},{"Title":"An exercise in trash filmmaking","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos is abashing in context and absolutely sickening to stomach. But it's so different, so independently crafted, and so uniquely presented that a bad review is simply not possible. It's a transgressive art form that is not of good, but shockingly so bad it's good quality. I believe that John Waters is quite possibly the only filmmaker who could concoct something like Pink Flamingos seriously.The film is disgusting, revolting, appalling, maddening, deplorable, and of immature taste. But its script, events, and art form all are taken in such a unique and respectable manner that it is impossible not to commend it for being such an exploitive film. I can't remember the last time I've seen a bad film with such interesting characters, a flamboyant lead, and a satisfying script and story.Plotwise, the film centers around two separate families both in competition for the title of The Filthiest Person/Family Alive. The first family is made up of the current filthiest person named Divine who goes under the pseudonym Babs Johnson (Divine), her simpleton, egg-obsessed mother Edie (Massey), her son who has a chicken/sex fetish named Crackers (Mills) and his traveling sex-companion Cotton (Pearce). They reside in a mobile home in the middle of the woods with a pair of plastic pink flamingos out on their front lawn.The other family is made up of Connie (Stole) and Raymond Marble (Lochary). The couple run a black market baby sale to Lesbian couples by having their sex-servant named Channing (Wilroy) go out and kidnap random women and having them impregnated by him. They hold the women captive until they give birth to the kid, and upon selling it to the Lesbian couple, they donate the proceeds to heroin dealers at elementary schools and their own line of pornographic stores.There's your premise and you can imagine the barrage of laughs, screams, shrieks, and quivers you'll get out of that. It appears Waters had all of these sick, twisted, and deranged ideas but couldn't find a way to successfully incorporate all or enough into a feature length film. So he made the plot about two separate families being gratuitously filthy so that many or all of his ideas could be fully utilized. Genius.It should also be said that Pink Flamingos occupies one of the strangest scores in history. Many songs are played, mostly older tunes that are instantly recognizable. I doubt musicians like the great Little Richard and LaVern Baker ever thought their music would be incorporated in a shock film for the sick and depraved. It might actually be something to be proud of.Normally the case with shock films is once you discover or see the shocking element it wears thin and the film itself becomes a one note joke. Pink Flamingos doesn't just include one but various elements and scenes of shock that assure boredom prevention and the peak of your curiosity reached.Being shot on 16 and 35mm and being re-released twenty five years later, the film still occupies a strange and stylistic documentary look which only further intensifies some of the film's scenes because some, if not all, of them were actually real. Divine does an exceptionally well done job of playing one of the most provocative and shameful film protagonists ever seen, but the true tragedy is he died before experiencing any true, broad success.So what am I missing? Whether or not I recommend the film. I can't say. It's one of those films that you should already know if you want to see. I don't need to further you in your decision-making. Pink Flamingos is a trashy, stylistic masterpiece of the maximum proportion. To call it manipulative would be wrong since it still has a rather subtle popularity, and to call it awful would be completely wrong. It is completely worthy of the title the best worst film. NOTE I didn't give this film a star rating on purpose. It's because I can not effectively rate this film in any way. And giving it multiple ratings would be disingenuous. It exists in a world that doesn't have a single star shining.Starring Divine, David Lochary, Edith Massey, Mary Vivian Pearce, Mink Stole, Danny Mills, David Lochary, and Channing Wilroy. Directed by John Waters. "},{"Title":"I love John Waters films, but this one was just too much","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I have seen most of John Waters' films. With the exception of several of his very early ones which are not available, I have actually seen just about all of them, so it's obvious I am a big fan and it's certain that I have a high tolerance for the gross and irreverent in his films. While way over the top and disgusting, I adored FEMALE TROUBLE and POLYESTER--two monumental tributes to bad taste and excess that are seriously funny films. So I am certainly NOT squeamish and can take most of what Waters has to offer. However, in PINK FLAMINGOS he has created a film so repellent, so unfunny and so offensive that I couldn't even stand it. In his other films he made before he became more mainstream, they were funny. Yet here, the humor just isn't there as it seems the intent is to shock the viewers and not entertain them in any way. I am glad that after making this film, Waters' sense of humor improved, as Divine consuming dog feces (as in this film) is shocking but not the least bit entertaining. My advice is to skip this film and just pretend it never happened and then watch his infinitely better films of the 70s and 80s. "},{"Title":"Ummmm... Well I... Uhhhh... Tcha.... like....","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" You know the saying Curiosity Killed The Cat? Well, I have heard so much about this film, from a magazine that named this one of the most shocking movies of all time, my 1001 movies you must see before you die, my sister who saw this at a film festival, and the I love the 70's show on VH1. I just had to see this movie since it was named the grossest movie of all time, and well, after viewing this film last night, I have to say that it really did live up to it's title. My God, this movie was so weird! I thought I really did see it all with some of the sickest movies and TV shows I've seen, some things I guess will always still feel like a shock.Well, Babs Johnson, aka Divine, has been named the filthiest person alive and a jealous couple named the Marbles are competing for that title. They want to take Divine out and be named the filthiest couple alive by kidnapping women, raping them, impregnating them, and selling their babies to lesbian couples. But it seems like Divine and her family of well... I don't know, seems to keep the title by having sex with chickens, butt lip syncing, eating dog feces, stuffing meat up their skirts, incest, and it just gets grosser and grosser.Pink Flamingos is horribly acted, horribly made, and well, just plain horrible. The reason for the 10 rating I'm going to give it is due to the fact, well, how could you rate this film? I always rate, so I just figure what the heck? Through the grossness of this film, you have got to give John Waters some credit, who the heck would ever think of this movie over 35 years later? To the cast and crew who worked on this film, you guys are just plain nasty!10/10 "},{"Title":"It's not sick to burn a trailer down - it's arson","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" First of all, I want to quickly squeeze in that the dialogue is wholly atrocious. I can't stand it. Now for the review...John Waters misses the mark in Pink Flamingos, overshooting avant-garde paraphelia to eye-rolling licentiousness. The plot revolves around two parties with an overly uncanny fetish for filth (coincidentally not too far from each other). Why or how such perversion in their lives came to be is never explained. Even the setting is almost anachronistic in nature.I watched this movie finding myself without care for any of the characters amidst this misfire of art. John Waters may have set the benchmark high for sickness in cinema, but watching it without any rhyme or reason implores me to wonder why I'm bothering watching any of it. If John Waters wanted to prove something by producing this movie, he grossly failed (pun absolutely intended).It could be possible (albeit highly unlikely) that John Waters made Pink flamingos ars gratia artis, but that failed too. The utterly shoddy camera-work coupled with the haphazard film editing is a quick recipe to make a movie unwatchable. Waters has never cooked it more perfectly.My least favorite movie is Freddy got Fingered. That movie is mindless shock humor. Coincidence? I think not. "},{"Title":"The only difference between Ed Wood and Waters is that the latter wears a mustache.","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" A fat transvestite eats dog s**t. Wow, legendary. You can see that kind of thing on a daily basis in any lunatic asylum in any country in the world. Or on MTV's Jackass.The only difference between Divine and countless thousands of nuthouse inmates who ate poo or smeared urine into their ears is that Divine had someone film him do it.If you're into people eating kaka, I suggest you try it yourself. Perhaps there is a latent desire for it, you never know. You might discover a hobby you never knew you wanted.As for me, I feel as though I'd eaten a turd myself, just by having watched this mostly dull garbage. I had to wash my mouth and face, just to be on the safe side. I also had to slap myself on the cheeks a few times, so I wouldn't doze off - but that was during the movie.I have mixed feelings about people who enjoyed this movie. I am torn between pitying them for their cluelessness on one hand, and envying them for their lunacy on the other. I often entertained the thought of becoming a happy loon; they seem to have so much fun, seems like such a blissful happy-go-lucky existence... Alas, becoming a loon is extremely difficult if one isn't genetically programmed for it. You can't force these things.PF isn't a bad movie because it's perverse or disgusting. It's bad simply because it was made by rank amateurs. I've seen plays in schools for the mentally challenged with more emotion, dedication, and preparation. Ask yourself just one thing is it difficult to make something that is base, with the sole purpose to be disgusting and shocking? Making a piece of crap like PF is the easiest kind of movie-making there is. The only easier thing than filming PF would be to not make a movie at all a road John Waters unfortunately never took.And that's why Waters made this kind of film. He had no choice, the poor sap, that's all he CAN do... "},{"Title":"Gawd awful!!!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I had the chance to see this film thirty years ago when in school. For some reason that escapes memory, I didn't see it. However, some of my friends saw it and the one thing I remember about what they said was their comments about the dog doo scene. Being the case that 20 year old minds are still impressionable and porous, these comments lasted throughout the decades and I finally got the chance to view this disaster. Big mistake...Even though this movie is 32 years old, it still has a lot of shock clout and should be viewed with caution. Nothing really shocks me much except for the graphic slaughtering of animals or an occasional authentic murder, but this movie was totally disgusting. I wasn't prepared for it.I'm a big fan of John Waters' movies; Hairspray was probably one of his best, primarily because of the good quality of acting and the plot. Polyester was good too, but inferior to Hairspray in the principals used. These two films far outshine Pink Flamingos. The acting is OK, but the plot is totally gross. Danny Mills who portrays the son Crackers, a character who is a reject from the incest factory, even though it's not intimated in the movie but should be. Edith Massey the egg lady is a totally disgusting person throughout the film, even though she spends most of her time in a crib. Believe me, you'll never want to eat any eggs for a long time after you watch her character on film. And Divine steals the show in his disgusting acts of putting a steak between his legs, performing soft core fellatio on Mills, and, worst of all, eating dog doo.I would imagine that so much has been written (and said) about this film in the past 32 years, so there's no use in beating a dead horse. This film should be watched with a warning please watch this film with caution!  "},{"Title":"Very Sick Movie","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This Movie is very, Very Disturbing. Sure I have Seen and enjoyed Many Cheezy movies and independant movies too. But, this movie goes beyond cheezy. its also Preatty much a porno flick for those of you who have not seen the film. I've seen some preatty sick and disturbing movies but this one takes the cake. It is funny in areas, but let me close by saying this was the sickest movie I have ever seen...  "},{"Title":"Not even a little entertaining...","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" ******************* CONTAINS SPOILERS ************************ If you're here like me because you're into weird movies, I am warning you, you're going to have a terrible time. This movie was a waste of my time and I still think of what a bad time I had while watching it. If you're in doubt whether to watch it or not, follow my advice and go see another disturbing movie, but not this one. I have seen some perturbed movies like 964 Pinocchio & Enter the Void and none made me feel the way I felt after watching Pink Flamingos. If you decide to ignore me and watch it anyway, I'll just list some of the most disturbing scenes of the movie. Don't worry I wont spoil the storyline because there is no plot at all, just bizarre and revolting scenes. 1. A man completely naked opening and closing his anus 2. Divine eating dog feces (which sadly, are real) 3. The emasculation of a man 4. Two persons having sex while crushing a live chicken to deathIf you agree and think that any of the things listed above are acceptable and worth watching, then go ahead. I'm not saying that I don't enjoy movies that make you feel sick by the end, however I prefer ones where the actors are remotely good and where the plot is more interesting than 'who is the filthiest person alive'.Pink Flamingos is not a movie where you contemplate life at the end and makes you think about a deeper meaning. John Waters just wanted to shock the audience with disgusting scenes. It will gross you out, but that was Waters intention. Overall the acting is crap, the editing was horrible and I could write a better plot than this. I would rate this 0/10 but the lowest is 1/10. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Crap","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I saw this film after reading a review in a magazine. I like watching extreme movies, so i was interested so i watched it with a friend. I found it to be the most poor, disgusting film and with the acting skills of a four year old. if I wanted to watch a hillbilly make his bum hole dance i would download it off the internet from a sick fetish site. i expected a much better film than this. And what is up with divines mum being in love with eggs and the egg man? Absolute crap. If you want a good extreme film then watch the last house on the left 1/10. I didn't want to give it that Avoid John Waters is a terrible director if this is considered his greatest work "},{"Title":"Bad taste indeed.","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  *Possible Spoilers*I'm not sure if it left a bad taste in Divine's mouth when she, ahem, has some oral olympics with her son's flacid... you know what. But it was definitely in bad taste on film.I'm somewhat a fan of John Waters and wanted to see this movie out of pure curiosity. I regret doing so. It isn't funny. I'm guessing its safe to assume that people's humor sensibilities have changed a lot since 1972, but this movie just plain sucks. I love dark off-beat humor, but this movie was just contrived crap. I know the point of it was to be filthy, low budget, trash... and I guess in that respect it somewhat delivers.Either way its not a good movie. Watch it if your curious. Then regret doing so.  "},{"Title":"the sickest movie ever even thought of, let alone made","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie is the grossest movie ever made. Forget that, fun gross stuff you saw in There's Something About Mary, this is just plain stupid. The stuff people do in this movie is beyond words. If anyone doesn't throw up at least once during this movie has got to be something more than human. THIS MOVIE IS DISGUSTING. DO NOT SEE IT. PLEASE.  "},{"Title":"Filthiest Movie Ever","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" So I went through the terrible and horrible experience of watching this movie. I tought Spice World was the worst movie ever, but John Waters now holds that title with this disgusting movie. I've read some reviews and comments and I really can't understand why some people actually consider this as a good movie or a cult film. OK so the plot of the movie is to earn the title as the filthiest person alive. For starters Divine is the filthiest most disgusting THING I've ever seen (I tried to say most disgusting person, unfortunately none of the characters on the movie qualify as human beings, they are the antithesis of what a relatively decent person is), Divine has the award with no problem at all. The movie is certainly not artistic in anyway, nor it states a point of view with it's filthyness (like for example the debate and point of view that A Clockwork Orange's intention is with it's unmeasured violence), on this crap the decadent characters and situations are not a criticism on human beings or on society's decadence and recent lack of humanity, morals and solidarity, it's just filthy, disgusting lacking of intelligence and rationality. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a conservative of any kind, it's just that a movie that involves chickens and sex, raping with injections and the poodle scene, can't be good for anyone. I actually think a few of my neurons walked out on me or committed suicide after I got them trough the suffering of watching this terrible assassination of good cinema. It's a shame that you can't place a 0 vote on this database, else that would've been my vote a huge, gigantic 0! As conclusion of this brief comment I have to say that basically the movie deserves two awards filthiest movie ever and worst movie ever, as for Mr. Waters (director) you beat Divene and the other disgusting people for the title, YOU are the most disgusting person alive just for imagining and getting to film this absolute insult to intelligence. For my reader, this is more than crap, an absolute 0 is it's qualification, please don't watch it and if you unfortunately do, after watching it follow my advice and grab a nice book, listen to some good music or watch a great movie, just to remind your brain that it was a mistake and that you're actually clever, reflexive and rational.... and that watching Pink Flamingos was just a mistake nothing else. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I understand that this movie is supposed to be disgusting, but I really didn't think that the animal cruelty (raping a woman while throwing chickens around and squishing them between their naked bodies) was very cool. I was completely disturbed. There is no reason to harm innocent animals for the sake of entertainment. They could have used fake chickens, but these were obviously real chickens and I found it completely barbaric and crude. Anyone who is an animal rights activist, or just loves and respects all animals (and all of God's creatures), would not find this very funny or entertaining. The writer should be ashamed of himself. The film could have been made without the abuse of helpless little animals of any kind. "},{"Title":"Rating Pink Flamingos","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  If I could rate this movie with a zero or lower, I would. Use this film to induce vomiting in the case of the accidental ingestion of poison. It is, quite simply, a horrible movie. The acting is non-existent and the plot is as thin as it gets. Sound quality and picture quality alone are almost enough to inspire retching. It's . . . just bad. "},{"Title":"I honestly don't see much going on with it!","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I really thought this movie was all gonna be just action. I wouldn't call it even the best but, still it would be good to try and enjoy the film! Instead it was just bland and boring!This is my first time seeing Divine, I really thought she was just your typical drag queen, she honestly would've been better if she was starring in A-list movies. Although, finding out that she ate real dog feces would make you sick! Seriously, this is worse than the TV show I'm a Celebrity! I only watched 10 minutes of the movie and it wasn't that great. The camera kept shaking, so you wouldn't really concentrate on what's going on. The acting was pretty horrible, they look as if they were acting in a musical, not a black comedy! I swear to god, what was John Waters thinking of casting the actors?! I think I've said enough, all I can say is this movie is crap and poorly made! This is one of the worst movies that was ever created! "},{"Title":"THE FUNNIEST FILM EVER MADE PURELY BY USING SICK IMAGES","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Wow.  This film is truly unique.  *SPOILERS*  Within the hour and a half the film takes place viewers witness transvestite incest b***jobs, blue haired flashers showing their penis's tied to a sausage to teenage girls, Divine eating dog s***, close up butthole tricks, a weird toe-sucking fetish couple, a graphic scene of a rape in which a live chicken is used and before the prolonged scene is finished the animal is dead and bloody, an old demented and retarded supposed grandma who lives in a crib and is obsessed with eggs, a passed out girl getting cum injected into her vagina, cut off ears, and finally the sounds of a man getting his dick cut off and then the remains.  John Waters is arguably the sickest man that ever lived, but like many masters of shock such as P.T. Barnum, he has a purpose--to show through utterly disgusting bad taste America's underbelly.  In his films he tears apart at the middle class family life, and laughs at Hollywood along with independent film makers, never afraid to shock audiences and laugh at himself for doing it...all with his own style.  This film is what you've heard and more, but please don't let kids watch this film.  The rating is very accurate...17 should be the minimum age.   "},{"Title":"I'm all dressed up and ready to fall in love!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Possible minor spoilers.Wow! Let me start off by saying that everything you've heard about Pink Flamingos is true. It doesn't hold back; it's rated X for a reason and proud of it. Perhaps that's why, even though I don't like gross-out movies, this film calls to me; instead of being juvenile and sniggering, it's uncompromising and adult, with enough outrageous wit to keep it from sinking into brainlessness. Indeed, in pasteurized and homogenized American society, a film like Pink Flamingos deserves credit for even existing.Divine is the Filthiest Person Alive, living with her family in an unheated trailer in the woods of Maryland under the alias of Babs Johnson. John Waters has described Divine as a combination of Jayne Mansfield and Clarabelle the Clown, and never has the statement rung so true. With her cocktail dress, Spring-O-Lators, towering orange bouffant, and eye makeup swooping across her forehead, Divine certainly is a wonder to behold. In downtown Baltimore live red- and blue-haired (respectively) Connie and Raymond Marble (Mink Stole and David Lochary), who believe that they and not Divine are the Filthiest People Alive. And so the Battle of Filth is on, and bizarre depravities begin piling up.Pink Flamingos is a film unlike any other. An unrestrained attack on traditional American family values and keeping up with the Jonses, it's actually a subversive and thought-provoking experiment. Whereas the Divine clan joyously wallow in their filthiness, the Marbles are pretentious, preachy, hateful people who, ultimately, get just what they deserve. The movie is pretty well done, considering its underground origins, with good performances (Edith Massey stands out as retarded, egg-obsessed Mama Edie) and a weird home-movie-from-hell low-budget authenticity. (I, personally, think the punched-up picture and stereophonic sound of New Line's special edition do a bit of a disservice to this aspect, though I love the extra supplements at the end.)Make no mistake, this is the shock movie to end them all. I won't go into detail, but suffice it to say I was disturbed by the chicken sex scene and actually gagged at the gift, the party entertainment, and of course, the infamous finale. Two other scenes are literally pornographic, so if you're squeamish about that, beware. But for the adventurous meuviegoers out there looking for something funny, unforgettable, and strangely brilliant, Pink Flamingos is essential viewing. One of the ultimate cult classics, I honestly believe it is a motion picture everyone should see at least once. "},{"Title":"DIVINITY EMBODIED (possible *SPOILER*)","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This was the second John Waters film I've seen, and it was energetic, digusting, enjoyable, and made me dance and dance and whoop and holler. This film is filth and kitsch and sex and America in one package of inspired and degenerate film. Divine's performance as the overblown and degenerately inspiring QUEEN OF FILTH is the trash!!!! Divine is the QUEEN!!! of trash and trash and smut, filth, degeneracy, and unconventional lewdness and elegant perversion. Divine here is larger than life, stunning, and inspiring in filthiness, particularly in the scenes where she is wearing her hair big and orange, her eye make-up stunning, and glamour in her clothes. Here she is the larger-than-life symbol of filth and beauty. Her glamorous-kitsch clothes are great, big colorful outfits, and DIviNe's makeup is decorative and bet in her mosautiful. The screen effect of Divine simply when sauntering down the street in most outrageous dresses, furs, hair, pants,and makeup to 50's rock and roll songs with a brash effects makes you swoon and energizes you with the divine power of DIvINe.Pink Flamingos is famous for its disgusting perversions and live sexual acts, violence, and bodily functions, which include Danny Mills having sex with chickens, DIvInE eating and recieving turds, castration, masturbation, artificial insemination, vomit,murder, cannibalism, oral sex, incest, torture, voyeurism, various other sexual fetishes and perversions, murder, live sex, defecation, using meat for intimate purposes, foot fetishes,violence as a cause for sexual arousement, bondage, and blood. That's about it, and very little of the perversion/sex/violence is clinical, except when you are with the Marbles. The basic plot of the film is that Divine is living with her mother (Edith Massey, with a hilarious obsession with eggs), her friend, traveling companion, faux- daughter, lesbian lover and apprentice Cotton (Mary Vivian Pearce, looking like Jean Harlow), and of course, Danny Mills as mentally certifiable son CraCkers. They trademark themselves as the filthiest people in America, but the Marbles and their poor hilarious butler Channing believe they have that title. The Marbles are angry, hollow, pretentious criminals with died hair, who operate a baby ring, and sell heroin. They battle with Divine for her title, but the true queen Divine wins in one of the great scenes of history, the Marbles live homicide in front of reporters. Divine proclaims that she is God, the Queen of Filth, blood turns her on and makes her cum, she is never wrong, and in a few words is GOD. John Water's directs this peice of filthy, degenerate, and hypocritical America with the grace of a sophistacated satirist and bordello madame. The film is about the filthy underbelly of American Culture, it's degenerate perversion, America's desperately glamourous and self-admiring, vain perversity, and ultimately, America's gross and desperate filth and corrupted and hypocritical, over-cradled and varied self-image. Edith Massey and her Eggman boyfriend are great, and I love Edith Massey as the egg obsessive. Connie and Raymond Marble, contesters for filth, are cruel and degenerate, hollow petty criminals who operate a cruel and horrible baby ring and employ the perverse butler Channing. They are not filthy, just criminals. The pure energy of Divine's birthday party and it's cannibalism are great. John Water's created a satire of America's perverse and bloated self-image and twisted glamorous aspirations and the perverse energies of America, it's gods of filth (Divine)and pure filth and kitsch energy itself. John Water's gross, filthy brilliance shines here like an American fresh cut lawn with Divine defecating on it. I have not yet mentioned her ingestion of dog turd, but it is a great and filthy closer to a film only a God of John Water's brilliance and degeneracy could make. The definitive image of the film  is the Godess of Filth, Divine, in full regalia in front of the American Flag. Divine is America, the American Flag is Divine. America needs a God, why didn't we crown Divine God when she/he was still alive? "}{"Title":"The Most Disgusting Film Ever Made!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This is without a doubt the most offensive,disgusting film I have ever seen,and when I wasn't busy covering my eyes I was laughing hysterically.This film should be seen once by everyone,but only once!It is just way too vomitous for anyone in their right mind to want to see a second time,although I suspect the next time it shows up at my local art house,I'll be on line with all the other perverts! "},{"Title":"My Brain Hurts","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers*** I love John Waters. I have such a deep well of respect for the guy. Anybody who goes so far in the (dis)service of his audience as mr. waters does in the last three minutes of this film.....wow. I had seen several of his movies, and heard much of this one, since its re-release a few years ago. How it was disgusting and awful and vile and wonderful and the top of a genre(bad taste b-movies) that John Waters has since become a master of. So, I noticed last monday that they were doing a screening of it at a local bar. On a whim, some freinds and I decided to go. In the immortal words of the Kids in The Hall God is dead sketch, MY mind has been blown. Everything, from the hair-colour(self applied,I hear) of the villians to the look of the interiors screams classic trash cinema. It's a roller-coaster ride of vile imagery and potty-humour that would make tom green live up to his name. The chicken scene alone..... This is not my favorite John Waters movie(thusfar that's either Hairspray or Desperate Living). But since this is the only movie i've seen where people actually walked out less than halfway through in terror, i feel it deserves a definite spot in my list of unforgettable cinematic experiences. also, kudos to the guy who made the frank zappa comparison. I think you're almost dead-on, except frank would've been a little less obvious with the shock-stuff. Wonderful film.(7/10) Best scenesThe deleted C___ Eyes sequence,just for waters comments after and the birthday party(hard as it may be to watch). Plus edith massey. My god.... "},{"Title":"Not for the weak-stomached I suppose...","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  It takes a lot for me to be drawn to the point of feeling ill to the stomach, only a virus, bad food, or obnoxious amounts of alcohol (with some self-coaching) can do it.  I am the kind of person who started her next day after a party with a mild hangover by getting on a ride that involved dropping 351 feet to the ground at more than 60 miles an hour with no problems.  Therefore, Pink Flamingos didn't do much to my stomach except a little disgust when the one girl vomitted on the passed out girl which I wouldn't doubt was real puke.  But even that aside I knew that the movie was supposed to be completely revolting and shocking, and so I slipped it into my roommate's VCR, hoping she wouldn't come back and be disgusted by it too.  She didn't and I wasn't.  I sat on the edge of the sofa waiting for the one scene that would make me ill or want to flip it off, but it never came.  The anally-talented dancer, the semen injections, the shrimping scene with David's blue and Mink's orange pubic hair, even Divine's infamous feces snacking, brown teeth and all, didn't make me blink.  I guess I must be the sickest person out there if being offended by the movie is the standard.  I wasn't extremely shocked nor entertained.  It was a nice test of my limits which weren't really tested, but I chalk it up to another finished item on my college to-do list which also involved annoying the high school seniors doing a campus tour and showing up for class under the influence of something (which unfortunately was under the influence of the second-worst hangover of my life).  But I will not argue that John Waters is perhaps one of the most prolific underground directors out there.  And Serial Mom is one of my favorite movies of all times (provided that I haven't seen Female Trouble yet)...Are those pussywillows? "},{"Title":"Forever a Cult-Classic","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Reading the reviews at imdb for Pink Flamingos is almost as entertaining as watching it.  I can respect those who dislike the film-it is certainly not a movie for everybody.  However, I also don't think it's fair to claim that the film is not art, or has no redeeming value, etc.  The fact of the matter is, that almost 30 years after it was created, Pink Flamingos is every bit as shocking as it was in 1972.  On top of that, I think the staying power of this film can also be attributed to Waters' brilliant comedic elements, which are so wonderfully executed by Divine, Edith Masey, Mink Stole, Cookie Mueller, and the entire Dreamland team.  Although it never came to fruition, Waters aptly titled this film's sequel Flamingos Forever! "},{"Title":"A sicko classic! Yeah!!!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Until the release of this movie, John Waters was a sick but obscure maverick director, who made some very sick and funny ultra low budget films in the early seventies. However, it was Pink Flamingos which shot him to almost overnight notoriety, with it's scenes of incest, transvestitism, graphic violence and dog pooh gobbling. Cool! Inevitably, all our moral guardians cooked up a huge great stink, and the film was banned for many years. However, this being the nineties, it is now available on video, and...... Wait a second! What are you doing sitting here reading this? GET OFF YOUR CHAIR AND BUY A COPY!!!!!!!! It's an all-time classic! And DON'T think you can get away with buying a late-period waters film either, most of the stuff he made after this was crap. This is the bible of trash films. So buy it. NOW!! "},{"Title":"The grossest movie ever made.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie is really nasty.  I would not see it again but I have to admit it is a decent movie with some big laughs.  I can't believe Divine ate what she ate.  She didn't even wait for it to dry up.  I guess she wanted it fresh from the source.  Don't eat anything while watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Not-repeat-NOT for the faint at heart","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is the kind of movie a person should see if they claim they've seen everything in movies.  Coprophagy (eating feces), flashers, transexuals, incest, sex with chickens, you name it's got it!  And it's FUNNY!! Only John Waters knows how to shock and disturb, and pull it off as entertaining! Long live John Waters!! "},{"Title":"Completely Tasteless, Completely John Waters, Completely Brilliant!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the sickest, depraved and funniest films ever! The plot has late transvestite Divine playing Babs Johnson, the filthiest person alive! She is at conflict with the marbles, two baby sellers who are jealous of her notoriety. Those not familiar with the John Waters vein of humour should stay away, this is not for the squeamish or easily offended. However, it contains some of the funniest scenes ever put on film, most notably the infamous dog pooh gobbling scene, which will either make you laugh like a drain or shudder in disgust. Pink Flamingos is a subversive, uncompromising film which is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Divine movie-making","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I learned about John Waters in college when I took a class on cult films. As part of the course, we were required to see 'Pink Flamingos' when it screened at a theatre in a sketchy part of town.  Nonetheless, we went to see it, and it was definitely worth my money!It may not be for you, and if it isn't, just leave and get a cup of coffee! For me, this movie redifined everything I ever recognized as a defined standard!  If you're looking for a movie with a twist, consider Pink Flamingos to deliver a twist without a real movie.You may get to the point where you have to throw up, but don't let it get that far!  Remember, your mind is stronger than your curiousity, so you can leave whenever you please!Alex "},{"Title":"It's a classic","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I didn't throw up.  Does that mean I am more than human?  Is that a bad thing?  I love this movie, one of my all-time favorites.  John Waters is the MAN! "}{"Title":"Very Strange, Not For All Tastes.","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  PINK FLAMINGOS is really offbeat. I suggest that anyone who who prefers traditional movies where the hero walks off into the sunset to AVOID this movie. However, if you prefer something that is way out in right field and is filled with disgusting activities -- SEE THIS MOVIE. There is one distinct reason why everyone should see this movie -- DIVINE. He/she/it IS divine. "},{"Title":"Ambition doesn't get any better than this,neither does bad taste!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  For all viewers out there who have slammed John Waters for creating a film like Pink Flamingos, just stop. It's getting you nowhere. Has anyone ever cared to stop and think about the ambition and dedication Mr.Waters possesses. To gather your best friends up and to create a movie just to gross out thousands of viewers all over shows this man has a great deal of ambition inside himself. Just read his biography Shock Value. It discusses the lengths he went through to get this film finished. Maybe it wasn't just the fact that John made this film to gross people out, it was to prove that there can be something such as good bad taste>  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  A brilliant film by the great John Waters.  The characters are unforgettable.  The acting, script, and camera-work only enhance the overall greatness of this film.  Perversion as an art-form.  A must see for all. Easily a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"Vile and funny camp classic","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Why do you think we have free speech in this country- so people like John Waters can make films for those who wish to see them. This movie set out to and accomplished the purpose JW had- to shock and to entertain.... haven't you ever been to Light street in Baltimore with the strip clubs or down by Fell's point-- Baltimore is my home town and a wonderful grungy city-- great book stores and great low life--  so lighten up and enjoy Divine (RIP) and the rest of the Waters crowd-- in this camp classic.  "},{"Title":"Waters at his finest","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Waters at his finest. That is the only way to describe the movie called Pink Flamingos. This movie makes Dawn of the Dead seem like a G-rated family movie. If you're going to be a rebel, you can't be afraid to take it this far - that's the slogan of any Waters piece. Be warned, this movie is NOT for the faint of heart. But for anyone who fancies themself an avid follower of the underground, this movie is a must. "},{"Title":"sick, vulgar, depraved, EXCELLENT!","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Well, I can safely say I'm human, Wong.  And I didn't throw up.  I laughed. And laughed.  If this movie made you puke, there is something wrong with you.  But this movie is incredible.  I bought it four days ago, and have watched it 5 times already.  The animal cruelty gets my heart, but not long enough to be guilty.  The movie is shocking, disgusting, and vulgar.  The acting is horrific.  What else do you want from a movie?  I am a die-hard cult film maniac.  Pink Flamingos is awesome. It makes Rocky Horror, as someone has said, look like the teletubbies. "},{"Title":"Best trash movie ever?","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I bought the film, and saw it with a couple of friends. We laughed till we cried. It`s so brilliantly stupid, and all it wants to do is be gross. That Wong Fong guy said if you don`t throw up during the film, you`re not human. Then I am proudly an animal. Great film from a great director. He`s made perhaps the greatest trash-art-comedy-crime-horror-drama ever. SEE IT IF YOU CAN AT ANY COST! "},{"Title":"This film delves into the disgusting and doesn't look back.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of the most excellently made movies ever.  Most movies are softened in plot or characterization.  Not this movie.  You know going in that you will be disgusted, and you aren't let down.  This movie portrays the point it is trying to make flawlessly The disgustingness of Divine, a several hundred pound transvestite and her never-ending quest to remain the most disgusting person in the world.  This movie is also accompanied by a soundtrack that fits perfectly.  Look for an unfortunate scene with a chicken(unfortunate for the chicken and your stomach). "},{"Title":"As good as you think","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is a movie no word can explain. It was just as good I thought. It expands films. Starting with a multiple beginning, and ending with a shocking, but clever ending, Pink Flamingos is one of the best films of the year. Don't miss this opportunity to see a great film. Rent it on video or see it at a late midnight showing like I did. But just see it. "},{"Title":"Well, somebody had to make it...","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Saw this film at the Screen on the Green, Islington, London in the seventies. It was a late-night showing, packed with people who were obviously enjoying themselves. A lot of drunk people were shouting out stuff at the screen. Then I realised that most of them had already seen this garbage! I sat through the entire film -- felt strange for days afterwards and still after 20 years cant look at a boiled egg without thinking of this movie.The most disgusting thing I have ever seen. Divine, bless im probably had to brush his teeth for a week. "}{"Title":"Pink Flamingos is the only film I have ever seen with NO redeeming value.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  The tagline An Exercise in Poor Taste is certainly an understatement. Pink Flamingos is filled with graphic depictions of almost every kind of perversion imaginable. It is a sick display of all that is wrong with humanity. The film is badly written, poorly crafted, and just plain bad.That said, Pink Flamingos is a must see for anyone who enjoys the weird and the obscure. This movie is the epitome of the cult film -- it has absolutely NO redeeming features whatsoever, which makes it a movie that must be seen.Make sure you watch the film all the way through. The final scene will forever change the connotation of the song Doggie in the Window (for those of you who have seen it and know what I'm talking about -- yes, it's the real thing).  "},{"Title":"Acid test","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Whenever I invite new friends to my house, I use Pink Flamingos as an acid test. If they can stomach this atrocity, they will probably go with whatever else I throw at them!This movie is so far-out as to be virtually unintelligible to straightos. But to all those who have secretly plotted weird and perverse actions, those who freak out at parties and wish evil death on nice people, John Waters meisterwerk is the ultimate sin, to be savoured in the delightful darkness of one's disgusting soul...  "},{"Title":"The King of Trash's #1 magnum opus","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is by far one of the funniest films I have ever seen, ever! It is a mix of over the top camp, shock and it is just ahead of it's time! Divine and the Marbles fight over who is the filthiest people alive. Huh? What does that remind you of? Daytime tv? American's culture and love of fame is exposed to the highest degree of satire.  This belongs as one of the greatest social satires of all time!  HOW FAR WILL YOU GO FOR FAME?  I think Divine answers that question with the final scene in the film!This is not for everyone but it is for those who are a little off kilter themselves!  I enjoyed it when I saw the release in the theater.  I own a copy for myself too (autographed by John Waters too!!)!  Not an everyday film and not for the kids! "},{"Title":"I am now warning you","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Obviously if you've heard of this movie, you like the weird and obscure.  Some may have just found this because it is another of John Waters' weird movies, but you all must be warned.  This movie is sick.I own the movie and I think that it is a piece of art genius, but others might think exactly opposite.  Some people found it to be a twisted porno video, and others found it funny but disgusting.  I found it hilarious and shocking.  It is worse than 'Polyester' 'Serial Mom' and definitely  'Hairspray'.  He worked with Divine on this movie and he gave it the push it needed over the top.  It is gritty, and it is nasty.  It is perverted and it is hilarious.  I recommend it for those who like the weird, disgusting, perverted, and abnormal.  All others, stay away.  I, give it a ten however.  "},{"Title":"Filth is my politics. Filth is my life.","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" From the legendary John Waters comes this notorious exercise in camp and trash. It helped him to cement his reputation as a prime purveyor of purely sleazy and grimy material. The pacing isn't the greatest - some scenes really go on too long - but Waters comes up with some truly awe inspiring nuttiness. The viewer won't believe what they're seeing.The great drag performer Divine plays a character named Divine, now assuming the identity of Babs Johnson and living in an isolated trailer in Maryland. Divines' trailer mates include a son, Crackers (Danny Mills), a travelling companion, Cotton (Mary Vivian Pearce), and an egg-loving mother, Edie (Edith Massey), who's confined to a playpen much of the time. Divine takes great pride in her status as the filthiest person alive, but the uptight Connie Marble (Mink Stole) covets that title and will do anything to get it.Also among the sordid characters are Connies' perverted husband Raymond (David Lochary), put upon butler Channing (Channing Wilroy), who's employed to knock up the hapless ladies kept in the Marbles' basement, Cookie the spy (Cookie Mueller), and Edies' beloved egg delivery man (Paul Swift). All of these quirky freaks provide solid entertainment value - Connie sports red hair and Raymond sports blue hair - but Divine dominates them all with a knowingly hammy performance and an incredible just go for it attitude.The various disgusting things that Waters has his people do really shouldn't be spoiled here, so that potential viewers can experience them fresh. The director fills the soundtrack with many catchy golden oldies and gives us a final scene that we're pretty much guaranteed to remember.Waters did earn this viewers' respect for having the courage of his convictions. He succeeds at creating a cult comedy that is equal parts jaw dropping, offensive, and funny in the most appreciably offbeat way possible.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bad taste, at its best!","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos is described, by John Waters as an exercise in bad taste. I find that description to be exactly accurate. That's what this movie is all about, bad taste, dark comedy, and even social commentary. The movie portraits two families on which main members try to keep, respectively steal the tabloids title of filthiest person alive. The whole movie have a raw and odd feeling, helped out by main character, Divine. She is great in her role. Acting is kinda bad, but, it's the kind of movie that can get away with it. I would even say it fits the movie better than better acting would. The thing is that it's not bad in direct way, like characters would mess up their lines often, and look at the camera, it's bad as characters feel weird. And i thing that's the point. That weirdness that goes good with gruesome that this movie has to offer. The movie feels like a critique to big Hollywood movies and how those movies portrait middle income families. It feels like a mirror image to those families, taking the on-screen deformity backwards than Hollywood. Having in mind it's an 1972 production, the movie feels way ahead of its time. We now have similar things on TV and in society, to those that John Waters presented in his movie. People are eating all kinds of gross stuff on Fear Factor, an lesbian couple adopting a child is still taboo in many parts of the world, Jackass are doing all kind of crazy stuff for media. All these things were portrayed in Ping Flamingos, even if they were not common in that period, but the John Waters predicted them. Even the execution part, in front of the cameras. Public hangings were still a thing in late 19th century in some European countries. A nice dark comedy. Gross and nasty, but proves a point. Recommended to anyone. "},{"Title":"Shocking, Filthy and Nasty","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I was so shocked with Pink Flamingos that it's hard, I mean really hard to give my opinion about it. Pink Flamingos was so difficult to watch. I was not expecting anything like this. I felt nauseated while watching some scenes of the film and I can't understand why this was made. The war between Connie & Raymond Marble against Divine for the title of The Filthiest Person Alive almost drove me mad, because i could count with my fingers the number of minutes when happened normal things in Pink Flamingos. I know that probably you think I am being too rude, mostly because Pink Flamingos it's a classic and a well known cult movie but I thought it was sick and nasty. But, even though I felt nauseated with the film, I had to admit that John Waters gave a touch of weirdness and style to the film. And even though I don't ever want to see it again, this poorly acted filthy movie will remain in cinema history as a cult classic. The scene when Divine eats dog feces was really difficult to watch but I believe that was the right way to end this nasty classic. I did not enjoyed it, no sir, but it was so shocking that I still feel that it is a must see for everyone who loves cinema. "},{"Title":"John Waters' unique, individualistic style can attach an adjective like 'great' to a noun like 'trash' to form 'great trash'. Now that's an achievement.","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos &#x96; The Movie is a rare bird which not only makes trash enjoyable but also a good film. Just a single clip of trashy reality TV shows Jerry Springer or The Maury Show on YouTube and what we witness is nonstop display of vulgarity, sleaze and uncontrollable behavior. On the other hand, we have a plethora of terrible films like The Room, the entire Friday the Thirteenth series, Caligula etc that are unintentionally hilarious but all in all unwatchable. Pink Flamingos is a sure shot delight for the voyeurs of violence, sex, deviance, coarseness and trash, albeit one that is made with uncanny expertise. John Walters is the small-scale Quentin Tarantino who can conjure unique, quirky characters and make them cult figures; we are not perturbed by the characters' wrongdoings and we usually end up rooting for them to commit another misdeed.The story here is narrated in an androgynous manner, probably by a flaming gay man or a transsexual, who takes us into the pink, tawdry and shabby trailer of Divine (who is living as Babs Johnson to evade police attention) and her family- her pretty, lusty blonde traveling companion Cotton who possesses the looks of a yesteryear's' star, her bucktoothed, long-maned chicken loving son Crackers and her egg obsessed cutie-pie mother Edie. Divine has long remained the undisputed 'filthiest person on the planet', unbeaten, unchallenged by anyone and is a small-time cult figure who makes it into shoddy newspapers. She is settled now, and does no harm to others other that warming beef between her legs to save on money. Her son seems more wayward at first, but only in sex (chickens are his favorite partners, it seems). Cotton exhibits only voyeuristic tendencies and likes to hang posters of beefy men next to her bed &#x96; but that seems acceptable. And sweet Edie only thinks and talks about eggs, their shape, size and color, Humpty Dumpty nursery rhyme, what happens if all the chickens disappear?, when will the egg-man arrive etc. No one seems to transgress modesty to an unlawful extent except perhaps Crackers. But all this changes when the team is challenged by Raymond and Bonnie Marble, a husband-wife team who vie to steal Divine's esteemed (at least according to them) title. Raymond exposes himself to unsuspecting souls but that is just the tip of the iceberg- the couple discreetly orders their homosexual manservant Channing to impregnate kidnapped women, so that the new-born can be sold to happy lesbian couples. The pitiful kidnapped woman in tattered clothes and straggly hair castigates Channing whenever he enters the basement; she hasn't even seen the actual perpetrators of her misery. When this terrible couple takes on Divine and her flamingos, it is WAR!I believe that the degree of crime committed by Connie and Raymond automatically makes them antagonists; while most of Divine's victims are simply killed without much introduction, we are constantly updated about Connie's victims' sufferings. Even the effect from the disturbing chicken scene with Crackers and the spy Cookie is palliated by the previous scene where we are told of Cookie's deception. . Divine and her gang shoot, chop and eat their victims in one scene but it is too hilariously over-the-top to be offensive. The sexuality on the other hand is something that is bound to gross out or p-ss off certain audiences, with the idea of incest itself can be unnerving for many, but again who really finds Divine to be role model or even a woman, with her androgynous appearance and her ludicrous make up (actual name Harris Glenn; yes, a man!).The entire setup seems like shots from a sleazy reality show, the budget of the film being so tight the entire product was the master copy. We see choppy editing, shadows creeping up often in the background, cameras shaking furiously while closing in on a person and passersby gawking at Divine's appearance as if completely unaware of the film. However, it is this low-quality which make the action look more authentic, as if Divine is an actual C-grade celeb who has made her name through malefaction. The songs, a mix of rock and roll and country make the scenes more lively and enjoyable, and also mitigate the actual violent acts that occur when the music is played.Watch Pink Flamingos if you want to see a kick-ass trashy exploitation film. It is hilarious at moments (the 'trial' scene) and deliciously (in a slightly gross way), wickedly and divinely entertaining. My Rating 7.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it, it was the first John Waters movie","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This is the first John Waters movie I saw that I can't recommend multiple viewings-it almost made me sick the second viewing, oh well. Without going into the plot as I'm sure most viewers know by now, it's a love it or hate it movie, but I give it at 10 for its time of originality. I for one like Serial Mom with Kathleen Turner, also by John Waters, a lot better than this. This may have been his first movie ever made, but Serial Mom was my first JW movie, therefore it's my favorite. Different tastes for different people, I guess. Even though I did like the film, I felt two viewings was plenty, Serial Mom I've lost count with how many times I've watched that, I even own it, so you can tell I love that one, a friend of mine has Pink Flamingoes that I bought for him, and I'm happy with that. It is funny but gross, so I like it, I don't love it. "},{"Title":"The Waters Masterpiece","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" In 1971, a legend was born. An outrageous, blasphemous freak of nature which shocked disgusted, and oddly reflected the times. In 1971, John Waters would perfect his B-movie making skills with his colorful, flamboyant, mean-spirited epic that would ultimately ensure Divine as THE cult icon of the 70's, and push the boundaries of bad taste as far as they would go. This is your worst nightmare made into the greatest cult comedy of all time. This is Pink Flamingos, the undisputed filthiest piece of filth in the history of film.I bought this atrocity of a film years ago. Even as an obsessive fan of B-cinema, I was completely oblivious to it's reputation, I mean, I seriously had no idea what I was about to watch. I'll never forget those first words uttered,  It's 1030, Babs, Babs, why isn't the egg man here? At that moment, I hadn't the vaguest idea as to what was next. All I knew was that the possibilities were endless. There was no telling how the next hour and 40 minutes could have gone. I just stared in awe, with jaw firmly on floor, and witnessed an epic battle. A battle of filth vs. evil.Through the ages, certain questions have plagued humankind. Questions like, where do we come from? What the hell's the deal with the Bermuda Triangle? And, Who's filthier, Divine and her entourage, or Connie and Raymond Marble? Actually, no one has ever asked that. Everyone already knows the answer.A random, and might I add, a rather unrealistic story, where a lot of things go shamelessly unexplained. Things such as, why would the Marbles assume they are filthier than Divine just because they kidnap girls and have them impregnated by the butler and sell the babies to lesbians? That's not that filthy... it's just plain mean.Of course, there's much more to it than that. Soon, the Marbles set they're sights on Divine and her entourage. Once they get under Divine's skin, we are forced to sit through castrations, public exposure, incest, cannibalism, shrimping, unhealthy obsessions, bestiality. The list goes on, and on... and on.Not exactly an organized contest, mind you, but rather a not so well-thought-out, yet devious plot by 2 jealous perverts, to dethrone a Queen. This time, Waters holds nothing back, and Divine is the very definition of outlandish. There is truly something to offend even the crudest of individuals. I love this movie.Once or twice every decade, a B-movie director comes along and creates something either so bad, so hilarious, or in this case, so disgusting, that it transcends B-entertainment all together. Pink Flamingos is just not what you would expect. An understatement? Of course, but true, nonetheless. A look into the mind of a demented man-child with a rebellious streak, a sick, yet unique sense of humor, and some seriously odd friends. Pink Flamingos is more than just the Waters masterpiece. Pink Flamingos is John Waters, which is kind of an intimidating thought. I don't care if you thought Combat Shock was funny, or that Peter Jackson's Dead-Alive could've used more blood. If you haven't seen Pink Flamingos... then, you just haven't seen Pink Flamingos. Nothing could have prepared you for this one. Some years later, John Waters would write a script for a sequel, entitled Flamingos Forever. A movie which was to be distributed by Troma, and would see the return of Divine, Cotton, Crackers, and Miss Edie. The unfortunate death of Edith Massey, among other problems, would forever prevent this dream come true from happening. In 1971, Waters was king and trash was in, but in a perfect world, Flamingos would have definitely lasted forever. 10/10 "}{"Title":"I am your eggman","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Baltimore's errant son, John Waters, has a CV that reads like a record-sheet of bad taste. It's not that he's exactly edged toward respectability with each passing decade; it's that the 'moral majority' have gradually put their hands up and admitted defeat.Even today, nearly 40 years after it was made, his transgressive masterpiece Pink Flamingos still has the power to blow your face off, with its gleeful scenes of cannibalism, castration, incest, rape and a live chicken crushed to death between a couple having sex.The set-up's really simple the late, great Divine must reclaim her title of 'Filthiest Person Alive'. She wins hands down, basically; the coup de grace being achieved by eating a freshly-produced dog turd, live on film, and turning to the camera wearing a particular kind of smile Bruce Willis was often said to sport.Anti-PC power Everything and the kitchen sink. Vicar-baiting potential 5,000. Scat-factor Off the scale.Blasphemy/sacrilege/profanity Uh-huh. "},{"Title":"Superseded by YouTube, kind of","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" The problem with Pink Flamingos is not that it's disgusting, but that it's boring. You get the point within the movie's first twenty minutes Divine, a fat man in outrageous drag, doesn't just look grotesque, but (s)he is truly disgusting in every aspect. To support that point there is a wild collection of freaky scenes, but hardly any narrative or development. It feels like a bad porn movie where the plot only serves to loosely string together a couple of porking scenes. John Waters called his movie tacky and an exercise in bad taste, but it's just a collection of scenes that are unpleasant to watch, which sadly isn't an achievement on its own.Maybe it was something of an experience to see this in a real cinema (I can't imagine too many venues running it, though) when it came out, but the movie, like the performers in it, it hasn't aged too well. If you want to be grossed out, then fast-forward to the Divine eats dog feces scene and spare yourself the preceding ninety minutes of tedium. The soundtrack is great, by the way. "},{"Title":"Some observations about posters","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I have read all the postings about Pink Flamingo here and have drawn some conclusions. I saw the film when it came out in Baltimore in 1972 and have seen it two times since, I consider it brilliant. And, I have seen all of JW's movies since (with the exception of Cecil B. Demented). Here are my thoughts on IMDb comments on PF&#149; People who say they saw the movie and were shocked such a movie was made in the more innocent 1972 seem to think that culture was way square back then. They are dead wrong. The times were so rebellious in 1972 they will probably never be repeated.&#149;A lot of posters say things like, I liked it, but you probably won't. Or, things like, I can accept this movie but most people are too square. These people misunderstand Americans. I'll wager most Americans would find PF funny. To think otherwise is to reveal how you have been brainwashed over how Americans think. This underground movie is an official alternative hit. Not for all, for sure, but for many more than you might think.&#149;A lot of the criticism of PF focuses on things like production values. That's ridiculous; It's meant to be a cheapie.* A lot of the critics seem to think the actors in this film were strangers to each other. Waters and his crew were all a circle of friends.&#149; If you are a Baltimorean, Waters narration is priceless. This is the true Baltimore accent.&#149; Some think Waters set out to write a shocking movie. He has said as much. But I believe the truth is that Waters made a movie to amuse himself.Dave "},{"Title":"Atrocious, horrifyingly shocking, and hilarious.","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I first went to see this around 1981 in an art theater out of sheer curiosity from hearing so much about it. I really didn't know what to expect, except for the dog excrement part I had heard so much about. I couldn't believe what I had seen. I hadn't ever seen anything that disturbing or shocking before. Since then, I've read more about John Waters and the things that cinematically influenced him and especially those things he thinks are funny. After knowing this and seeing Pink Flamingos a few more times, I came to realize what a funny movie this really is. The dialogue is hysterical in particular. Even now, this movie still never fails to shock me, but I can laugh at it more easily. This film is ABSOLUTELY not for everyone, so be careful of the people you suggest should see it. It truly is one of the most disgusting and perverse movies ever made. However, if you understand John Waters M.O., and are not easily offended, you might very likely find this a very funny film. "},{"Title":"Funny and strange","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" The film that gave us John Waters is one of the funniest films ever. Yes it may be gross but it's filled with hysterical moments that nobody has done since. The infamous dog-scene has to be one of the highlights of cinema. not a film for the easily offended it's one of those movies where you always see something new. Divine's performance is worth the reputation. Mink Stole is hysterical. This is the film responsible for the Farrely brothers and the entire Gross-out comedy genre. I know that sounds a bit extreme but think about it. Before this comedies were very run of the mill and almost identical. After this movie comedies became strange and weird, but in a good way. I'd give it 15 out of 10 if I could. "},{"Title":"Makes Me Proud To Be From B-More...","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I'm not the biggest John Waters fan in the world. I've seen a few of his films and found them to be relatively entertaining, but nothing all that great. I hadn't seen PINK FLAMINGOS in about 10 years when I revisited it the other nite, and it remains my favorite of his films that I've seen. Tons of funny, ridiculous, sleazy elements crammed into a no-budget indie film from my home-town.Cross-dresser, Divine, and Raymond and Connie Marble are at odds over the title of filthiest person alive. The storyline follows both clans in their daily lives, until the Marble's decide to challenge Divine and family by burning down their trailer. All hell breaks loose from there...For 1972 I'm sure PINK FLAMINGOS was quite shocking, and I guess it still has that power over some viewers today. There's plenty of filth on display - chicken rape, sausage-flashing, incest, penis-removal, and the infamous dog-doo eating (among other things) - but it's all done in such a silly fashion that it's hard to take any of it seriously or to be truly disturbed by it. I still find it to be a fun regional exploit film that delivers a lot of laughs and a few gags. Fun stuff for exploit/Waters fans...8.5/10 "},{"Title":"What a dirty movie","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I was first introduced to John Waters films by seeing Female trouble on IFC. I was disgusted but for some sick reason i enjoyed it. Then, i picked up the Pink Flamingos DVD in the John Waters Boxed Set. The movie is about Babs Johnson The Filthiest Person Alive who lives in a trailer in Maryland with her obese egg obsessed mother,and her deranged son Crackers. In the movie you will see such sick sights as sex with chickens, drag-queens, people eating feces, torture, and all other sorts of random humiliation. The film has a soundtrack from 60's rock and roll artists. The only problem is that some parts of the film seem to drag on and can get a little boring. I found Female Trouble a little more fun. Rated NC-17 for Explicit sex, violence, and disturbing images. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the most sick and depraved comedies ever made, A classic none the less!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos was revolutionary for its time, and even today it's still hard to watch. Not that I didn't enjoy the film, it's hilarious; but it's very repulsive and Jonh Waters pushes the envelope as far as it can go. The story concerns Babs Johnson (Devine), she's the filthiest women alive. She lives in a trailer with her son Crackers and daughter Cotton. Not to mention the overweight Edie who's obsessed with eggs and sleeps in a crib. Then there's Connie and Raymond Marble, two filthy perverts who are jealous of Babs. They long to outdo her in being the filthiest person alive. This means having their janitor impregnate kidnapped women and selling the babies to lesbian couples, flashing people in public, and even sending Babs a turd in the mail. Babs fights back to prove she's the most deranged person alive. Which even includes incest, murder and eating dog crap and other sick sexual acts. It's a film that's fun for the whole family. (well depending on where you live?) Watch Pink Flamingos, but don't forget your barf bag. For more perverse, weird sex and bodily functions also see Sweet Movie. "},{"Title":"Probably the most disgusting film ever.... but I love it!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" After watching Desperate Living, I was hooked on John Waters films. I heard about Pink Flamingos and had to watch it and boy was it worth it! Believe what you hear, it is trash! It is packed with everything filthy which is actually the main plot of this film. It contains the following Incest, cannibalism, rape, chicken shagging,nudity (like you never seen before- beware of baby's birthday party entertainers),poo eating,arson, trailer trash, perversion, transexuality, egg fettish, cross dressing...... you get the picture. Above all, this is a definite must! Just beware of the birthday party entertainer and Divine wondering around the park! "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy as everyone likes it.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  The story of dirty fat filth-like middle-age woman who lives out of society be knowing as the filthiest woman ever lived. Can someone take her the crown?  There is one couple ..... The nice film for people who don't like ordinary pieces of comedies and don't mind some disturbing sense of humor.I was very surprised seeing some scenes and love theirs pungent kind. "}{"Title":"Camp and filth at its best","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Rating-10 Classic Waters! One of his best and most shocking films! Divine is THE most filthy person ever! Mink Stole also delivers a superb performance! "},{"Title":"This movie made me a John Waters addict","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Though, I'd already seen Hairspray, I didn't become a truly rabid John Waters fan until I saw Pink Flamingos.  The first time I viewed it was a profoundly jarring experience - this was depravity for its own and noblest sake.  It set the standard for brilliant trash cinema verite, USA style. When viewed in the broader context of Waters other life in Baltimore movies, one appreciates the way waters is able to e the dark side of affluent suburbab America through the magnifying glass of surrealistic, scalpel pointed satire. I think Waters works as a whole portray late 20th century America in the same vivid  "},{"Title":"What's he doing to that chicken!??","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I'd say this film is the finest test of how much of a pervert you are known to mankind. The sicker you become, the less perverted you are. I wasn't bothered at all, so where does that leave me? But seriously, though, who else could turn this film's content into an art form but genius smut-master John Waters? No human being (human being??) but him could turn trash into DaVinci and successfully slip through the censors' fingers to turn a mere $30,000 feces-fest into one of the most respected masterpieces of cult filmdom today. Anyone who plans to view this particular piece of raunchy high-art who still has the occasional pure thought might want to wield a barf-bag and avoid sitting too close to anyone. And don't eat beforehand. God help you if you eat beforehand. Unless, of course you're like me. "},{"Title":"A Sick Spiritual Awakening","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  The Contest the Filthiest Person ALIVE. The Contenders Raymond and Connie Marvel who kidnap and impregnate women via their cross-dressing butler and sell the offspring to Lesbian couples; and Babs Johnson, the current title holder who stops at nothing-plus to maintain her tainted crown.Edie the Egg Lady, the Hippy Boy with the Singing Anus, the chicken-prickin' son, and Baltimore's men in blue round out the cast.PINK FLAMINGOS was hip before hip-hop; queer before Queer Nation; genderful before gender bending became au courant and de rigour.It's rough, scatologically inclined, seamy and a tad psychotic; and therefore perfect for family viewing in the '90s. "},{"Title":"Gross, disgusting yet also hilarious, a fairly underrated film that was ahead of its time","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I have heard about Pink Flamingos for quite a while, but I only actually saw the film recently.It is the only John Waters film I have seen to this date, but after watching this I might check out more of his films.Yes this film may be cheaply made, it may also be extremely revolting.The film was made in 1972 and is still one of the few films which actually deserve an NC-17 rating, that's saying a lot.But it also has some very hilarious quotes and scenes.The plot is very basic and involves a family who are competing with another couple as filthiest people alive, the film basically involves shows the two groups, what they do and them competing against each other.There are some very disgusting scenes in the film which I will not say here.Just be warned and don't let the fact that the film came out in the 1970's fool you.Overall, Pink Flamingos is a very gross, yet often hilarious little film.The soundtrack is also very good with some catchy 1950's/early 60's songs. "},{"Title":"An outdated experiment in bad taste","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" John Water's ultimate cult classic Pink Flamingos was released in 1972 with disgustingly rave reviews and in an atmosphere of controversy, which quickly torpedoed the movie to a defining picture of his career. Albeit by far not his best.Starring Divine as the most disgusting person in the world and accompanied by chicken-fecking, peep-tomming, egg-slurping and police-canibalistic family she aims to do one thing and one thing only shock! Back in the days Pink Flamingo was made to push all the wrong buttons on the conservative culture dominant in the USA. And it got desired results with some ecstatic reviews to boot given by the more progressive crowd.Life has gone on, but Pink Flamingos is way past it's expiration date. What used to shock and entertain now mostly bores and disappoints. We are left with horrendous acting, half-cooked dialogue, crappy amateurish cinematography and a very iffy script. Not even some mother-on-son penis-slurping action can help that.In the end I couldn't help but feel the comparison with early African movies. Back in the days they were revolutionary and pushed the boundaries of what was done. But nowadays in hindsight they remain mildly entertaining with a very high value from a anthropological point of view. In regards to Pink Flamigoes the questions the should be put forth to future anthropologists are Why did this movie have such an influence back in the day? And what was it's relevance as social commentary? In the end you are left with only one thought after consuming this slightly smelly old movie Did Divine flinch before she ate the dog turd or not? "},{"Title":"Hand me the vomit bag.","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Next to Joe's Apartment this is the most disgusting and nasty movie ever made. It was probably made just to gross out people. It's about this person named Divine who lives in this trailer and thrives to be the filthiest person alive. Divine has to compete with other people to even hold this title. I don't know what that guy was doing to the chickens but it looked pretty gross. Then Divine and her son have this really disgusting love scene where you can see everything. The end part where she eats the (you don't want to know) was the most nauseating and disgusting thing I have seen in a long time.The only part I thought was funny and a little strange was the fat lady in playpen who had a fetish for eggs. Other than that I hated this movie because of the disgusting factor. Yuck! "},{"Title":"Not John Waters' best, but a unique production","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  John Waters' first break-through film, PINK FLAMINGOS is infamous as being an endurance test when it was in the theaters. If you could take PINK FLAMINGOS, it was said, you could take anything! While it certainly isn't as disgusting as it's made out to be, it does stand up well today, having been the innovator for all the toilet humor comedies that are so popular today.Divine is named the Filthiest Person Alive and has taken into hiding under the alias Babs Johnson when she is wanted by the FBI. She shares a trailer with her traveling companion Cotton (Mary Vivian Pearce), her mother the Egg Lady (Edith Massey), and her son Crackers (Danny Mills). Divine has, unknowingly, recently acquired some competition in the Marbles, Connie (Mink Stole) and Raymond (David Lochary). From here on, it's disgusting act after another, from flashing transsexual genitals to Divine going down on her own son (for real!), ending in the most famous ending in a film of all time, beating even CITIZEN KANE!John Waters needed a film that would gain attention and get him recognized. Well, PINK FLAMINGOS certainly does it. The performances in this film are all excellent. Another great actress is Cookie Mueller as Cookie the spy, who has to engage in chicken sex (or sex with a chicken's stump) with Crackers! Mama Edie lounges around in her underwear in a baby crib and runs off with the Egg Man! Divine actually gives a semi-hardcore blowjob to Crackers! The Marbles give each other toejobs! A cop raid is massacred! The Marbles are convicted of assholism! Oh, I can't recommend this movie more than enough. It can't really be called a movie, but it is certainly an original and can never be topped in outrageous humor. "},{"Title":"This is not a movie, its a porn with a filthy story line","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This movie contains unedited male-on-male oral sex. In which the camera zooms in on a character's erect penis being licked and sucked on by another man. Many times the actors penis's are shown completely uncensored womens nether regions are shown as well. It also contains skat porn, as Devine eats dog fecal matter at one point. It is supposedly the most offensive film ever because they took a nasty messed up porno and slapped a film title on it. Open your eyes, its not a film, its obscene, it is a porn. John Water is still is smart man for making such a film, years later it is still getting attention. But this attention is still from a bunch of confused people who are calling a porno a regular movie. It is not a film. "},{"Title":"John Water's can't possibly sleep at night...","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Utter crap. I've seen some pretty cheesy films in my day, but this is by far the biggest lump of crap ever. It has no redeeming quality whatsoever and it is just a pile of filth. Maybe my response is what John Water's is looking for when he was writing and directing this piece of garbage, but I don't really care what that sicko wants. The scene where the trailer is burnt down by the Marbles, inside that trailer is where they should have placed all of the film they used to shoot this dog turd on, and just let this vision die out.What I really don't get is how this movie wasn't viewed once and then destroyed and treated as if it had never existed. That most likely would have been the best thing for this project. As an up and coming filmmaker, I'm glad that I saw this movie so I would know exactly what not to do being tasteless and just all around wrong. I can never look at chickens the same way again.Anyway, all I have to say is that it's a complete waste of time and imagination. And somebody sent me a bowel movement and called it Pink Flamingos. "}{"Title":"Gross!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Ive seen a lot of crap in movies and this one has it literally. those who have seen it know what i mean . the infamous dog sh** eating finale.. divine movies are always gross no matter which movie...skip this barf material unless you like watching total gross out violence and disgusting sex scenes ,,, barf o rama hereminus 10 stars ,,,,  and thats being nice  "},{"Title":"The worst movie EVER.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Easily the worst movie my girlfriend or I had ever seen. And between the two of us, we have seen some real winners. First, a lot of people think this is some kind of grand statement by Waters about America. But it's not. It's a mad dash by Waters to show you every disgusting image he can think of. Sure it's nasty. But in a nation with G.G. Allin, Eminem, and John Wayne Gacy the shock value is gone. And disgusting for disgusting's sake doesn't make any kind of profound statement. America gives people a wide latitude to be as degenerate as they want. That doesn't make America filthy. Second, the acting is horrible. Half the lines sound like they're being read off the cue cards for the very first time. The other half sound a little better, but they all lack any kind of real inflection or feeling. And the plot... how are these people the filthiest people alive? Somewhere right now, as you're reading this, someone is plotting the torture murder of a child for sexual gratification. How is Divine and crew filthier than that? They're not, and they're not even close. I can't think of a good thing about this movie, except that I've seen it now and won't have to again. "},{"Title":"The Filthiest Movie Ever Made, Even 43 Years Later","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos is truly a sight to behold. Its gargantuan cult reputation is very well deserved, because, simply put, their is nothing else like it, not even in the rest of John Waters' oeuvre. Such a strangely entertaining and cartoonish film has never been made before or since. Waters seemed to somehow pull together the perfect cast for all of his persistently odd roles, a cadre of characters all willing to indulge in sexual perversities, tastelessness, bestiality, and the consumption of various human waste products. The low-grade film stock, the strange long takes punctuated only by zoom-ins, the weird overacting by everyone in the cast, and the disturbing montages set to classic oldies music all works together to become an entirely new film experience. I can't say that it's one that I fully understand, or even that I would like to see another film like it, but I can't deny that this film is truly delightful. Every scene pulsates with anarchical glee, the costume and makeup exudes cartoonish brilliance in every shot, and of course their is the unforgettably divine Divine, otherwise known as Glenn Milstead. His (her?) sheer energy and magnetism in every scene elevates the film immeasurably; no wonder he was Waters' muse. Replete with obvious line flubs, clear awkwardness during certain scenes, and shots which should probably have had a few seconds trimmed, this is certainly a trash masterpiece, the diametric opposite of high art, and Waters' crowning achievement as a filmmaker. Were this to be made by any filmmaker other than the supremely strange Waters, it most likely would have fallen flat on its face. No other auteur has ever been in the motion picture business who so well understands the value of utter garbage, and so revels in all that is dirty and depraved in the world. This film demands that the audience bask in the glory of trash as entertainment, and that we live, breath, and worship refuse. While I cannot say that I agree, or that I will partake in these activities anytime soon, it somehow manages to make it enticing. Pink Flamingos is the crowning achievement of waste throughout all of mankind's existence. The only reason that it gets a 9 and not a 10 from me is that there were several instances where the depravity did begin to sicken me rather than entice, though these were rectified shortly afterwards. Also, I think that if I gave it a 10 I might go to hell. "},{"Title":"Totally Tasteless...but...","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" ...enjoyable too in a freakish sort of way!! This is one of John Waters early works (and it shows). But he was starting out and learning his craft by trial and error. This was made back in the early 70's - it doesn't stand up to today's young movie makers starting out. But hey, times were so much different then!!! The facilities that were available to the likes of John Waters back then are comparatively prehistoric to what is available nowadays. John Waters bravely puts out his own personality and dark depths of his mind for anyone to see. There's plenty to be revolted by in this movie, but don' be too hasty to dismiss it as cheap, vile trash. It does have some merit...without it and future films, we wouldn't have the John Waters that we have today. Certainly not a movie for everyone.....but if you like some BAD taste, then you'll find something to amuse yourself in this. Most of his actors appear in his later productions too. Parts of the movie will gross you out! "},{"Title":"Filthy","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" An exercise in bad taste, indeed. This filthy trash movie is worthy of a glimpse, though it will not be a movie that is good for digestion, it's like an exotic dish of weirdness. The story is actually dumb but funny, a couple is trying to dethrone Divine in her status in being the filthiest person alive, the story is enough to tell how filthy this movie is. It's funny not because it's a comedy, it doesn't try to be funny, the situation and the performance of the actors were already hilarious, naturally. The script is another plus for its absurdity. The characters, especially Divine and her mother Edie are unforgettable; you can't forget the Marbles too, with their unusual hair color. The oddest things are in placed here; the notorious last scene will make you sick. I want to watch more of this kind of movies, this is what I love about the journey of cinema, there are many things you'll discover, and there are a lot that I still haven't. "},{"Title":"Filthy is what this is about","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This is the fist John Waters's movie I have seen and this is one of the grosses film I have seen. I mean I seen a lot of crazy films and this is one of them. And that is exactly what John waters intended it to be, he probably wanted to make a crazy and nasty film thanks to his crazy humor. Okay the film is about Divine who has the reputation for being the most filthiest person alive and she loves it, with her family of course. She thinks it's like a award or something and the 2 people that is trying to compete with her for the title of being the filthiest people alive is a Connie and Raymond Marble who kidnap women, impregnate them and sell there babies. This film is epitome of crude humor, that is if you find this kinda stuff funny with it's bad taste. It's also very over the top and leaves a bad taste in your mouth when your finished, especially cause of what Divine does at the end. The acting is also very terrible in this as well, but this film is more for shock value. It's got style, but most of it is just some gross stuff in order to add to the shock value.6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Roger Ebert gave it zero stars.  I have to disagree.","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I like Roger Ebert and I tend to agree with a lot of his reviews, but to give this movie ZERO STARS is absurd.This movie is brilliant, in a deranged and raw sort of way. You have to see it to know what I mean.This movie is pretty much about everything but pink flamingos--the title I assume taken from Divine's lawn ornaments outside of a faded pink trailer home.The characters are great, the acting is mediocre at best, the sound and cinematography are pretty bad as well. But Divine, the lead, holds this film together. This film is DEFINITELY not for everyone. It contains some very graphic, but often funny moments. Again, you have to see it to know what I mean. If you are reading this, then you must see it! I guarantee you will see some things you have never seen on film.I found out about this movie from 1001 movies you must see before you die. "},{"Title":"A very special kind of masterpiece","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos is cheap, revolting, technically inept, haphazardly edited, poorly acted by any standard definitions, and really without any redeeming social value. Than why is it a masterpiece? The answer is simply because John Waters intended it to be all those things and more. Even though Pink Flamingos isn't my personal favorite from the director, it's possibly the apex of his early years. Waters set out to make the ultimate experience in bad taste, and if a film's success is judged by how well it achieves what the makers had in mind, than Pink Flamingos is some kind of twisted masterpiece.The reason however why the film works so well is that it isn't the simple shock value many of the detractors have made it out to be. Waters is a subversive filmmaker, and Pink Flamingos just drips with well-placed satire. Not only does he damn the 50s perfect family ethos, he also gives a huge middle finger to the failing idealism of the 60s peace and love generation. It's difficult to imagine a film more against peace and love than this one.Waters' early stock cast of performers is present here, and they offer interesting performances to say the least. None of them are particularly good, but their technical incompetence perfectly complements the shoddy nature of the film. If anything, this was the film which catapulted Divine into cult legend status. Pink Flamingos is the most famous underground film ever made, and with good reason. It's probably the most wonderfully entertaining one, provided you have a very strong stomach. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Truly filthy","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Though this movie is filled with perversions of all sorts, the first moment of filth comes right after the opening credits. It is when the viewer sees Divine's family for the first time inside their Maryland trailer park. Divine's mother permanently inhabits a crib, for she is mentally challenged (a challenge, I must point out, she doesn't even try to overcome), and she is obsessed with eggs. Yes, with eggs. All she talks about, in a childish whine, is eggs. The only thing she looks forward to in the egg man's arrival, so she can smear more eggs into her ample breast and voracious mouth. When she whines for more eggs her daughter (Divine) coos at her and promises that she will get those eggs, if she just waits. This grotesque reversal of the parent-child roles sets the mood for the film to come.This is a story about Divine, who goes by the name of Babs Johnson, and who bears the honorific The Filthest Person Alive. This is also the story of Connie and Raymond Marble--who kidnap hippies, impregnate them, and sell the babies to lesbian couples--who are deeply offended that they do not bear the honorific that they believe is rightfully theirs. So they start a war with the Johnson family to determine who indeed is The Filthiest Person Alive.I need not list the perversion that glut this movie. There are many, and if you want to see this movie, you have already heard of a few of them, I'm sure. They are filthy indeed, but that filth only goes skin deep. What is truly filthy about this film is its attitude. Divine's family is the poster family for Trailer Trash they are stupid, messy, perverted, and proud to be so. Then there's the Marbles they are actually offended because they don't bear the title of The Filthiest Person Alive. Let me raise a question here What kind of people actually want such a title? Let me raise the answer Filthy people.The acting is atrocious, and the voice-over narration is terrible. In some strange, aberrant fashion, it only adds to the movie and the filthiness it's trying to portray. The same can be said, to a lesser extent, for the other film-making skills on display.John Waters set out to make a film that was truly filthy. He has succeeded. I will not say that this is THE filthiest movie I ever seen, because it is foolish to make such statements as they can always be outdone by something new. However, I will say that it transcends mere gross-out spectacles and is truly nasty. If you're into such movies, I highly recommend Pink Flamingos. If not, well... what are still doing reading my review? "},{"Title":"1001 Movies To See Before You Die !","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I recently saw the movie after finding it's name in 1001 Movies To See Before You Die ! So I thought of giving it a shot. The reviews I've read said that it is a GROSS and a BELOVED film and after seeing I really cant decide whether to rate it 1 or any thing above that. Cuz its a movie which has given DISGUST a new level .Its got scenes involving masturbation and sex with animals and all the filth on top of it. If one chooses to give it 1, then it means its got nothing at all but this definitely has SOME THING. So in order to appreciate and the filth and gross-stuff and Efforts made by John Waters to make it the Filthiest film ,I've given it a 5. "}{"Title":"I can't find Pink Flamingos on DVD with region code 0 or 2","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I saw the movie years ago, and i want to have it. It's one of the most bizarre movies I saw. I was following drawing lessons in the Academie of Ghent. Suddenly the teacher asked the model to pose on a large TV, we had no idea why... What happened then i will remember the rest of my life. We had to draw the model posing naked while Pink Flamingos was flashing over the TV screen. I was completely confused, how can you draw while watching a movie like that??? It was absurd but magnificent at the same time. I didn't made a good drawing that evening but only looked at the movie, thank you john, for bringing us so much beauty. Buying the DVD seems only possible with the region code 1 (US) Does anybody know where i can buy Pink Flamingos DVD playable in Europa (belgium) that means region code 0 (worldwide) or code 2 (belgium) Please if you know where you can buy it..., than tell me. parcifalneyt@hotmail.com "},{"Title":"... The filthiest movie alive?  The filthiest movie alive!","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" John Waters Pink Flamingos is one of the most discussed, disgusting and shocking movies ever made, there's no doubt about that, and is then, a confusing movie to me, because is a crazy and distinguished extravaganza, but at the same time is a movie without any respect or moral for decency.My love for crazy movies begin maybe with all the illogical plots of horror movies that i see in my childhood, as too the parodies and spoof. My all time favorite movies since children can take advise of titles like The Little Shop of Horrors the Musical and Airplane!. Then i become to be fan of really artistic movies with sense, and without sense. When i discover Pink Flamingos was thanks for a special program about John Waters. However, have been passed a lot time since i saw that program and i see Pink Flamingos just yesterday, just at midnight, and let me tell you... that was a really unforgettable experience! Pink Flamingos told us about Divine, the filthier person alive. She live with Cotton, her friend, Crackers her son, and her mother, who loves eggs and love Mr. Egg Man. For other side is The Marbles, who are furious because they think that Divine has stole them the title that they deserve, because they said that they are the filthiest people alive! Both sides going to makes us see why... and God, if you have some decency you don't going to feel some comfortable like they are. Pink Flamingos is one of the most polemic films ever for its graphic scenes, full of all less decency, moral and humanity.I thought that it was funny a story about the filthiest people alive but when i see this experiment in poor taste i realize that is not so fun as it could be. After all, Pink Flamingos catches my mind, and probably i never going to forget it, because after all, Pink Flamingos have all that i love in an illogical movie, but this one go to thee extreme, and in the majority of moments i just cant hold it. I love many things of this pictures, as its shameless, the kind of photography that show us that is really and independent film of the 70s, the denotation of the characters (Aftter all, i think that a character like Divine could have a lot of stories to tell), some of the elements of the plot (For example, when the couch expels Connie), the dialog and performing of the actors. In this point of view is totally successful.But now we see the other things of Pink Flamingos which are just repulsive and have all that you want less any kind of humanity of ethical accompanied of a lot of scatology. I mean, with this kind of things, i cant just be relax. Of course, after all, is a successful film in its way, because that was its objective. Pink Flamingos is a successful experiment in poor taste! In spite of that, i really recommend Pink Flamingos only if you are ready for see something wild and surely disgusting. I think that any lover of movies should see this one, in point of view that you want to take As curiosity, as education or just as an eater of films.Pink Flamingos is a repulsive movie, that, want or not, always going to be in the history of movies as an unique piece, with an incomparable reputation.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"As foul as its reputation suggests","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This is yet another of those films that I had heard people talking about for a long time - I think even my parents told me about it when I was younger (he actually eats dog crap!). So, of course I had to see it. Not sure how to feel about it, really - it's stolen a lot of my innocence away (damn you, John Waters). One could easily define the film by a bullet-pointed list of disgusting moments (as I'm sure the BBFC and MPAA have done repeatedly); however, it is more than the sum of its parts. What holds it together is an array of characters beyond credibility. You could call them white trash, but they go so much further than that. And it's hard to predict what they will do in order to become the filthiest people alive. Lying underneath all of this is a very dark sense of humour, but one evident enough for us to react by laughing.To conclude, if you're cinematically green, or have never heard of this film, stay off until you learn a little more about the dark side of cinema; everyone else, give this a go. A filthy hoot. "},{"Title":"Timeless classic","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" The movie that established John Waters' name as a master of camp, queer, trash aesthetic.The main character is Divine 'Babs Johnson' (played by transvestite Divine). She joyously styles herself as a goddess of filth (the 'filth' being more to do with flouting conventional mores than any lack of hygiene). She has retreated from the limelight to a caravan where she lives with her pal Cotton, her son and her mother. Divine's mum spends most of her time in a playpen and is obsessed with eggs.But the title of 'filthiest person alive' is contested by arch-rivals, the Marbles. The Marbles kidnap hapless females and lock them in the basement to be impregnated by their servant. When babies are born, the Marbles sell them to lesbian mothers. Other sidelines include pornography and selling heroin to young school children. And the Marbles are miserable, nasty people.At the end of the film, and after the triumph of good filth over bad, a final scene 'proves' that Divine is not only the 'filthiest person alive' but 'the filthiest actress alive'. It is this scene that has caused most outrage. It involves Divine ingesting something a poodle has had the day before and just got rid of. The scene is still subject to censorship many years later in the UK. John Waters quips about it in 'This Filthy World', pointing out that he doesn't believe people are going to be so corrupted by watching it that they are likely to copy it.This, of course, raises all sorts of questions about his stated objective to shock and to entertain. There is no suggestion that makes the characters realistic. They are entertainment. So what are the limits of entertainment? Are any minorities offended? No. The idea that it could corrupt or deprave is easily dismissed. And it is uproariously funny and entertaining. People who find it offensive might consider asking themselves again why that is so. There are many more truly offensive films - films that do all the terrible things just mentioned. But Pink Flamingos is pure silliness, executed with an original and very skillful hand.It remains a classic against which many other films, that borrow milder elements, can only be measured. "},{"Title":"Perverse, sick, filthy, disgusting, immoral.........but extremely funny!!!","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" It took me awhile before I could actually sit down and watch this movie, it took me even longer to review it. I mean, I really could not see how to critique a film like this! Often hailed as the best worst movie and quite commonly referred to as the sickest piece of entertainment ever created, John Waters' Pink Flamingos is quite the movie. First off, let me get this out of the way, I did enjoy this, moreover, I thought it was genuinely funny in parts. However, it is still a filthy, disgusting, disturbing and immoral picture.To summarise the odd story Divine/Babs Johnson is known as the filthiest person alive. She lives with her mum (who has an egg fetish and adores The Egg Man), her retarded son Cracker and daughter Cotton in a trailer. Quizzically enough, there is actually a family who are jealous of Divine's title. The Marble family are envious of Divine and try to outdo them in the category of filthy. Their method&#133;kidnap women, have their cross-dressing butler rape them, sell the babies to lesbians and then use that money to sell drugs to elementary school children. How's that for a plot?! Just to tick off a few of the many delights to be found within this movie incest, egg fetishes, cannibalism, rape, sh*t eating, chicken sex and copious male and female full frontal nudity. Well, if you are open minded, or have an odd and sick sense of humour you will love it! Pink Flamingos is a non-stop parade of foul scatological and sexual humour. If you do not enjoy that, you may enjoy the pure randomness of some scenes, for instance, a wedding in a wheelbarrow and the most repulsive party scene you will ever see. Notice the amount of synonyms used for disgusting? Admittedly, some parts were hard to watch and very wrong (and would personally never want to see again) but there were still many scenes that honestly just had me in fits of laughter. I do not expect this to be for everyone, but for those that like controversial and extreme underground flicks, this is right up your alley.Don't expect any good acting or a great quality plot and camera-work. This is not Oscar-material, this was not meant to be a social satire or thought provoking. It was made to gross out everyone it could. Waters is known for his rather different comedies and this is no exception. Just sit back and try and stomach the outrageous events that go on. And trust me, you NEED a strong stomach! I can not stress that if you are prude and easily offended stay very far away from this movie.3/5 "},{"Title":"A unique work of art","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Among his old films, John Waters-hailed as the Pope of Trash makes his breakthrough in film with a little, family-oriented film about a woman and her love for flamingos...well, not exactly. Because Pink Flamingos is not a film that is that of intelligence, the moral of the film is a joke with trashy structures that put them together. However, these 'trashy' structures would not be bad taste, but good bad taste. In the field of art this is not considered offensives-therefore, it has no harm to me. I was surprised actually to see that it wasn't as explicit enough as I expected it to be, though I still enjoyed the film throughout. A John Waters classic. The only con is that The Marbles had to be killed in such stylish outfits! "},{"Title":"Nasty! Nasty! Nasty!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Two families fight for the title of the most filthy, nasty and degenerated family in the world. Of course, Divine's family seems to have a great advantage. Walters showed each and every vice known in this movie and, unlike other products from that time, Pink Flamingos remains as dangerous and as aggressive as it was back in the 70's. PK is one of the biggest monuments to bad taste ever filmed... and I love it! I warn you you better watch PF with your stomachs empty. You don't want to see some of the scenes of Water's masterpiece after a hearty meal! *My rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"Offensive and entertaining film","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" The film is quite vulgar and extremely entertaining. The most difficult to watch parts are the scenes in the basement of a house where the audio is screechy, difficult to understand and dull. There are also some dull scenes in the trailer. If you find a slow spot, just fast forward past it. Watch the film to the very end to avoid missing some delightful footage. If foul language, political incorrectness, and/or black comedy with nudity are offensive to you, it is unlikely that you will enjoy this film. In my assessment the entertaining parts of the film make up for the parts one skips. Some scatological elements of the film have not been surpassed to this day. "},{"Title":"Filthy, nasty, disgusting, wild and funny as hell!","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I have watched several of the old Divine movies directed by John Waters and I always liked them, but this one stood out I think as being maybe the most disgusting one that I have seen.Oral sex and sex with a chicken is one thing, but cutting the chickens head off and molesting its bloody headless body is another. The nudity, the filth, the eating dog crap all of that was just part of the plot to show Divine is the filthiest person alive and when someone else tries to take that spot, you see what happens.I have to say it wasn't laugh out loud funny or anything, but it was full of laughs mostly from dialogue and the filthy stuff you see amazes you and it should keep you locked it.If all of those things don't bother you then watch it, if you like John Waters or Divine don't miss it, but if you're just simply wanting to laugh then this may not be your movie. - this isn't comedy this is cult. "},{"Title":"A dark, disgusting comedy","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos really is a movie like no other. The acting is terrible; the gags are disgusting; the plot is absurd; and, the production quality is garbage. But the director's vision (for lack of a better word) still shows through to some degree. The movie is appalling and inane at times and just plain funny at others. However, it achieves what it was meant to achieve it horrifies conservative censorship-crusaders and delights people who are sick of the same old thing. For example, you will see penises, which is pretty rare in film. Women are exposed all the time; men - hardly ever. I, for one, appreciated Waters' equity when it came to nudity. It must be said that the fact that John Waters put some of the scenes on film is morally questionable - you'll know what I mean if you see the film. But, overall, the film goes where few others have and I guess it's laudable for that. I thought that certain scenes dragged and some started to grate on my nerves. Also, the crazy antics were too few and far between. If you are looking for something out of the ordinary and completely insane which defines iconoclastic, check this out. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Citizen Kane of bad taste.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" The so called Citizen Kane of bad taste films is well overrated but still worth a look.Its not even John Waters best film.It will however push your limits as Divine, gloriously, gets filthier and filthier as the film progresses. Competing against the strangely attractive Mink Stole. The infamous ending sends the film away as brilliant and cringe worthy as it began.Its not well acted not well directed, but it does have heart and thats more that can be said about many films.Be warned, if you are in the UK do not bother with the video release. Its so cut the film is pointless. Go for the US unrated DVD instead. "},{"Title":"Incest, drug trafficking, bestiality and an egg fetish are merely the tip of the proverbial iceberg in this ultra-black comedy from renegade filmmaker John Waters.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I believe AMC has a show called Movies That Shook the World . Most of the movies that are chronicled I've seen and/or heard of before. This was a new one for me. I was intrigued by how low budget this movie is. Basically, there was no budget. In one scene, a mobile home is set on fire. You can hear people crumpling paper with their hands to simulate the sound of a roaring fire. John Waters was just a college kid with a camera and a bunch of the weirdest friends ever. The documentary on AMC said that it was a disgusting movie but I figured It was made in 1972, how bad could it be? WHOOPS!!! There is, in no particular order Masterbation,Egg fetishes, foot fetishes, vomit eating, Doody eating, rape, rape with a chicken, artificial insemination, and bad acting. Bad acting? The acting is sooo bad, it is the funniest thing in the movie. But it's cool. This whole movie is sooo bad it's a classic. It is definitely not for the faint of heart. Actual chickens were used for a rape scene and the chickens died. Then that chicken was eaten in another scene in the movie. I can't really recommend this movie to anyone who isn't a die-hard movie buff, or train-wreck fanatic. "},{"Title":"John Waters should be the poster child for rebellious film-making.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Two families compete, in a sort of quasi-contest, to win the title of the filthiest people alive. One family is made up of Divine, her severely demented son, her crib-ridden mother, and a sort of adopted teenage runaway. They hold the title from the very start, and the people who attempt to steal the title are a sicko husband and wife team named the Marble family who spend their days kidnapping young women and force their gay butler to impregnate them with a syringe and then sell the babies to lesbian couples, spying on Divine's family, and indecently exposing themselves to women in the park. Eventually the Marble family start a battle of sorts with Divine's family. Chaos ensues.With infinite respect to John Waters and his intentions with Pink Flamingos, this is easily one of the worst films of all time. However, it is intentionally so. So right from the start, points go to Waters for accomplishing what he set out to do. Whether or not this film is actually worth seeing is an entirely different matter altogether, but if there's one thing that I know for sure after watching Pink Flamingos it is that John Waters should be hailed as the poster child for rebellion through film. Film was John Waters' way of rebelling, and I think that if Pink Flamingos should be seen for any reason it is because it was the first of it's kind and the first film to go all the way in it's depiction of modern living. If anything, Waters should also be recognized for his vision of the kind of criminal behavior that has been worshiped and despised in equal measure. What I enjoyed most about the vision here is how self-contained it is. The film creates such a space and such a world that allows it to show you things that you have never seen before. There's animal abuse, graphic drug use, graphic slaughter and murder, coprophagia, rape, incest, torture, sexual fetishes on parade, dancing rectums, cannibalism, sadism, dismemberment, surrealism, castration, and a blow-job scene that manages to be more explicit than any of the scenes in Deep Throat and is even less sexually appealing at the same time!!! I think that the people who should watch this film are the people who think that Charlie Manson is a cool person. I know that it probably wasn't John Waters intention to make a film that was anti-hippie, nor was it his intention to make a film that was a rant against any sort of faction, nor was it intended to be political. However, so much time has passed since Pink Flamingos was released, and so much has happened since then. The film may have been made post-Altamont, but one can't help watching this film and feeling the same way about these characters as they do about the filmmakers. Why was a film made like this in the first place? The better question is, why was it made when it was made? There is no better time for a film like this to exist than today, and yet if it were made today it would likely not make it to video and DVD. I mean, look at Crispin Glover's directorial debut. What Is It? is a Herzog-inspired art film directed by Crispin Glover and the poster features a nude Shirley Temple standing in from on a giant swastika holding a riding crop. How on earth can a film like that be marketed in a mainstream fashion? The answer is that it cannot. S&M, Nazi-related imagery, and nude children are three things that make most Americans extremely uncomfortable. Pink Flamingos has the distinction being made during one of the most angry and most dark times in film-making history, the 1970s. The film was rated X upon it's original release and it still is not at all for children, nor will it ever be. Pink Flamingos is a pornographic, shocking, strange, and at times very funny film that not only plays with the head of the audience in how often it goes into total unpredictable territory, but also crams in as many taboos as a film could likely ever contain. It is easily one of the grossest, if not THE grossest, films I have ever seen, and it's power remains undiminished. I know it is considered blasphemous when I say that I prefer the films of John Waters post-Hairspray more than his 70s shock films, but his early films are not without merit. Pink Flamingos perfectly defines his early themes, and while his later films mostly deal with the dynamics of fame, family, and independent film-making. John Waters should be very happy that he has the power to gross out four decades of moviegoers, and that is where the power of this film lies. "},{"Title":"Some New Goofs","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I believe I have noticed some new goofs that were not mentioned before 1)Edie is crying all morning because she is starving because the Eggman didn't some yet, implying they had no eggs in the house. But then Divine comes in with some eggs saying she is going to fry Edie up a grade A treat.2)When Divine's party guests finish cannibalizing the officer and rip him to shreds, you see them moving the body into the shrubs, and all his limbs and body parts are intact.What do you guys think? )I like coffee I like tea I like you And I like me. "},{"Title":"it's gusty - but great !","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I watched it some 25 years ago - rather unprepared for what came up. After the first 10 or 20 min of irritation it started to be fun - but certainly not for anyone. I admire John Waters for doing this movie - really going for extremes. It might be bad taste - yes, but it's taste. This applies by the way to the music as well - terrible sound but great music (I think its from Link Wray - which is another great artist). Waters' favourite actor Divine by herself is worth the money for another cinema trip (or DVD, if you're happy enough to live in a country where it is available). I've seen some later movies from Waters, but somehow none of them stand up to this movie. "},{"Title":"spoke","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" There is no film to put beside Pink Flamingos by way of comparison. It is a film genre of it's own. I read and hear reviews of this movie that express disgust and horror and I picture John Waters chuckling. This was the intent, it was meant to upset the status quo and in politically correct times that we live in, isn't it a small surprise to see this film come to the forefront again? This is a movie that will freak out the uptight for as long as it exists in any media. It was meant to. As much as Clockwork Orange talked about ultraviolence this movie is all about ultra-bad taste. We can numb ourselves to sex and violence but Pink Flamingos is a movie you just will never get used to. There will be something in this movie that will get to you. As a last resort to make sure everyone is offended before you leave the theatre, John includes the always discussed poodle scene. No reason for this scene, except to make sure he gets you and also to make sure you leave talking about it. Obviously filmed on a budget, and using Water's stock cast, this is a movie simply about a contest to see who are the filthiest people alive. All the characters are bizarre in one way or another. This movie reminds me of Rocky Horror Picture Show in that everyone in the film has something odd about them and both movies joyfully celebrate these uniquenesses. Not a movie to buy for Mom on Mother's Day... but worth seeing just to say you did. "},{"Title":"Revolting but it kinda captures your attention.","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Interesting in all of its morbid grossness. And I believe Divine actually sucked that guys noodle, did he not? It interested me for the bizarre content and Dinine is such a man freak. I'll bet there were more than a few disgusting freaks out there that would love to get Divine on its fat belly for some twisted S and M. nevertheless it was disturbing from time to time such as when the chicken was added to the sickos pervasive fun time and when divine ate pooh, by the way was that real? furthermore I found it funny due to its extreme content and its uncensored storyline, although it didn't seem to have much of an intelligent plot, though maybe that was part of what made it so interesting. "},{"Title":"John Waters Knew Exactly What He Was Doing...","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Well, I have to say...this was a GREAT first (major) effort by a struggling independent filmmaker with no budget to speak of. And, it worked, didn't it?? Pink Flamingos catapulted John Waters into the limelight. Period. He purposely pushed the societal buttons that he knew would get attention. Thirty-three years later, and we're still talking about it. Art is, and hopefully will always be, subjective. Beauty, tragedy, vulgarity--and art (as it were) will always be in the eye of the beholder. It may not be pretty (and it definitely isn't in PF), but that doesn't mean it doesn't have its niche in the every-day real world. Read the papers...watch the news. It's better to be aware and prepared than unaware and caught off guard. Watch this movie...you're better off. "},{"Title":"Crazy fantastic","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Superb campy trash romp through the filth of society!  Who cares if the acting is wooden and the production basic, the characters and their dialogue are brilliant.  Surely Divine/Babs Johnson and Connie Marble are two of the best female characters in cinema history.  Divine's politcal statement at Connie & Raymond's execution (see Embalmer's comment) had me in stitches.  She surely is the filthiest person alive. "},{"Title":"One of the most delirious and strangely beautiful films ever made.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  There are few films that can be called both one of the best films ever and one of the worst films ever.  Pink Flamingos is one of them.  Made with almost no budget during a cold winter in the early seventies, this show of disgusting acts and ludicrus dialogue remains a timeless testimant to all trash cinema made before and after it.  Director John Waters drew upon his love for underground cinema, mondo films, 'sickies', H G Lewis, Fassbinder and the Kushar Bros. to create this work, with unequaled results.Now, most people you talk to will tell you that this is the worst film ever.  That it's the most disgusting movie ever made.  Well, it might be the worst or most revolting film they've ever seen, but there are indeed more disgusting films out there.  I offer up such examples at Bloodsucking Freaks and I spit On Your Grave as at least two films that excede in grossness PF.  Honestly, it's pretty bad, but there's so much worse out there, just waiting to be rented at the local video store.I've always been a fan of this movie, ever since 8th grade. Granted, that wasn't too long ago, but what else can I saw?  I think that PF was a remarkable achievement.  The best thing about it is that John Waters, a god in his own right, looks up to his characters and loves them, rather than debase and reject them.  That's the movie's major strength, that it totally repects and loves it disgusting subject matter.  Waters loves the characters he is portraying, and frankly so do I. "}{"Title":"Gross","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This is the most decadent, disgusting, gross, perverted, putrid, repuslive, repugnant movie I have ever seen. On a scale of 1 - 10, I'd have to give it an 11. This is a total must for John Waters fans. This has to be his best. "},{"Title":"Purely gross, but a good storyline none the less","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Other than Serial Mom, Pink Flamingos was my first movie that I saw of John Waters early days. I was blown away. It was like nothing I had ever seen before and from what I've heard, something that no one else had seen before. Waters created a storyline so obscure that it was more or less interesting. Divine's portrayal of Babs Johnson was one of her best, next to Dawn Davenport (her role in Female Trouble). My favourite still lied with the Marbles, especially Connie (played by the fabulous Mink Stole). She was truly meaner and sicker than any of Divine's crew. It was wonderful. I had friends see it and recommended it for drinking parties (since watching it sober isn't as amusing). It remains one of my true favourites from Waters early days.  "},{"Title":"An Exercise in Bad Taste A Look at 'Pink Flamingos'","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  John Waters is a man I could listen to forever. He can repeat the same story over and over and it never gets boring. He can hold your interest in any one of his DVD commentaries and growing up as a gay man in Baltimore, has a very interesting life. He also wrote some of the all time funniest films. There are three sections of his life that you have to take note of. There was some black and white shorts and feature length films in the 60's but I will leave those out of this review. The first section of his life was his early, angry, gross out work which went on from 1972 to 1977 (Pink Flamingos, Female Trouble, Desperate Living), 1981 to 1990 was the transition period where his work changed (Polyester, Hairspray, Cry Baby) and then there's the more mature big budget Hollywood films from 1994 to 2001 (Serial Mom, Pecker, Cecil B. Demented). These films are all uniquely different and hold different styles of their own and all are important pieces of filmmaking but no matter what, 'Pink Flamingos' will be John's most famous work (with the possible exception of 'Hairspray'). Even Waters has said that if he came up with a cure for cancer and died the next day, 'Pink Flamingos' would still be his biggest achievment. Made in 1972 for a small budget (People say different things so I'm not going to put an exact budget on it), it starred the infamous drag queen Divine who performed the infamous final scene (But unlike other reviewers, I'm not going to say what it is) along with Dreamlanders Mink Stole, David Lochary and Mary Vivian Pearce. I'm going to run along the story even although you will most likely know it already. Divine is the filthiest person alive but the FBI is hot on her tail so she hides out in a trailer near the woods under the alias Babs Johnson. She lives with her egg obsessed son Crackers (Danny Mills), retarded mother Edie (Edith Massey) and her travelling companion Cotton (Mary Vivian Pearce). Many papers call her the filthiest person alive but evil couple Raymond (David Lochary) and Connie (Mink Stole) Marble want that title will not stop at anything to hold that title for themselves. I could easily just talk about everything that goes on in the film as many reviewers have chosen to do but I feel this is a very original film which is actually a satire on modern family life. The Divine clan are trailer trash. They have incestuous relationships and do very sick things but the Marbles are the exact view of suburban life. Clean houses, well organized and in the end they turn out to be the failures. They consider themselves filthy yet are disgusted at Divine's accomplishments proving that Divine and trailer trash win out and that modern day families are basically just clones of each other. The film improves with repeat viewings as you see just how sharp the wit on display is. John Waters' script is filled with some of the most quoted lines in film history. Although nobody is really a trained actor, their performances far surpass any modern day oscar winner. Divine is, as always, perfectly cast in his role and has some of the best lines on display. Edith Massey presents her very unique style of acting and, believe me, she's a real talent. Mary Vivian Pearce (The only person to appear in EVERY John Waters film) once again provides some laughs even if she doesn't always get the big roles she deserves. Mink Stole and David Lochary are hilarious as the perverted couple who want to steal Divine's title to no avail but it is truly Danny Mills who stands out. John Waters discovers a new male talent in each of his films starting from here going right up to 'Cecil B. Demented', all of whom rarely appear in any other John Waters movie (In fact, I don't think any of them ever have). Danny is very real in this film which makes his gross out scenes stand out but, unlike a lot of other people, I did not once cringe at this movie. I found it's situations funny but I was more impressed with the sparkling satire on display. Divine's infamous last scene is much less shocking than an oral sex scene earlier in the film. Not to take away from his brilliant performance though. Although his later films are even better, Waters first color film is a brilliant black comedy worthy of repeat viewings. Two things though, I want to see more! Waters has said there is about an hour of deleted scenes but only 15 minutes were on the DVD and were only small snippets of deleted scenes (The Marble's earlier attack on Divine's trailer had much more to it than we see in the deleted scenes section). Mind you, Waters said he found the footage in his attic so maybe all the other stuff is lost or too old and ruined to be seen today. Also, there was a sequel planned for this film. The script is widely available but will never be seen due to the deaths of main actors. It's a shame, the script seems even better than the first 'Pink Flamingos'. I would also like to see what Danny Mills is doing these days. Overall, I love this film and couldn't say more about how much I love it. Well written and directed, it's brilliantly staged and is one of the best comedies of the later half of the century. Much better than any gross out movies today, it is pure genius of the highest order. A must see for any self respecting film viewer. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos A horribly grotesque film that will draw on every emotion that you could possibly imagine, John Water's Pink Flamingos goes over and beyond to make viewers feel as comfortable as a sitting on a fire.  Through the use of a narrative tail, Water shows the life of Divine, a cross dressing, obnoxious women who has no morals or dignity, whose only pride in life is that she is the filthiest person alive.  Accompanied by her mother, a mentally obese woman who has a fetish for eggs and her son a sexual deviant who has a fetish for chicken they willfully take the most disgusting morally wrong actions one could ponder and act them out for amusement.  The family lives in the rural of a country side in a trailer with a wondering sexual deviant woman named Cotton who carries a quaint fascination with Divine's son Cracker's sex acts. How can a movie like this be anything but a comparison to Jack Ass?  Well Water's incorporates a plot into the film, the strive of a married couple to be known as the filthiest person alive.  Raymond and Connie Marble form a plot to un thrown Divine from her natural gift of the filthiest person alive.  The couple who themselves make good run at being filthy use a women to get information from Crackers.  After the sexual encounter which live animals were used the informant gives the Marbles information of a birthday for Ms. Divine.  The two send her a birthday present of feces and set out to destroy the party be calling the police.  As it turns out the party goers and the family kill the officers and eat their flesh.Divine not to willing of a person to take such a threat seeks out the Marbles only to find their empty house.  After licking and spitting on everything they could, Divine and her son who almost finish sexually pleasuring each other come to find the Marble's homosexual servant and the two women chained down stairs, for the purpose to impregnate them to sell of the children.  Divine releases the two women who then proceed to cut off the servant's privates and leave him for dead.  Divine and her son head back to their home only to find it burned down from the Marble's.  Soon after they find and kill the Marbles which leads to the closure of the film. If there was ever a not a need for mise en cinema it would have to be for Pink Flamingos.  The actors and actresses not only wore outrageous outfits, but performed acts in front of a camera which let one laughing then turning away in repulsion.  There were many shots of voyeurism, sexual sadism, excrement of feces up close and personal, and private parts on behalf of Mr. Marble and Crackers.  In one such scene Mr. Marble a habitual flasher comes a cross a women who flashes herself back at him only to find it was a man. Beyond the sick sights which leaves no one to discredit the characters' filth the small town and rural shots of the country side make the film believable that somewhere in a place like that the same acts could be occurring, as sick as the thoughts may be. The film's utter of knowing the line between humor and repulsion intrigues viewers to stay and ask what else could happen, yet leaves some to say I am going to vomit.  It is not a film for the weak of stomach or mind.  If ever there was a film dedicated to push boundaries and give exposure never seen and most likely never seen on such a wide range again, it would have to be Pink Flamingos.  "},{"Title":"waters achieves his goal","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is about Babs Johnson, who fancies herself the filthiest person alive and Connie and Raymond Marble, who are quite jealous of Babs. After witnessing the actor Divine and some of the other actors in this film, the question of who is the filthiest is still up for debate. When discussing the films of Waters, especially his earlier work, shock value and disgust are two words that often come up.  Waters himself has stated that the reason these films exist is to shock people.  What needs to be addressed when discussing these films is the intent, which is to shock and make viewers uncomfortable. Why attack Waters than for the films he makes.  The history of film is strewn with examples of films that are made to extract a reaction from viewers, be it a positive or negative reaction.  Luis Bunuel and Salvador Dali's film Un Chien Andalou (1928) is simply a series of disturbing images the filmmakers put together from their dreams.  This film was made according to the principles of surrealism and has no discernible plot, which the filmmakers intended, and is considered a classic of early cinema.  How a film interacts with its audience is the goal of filmmakers like Waters and Bunuel, and in Waters case he has met his goal.  While many have deemed Pink Flamingos tasteless and sick these views do not negate the impact the film has had.  There are hundreds of films that are sick and tasteless that have fallen by the wayside.  What elevates Pink Flamingos above these films is the fact that it is still shown in film classes to this day, which gives it some legitimacy.   "},{"Title":"SPOILER********BE AWARE SPOILER","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER**********BE AWARE SPOILERPink Flamingos is a film that is designed to make you feel sick in my opinion.  Just looking at what the story is about will give anyone that idea.  The film is about two competing families that both want to be considered the filthiest people alive.  With a story line that is based around this you should expect to see some very disgusting things, which you do. The film starts out with looking at the mother of Divine, who is an old woman who does everything in a playpen, and appears to be mentally retarded throughout the course of the film.  All she does is eat eggs, and that is all she wants to do all the time is eat eggs.  She is wearing a very tight outfit that looks absolutely horrible on her, and her daughter, Divine, acts to her like she is the daughter.  I believe that this part of the film is designed to be an opener to let the audience know that this film is not one for the week of heart or stomach. After a while you meet this other family known as the Masons.  At first they appear to be a normal Christian family that wants to hurt Divine because her and her family are so disgusting.  However, after awhile you begin to notice that the Masons are just as disgusting as Divine. They keep girls locked in the basement and has their butler rape them so they can have babies, and then the Masons sell the bodies to other families.  They are also very into foot fetishes when you see them in their bedroom naked.  A very interesting thing I noticed was that the Masons both have their hairs dyed different colors.  Misses Mason has her hair red, while Mr. Mason has his hair green.  This I gather gives some insight into the type of people they are, because they not only dye their hair on top, but also on bottom. Another reason that the Masons are just as sick as Divine is because they sent her excrement in the mail to show how filthy they are.Divine and her family are disgusting because her son has sex with a girl, and wants to use a chicken in the sexual act; while a fellow companion woman watches and enjoys it.  They also have a party in which very disgusting things go on; one of which was a man opening and closing his anal hole, which was absolutely disgusting.  Later Divine and her son go to the Masons and spread their filth around their house, and eventually end up in a form of incest involving oral sex. A twist to the story that is actually funny instead of gross was when the Masons returned home after Divine and her son spread their filth around, the furniture in the house rejected the Masons because the filth was no longer theirs.  Mrs. Mason and Mr. Mason both got thrown off of their furniture by their furniture.  A lot of other things happen including a trial and murder, but these parts are nothing compared to everything that you have to see in this film when it comes to disgusting. To give you a final idea on what this film was like, the ending scene will give anyone the impression that they should not see this film.  Divine eats a dogs excrement.  Nasty isn't it. Now when you look at the actually filming of the film it is filmed on very poor film, probably because it was in the seventies, and this made the film way more disgusting because the colors were all faded and did not make it look appealing.  Also this film had narration, but it was done by someone with a not so appealing voice, and made the film seem like it was meant for poor white trash.  I would not recommend this film to anyone unless they were absolutely psycho, or I just didn't like the person.  "},{"Title":"Warning!!! Possible Spoilers.  Read at your own risk!!!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Self described as `An exercise in poor taste,' John Waters' Pink Flamingos delivers what may the most complete record on film of what we as human beings deem as filth.  Pink Flamingos follows queen of sleaze Divine who lives in a trailer with her crazy son Crackers and obese, egg-obsessed mother Edie who are trying to rest quietly on their success of being 'the filthiest people alive'.  But competition is brewing in the form of Connie and Raymond Marble, who sell heroin to schoolchildren and kidnap and impregnate female hitchhikers, auctioning off their babies to lesbian couples after they die giving birth.  The couple, outraged by Divine's status of the Filthiest Person in the World, embarks on a mission to humiliate Divine and steal the crown from the notorious master of filth and all things wrong.  What unfolds is a total gross out film driven by Water's aspiration to create one of the most disturbing collections of images ever pieced together in an editing room. Pink Flamingos strikes sentiment with that part of our psyches in which we desire to test our own limits, proving that we can stomach anything we are confronted with visually.  The film, made on a budget the size of a flea uses shock as a way to attract audiences.  Before the end of Pink Flamingos (assuming movie goers stay for the duration of the film), viewers will be subjected to almost everything our culture regards as disgusting and just plain wrong.  This includes, but is not limited to incest, rape, cannibalism, castration, murder, bondage and even a scene where a dog defecates on a city sidewalk and Divine willingly consumes the waste in front of the camera. Well I managed to stay for the duration of the film and was treated to the extras the director threw in for the 25th anniversary edition of Pink Flamingos. After the hilarious outtakes which provide some sort of extra insight, the original trailer for the film is shown.  Surprisingly not a single scene from the movie is shown. Rather, the trailer features interviews with people who have just seen the film and are a little bewildered by the experience.  Most of these people actually enjoyed the film and some were even repeat viewers, suggesting that maybe mankind can be a little more demented than we normally present ourselves. At the end of the theatrical trailer a comment flashes on the screen comparing Pink Flamingos to The Andalusian Dog.  I have seen both films, and I would have to say that Waters' Pink Flamingos takes the cake for the most disgusting yet entertaining document of the phenomena that give us that distinct feeling of queasiness in our stomachs.  "},{"Title":"Pink Falmingos directed by John Waters is a movie that you must see at least once.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Incest, sex scenes, an illegal adoption ring complete with caged women in the basement during their pregnancies, cannibalism and a bizarre egg fetish are only the tip of the iceberg. What makes it all so cheerfully engaging are the larger than life performances from actors who are hardly professional but compulsively watch-able, and I would say  especially Waters' as  the irrepressible Divine.  I 'm sure everyone has their own view of this movie and my view is a little on sure. Pink Falmingos directed by John Waters is in a way a little disturbing, but I will give it some credit.  Divine proclaims himself to be the filthiest person alive, evident in his daily routine driving around the back roads of the city flipping off potential riders, going into the deli and sneaking raw meat out of the store between his privates, and several of the other scenes mentioned above.  Divine's brain damaged mom gravelly sits in a crib seemingly only in a bra and panties, munching on hard-boiled eggs all day long.  One very disturbing scene is when her son has sex with chickens before killing and eating them and that's not everything.One charming thing with Pink Falmingos that deserves it's credit is the low budget that they had to work with.  The directors ability to make this film with little money and not having to pay his actors is quite interesting. This movie is a success is someway because to be able to make a movie like this even though it didn't get very far is remarkable.  Pink Flamingos doesn't really have a strong plot and isn't serious in any way but it's ability to get numerous responses from it's audience is creditable.  I don't think one person will ever have the same comments about this movie.  It's worth seeing it at least once to get a feeling of a very unique, and different combination of movie style. "},{"Title":"Definitely not for the squeamish","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I've read about this film for years and rented the video a while back. One's take on this film depends upon your tolerance for absolutely vile and sick scenes. This baby is definitely not for the squeamish. It has a so-so plot, but this isn't the film's raison-etre. The main purpose is to pack as many obscene images as possible. This movie is rated NC-17 for a reason, folks. Wonderful things like making love using a live chicken, see a man's anus up close, & let's not forget the last scene (here's a hint don't ingest any chocolate items while viewing it). If you just want to wallow in disgusting filth, here's the movie for you. I felt like taking a shower after seeing it. Recommended, but only for those with an appreciation for outlandish film making and bad taste. "},{"Title":"One hell of a fantastic movie.","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is just perfect.  This is what true guerilla film making is suppose to look and be like.  John is way before this time and Divine is exactly what her name implies.  Notice not only the radically dyed hair but the clothes which are now still in style today.  John Waters is a genius and the jokes are timeless. "}{"Title":"So proud of my daddy.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  If you're looking for a reason to watch Pink Flamingos, just take a look at Plot Keywords and you'll find plenty. I saw this movie on the reccomendation (I think) of my one-time film studies tutor and it left me astounded, proclaiming that the tape would become daily viewing. It's one of my favourite films to this day, not only for the fact that no taboo is left uncovered or that its so damn outragous and funny, but also because it was such an achievement that John Waters managed to get it made. Such an outright attack on middle class morality deserves applause. "},{"Title":"utterly vile, but strangely beautiful","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  We just opened this film on the big screen and until you've seen it larger than life you have not seen it.  Disgusting, vile, vomit inducing, wretched, brilliant, haunting, truly John Waters.  I had never had the pleasure of seeing this film until we opened it at our theater.  God how I wish I had seen it on video first.  There is filth in this film that should not be seen in such a large format.  From the entertainment in the party scenes to the notorious ending, this film does not relent in both sickening you and enchanting you at the same time.  John Waters is a true genius.  If you have not seen this film, rent it.  Even better, convince your local art house to bring it back for a midnight showing.  Strangely, there is nothing more beautiful than an anus bigger than your head.  Just be sure to have a few drinks before seeing this.  You will never be able to eat chicken or walk your dog again. "},{"Title":"Possibly the grossest, but not the worst movie ever made.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I'll have to say, Divine was a lot more well mannered in Hairspray. Pink Flamingos follows a woman named Babs and what happens to her and the people around her. Babs lives in a trailer with two other women, her son who lives in a shack outside. Her enemies, the Marbles, live in a house (which looked remarkably like one used in Hairspray). Both of these groups do the grossest things ever seen in a movie. I won't comment on much of what they do, but I will say that there are a few parts that could have been left out. Such as when the marbles are in bed and share a weird foot fetish, or when Raymond Marble exposes himself to other women, or the rarely mentioned on the internet incident at Babs' party where a man goes up in front of everyone and begins do do things with his butt. Although they are trying to be gross, it has to stop somewhere, doesn't it? I can't say this is the worst movie ever because it is the only one I've seen or heard of that went way too far with images of extremely odd sexual acts and other oddities I'd rather not mention (a.k.a. the final scene). So, I gave this movie a 7 out of 10 because I watched it once, and will not see it again. "},{"Title":"The Filthiest Movie Alive!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  To this day, Pink Flamingos is still possibly my favorite JohnWaters movie. While most people prefer Female Trouble, this isthe only John Waters movie to really feature everyone(IncludingDanny Mills) in rather big parts.  Divine is a unwed, single mother who lives in a caravan with herson, mother and girlfriend. Oh, by the way, her son has sex withchickens, her mother has an egg obsession and Divine herselfshoplifts steaks between her legs. Divine believes herself to bethe filthiest person alive but two jealous perverts in Baltimore thinknot.  I think that this film really deserved all the publicity it got. The grossscenes are obviously a big part of the film(None of it grossed orshocked me though) but it is the dialogue that takes over the film. Ithas some of the most outrageous and funniest dialogue in anyfilm in the last few decades. John Waters may have been onmarijuana writing this but it helped the film.  The true highlight, though, is Danny Mills who plays Crackers,Divine's son, with extra creepy realism. I really wish he had donemore movies but, as most fans know, he does not want much todo with the film anymore which is kind of weird since he's in thetwo most shocking scenes The Chicken sex scene(Where he andCookie Meuller have sex with real live chickens) and the blowjob(Where his on-screen mother(Played by a man in drag giveshim semi-hardcore oral sex) and i don't see the point why he didthose scenes if he didn't want anything to do with it. Anyway, the rest of the cast has their moments too. Divine playsthe filthiest person alive in the film who is also called Divine(Thisled to a lot of people to believe back when it came out that this washow they really lived their life). Divine is of course the drag queenwho was John Water's trademark actor/actress until his tragicdeath(But John Waters recovered well, his later films aren't bad).Edith Massey plays The Egg Lady who is Divine's mother in thefilm and is obsessed with egss. This led to some very goodscenes including the scene where Edith and The Egg Mandecide to get married. Also starring are Cookie Meuller, Mary VivianPearce, Mink Stole, Channing Wilroy and David Lochary who all doa tremendous job on this. In the end, this film was made on the miniscule budjet of $10,000and is very rough but this only adds to the charm of the film.Believe me, you either love this film or hate it but give it a viewinganyway. 8/10 P.S. If you liked this film, then try John Waters' other moviesFemale Trouble, Desperate Living and Polyester to name but afew. "},{"Title":"Think you've seen it all?","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Think you've seen it all?  Not till you've seen this!  John Waters has been directing movies since the late 1960s.  But he's never tried to outdo this. Perhaps it cannot be done.Following the introduction of the film rating system around 1970, Hollywood began making movies of unprecedented realism -- graphic violence, gore, nudity, sex, and language that were not allowed in movies before. However, most of the cutting-edge movies made during the early 1970s seem relatively tame by today's standards; it's all been done so many times now.Not so with Pink Flamingos.  Thirty years after its initial release, it retains nearly all of its original shock value.  Even today's jaded audiences need a strong stomach to make it through this one.  It set the definitive standard for twisted, over-the-top, perverted, gross-out film-making. And over the years, Waters has gotten into serious trouble more than once for it.  Many call it worse than hard-core pornography.  No wonder Waters issued Pink Flamingos barf bags to the audiences.I won't go into the story line.  Suffice it to say that the basic premise of the movie is so preposterous that you cannot take it seriously.  Do not attempt to find any deep messages or social commentary here.  Just be sure to have plenty of liquor, and keep that barf bag handy. "},{"Title":"You may well laugh yourself sick","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  One of my favorite films of all time, just because its so disgusting. This movie is not for the faint hearted, nor the prudish. Its not John Water's best film, nor Divine's best performance, but the most beautiful and glamorous 'woman' who ever lived has several passages that must rank as some of the funniest lines in movie history, and together with the general tone of obscenity for obscenities sake, truly make this a piece of hard core art.SPOILERS COMING UPThe themes of excrement, cannibalism, incest, egg obsession, kidnaping, baby selling, flashing, hard core glamour and shoplifting for a sexual thrill never cease to amuse me, but I have a very sick sense of humor. The scene where she receives a turd through the mail is one of the funniest things I've ever seen, and her long ranting rage of indignation (said without a breath) is incredible- totally berserk.  This scene contains my nomination for the funniest line in any film ever- 'Oh my god almighty, someone has sent me a bowel movement'- you need to hear it yourself, the written word does no justice to the Baltimore bombshell's accent. I would recommend this to anyone who appreciates the bizarre, the extreme fashions on display in this and Female Trouble have never been beaten, and the vile acts committed throughout the movie are the product of a seriously warped mind- I loved every minute of it.  There is a new DVD release of it that has been re-mastered and re-edited to include the full length dog mess eating scene, in gorgeous digital closeup- if this doesn't make you gag, nothing will.  The insemination scene has also been included in its full, overly offensive version. May Divine rest in piece, we won't see his like again, he's sorely missed. "},{"Title":"Who's up for some chicken?!?","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  After reading through reviews here at IMDB, i notice a lot of people say stuff along the lines of This movie almost made me vomit, it's one of the most stupid and disgusting films ever made. That was it's point. John Waters(My hero) wanted to make a film that would shock audiences and make him a famous director. Considering he's now directing films with, Ricki Lake, Christina Ricci, Ed Furlong, Melanie Griffith and Kathleen Turner, i think he did get recognized. Just about every review here tells the plot but i'm going to repeat it. Divine(Glenn Milstead) lives in a caravan with her retarded mother Edie(Edith Massey), chicken-loving son Crackers(Danny Mills) and travelling companion Cotton(Mary Vivian Pearce). Divine is known as the filthiest person alive and she wants to keep that title. She lives a quiet happy life where she sticks meat between her legs and feeds her egg-obsessed mother all kinds of eggs but her quiet life is shattered when two jealous perverts, Raymond and Connie Marble(David Lochary and Mink Stole) want to steal her title of filthiest people alive. Raymond and Connie drive through streets looking for female hitchers then snatch them and force their hapless butler Channing(Channing Wilroy) to impregnate the girls then when the baby is born they sell it to lesbian couples and use the money to fund an inner-city grade school heroin ring and run their own pornography shops across town. In their meantime, they give each other toejobs and Raymond flashes his penis(Tied to a sausage) to innocent girls in their park. As soon as Divine finds out about this, she is furious and decides to start a war against them. This film actually wasn't John Waters first film as many people think, he had made a number of films before this(Hag in a Black Leather Jacket, Roman Candles, Eat Your Makeup, Mondo Trasho, The Diane Linkletter Story and Multiple Maniacs) but it was his first color film and i don't think it could work in anything besides color. Do you really think that the red dress Divine wears during the execution would be the same in a black and white film? I don't think so. This film definitely got him recognized for scenes such as the Chicken/Human sex scene, artificial insemination scene, blowjob and the ever so famous, dog sh*t eating scene. See this film as soon as you can. If you like this film, also consider picking up four of John Waters other trash epics, Mondo Trasho, Multiple Maniacs, Female Trouble and the classic Desperate Living.Eight out of Ten "},{"Title":"A great American comedy.  Honestly.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Sue me, but I think this is a great movie.  It's hard not to be defensive here.  Some have become too jaded and call it passe'; a healthy percentage are still absolutely shocked and revolted by it; and some sniff at its ultra-cheap production values and more or less roll their eyes.To the last group firstLET'S MAKE THIS CLEAR I love the cheapness of it.  I saw it on its 25-year re-release, and let me say, to see a movie that shoddy-looking, garish, and rough-edged on a big screen was like (perhaps ironically) a breath of fresh air.  More it's a slap in the face to Hollywood.  In the face of all the money and slickness and Ridley-Scott style being smeared across the theaters these days, a film as utterly Baltimorean as Pink Flamingos-- the ear-insulting narration sets the tone from the beginning-- can only be a step in the right direction back to Life in the cinema, and away from fussily polished, fretted-over imitation.To those who are still shocked good for you.  You have a healthy response to the situation.  John Waters has made a truly great American comedy, which is to say a comedy about what it means to be an American.  From Amy Fisher to Tonya Harding to O.J. Simpson, we have always, repeatedly, embraced trash; we dote on vulgarity.  A more intellectually opportunistic director would condemn us for that, and alienate us by being no fun.  Waters has taken satire to its next logical step.  He does not fight the enemy; he has laughed at, loved, and BECOME the enemy.  Anyone who watches a bit of reality television knows that there are people in this country who would do anything to become famous, let alone eat a little s---.  If Americans are willing to do that, John Waters is willing to smile and sell us the ticket to watch.  Make no mistake we'll buy it.To those unshockables who find it passe'?  Dated?  An artifact?  Oh, of course.  Sure.  Right.  Let's see YOU eat the dog-s---. "},{"Title":"Waters' writing far outshines his directing.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  There can be no question of PINK FLAMINGOS' importance as an alternativepop-cultural artifact. This is not to say, however, that the film isparticularly good. There is a technical shoddiness to the entireenterprise - long, under-rehearsed and unedited takes with endlesspanning and zooming - that undercuts whatever its creator, John Waters,may have wanted to say about the corrupt society he so clearly loves tohate (just compare the quality of Waters' own footage with thedocumentary footage shot by Steve Yeager in his award-winning DIVINETRASH, of John Waters actually at work filming PINK FLAMINGOS for allthe evidence you need of the director's lack of cinematographic skill).It's not that Waters lacks the ability to articulate his point of view;it's just that his directorial abilities tend to fall short of histhematic ambitions. You see, I am of the opinion that Waters' greatestgift is in the writing department. Directorially, his films show littlein the way of rhythm and focus. That is, perhaps, with perhaps one clearexception.DESPERATE LIVING is a genuinely Felliniesque epic with, at least in myview, far more scope than any of Waters' other work. In it, he createsan entire parallel universe, Morteville, where compulsory misery isenforced by legal decree. The principle cast is enormous and there justseems to be so much more going on than in anything else Waters has everdone. Mink Stole proves herself to be an actor of genuinely demonicintensity, while the physical production itself is clearly being guidedby a well-developed (if loopy) intelligence.In general, I prefer Waters' older films such as MULTIPLE MANIACS andFEMALE TROUBLE to such later efforts as CRY BABY and PECKER (a filmwhich I genuinely detest) - there's an immediacy and honesty to thosegrainy old 16mm films, a palpable kinetic joy not unlike theexhilaration one experiences while executing the perfect practical joke.Interestingly, DESPEPRATE LIVING is notable for the absence of Divine,Waters' principle star, who was unavailable at the time of production.Without her, the film seems somehow more balanced, less cluttered andeven more culturally subversive than its early-to-mid seventiescounterparts.Still, PINK FLAMINGOS is the Waters film against which all othersultimately will be judged. It is one of the most extreme works evercommitted to celluloid and a genuine cinematic Rorschach test. The filmpossesses many virtues a lively cast, a brilliantly ludicrous (andfunny) script and an almost pathological detrmination - or need - tooffend.Perhaps it's beside the point to complain too much about Waters'directorial abilities when it's so clear that his satirical skills arein such great form - the guy is a genuine cultural anthropologist andalmost as funny as Moliere.I just wish he would write more books.--------------------------- "},{"Title":"A class based analysis","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  While many audiences have been shocked, appalled, titillated and confused by the vulgarity of John Waters' Pink Flamingos, I argue here that the film portrays the campy banality of the carnal while discreetly displaying the interaction between social classes and its relation to the profane. It has been said that horror and pornography are inextricably linked in the realm of the carnal; the provocation of physical bodily reactions sets them apart from their more cerebral counterparts though not necessarily through mutual exclusion. As Carol Clover has dubbed the body genres, horror and pornography fuse to form the union of Pink Flamingos. The plot of the film pits Mr. and Mrs. Marvel, an enterprising bourgeoisie couple of questionable taste and sexuality, against Divine, a female drag queen and veteran of Waters' films, who lives in a pink trailer with her family and a herd of lawn ornaments. In the film, the Marvels are attempting to 'out-filth' Divine at her own game, arguably what Waters is trying to do with the film itself in the context of middle-aged middle-classed whiteamerican heterosexual patriarchal ideology inherent in the male-dominated/based financially privileged bias of the film industry.Although the film flips the bird to standard notions of socially hegemonic class-based values, it remains trapped in its own flaxen net of privilege. Waters attempts to criticize and ridicule mainstream society through the over-the-top frequency of lewd and licentious situations but loses viewers in a sort of stimulation-apathy akin to being in a porn store for too long. The film comes off less as a critique of societal values and taboos than a self-indulgent stab at the avant-garde through smut, and this manifests itself in the failure of the Marvels to truly be the monarchs of filth. I argue that the failure of the Marvels to usurp Divine's title of filthiest person alive results from their social position relative to Divine and her kin. Divine's class is coded through her living situation (a trailer with no address), dress, hair, makeup, friends, eating habits, speech and incestuous relationship with her son, Crackers. These aspects are conspicuously low-class and conspicuously American. This is also well evidenced by a scene in which Divine struts down the park stairs, the veritable epitome of all that is not encompassed by the standard ideology of American principles, flanked by the old red-white and blue in the background. Indeed, it is surprising when we learn that the film is set on the East Coast and not in a southern backwater. On the other hand, the Marvels enjoy the luxury of an address (3900), conservative clothing, 'refined' dialect, lucrative businesses, servants and (arguably) mutual repression of their 'true' sexualities (she the bookish lesbian, he the flamboyant gay man) cloaked in the guise of holy matrimony. Ultimately, the bottom line here is that the Marvels are hindered in their aspirations to filth through their relative privilege. The Marvels can 'pass' in the everyday world, unlike Divine, and thus they can never achieve true 'filthiness' that those of lower socioeconomic status are forced to afford. When 'filth' is defined by the hegemony of white capitalist patriarchal upper-class heterosexual values, their aspirations to it are inherently negated. Thus, the Marvels never had any chance of taking the title from Divine because they are not fully able to transcend these boundaries. "}{"Title":"God Bless The Man","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Oh please....all these people on here talking about how this movie should have been done with taste?  You stiffs need to go fly a kite.  This movie is an Exploration in BAD TASTE  Hellooooooo?  It's brilliant and may not be for everyone, but at least respect it for what it is and don't knock it. Everyone needs a sh**-eatin' drag queen every once in a while!  "},{"Title":"A definite must-see for those who are not easily offended.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Boasting the title for the sickest film ever made, PINK FLAMINGOS is an undisputed classic.  Sure, the camerawork is shaky and off-center, the story is muddled and slow-paced, and every single character in the movie is repugnant and despicable, but PINK FLAMINGOS has a certain playful charm and brilliant satiric wit that no other movie can match.While this film is indeed an offensive one, reading descriptions of what goes on in the movie is much worse than actually seeing it.  Only John Waters can succeed in making rape, murder, sadism, cannibalism, coprophagia, and just about every other form of human debauchery known to man seem absolutely hilarious.  This movie must be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Boring, disgusting","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" A friend showed me this movie yesterday and I viewed it with no expectations or knowledge of what it was. It reminded me of a movie that middle year high school kids would make, there are no funny jokes, the plot line is lame, the acting is unashamedly bad - for very large stretches it is boring, but that boredom is interspersed revolting elements - like a guy showing his naked rear end on screen for a long period, someone torturing a chicken to death during a sex scene, divine eating a piece of fresh dog feces. I don't understand what anyone could get out of it, and I don't like seeing animal cruelty. What offended me was not that the chicken was killed, but that it was tortured. "},{"Title":"I Hated This Movie!!!!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie was so bad that I seriously considered committing suicide after watching it. I could spend the rest of my life writing about how bad this movie is and I still would not be able to convey what a piece of crap it is. If you ever want to set yourself on fire or drink liquid plumber then go ahead and watch this movie; it will hurt just as bad. You know what, it will probably hurt even worse than cutting your scrotum off with a rusty razor and pouring salt all over the wound!! "},{"Title":"Poor?","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" That's an extreme understatement for the taste in this. Zero is fitting, I would say. Oh, that's not an insult. It's exactly what they went for. A friend of mine lent me this and Female Trouble, and this is my first exposure to John Waters(save for his guest spot in a Simpsons episode, and his role in Seed of Chucky). As it turns out, he's not for me. Oh well. I'm not going to pass judgment on this, because I've seen films that genuinely seemed to be made to incite hatred(Saving Silverman and National Security, in case you're wondering), and this does no such thing. If you want to be shocked, this was made for you. I think the MPAA expressed it succinctly Rated NC-17 for a wide range of perversions in explicit detail. No, I won't detail it here. Some will want to be surprised. It's interesting that so little of it is in the language... no, really. Maybe the words we use has just changed a ton over the past almost four decades, but what is said in this is seldom that strong by today's standards. It's in what we see(almost all of which remains disgusting and offensive to this day). There's great music in this from the period. This is shot guerrilla-style, with next to no variance to the framing or skill. There are often as few cuts as they could get away with. Many takes are long, with the camera remaining on the subject, going back and forth between the people in the scene, and zooming in and out, when it can. Dialog is repetitive, not very credible, exposition-heavy and generally there to put in swearing and nasty descriptions. There is narration here and there in this. The plot is decent, no real surprises. It's essentially about who is filthiest. The acting is awful. I didn't personally find anything in this to be funny, merely crossing boundaries, taboos. We have people with strange hair and names yelling at each other, being obnoxious, crass and crude(at times resembling The Addams Family in their behavior... without the humor, in my opinion). Among them Divine, apparently an infamous transvestite, sort of playing herself... her thing seems to be laughing open-mouthed, without us hearing the sound, with her face painted with excessive make-up. The version of this I saw was around an hour and a half followed by 17 minutes or so of deleted scenes introduced by the director. There is a lot of disturbing content, a bit of sick sex and full nudity of both genders in this. I recommend this to those that find what I've described appealing. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A lesson in bad taste!","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" If you know anything at all about John Waters' infamous Pink Flamingos, you will know that it's filthy, and if pure unadulterated sleaze is what you want - you cant go wrong with this film! I really don't know exactly what point John Waters was trying to get across with this; the film takes on a sort of sitcom style and mixes this with a barrage of filth, but there's no real point to the film other than simply showing how it's central characters live. The film is also really amateur and features no end of mistakes; yet in spite of this, Pink Flamingos is still a successful film as John Waters obviously wanted to disgust his audience, and the film certainly serves in doing that. Pink Flamingos focuses on the title 'The Filthiest Person Alive'. This is a title most people would want to avoid at all costs, but it's hotly contested in this film. The holder of this prestigious crown is a woman named Divine - murderer, thief and all round disgusting human being. She faces competition, however, from couple Raymond and Connie Marble, who believe that they are the filthiest people alive.Overall, I'd have to say that this film is not the most disgusting thing I've ever seen, but even so; it is pretty offensive. There are all sorts going on - from nudity (male, female and...errr...'other'), disgusting sex acts and nasty things being eaten. This is all brought up a level by the atmosphere - John Waters has created a truly sordid and filthy essence for his film, and just watching it is enough to make most people feel dirty. The cast is colourful to say the least and features drag queen and John Waters regular Divine at the helm. He's really not a great actor; but this film simply could not have been made without him in it. There's a very good reason why he earned a place in cinema history as the icon of bad taste. After the version of the film I saw there was word from the director and he talked about some of the scenes that were deleted. It looked to me like about 200% of the film ended up on the cutting room and that's really a shame. One of the problems with this film is that there's not really a strong plot to go on and had some of the deleted scenes had been left in; the film could have been much more. Even so, while Pink Flamingos will certainly not be everyone's cup of tea; if you want pure filth on screen; this is a good place to look for it! "},{"Title":"Requires not one, not two, but at least THREE extended showers to wash away the filth!","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Isn't it everyone's life-long dream to one day enjoy the honor of being known as The Filthiest Person Alive? No?!? Well apparently it is a common mission in Baltimore and the people striving to obtain this questionable title are prepared - determined, even - to undergo whatever humiliation it takes. I heard, read and have been warned numerous times before regarding the notorious reputation of John Waters' Pink Flamingos, but I honestly have to admit I still underestimated the film. How sickening could it possibly be? I thought, because it's an early seventies Independent film, accomplished with an extremely low budget and there are probably just a few isolated moments of genuine repulsion that undeservedly skyrocketed the film's reputation as a whole. I gladly admit my assumptions were wrong. Pink Flamingos truly is a non-stop spitfire of atrocities that are revolting and vomit inducing, but simultaneously fascinating and oddly humorous. It's virtually impossible to list the highlights of repulsiveness featuring in this film, because that would result in a detailed description of each and every scene. As previously stated, the film primarily revolves on the battle between two families in order to obtain the title of filthiest persons alive. In the left corner there's Divine and her trailer-trash alliance. Devine is an unscrupulous woman (yeah, right&#133;woman) who eats dog poo and throws extravagant birthday orgies for her circle of misfit friends. Her mother has an egg-fetish and lives in a cradle designed for toddlers. She runs off with the egg delivery man and lives happily ever after in one of the most romantic sequences ever captured on film &#133; Divine's son loves killing chickens whilst copulating on the first date, but his favorite of course remains oral sex from his mum. In the right corner we have the Marble family. This colorful (literally) couple runs a profitable business where they kidnap and impregnate random women and then subsequently sell the babies to lesbians. Mrs. Marble employs girls to spy on Devine's family whilst Mr. Marble goes around town practicing his hobby of exhibitionism. I suppose by now it's already needless to emphasize that John Waters' exercise in bad taste isn't meant of the eyes and stomachs of sensitive people. Personally, I can handle quite a bit of nauseating stuff but I honestly cringed over the endless sights of scat, anus-flexing, hermaphrodites, castration, incestuous fellatio, egg-talk, foot fetishes, chicken lovers and God knows what else. At several points in the film you wonder why the hell you keep on watching this film, but you simply can't stop! I can only presume this was exactly the effect Waters' hoped to achieve, so Pink Flamingos can definitely be considered a triumph on his account. The acting performances are deliberately &#150; and adorably &#150; hammy and, one thing's certain, they all enjoyed being a part of this production. I could write endless pages about the film and tell millions of anecdotes, but it all comes down to this Pink Flamingos is a unique cinematic experience and everyone with a curious sense of adventure (and a strong stomach) should own a copy. "},{"Title":"Filth is my politics...Filth is my life!","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This is my personal favorite film of all time! It is easily John Waters' best work. The lines in this movie are classic (I guess there's just two kinds of people Miss Sandstone...my kind of people and assholes...it's rather obvious which category you fit into...have a nice day) and every single actor/actress puts on a stellar performance. This film is proof that you don't need a multi-million dollar budget to make a cinematic masterpiece...all you need is a good script and lots of shock value! From the singing butt hole scene, to the chicken copulation scene, right up to the final shocking scene where Divine eats dog feces this film is loaded with shocking scenes and is easily one of the most offensive films ever made! There are absolutely no holds barred in this shocker and nothing is sacred. Edith Massey is egg-cellent as the Egg Lady, Cookie Mueller is genius as Cookie the spy, Mary Vivian Pierce is equally charming as Cotton and Mink Stole and David Lochary portray the villanious Marbles brilliantly. Of course nothing beats the stellar performance of Lady Divine the Filthiest Person Alive who will stop at absolutely nothing to shock viewers! Be sure to watch the 25th Anniversary version of this film to catch some additional scenes that wound up on the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"This film shook the world","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" When I was a very young my cousin got me into a midnight showing of this film in Grenich Village and I was stunned. I talked about it for months at school and my friends couldn't believe what I was saying. John Waters was a playful carefree nasty rebel who inspired a group of freaks and misfits that were equally up to the task of breaking every sacred cow that that they could, including the image of what a real film should look like. Even though the finial product was a trashy mix of super 8mm and 16mm shots, of non actors acing and garbage sets and costumes all resting firmly on the shoulders of Divine, the final product changes the way that American film makers thought about what they could and could not do. Just the fact that John Waters eventually became the darling of Hollywood shows how his trash cinema has been embraced by the entire media world. We need artists like John Waters, Robert Maplethorpe and Madonna to shake things up culturally and sexually so that we are not made slaves to a conservative or wholesome view of what we can and cannot create. "},{"Title":"A brave and sickly hilarious film that lives up to its notoriety","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I love cinema. Always have, and probably, always will.But if there is one thing that annoys me about it, it is the fact that a very small amount of films live up to the hype and talk that surrounds them, good or bad. Rarely am I ever impressed throughly by a film, and even more rare is when the film actually lives up to what people are saying about it. Although it is not perfect by any stretch, I feel that John Waters' masterwork of sorts, Pink Flamingos, is one such film that lives up to everything that has been said about it, and more.The plot is simple. Divine has been proclaimed as the filthiest person alive, and is now living in a trailer out in the middle of nowhere with her family under the name Babs Johnson. Unfortunately, the Marbles, Raymond (David Lochary) and Connie (Mink Stole), feel they rightfully deserve the title, and set into motion a series of plans to challenge her title reign.It is not much, but the film stretches this plot line through ninety-plus minutes of some of the most disgusting and vile acts ever put to celluloid. The only modern thing I could possibly compare it to are the gross-out gags (and not silly stunts) from Jackass, and even they are pretty tame compared to this. Without going into a whole lot of detail, you will be mortified, disgusted, offended and you may just catch yourself in hysterics. This film pulled out all the stops, and thankfully (if that is indeed the right word) did not have to sacrifice anything to get into theatres. It is completely uncut and untouched from Waters' original vision, and for that, is an obvious rise above everything we have now, which is forced to be decent and politically correct.It is obvious then why this film became and continues to stay popular. Even though standards have changed, this film still manages to feel contemporary. It bravely stands its ground, and does everything that any movie could possibly want to do and more. It is unflinching in its graphic sexual depictions, and even more so in some of the overly vile situations the characters find themselves in. This movie was made and shown to the public the way it was originally envisioned, not by the way of what someone else wanted. This is the type of film that everyone in Hollywood wishes they were a part of. In an age where political correctness is forced, and controversy is avoided, this movie represents everything that a 2006 audience cannot see on a movie screen. In this way, it is both sad and touching to note what our society has evolved into 34 years after this film. And it is only ironic to note that it was released the exact same year as the pornographic classic, Deep Throat.If there is anything wrong in my mind with the film (content notwithstanding), it is my issue with the motivation of the Marbles. Yes, the acting is totally amateur, and yes, some of the dialogue is absolutely horrendous, but for the point of the film to really be about a challenge to a title, you would think there would be a reason for the challenge in the first place. To me, it just seems like the Marbles randomly want something that someone else has. Hell, they are not even nearly as filthy as they seem to want to be (or claim to be for that matter). Everything else seems to be well expressed and thoughtfully put to the screen, except for this. Did Waters just not know what to do for these characters, or did he just happen to leave it out thinking it was not all that important? It aggravated me to no end while watching the film, and still does as I write this. It is too easy a detail to miss, and for that reason, feels incomplete in my mind.But while some of the actors just barely make an attempt at being serious in the light of the ridiculous humour of the whole film, Divine stands above them all. Her (or his) performance is electric and is the stuff of legend. If Waters made bad taste more mainstream, than Divine was the reason why people took notice. This is the real actor of the bunch, and the real reason why this film did so well initially. People wanted to see Divine do sick and twisted things, and look good doing it. She is believable as this notorious figure, and even the shoddiest of dialogue sounds poetic coming from her. It really is a shame that she (or he) did not break out of these low-budget B-movies. Yes, Divine made a name for herself with the help of John Waters (as he did with Divine), but you cannot help but wonder what would have happened if Divine moved into the realm of the mainstream.While I definitely enjoyed the film, I cannot help but fathom that I will probably never be able to endure watching the film in its entirety again. It has a lasting feel to it, and I can only hope that more people watch it, but I just do not think I will ever have it in me to give the film another whirl. But I must concede that I will always have the utmost respect for it, and will always tell the right people looking for a hearty laugh to give it a shot. The content might be a little hard to take, but if a movie like Jackass can make people laugh, then I am sure that Pink Flamingos can deliver even more so.6/10. "}{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos is a low-budget, disgusting movie made purely for shock value, and it's one of the best of its kind! John Waters made a name for himself by putting this kind of perverse humor on the big screen, and entertaining people with twisted senses of humor everywhere. It is not for anyone who is even the slightest bit religious or squeamish, and tries its very hardest to offend. The dialogue is often side-splittingly funny, and we see Waters' talent before he started making hits like Hairspray. For fans of cult movies everywhere, this is a classic. In fact, it's pretty inspirational, in that it shows what can be achieved with so little money and acting talent. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Family Values, Waters Style","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Imagine a really, really twisted Andy Hardy saying Let's put on a show! to his equally twisted friends, and you've pretty much got Pink Flamingos (John Waters in fact was childhood friends with Divine and Mary Vivian Pearce). As bizarre as this film gets there's a real sense of camaraderie among the cast members, and I think this quality will continue to endear this film to its cult followers after the shock value has worn off--in their very unconventional way Babs, Crackers, Cotton and Mama Edie really are family. Not that the shock value of Pink Flamingos'has gone down all that much yet--it may not be quite as disturbing as it was in the pre-Springer seventies, but the most disgusting scenes (the mother-son fellatio, the henhouse orgy, Divine gobbling the dog turd as though it were a tootsie roll) would be hard to top even today. Actually the scene I was most dreading--the cannibalizing of the police--turned out to be one of the least disturbing as the props had so obviously come from a butcher's shop. The film is also extremely funny at times if you've got a strong stomach--I'm thinking in particular of the the scene in which Bab mincing through the grocery store in her very proper halter dress shoplifts a steak. Quite an enjoyable film if you have a taste for the offbeat and are not easily offended, but if you buy or rent it beware letting it fall into the hands of family members who only know Divine from Hairspray. "},{"Title":"Gummo is better","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Both movies have good shock value, but the movie Gummo has more meaning. Pink Flamingos has no essence whereas Gummo went much deeper into the dimensions of the Characters. Pink Flamingos was just a shock film - nothing more. Gummo had me rolling with laughter whereas Flamingos just had me shaking my head. "},{"Title":"I love you Eggman","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This is probably the funniest, sickest, movies ever made and now a midnight movie classic. You have to see it to believe it. hats off to John Waters for coming up with some really sick characters and situations. Sure, it's for shock value but he did that intentionally. Scenes such as Divine giving her son a blowjob, a woman who pulls out her penis and waves it around, a man who is called The Whistling Asshole, are just the highlights of this sick and crazy movie. The movie does go on way too long which hurts repeated viewings but its worth a look. The dialog is great such as when Divine sucks her son off he yells, Do my balls Mama! or the fat egg lady saying, I love you Adam Suess. A must-see.  "},{"Title":"Utterly Sickening","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This film really disturbed me, but it was great! Being a John Waters film, I kind of expected it to be nasty, and oh was it! The skat scene was very sick and twisted, I don't recommend it to youngsters! Having a sick twisted sense of humor myself I can dig it, but some people will be horrified, and most likely vomit many times over. If you have a weak stomach, please refrain from watching this film. "},{"Title":"Even Worse The Second Time!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  For years I watched a grainy poor VHS copy of this film and thoroughly enjoyed it.  When it was reissued, I raced to the video store and bought a new copy.  Now, in the new clear sharp reissue, I can see everything.  It makes me cringe occasionally, but isn't that the point?Divine is an underrated actress.  Edith Massey was Waters favorite, and I agree.  Danny Mills plays Crackers a little too perfectly.If you have a strong stomach, rent this title.  You will enjoy it.I will always appreciate John Waters.  I like all of his films. "},{"Title":"Remember what John Waters said","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Should you wish to dive into the one truly obscene, gross, and just plain genius film of John Waters, you must follow two small steps of advice....1st don't eat while trying to watch (or try not to eat 30 minutes before watching) and remember what john waters said I take pride in the fact that my work has no socially redeeming value.  But always remember that there is good bad taste and bad bad taste.Enjoy Pink Flamingos and keep the barf bags handy. "},{"Title":"Truly tasteless, truly Divine.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  when i started this movie, i thought i was going to be disappointed.  the shakey camera work, the goober acting, and the choppy editing all lend a real pedestrian flavor.  it's like watching a video project you and your buddies made for seventh grade social studies.  but after a little while, when the vulgarity and bathroom humor sets in, you start to love this movie for its mediocrity.  it seems like everyone really enjoyed making this movie, which makes it enjoying to watch.  john waters treats his cast with such affection, even the half-witted miss edie is so lovingly portrayed and not put down.  in the end, what makes this movie great is divine.  he has such a screen presence and credibility, the viewer does not question the absurdity of his actions.  my favorite scene in the movie is divine walking down a crowded street and turning heads like a movie star.  if this movie had been centered around anyone else, pink flamingos would not have flown. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I loved this thing.  The most wonderful thing about Pink Flamingos is that it strives desperately to be in horrible taste, but has really gained a cult following world wide.  Says a lot about us (us being people) doesn't it. Pink Flamingos succeeds because Waters made the film he wanted to make.  A film need not be disgusting to succeed, but it may be.  When you watch this film, you see things that are disgusting, but are ultimately brilliant because they are freely displayed.  What we have here is an honest piece of personal creative expression.  Everyone who ever cares to succeed as an artist, be it in film or any other media, should watch this film. "},{"Title":"genius","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS While being utterly offensive and completely disgusting, John Waters' Pink Flamingos has to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  I can understand how someone could walk out of this movie, or call it vile, but I think those people took it too seriously.  I mean, how seriously can you take a movie about two different families competing for the title of `filthiest people alive'?  Maybe it's because I had already heard all of the buzz about the movie, so I came into it prepared to be grossed out, and ready to laugh (which I did a LOT), in any case, Pink Flamingos may hold some underlying message about the lower ends of society (which I wasn't exactly able to pull out, I was laughing too hard) it's still a movie that goes out it's way to be shocking and grotesque, and the wrong audience seeing it definitely brings out a strong negative reaction. After the film, I couldn't help but wonder how Waters made this movie. All of Waters' films have their own strange style to them, but some of the things that were in this movie were completely insane (i.e. the male stripper with the fluctuating anus).  I was baffled by the idea that someone had all of these ideas in his head, and the only thing I could picture in my mind was John Waters sitting at his desk with a pad of paper and a pencil listing out every single taboo he could possibly come up with.  This movie was fun for everyone, in the sense that I think there was something for everyone to feel disgusted by.  I mean, this movie had everything.  I think the best portrayal of this is the job description of the Marbles.  They are a couple who kidnap young hitchhiking girls, have their butler rape/impregnate them, keep them locked in a basement, and they die after childbirth they sell the babies to lesbian couples, using the money to fund porno shops and a heroin ring in elementary schools.  Besides the ridiculous number of taboos listed above, the film also tackles incest, murder, beastiality, robbery and vandalism, etc (not the mention the great Divine eating dog shit). I think one of the most interesting characters of the movie was Divine's mother, Edie.  Reading reviews claiming this woman was a 250 pound grown woman that never left her play pen, and ate nothing other that eggs, was a vast understatement.  The thing that baffles me the most about this character is how in the world they found someone to play her.  Edith Massey, the woman who did play Edith, was said to have had trouble remembering lines for the movie, so they had to cut some out.  This stuns me, considering her lines didn't seem to consist of anything more than cries out for the egg man.  So, is this woman really like this in real life?  This leads to another important aspect of the film, it's reality.  I've read that the dog feces Divine ate were real, and I cannot help but believe that the chickens killed in the rough sex scene between Cookie and Crackers were actually killed (if they weren't, it was disturbingly realistic).  The reality of this film, I believe, is it's strongest aspect.  We're not bombarded with cutaways and silhouettes or what is going on, we see everything. Understandably, some found this honesty and reality to be revolting.  A scene to pops out in my head is when Divine performs oral sex on Crackers, her son in the film.  It's not often we see those kinds of things, so graphically, in movie theaters that don't have `XXX' in the title.  The truthfulness of the film (along with some poor camera work) gave the film a real documentary feel.  Obviously, the film was fiction, but because of the look of the film and it's lack of inhibitions, I felt like everything I was watching was actually real, no holds barred.  "}{"Title":"Very Strange and Very Wrong,Wrong,Wrong But it's good for laugh.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I heard of this movie for a while but never actually seen it yet And I have watched almost every john waters Movie except for his older stuff. I'am still looking for some of his older films.I rented the pink flamigos Dvd before i bought a Dvd player of my own. Me and my little brother watched pink flamingos on a friends X-box to check it out. We both saw after eatting at mc donnalds And we agreed to shut off after the first half hour. Then my birthday came later on and I bought a dvd player to call my own. I bought a bunch of Dvd and watch more movies. I decided to try to finish watching pink flamingos just to see if i'd get sick from it. Trust me this movie is rated Nc-17 for one reason it's beyond poor taste it's out and out wrong. But don't get me wrong I'am not bad mouthing the movie it's actually Entertaining once you get past The Violence,Male nudity,Beastalty jokes,Incest(One Scene Where A mother does a sexual act to her son) And Everything else you'll love it.  "},{"Title":"Divinity, Filth, Beauty, Insanity & Dog Feces!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I have put off reviewing this movie for some time, primarily because I really wasn't sure what to say.Other reviewers have given a complete break down, or step by step reviews of scenes and/or the entire movie.  Well, I really didn't want to do that.  I just wanted to give an excellent review for a movie, which I feel is the backbone of truly independent cinema.On the back cover for the movie Terror Firmer, by Troma (of course), it says something like, and I'm paraphrasing  Movies likes Scary Movie and Cecil B. Demented owe something to Terror Firmer...  Something like that..I'm not sure exactly.  Well, this is not true!  John Waters has been making movies longer than Troma has.  His unique style and flair for the unusual, I think rubbed off on Lloyd Kauffman.  This is fine, of course, but I don't think any movie made by Troma should state that John Waters need to give them a nod.  Terror Firmer was a superb movie.  I loved it!  But Nothing compares to John Waters.Pink FlamingosI was like most, having only seen movies like, Hairspray, Cry Baby, Serial Mom and Pecker..which are all good films.  Of Course this is Hollywood John Waters...Not Independent John Waters...which is fine!When I decided to go back, and find some of his older movies, I stumbled upon Pink Flamingos.  Having seen the box in video stores (Cut I'm sure. You can't find it now) I was young and thought it looked goofy, or bizzare. But I was mostly into the Horror scene...ONLY!  Welly, a few years ago, I put my feet in the water, and tried something new...Pink Flamingos was it!I was so...Awe stricken!  I couldn't beleive what I was seeing  A man having sex with a woman...and chickens.  Male Frontal nudity!  A 300 lbs. Drag queen that looked like a car accident.  An overly obese woman, with barely any teeth in a playpen, Round steak being put where it was never intended, Goofy villans with red and blue hair...and pubic hair...The most bizzare birthday party every put on film...more male frontal nudity...and singing asshole...and of course the climax...All who have seen it, know what I mean...Well, needless to say I was hooked!  (See my Review for Female Trouble).I liked the hollywood stuff...but the underground is the true John Waters!Waters has been quoted as saying if someone vomits at one of his movies, it is like getting a standing ovation...That is the mind of a genius!11 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Shock value has lost its effect over the years.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  **** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g., genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- Pink Flamingos = **- Rated NC-17 (for explicit sexuality and nudity, extremely coarse crude humor, strong language, and some graphic violence)This movie will be sparked with interest for first time viewers, as it is entitled The Bible of Trash Films, and the tag line is An Exorcise in Poor Taste, and also because of the NC-17 rating, and numerous other rumors.  I was one of these people, but the so-called shock value must have been depleted over the years because it did not chock me at all. Sure, i was surprised at the graphic content, but not *shocked.*Still, this movie is interesting, and Divine is just hilarious to even look at.  Also, it was fun to see John Water's earlier works (I had seen more of his modern movies before this one).  It WILL hold your attention for a full ninety minutes, but it is hard to say whether it is extraordinary or crap. Possibly a mix of both.NOTE  My ** rating does not go to the shocks.  It actually goes to everything except them; the critic side of me would raise the rating if these perversions were in fact removed from the film, but the normal, curious person I am would be disappointed to see them go.  In short, see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Love it, or hate it, you'll never forget the ending!!!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos is a rare movie that has no budget, sub-par acting, grotesque images, but also an endearing legion of admirers, I one of them, who go to the theater every time it is shown, applaud for Babs and Cotton, hiss Connie and Raymond, quote endless lines, and have a great time. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm?????????","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  What can you say about Pink Flamingos other than that it's some pretty sick crap. If you are not easily offended this will probably test and break your limits. The real life dog excrement dinig scene at the end isn't half as offensive as the man who ties various meat to his penis. There's enough close up shots of penis to make any hetrosexual man squirm. And the female nudity is nothing to look at either. The man who flex his a**hole muscle is beyond strange. And can you say sex with a chicken. Yes a live chicken. This movie goes great with Meet The Feebles for an evening of trying to get rid of that annoying somebody forever. If you can watch this movie and come out not shocked you've just about seen it all. Give it a 6 out of ten. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Looking for family film?  Rent Pink Flamingos.  It is a beautiful and touching film about family togetherness, perfect for any devout Christian. A wonderful family film with great moments for the kids.  Crackers is an especially fun character.  Your kids will love his wacky antics.  Rent it today!  "},{"Title":"Filthy, Good Trash","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" Pink Flamingos (1973) *** (out of 4) John Waters' infamous cult classic about Divine, the Filthiest Person in the World. I'm really not sure if I should give this thing a BOMB due to how poorly all the technical stuff is or give it four stars since it does do what it sets out to do and that's be as tasteless as possible. Nearly every scene outdoes itself with the next when it comes to being tasteless and the final scene with Divine and the dog crap is just downright horrifying. I got to watch this at a midnight screening back when it was re-released and it was a rather strange viewing since half the people there left within the first twenty minutes. The rest of us had a pretty good time with the film. I had my own midnight screening so this is the film I picked out. Everyone stuck around till the end but I think I scared a few of those at the screening. "},{"Title":"The Pope of Trash's most holy miracle","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This movie is holy sacrament, proffered by the pope of trash himself, John Waters. People who call this a bad movie obviously do not understand the pure beauty of it. I'm not going to throw around a lot of fancy words or bore anyone with a lot of boring commentary about the film. All I know is, love it or hate it, everyone who sees this film remembers it, now, and forever. In this manner, John Waters was incredibly successful. He must have been doing something right because it was such a smash, Andy Warhol saw it and recommended it to all his friends, and once that happened, its popularity spread like wildfire. I do not think of this as a bad movie, and I do not think of this as good movie, but it remains a highly prized part of my collection, and it is one of the few movies I own that I can watch over and over and over again, and every time something about it strikes me differently, or I notice something new. My friends love it, and it is always a great film at parties. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Representing Society's Past","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Pink Flamingos  A Representation of Society's PastPink Flamingos, a film directed by John Waters in 1972, is a very disturbing portrayal of the negative impact a traumatized childhood can have on future life.  Babs Johnson grew up in a very non-typical home. Blatantly, you can see the impact this had on society through her actions up to the ending where she engulfs dog feces.  Was this film just some sick and twisted perversion of endless gut-wrenching occurrences, or was it symbolic of something much deeper?  To side with the first would be the easy way out and to the side with the latter might seem demented, but possibly true. The film does have some credible resemblance to actual events of our societal past.  Every leader that we as people view as `horrible' displays similar characteristics to those of Babs Johnson.  Ivan the Terrible, Genghis Khan, Adolph Hitler, and Joseph Staling all had `troubling' childhoods.  Babs Johnson had a troubling childhood and therefore is associated in the same class as all of the previous mentioned rulers. That is why a great deal of her actions throughout the film can be seen as disturbing.  However, were her actions her own fault or society's for letting her grow up the way she did.     Furthermore, each character in this film represents either a past leader or event. Another coincidence is Edith's obsession with eggs.  With an open mind this can be tied into the genocide and Hitler's attempt to annihilate the Jews. Some view Hitler as a genius, others a mad man.  John Waters must have seen him as a mad man because his representation Edith was indeed mentally ill. Edith's son Crackers and traveling companion Cotton are symbolic of what was wrong in our own backyard, slavery.  Both names, are slang terms that represent a time period that most of us would rather forget.  Theses characters are crucial in terms that it points out that in some times, our society in America was no better than what we often view as horrendous acts of social onslaught in other cultures.  The chicken f**king scene is the epitome of what was wrong in our society in this time period and is still wrong.  Chicken, is a 1970's slang term for woman.  Therefore it might be possible that John Waters were trying to bring out the subject of rape through Cotton and Crackers actions. The antagonist family, if a single antagonist can be determined in this film, was the Marble's.  Marble is often mentioned in association with wealth.  Therefore this may be symbolic of the struggle between the poor and the wealthy a fight that still continues on today and will probably continue on forever.  Pink Flamingos is a monumental film for its disturbing scenes but should also be noted for its camouflaged political agenda that Waters displayed so affluently throughout its entirety.  "},{"Title":"No Redeeming Value","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  There once was a fellow named John WatersWho's legacy for the world's sons and daughterswas to take a guy named DivineWho's not very fineAnd with him made a movieWasn't that groovy?The movie he made was just plain eviland I don't mean that guy KnievelJohn said, I did it when I was just a kid.Funny, so said Billy the KidThe picture's grainy, the sound's dubbedWhoever filmed it must have been flubbedFor a plotwasn't much they soughtPeople trying to gross each other outJust like a ten year old loutBut it ain't funnyIt won't make you feel sunnyIt's sick and depravedThis was nothing we cravedDon't watch it, don't rent it, you'll regretI'll just betListen to me, hear my pleafrom this movie you must fleeThat's how this movie made me feelThis is my final appealPink Flamingos should have been cannedIf not outrightly banned "}{"Title":"This is the most disgusting movie I have ever seen! I love it!","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" I think that Water's captured, quite excellently, the meaning of filth. I thought I knew what was gross and disturbing, but this film shed light on things that I never thought went through people's minds. I can't think of any film that executes what it set out to do with such precision. The characters are great,but the acting is a bit unrefined. I think that was done on purpose. Just like all those great horror films that were all about the gore factor and less interested in the actual lines said, this follows in those footsteps. I wanted to vomit 1/2 way into it, but kept watching anyway. It was worth it . I like my movies extreme, and this one is definently that. It is a great film for everyone. By all means watch this movie once. That's probably all you will need. "},{"Title":"Whatever","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":" This exercise in poor taste involves a story about a fat trailer trash family duking it out with a couple of evil exploitationists over who deserves the title the filthiest people ever. It's filled with filthy imagery, filthy motifs, filthy characters, filthy language, and about everything filth, and in a stunning match of style towards substance, is pretty filthily filmed, directed, and edited.But I don't really care. John Waters had his fun, I had a few giggles and a few moments of, Hmmm, maybe I shouldn't be watching this with my roommates around..., but I can't really seem to care much further than that. It's primary purpose is shock value, and, well...It's dated. Oh no he didn't! Yes, yes I did. It's dated. That just goes to show which direction our society has gone, really, but honestly I've seen much more disgusting and worse.It's called the Internet. You know, Goatse, weird forms of pornography, all that... One doesn't even search for it, it's just there.This stuff is very disgusting, and it succeeds at being unpleasant to watch, but stuff like that is all over the place now. I honestly don't see why people care anymore.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"This movie needs to be seen only once","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  The total value of this movie is shock value.  Once you know what is coming, it has no further socially redeeming value.  If you are an animal rights activist, stay away from this movie, because it contains a couple of humans in a three way with a chicken(ouch!).One thing seems to have been ahead of its time, it shows a (real) female wearing men's underwear circa, 1970.I repeat this movie is only for the most jaded perverts seeking the most outlandish and disgusting of vicarious thrills. "},{"Title":"Misdirection","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Yes, Waters was influential in encouraging independent talents like Jarmusch and Hartley  just because of his presence. Yes, there was a time when revolting irony actually had a  place. Yes, self-aware stoned parody seems a necessary sophomoric step for every kid.But that makes `Flamingoes' of historical interest, not necessary worth watching today. It  is more `Coven' than `Eraserhead.' And it is why this documentary is better than all  Waters' films until `Pecker,' where he learned (and could afford) ironically detached  ironic irony rather than self-abusive voyeuristic pseudo-irony.The appearance of the now-retired film censor who encountered `Flamingoes' is a cheap  shot, sort of an afterglow from cheap wine on top of a speed binge it works but at what  cost?Irony is a much expanded concept in film because it forgives all. But the very existence  of this documentary is very weird it expands the notion and breaks it.The idea behind Waters' sort of shock-trash is that it is off-hand, disposable. To  `document' it reverses that. To go further and celebrate its influence and permanence in  film history sort of defeats the purpose. Its as if you celebrated a jazz solo by talking to  the musician about fingering. Its all the more shocking when you discover that someone  was filming the filmer in 1972. Ask now why do that? And all the value deflates. Why do that? Because the shock value is  what matters, not the destructive irony. Watch Hartley if you want genuine.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "}]