[{"Title":"Awful, but I can't stop watching it!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every time this film shows up on cable, I just watch it in wonder. If they thought they were making a parody, they didn't succeed; and they couldn't have been serious, could they?Weak script, bad effects, boring chase scenes. Couldn't be worse...Yet, shockingly, I watch it every time in total amazement. I sometimes do an exercise by putting myself in Ray Milland's place in an attempt to practice empathy. It is the best worst movie I ever saw. I love it every time. Help me, please help me. "},{"Title":"The head of a dying white bigot (Ray Milland) is transplanted onto the body of a black convict on death row (Rosey Grier).*","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Thing with Two Heads is a remarkable movie. The plot is, in a word, ludicrous. Ray Milland is nothing short of brilliant, and Rosey Grier holds his own. As far as I know, the movie was shot without going over the budget. One infers that Milland and Grier were able to keep straight faces during the shooting; this alone stands as testament to their professionalism as actors. The aforementioned plot is reason enough to watch this movie, which, despite understandably high expectations, will not disappoint. I rarely watch a movie more than once. The Thing with Two Heads is an exception. It's hard to say what I like best about the movie. The interchanges between Milland and Grier are humorous; they would almost qualify as banter. The special effects are unpretentious, even sublime.  The movie may seem dated (it becomes quickly obvious that the shooting took place in the early 70's), but this only adds to its charm. I recommend  its viewing highly. "},{"Title":"What a cheesy delight! So many comments for such B-flick!","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Snowed in on an early December 2003 Sunday. Caught this one by accident on cable and couldn't stop watching. What a delightfully cheesy flick. The long chase scene was a howl. As the chase unfolded, you could tell most of the cars weren't even in running condition so they just pushed them off some steep hill to get them to roll and crash. The same car gets wrecked about 6 times again and again. The one liners are a riot. The acting, script and plot is too funny to even consider it legit. I'm surprised this didn't make the Rolling Stone 50 top cult film list. The music and score has that 70's wha-wha, bowchickabownow sound, right up until the end that is, when it suddenly turns Gospel, with Rosy, his old lady and the doctor driving off into the night singing Oh Happy Days. What a wacky gem from 72! I recommend it if you're snowed in and you've got 90 mins. to kill. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Stupid but fun","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The head of a white bigoted doctor (sadly Ray Milland) is attached to the body of a wrongly convicted black man (Rosey Grier) on Death Row.  Unfortunately, Grier's head is still attached.  It escapes from a hospital and tries to clear Grier's name while Milland's head tries to take control of the body.Totally ridiculous AIP movie which bears a more than passing resemblance to 1971's Incredible Two-Headed Transplant.  This movie doesn't take itself too seriously (how could it?) which helps--but only so much. With the exception of Milland the acting is lousy and the script has howlers that you just can't believe (ex when Grier's girlfriend first sees him with Milland's head she says, Honey, I know you don't like answering questions, but HOW did this happen?).  Basically this is a very bad movie but in a good way.  The scenes of Milland and Grier arguing are truly funny and there's a very long (at least 20 minutes) but fun chase with tons of police cars chasing Grier/Milland on a motorcycle.  Not even remotely good but fun.Another great line from Grier's girlfriend  Do you have two of anything else?  "},{"Title":"All things '70s merged into one!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Thing with Two Heads is a masterpiece of 1970's explotiation. Everything is here a no-talent Football star actor (Rosey Grier), Pre-Smokey and the Bandit car chases, motorcycles, blaxploitation cliches galore, cheap monsters, no budget, beyond-bad dialogue, a director who thought he was moving up and out of the porno industry, and, of course, the great Ray Milland, star of the incomparable 1970's classic Frogs. Classic scenes Convicted convict Grier comes out of anesthesia and expresses suprise and dismay at finding Ray Milland's head attached to his body. Grier What did you guys do to me? Milland, sounding petulent We transplanted my head onto your body--now shut up!Grier and Milland (the two heads on Rosey's body, remember) show up at Grier's girlfriend's apartment in search of refuge from the cops Grier (noticing his gal's shock at seeing his 2-headed condition) Don't worry baby, I won't hurt you. Girlfriend (looking unsure) You get into more s***.The whole film is like this. HIGH-larious. No one could do this on purpose, and that's what makes this 1970's classic such a fantastic find. "},{"Title":"Grier and Milland team up for a cinematic tour de force.","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie took me on a roller coaster ride of emotions and left me entirely drained. There are some people who believe that art can change people's lives. The Thing With Two Heads has probably changed my life. After seeing the terrible ordeal endured by the title character, The Thing With Two Heads, I am now less worried by everyday, mundane problems and more focused on the true meaning of life. And, like every great work of art, The Thing With Two Heads helps us understand our human condition and question our role in the universe.How could The Academy have overlooked Rosey Grier's performance in this film? I can only assume Marlon Brando had done his share of brown nosing after the release of The Godfather to edge out superior performances by lesser-known talent, such as Grier's performance in The Thing With Two Heads. An under-rated classic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Two Heads Are Better Than One.......Maybe?","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen movies far worse than this offering about a white bigot's head transplanted to a soul brother's body.  Yes, indeed the story is ridiculous. Yes, every scene with the creature either looks like Rosey Grier with a plastic head on him or Ray Milland uncomfortably close for close-ups.  But the film has a certain charm that is undeniable, due in large part to its dated 70's style, its corny almost pathetic dialogue, its incredibly cheap sets and special effects, and of course the entire premise about this two headed monstrosity.  Milland and Grier manage to keep straight faces throughout the picture, as do the other thespians concerned.  No small feat believe me!  The chase scene of 14 police cars chasing the two headed man on a motor bike(which last over 15 minutes) is the centerpiece of the film and sets the mood, pace, and credibility of the film.  If you get a chance, see this film and its trailer which is almost as good. "},{"Title":"A Howler from start to finish...","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must start off by saying I love B movies, but even if you aren't normally a B movie fan you will get a kick out of this 1972 American International Picture. This movie pairs Ray Milland as a bigoted doctor who is dying of cancer who has his head transplanted on to the body of wrongly confused death row inmate Rosey Grier. The whole movie is bizarre from start to finish. Watch the two head gorilla run amok in a grocery store! See Rosey and Ray on a motorcycle trying to outrun the fuzz! Whoever came up with the concept for this turkey must have been on crack cocaine or LSD. One has to wonder what made Academy Award winner Ray Milland to even consider doing this movie. He had to be drunk, completely broke or both to appear in this mess. This movie is so bad it's great! If you have never seen this movie I recommend that you rent it and then call over a group of friends, break out the beer and the popcorn and then sit back for a fun evening. "},{"Title":"I thought this was a great movie","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this movie with my parents when I was 10 years old.I also remember that we all laughed out loud during most of it. The primary reason for visiting this site today was to get the title of the movie to recommend it to a friend. In fact as I gave my friend the plot of the movie I began to laugh as I explained it.I only saw this movie once and for it to stick with me as being a riot for 33 years speaks volumes.I say too bad more movies that the whole family can watch together can't say as much.Rosie Grier and Ray Milland were a great team in this flick, check it out. This would be a great movie for a re-make. I could see a number of actors doing a great job with an update of this flick. "},{"Title":"Some good laughs here!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you thought THE DEFIANT ONES was the ultimate in forced race relations, try watching this horror classic from adults only vets Lee Frost and Wes Bishop! Ray Milland (yes, the same Ray Milland who won a Best Actor Oscar for his excellent turn in 1945's THE LOST WEEKEND) is a brilliant-but-racist brain surgeon who is dying, but has perfected a way to live on through head-transplants. Someone out there decides to teach him a lesson by placing his bigoted noggin on the body of a black convict (former professional football star Rosey Grier). The heads fight, punch each other and go through many other genuinely (and unintentionally) hilarious slapstick scenes. Try not to laugh watching Grier running around or riding on a motorcycle with a ridiculous-looking fake dummy-head planted on his shoulders.Not to be confused with THE INCREDIBLE TWO HEADED TRANSPLANT (1971) or Andy Milligan's THE MAN WITH TWO HEADS (1972).Score 5 out of 10 (Though a MUST for camp aficionados!) "}{"Title":"Stupid, Racist, Cheesy but also Very Funny","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In California, the renowned Dr. Maxwell Kirshner (Ray Milland) is a brilliant transplant surgeon and owner of the Kirshner Transplant Institute. He is dying and develops a technique to transplant his head in another body in a gorilla. Kirshner, who is racist, hires the prominent Dr. Fred Williams (Don Marshall) to help in his surgery but when he sees that the doctor is black, he unsuccessfully tries to call off the contract. He uses his friendship with the Governor expecting to use the body of a convicted in death row that could donate his body to his experiment instead of being executed. The strong and black inmate Jack Moss ('Rosey' Grier) accepts the offer expecting to get more thirty days to prove that he is innocent. However Dr. Philip Desmond (Roger Perry) immediately operates Kirshner and Jack, but he is not able to control Jack that escapes from Kirshner's house. Jack teams-up with his girlfriend Lila (Chelsea Brown) and Dr. Fred Williams, who is convinced of his innocence and decides to remove Kirshner's head. But how to find another compatible body for Dr. Kirshner?The Trash The Thing with Two Heads is a stupid, racist, cheesy but also very funny dark comedy. The politically incorrect plot is absurd but makes laugh a lot. It is impressive that Oscar winner Ray Milland (The Lost Weekend) accepts such a silly role. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) O Monstro de Duas Cabeças (The Monster with Two Heads) "},{"Title":"Racist doctor didn't prep for this surgery.","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie starts with a rich doctor named Kirshner (Milland) who's developed a way to transplant the head of another creature, in this case an ape on to another's body and it survives. It will revolutionize science. Since he's the leading expert in medical transplants a young black doctor Williams (Marshall) wishes to work with him and learn all he can. We soon see that Kirchner wants nothing to do with blacks and says he can't work there. Williams gave up a lot to go there and is mad, so Kirshner reluctantly allows him to work for a short time. Kirshner confides in his colleague Dr. Desmond that he is dying and must have body immediately. The word goes out, and a death row inmate decides to donate his body to medical science. Jack (Grier) claims he's innocent, but is brought over and put under for the procedure. In one of the funnier parts of the film Kirshner wakes up on a black mans body. They plan was to keep the other head sedated until Kirshner can control the body, but Jack makes a run for it, with Kirshner's head attached, taking Marshall hostage. In a chase that never seems to end Jack finally gets away from the cops and the brothers decide to get rid of the white mans head. One thing leads to another and Kirshner ends up with his head ready to be transplanted again while Jack, Marshal, and his girl take off for freedom. The End, what a stupid film. This has to be one of the dumbest films I have ever scene. Not only is it totally outlandish, everything else is bad as well. From the acting to the special affects its just bargain basement bad. With all that being said I watched the whole thing and was amused by most of the film. The effects are so bad you can't help but laugh, especially at Milland's head on Grier's body throughout much of the film as they run, ride and elude police. The effects are laughable, certainly Rick Baker went on to much better things. I guess this would be practice for future works with ape costumes, King Kong, Mighty Joe Young and Planet of the Apes (all remakes). And the story, Racist white guy gets his head put on black man's body? That's funny. This is your classic blaxploitation film with most of the white guys being shown as villains in the film, but just from a comedic angle. There are plenty of solid films of this nature but this is not one of them. This only serves to garner some stupid laughs from a stupid script. One of the worst parts of the film has to be the never ending chase. For what seems like and eternity Grier is chased by the cops on a dirt bike. But its goes on FOREVER! they must have spent half the budget on crashed police cars. Milland's a good actor so I'm surprised he did some of these low budget yarns, somewhat like Frogs. The rest of the cast did their job, Grier was amusing nothing bad to say just a silly film all together. So overall stupid film of the era, but so bad its good quality bumps it up bit, 2 and a half stars. "},{"Title":"The real odd couple","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Thing With Two Heads is one of those drive-in fodder camp films that is spectacularly bad it ought to be seen and seen again for the sheer scope of audacity the producers had in making this. Ray Milland's career hit rock bottom when the Oscar winning actor signed for this one. Hope he got a hefty paycheck. Roosevelt Grier's career was hardly given a boost either.Ray Milland is a racist scientist who is slowly and inexorably dying of cancer. But whatever else he is, he's a brilliant scientist who is experimenting with transplants, in fact he's already created a two headed gorilla.The trouble with the experiment is that when the head from an old sick body is attached to a new body before it gets acclimatized to the new body, the old head has to stay for a bit to keep the body alive. So that might not matter with gorillas, but when Milland is hours from death they have to grab the first body available.Which turns out to be Roosevelt Grier on death row and who also says he's innocent. What a surprise Milland gets when he finds himself attached to Grier. If he wasn't so racist Milland might actually think of some tremendous advantages that Rosey Grier has.In any event Grier who expected to be off this mortal coil is just as unhappy having Milland right next door. Nevertheless he's going to take this second chance to prove he's innocent.Most hilariously bad scene in the film is Grier and Milland stealing a motocross bike and wrecking a race and demolishing 14 police cars in the process. I guess the cops were just freaked out by chasing a two headed man. In any event the town no doubt was named Keystone.Along for the ride is Don Marshall who Milland crapped all over when he took a job at Milland's place of transplanting business. Marshall is really enjoying Milland's predicament, so much so he's agreed to help Grier prove he's innocent.The Thing With Two Heads has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Terrible but at least it never takes itself too seriously","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is bundled on a DVD with THE INCREDIBLE 2-HEADED TRANSPLANT and while they are both very bad, perhaps THE THING WITH TWO HEADS is a bit worse--though this is like comparing cholera to cancer--they're both quite nasty!! This film from American-International is a strange melange of genres--being a horror, Blaxploitation, action comedy all rolled into one. And, sadly, it really does none of these genres very well.It begins with a rich racist doctor (Ray Milland) announcing that he's dying and only has a couple weeks to live. It seems that his body is dying and he has a crazy notion to graft his body onto a donor body AND eventually have the donor's head sliced off--placing him in total control of the body. Considering that this is illegal and immoral, they decide to find a guy on death row. But the only available donor is the very large and very Black Rosey Grier. This is a serious problem not just because the head and body would not match, but because Milland plays a very, very racist man and he's not happy when he awakens to see his new body! Rosey isn't particularly thrilled by the new arrangement and instead of just sitting by passively until they saw his head off, he decides to run away in order to prove he isn't a murderer as well as to get someone to remove Milland. In this escape scene the film degenerates to amazingly low levels of entertainment. The getaway seems to last almost a third of the film and looks more like an episode of The Dukes of Hazzard or SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT with its ridiculous police chase. It begins with Grier/Milland AND a Black doctor jumping on the back of a mountain bike in a race. Grier's riding ability is better than that of anyone in the race as the others just keep falling off the bikes again and again--leading to Grier et all actually winning the race!!! Then, cops begin to give chase and in the process 14 police cars are totaled and the guys escape!! Talk about ridiculous! There's more to the film than this and it actually is occasionally funny (I love the line the girlfriend says when she asks if they have two of EVERYTHING), but in spite of this it still really stinks. But, if you are a bad movie fan, you actually might like it because it's THAT bad--so bad you will laugh along with it--particularly since the film never really takes itself very seriously. "},{"Title":"One of the weirdest, silliest and most underrated bad movies of all time!","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE THING WITH TWO HEADS, first of all, is a comedy. It's is obvious that everyone involved in the making of the movie was well aware of what they were creating. This isn't an earnest cautionary tale like THE MANSTER nor a sensationalistic exploitation sleazefest like THE INCREDIBLE TWO HEADED TRANSPLANT. It is a movie that was created, most likely, when some filmmaker friends got drunk one night and started throwing the most absurd ideas they could conjure out on the table.To many, seeing a Hollywood legend (and legitimately great actor) like Ray Milland reduced to starring in schlock like this, X-THE MAN WITH X-RAY EYES and FROGS in his later years must be sad, but I don't agree. Milland chews the scenery with such relish, I can't help but think that he had a ball making these movies. I can picture him sitting with his agent and saying, Hey, I won my Oscar, I'm getting older, I might as well have some fun. While Milland and Rosey Grier are far from Abbott & Costello or even Martin & Lewis, the two have a certain odd chemistry that works well, especially since their characters are supposed to be from completely different backgrounds. Milland is a rich, loud-mouthed, bigoted surgeon, Grier is a poor, soft-spoken ex-con. Grier is no actor, but that actually works in Milland's favor as virtually his entire performance is from the neck up.The movie does work as a bizarre allegory for racial relations but mostly it works as a goof. It barrels along at a break-neck pace with subplots involving everything from a two-headed gorilla escaping and going on a rampage to or our hero(s) infiltrating a BMX bike race while being chased by what appears to be the entire LA police department.If you're looking for logic or intelligence keep looking. If you're looking for a silly good time, THE THING WITH TWO HEADS will do the trick admirably! "},{"Title":"Boredom enough to fill two heads.","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sad thing about this movie is that if it was originally meant to be taken seriously, it failed, and if it was meant to be a comedy, it failed there also. I was hoping for the combination of humor and horror. I saw neither in this film. The comedy I saw struck me at the level of maybe a slight chuckle here and there. The horror aspect is basically non-existent. Despite the car chases and plentiful car crashes, it doesn't even get very exciting. I was bored very quickly with this film and the boredom lasted throughout the movie. I thought that both the acting and the movie plot were poor. There are too many better choices out there. Don't waste your time watching this one. "},{"Title":"Provocative & Savvy","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rosey Grier and Ray Milland are the most dynamic pairing in cinematic history. I used to think it couldn't get much better than Hepburn and Tracy but I was wrong. When I was enrolled in an anger management class, one of our exercises was to watch this film and then team up in groups of four to reflect on it and make macaroni drawings. I painted my macaroni red and glued it into a heart with Love Thy Neighbor etched underneath it in black crayon. My parole officer was so proud. Racism never pays and neither does beating your ex-wife over the head with a steel pipe. My favorite scene is the helicopter chase. It is in no way hokey or prolonged. TWO HEADS is the second greatest movie of the 1970s (I would say the greatest, but that title belongs to MITCHELL.) "},{"Title":"Would you like to have Ray Milland nibbling on your ear?","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a documentary I recently watched called The 50 Worst Movies Ever Made, this exploitation curiosity is proudly ranked #3, but even though it's a generally dim-witted and inept production, I cannot possibly refer to it as one of the worst movies ever. It offers incredible amounts of fun, laughter, disbelief and astonishment and the film is unquestionably a delight for every cinema fanatic who's remotely into bizarre horror stuff. Veteran actor Ray Milland stars as the genius, but slightly power mad, greedy and discriminating scientist who managed to sew an extra head onto a gorilla's torso without killing any of them. So now, Dr. Maxwell Kirshner thinks he masters the entire transplantation business and intends to use the method on himself. It's understandable why Maxwell is in a hurry, seeing that an aggressive type of cancer is slowly rotting his entire body from the inside out. So, basically, he worked out the whole biggest breakthrough in the history of medical science only to save his own ass! The plan now is to recruit a convict on death row, transplant the Dr.'s head on his body and wait approximately 30 days for the head to adapt to its new host before removing the convict's original head. Tiny little problem, however, the only available prisoner on death row is black and the old chauvinist doctor is quite racist. The con, Jack Moss, is also innocent of the crime he's on death row for and intends to use the additional 30 days to prove this, regardless of the fact there's the cranky head of an old racist scientist breathing down his ear. The Thing With Two Heads is a clumsy mad scientist movie with heavy ambitions towards Blaxploitation cinema. Apart from the obvious thematic plot of a stereotypical black tough guy sharing the body with a stereotypical white racist, there's also the extremely groovy soundtrack. The sight of the two-headed person &#x96; I have no idea why they refer to him as things since he's clearly a person &#x96; is just plain laughable. The plot subsequently evolves into a strange type of action movie with Jack Moss escaping from the operating table to prove his innocence. There's a seemingly endless motorcycle race, with numerous police vehicles (fourteen to be exact) getting wrecked and loads of crazy stunt work to admire. It's quite fun and all, at least for a minute or three, but surely they could have come up with something better than a 20 minute chase? Especially with this film's original concept? Either way, in spite of all its shortcomings and missed potential, The Thing with Two Heads is an interesting cult product from the early 70's and definitely recommended to tolerant fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"I've got a few questions","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps some guy who knows much more about medicine and general logic could help meFirst, how does the guy's body become much fatter with two heads? Another thing is, how in the world can you disable and elude 50 police cruisers when only 40 were chasing them, solely by going around in circles for half of the movie? How did the doctor's assistant who hired the black guy know he was qualified to help do a head operation that no one has done before, if he was merely a pharmacist for 5 years? Finally, can someone tell me how the media misses a baboon going into a convenience store, scaring all 40 people who can hardly fit in there?This movie is good for the fact that it really raises some important thought-provoking questions. "},{"Title":"Still Laughing... after all these years","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" First, I did not give it 9 stars because it is a good movie. In the traditional sense, it is a terrible movie, but it's really delightfully terrible! Although Ray Milland was still acting a dozen years beyond this, maybe it was late enough in the game that he was less choosy about parts? In any case, he put his whole heart and soul into it, not just his head. His scathing bigotry made Archie Bunker a choirboy by comparison. Rosie Greer, the giant football great, was fairly new to movies, but was perfect for this role. Rosie, a criminal on death row, agreed to this scientific experiment so he could buy time to prove his innocence. The bigoted Milland wakes up from surgery, cheek to cheek with a enormous black man and says is this part of a joke?. Without giving away much, let's just say this Odd Couple get in to more funny (imo) situations than Felix and Oscar ever did.The reason I clicked spoiler is just for one scene. I got sucked into this movie with a couple siblings when it appeared on TV in the 70's. We had no idea what we were getting into, but we couldn't take our eyes away. When the thing with two heads approached a surprised security guard, his spontaneous Holy Sh*t was not censored. EVERYTHING was censored back then. But we laughed. What else could the guard say? Even the censors understood. "}{"Title":"Spoilers follow ...","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Maxwell Kirshner is a rich, grouchy, white bigot, and is played by Hollywood legend Ray Milland. Born in Wales, Milland won an Academy Award in 1945. By 1972, roles were proving more difficult to come by, which may explain his involvement in this much derided film.Much of the unease this film seems to have caused revolves around Kirshner's blatant racism &#x96; and the fact that his experiments result in his head being transplanted onto the body of a black man. The theory is that after Kirshner's head has been accepted by his new host body, then the original head &#x96; that of death row inmate named Jack Moss (Rosey Grier &#x96; who, apart from acting, has been a singer, Christian minister, and former professional American football player) &#x96; would be removed, leaving Kirshner with a new, healthy body. The relationship between Doctor and Convict is played for laughs, with Kirshner's bigotry never once perceived as anything other than archaic. Is this unacceptable? Should the story never have been pursued? Is the fact that Jack Moss is introduced as a criminal stereotypical and distasteful? The fact is that he is ultimately proved to be both a more decent moral character than Kirshner, and eventually innocent of his crime, indicates to me at least, that many of those who criticise this film may not actually have seen it.Putting aside this controversy, the film is a mix of comedy and horror. The surgical scenes of the operation to remove Kirshner's head are excellent. The 'stunt head' is the work of fledging Rick Baker (who became a big name in special effect horror make-ups). One particularly effective moment is when the head is being taken from one body to another, the mouth and eyes open! Unexpected and very well achieved, this &#x96; and the earlier scene of an experiment conducted on a two-headed ape &#x96; belies the modest budget.The two headed scenes are achieved with Grier filmed in long-shot with the model head attached to his shoulder, or in close-up with he and Milland filmed together, with Milland behind Grier. The imagery is absurd, hilarious and quite horrible. The interaction between the two is &#x96; racist slurs aside &#x96; pretty funny (Moss driven to distraction by Kirshner's snoring, Kirshner's look of exasperation as Moss tries seducing his girlfriend &#x96; 'C'mon honey, I'll cover his head with a pillow case').With Moss determined to prove his innocence, he flees the hospital. The film then seems not to know what to do with the twosome, so a car chase ensues, Dukes of Hazzard-style, which goes on far, far too long.In the end, as Moss says, 'he's got to go', and the spare head is removed and Kirshner is last found abandoned, still plugged into the life-sustaining machinery, pleading with his minions to 'find me another body &#x85; please.' "},{"Title":"Truly Awful","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is dumb as heck.The first half is extremely boring and a bit confusing. Exactly halfway through the movie the Thing wakes up and escapes from the transplant center.As far as I can tell,the black guy didn't know what was going to be done to him and the white guy didn't know they were going to use a black guy,yet neither is surprised at what has happened. They have a silly car chase scene and end up at a dirt bike race. A rider sees the Thing and drops his bike and runs away.All 3 of them(they brought a doctor)get on the bike and join the race! They literally spend the rest of the movie in the race,while all the other riders fall off their bikes when the Thing is behind them! They also cause dozens of cop cars to flip over.Later a newscast informs us that no cops have died.UGH.I can't believe this wasn't made for TV. The last half is watchable but i wouldn't suggest it. "},{"Title":"An unintentional comedic look at prejudice.","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The Thing with Two heads, 1972. A rich millionaire but racist man is dying. He hatches an elaborate scheme for transplanting his head onto another man's body to stay alive. The millionaire's health deteriorates rapidly, and doctors are forced to transplant his head onto the only available candidate; a large black man from the local prison's death row. The drama starts there.*Special Stars- Rosie Greer, Ray Milland, Chelsea Brown, Dick Whittington.*Theme- Black and white can live together.*Trivia/location/goofs- Location Paramount Ranch. File footage alert- The make of the police car changes during the car/motorcycle chase. When it's hit from behind and the trunk won't close, it's a Ford. Later, the same car is a Dodge with its trunk open. Soon after, it turns back into a Ford. During the big police-car/motorcycle chase, in a POV shot from the motorcycle, the stunt driver (who looks nothing like any of the characters on the bike) is on the right side of the screen, with the camera shooting over his left shoulder.*Emotion- An unintentional comedic look at prejudice and racism in the decade of the 70's. This film is enjoyably fun to see these two men delivery some of the best sarcastic dialog in the context of the film's ridiculous plot. Great fun for people who know the historic context of the decade in the US.*Based on- Mary Shelley's novel. A mild satiric political statement film about racism of the 70's. "},{"Title":"Two heads are better than one","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a gloriously silly film, almost camp with an anti racism message and a police car chase sequence that reminds you of those Hal Needham/Burt Reynolds films of the 1970s.The early scenes has a remarkable performance with a two headed gorilla, the gorilla's acting is sublime, no surprise as its performed by make up effects supremo Rick Baker, a 7 time Oscar winner (4 more than Daniel Day Lewis!)However the film features more than just future Oscar talent as it also stars former Best Actor Oscar winner and no stranger to schlock films, Ray Milland as a brilliant surgeon now affected by arthritis and cancer with just days to live. Milland is also a racist and in order to save his live with experimental surgery they transplant his head on the body of a convict on death row.Unsurprisingly Milland is not too happy with the result. There features a getaway as Milland hatches a plan to sort himself out.The film has series of high and lows, although more lows as far as I am concerned. It fails as horror as its too laughable, maybe works as social commentary but it needed zipping up a bit and cut down in length. It sort of meanders and gets a bit dull, even with the prolonged chase sequences. Some of the effects are very good unless when both Milland and Rosey Grier try to be together when you can guess one is behind the other. Its campy but should had been more of a hoot. "},{"Title":"sweat soaked nightmares from the deranged pen of Simon frost","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" friends, i am caked in chafe as i scribe these words, having recently experienced the horror of 'the thing in two heads' a tale of science gone mad, it shows us what will happen when doctors meddle with our genetic make ups, resulting in a monster of biblical proportions - a monster with two heads, one of these heads is a bird like skull with plastic beak skilled at pecking; the other a slavering wolf like critter, with menacing red eyes and teeth that have been perfectly moulded for chewing flesh and bone and gristle. as you can imagine, seeing this thing on its quest for meat is bone chilling and unorthodox. Half way through this film a strange thing happened to me. I looked up at the picture of me as a small boy on the mantelpiece and that boy, so unutterly unscathed by the ravages of time, smiled back and then his head turned 360 degrees around and around spinning and spinning out of the frame and towards me until only his face filled my room and it started screaming and screaming and in the end I shattered the night with a hammer and crawled into a white space where a peacock lived, and it whispered that day you soiled your pants ... it wasn't your fault, Travis. The peacock then opened its feathers and my face as a boy was on each of its feathers. "},{"Title":"Hilarious trash thats a lot of dumb fun to watch","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Thing with Two Heads is one of the most fondly remembered drive-in titles from the time, if only for its memorable concept and poster art. The film itself is a piece deliriously dumb trash thats pretty bad by any technical standards, but a goldmine when judged on camp merits. I mean, any film about scientists transplanting a white bigot's head on a soul brother's body is obviously not going for the art house denominator. The film lacks any intelligence or subtlety, but its fully aware of that fact and never takes its material seriously. For a horror film, there's very few actual attempts at horrific sequences (the thing with two heads never goes on a killing spree, just runs from the cops).How Ray Milland ended up in this is beyond me, but he makes the most out of his one-note role. Rosey Grier is pretty wooden in his portrayal of the black soul brother, but is fitting for the trashy material. The film would've been perfect if Rudy Ray Moore had been cast in his role, but than again there's only so much I can ask from this film. The dialog and action sequences are riotous, especially when the title thing rides on a motorcycle to escape from the police. Outside of the two-headed gorilla, the first thirty minutes of this film are a bit dull, but its entirely worth it for the lifetime of entertainment thats eventually provided. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Parody or Horror?  You decide.","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" We've all seen movie parodies of various types. Most of them fall flat on their faces because of the clumsy handling of the humor. Parody works best when it's delivered in a dead serious fashion, as was done in this movie. Trust the audience to know your tongue was firmly wedged in your cheek when making the movie.Many things make this movie a glorious cheese-fest. The budget was low, the acting is stilted, the timing is sometimes painfully poor, the jokes are corny. My advice is rent or buy this movie and see it for yourself! The first half hour of the movie moves fairly slowly, but once the action is moved out of doors it's go-go-go! This movie is a real groaner in the best sense of the word. "},{"Title":"Not much good to say....","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a laughable movie. I remember seeing it in the 70's as well, and that's the best description. It's interesting to see how the rich white bigot(Miland) reacts when he learns his head was transplanted onto the body of a black man (Grier). The heads must co-exist on the body until Miland's head adapts and gains control.I guess you can say Transplant Hysteria was all the rage in the 70's and 80's (Max Headroom).If you are a fan of B cinema, you may like this, but it's not a B-Movie at it's best. "},{"Title":"Loose ends, fluffy middle","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The beginning is very quickly paced, but it greatly slows down after that. At least a third of the movie (a car chase) could have been deleted, yet major plot elements remain unresolved. The lauded banter amounts to little more than PG racist epithets. Save yourself some time, and watch a rerun of Dukes of Hazzard instead. "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Great Camp Classics","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Undoubtedly one of the WORST movies ever made, this camp Golden Turkey classic is a howl from start to finish.  Invite the gang over and laugh yourselves silly at the surrealistic dialogue and improbable, goofy plot-line.  BOMB rating, but a hilarious bomb!  A perfect companion piece to They Saved Hitler's Brain for a Saturday night double-header. "}{"Title":"Unrestrained Racism!!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found some of the scenes amusing. Especially, the dirt-bike races. The funniest part is when they first drive over the hill in the horizon, and then suddenly they do about face and turn back when you see 14 patrol cars directly behind. Thus incurs a ludicrous chase scene in which police cars crash and rollover. It's obvious that several of those crash scenes were re-enacted. Testament of a low-budget film. My biggest peeve is the bigotry. Not just against Blacks. There were many racial slurs against whites, and bitterness toward white people in the film. And for that, this film is reprehensible. I despise racism on all levels and directions and this film is a worthless exercise in shame. How could such a talented intellectual as Ray Milland subject himself to such garbage? "},{"Title":"Maybe the Worst Ever!","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There have been numerous nominations for the worst movies ever made - I cannot say for sure that this stinker is the winner of that group, but I can say it has to be up for nomination.   Before writing this, I checked the goofs section thinking there would be numerous, but found only one!  I thought the goofs would be for whoever made it, Ray Milland for reaching his lowest point (and there were plenty of those for him!), and anyone (including me) who sat through it.  To think that Milland, who had been an excellent actor in many fine films, not the least of which was The Lost Weekend would lower himself to this level is incomprehensible - he must have been flat broke to even turn up. The sets are about the cheapest you can get, the effects pathetic, the acting ludicrous, and the so-called plot a shocker. The less said about the supporting cast (including Rosie Grier) the better.  Give it a giant miss. "},{"Title":"This is more than a lost weekend!","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember in that 1945 Oscar Winning Best Picture when alcoholic Ray Milland snags a handbag in a nightclub, is caught & escorted out as the piano player breaks into a newly created song, singing Somebody Stole Her Purse!? Well now, Milland 27 years after taking home the gold for that classic can be escorted out with the Boobie Prize with the audience singing Somebody Stole His Head! And it ends up on the body of football legend Rosey Grier! The only difference is that between the 1945 alcoholic screenwriter and this 1972 bigoted doctor is that I'd rather hang out with the alcoholic! Just because an educated doctor can do miracles with an ape with two heads (a sight that has to be seen to be believed!) doesn't mean that he's a good guy, and in this case, Milland is despicable. Grier is an innocent black man on death row who agrees to donate his body to science rather than be electrocuted, and wakes up after the operation to find him snuggling cheek to cheek next to this racist jerk. Grier manages to gain control, escapes from the clinic (which is actually St John's Health Center on Santa Monica Blvd.!) and leads the police on a merry chase all over the valley with Milland's head and the noble black doctor (Don Marshall) who has already been a victim of hate from Milland. They end up at the home of Grier's confused girlfriend (Chelsea Brown, Laugh-In) who is baffled to say the least. Her reaction is one of the priceless bad lines of all times. This leads to an off-the-wall conclusion that will leave you baffled.There is no way that you can view this with any cynicism. You simply have to toss your brain away for 90 minutes to enjoy the ridiculousness of it. While Milland is not the only Oscar Winning Actor to have stepped into the world of hideously bad cinema (Bette Davis, Bunny O'Hare, Joan Crawford, Trog, anyone?), he did pick the strangest vehicle. This film on DVD has one benefit over its co-feature, The Incredible Two Headed Transplant, is that this one is watchable, the other simply offensive. "},{"Title":"Oh happy days.....","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A rich but racist man is dying and hatches an elaborate scheme for transplanting his head onto another man's body.His health deteriorates rapidly, and doctors are forced to transplant his head onto the only available candidate a black man from death row....Total garbage from beginning to end, but one cannot help but love a good car crash movie. Especially when it features two actors who are out of their comfort zone for more or less the whole duration of the movie.This is blaxploitation/Grindhouse at it's finest, and to top the whole thing off, we get the most hilarious police chase ever seen, a man riding a scrambler with a plastic head on his shoulders, a joy to behold.It's a wonder that any of these actors managed to keep a straight face when making this. Pure trash, but ever so endearing. "},{"Title":"The Best BAD Movie Ever Made","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies that I've ever seen. Everything about it is absolutely horrible. How they ever got anyone to appear in this things is amazing. The dialog is worth the price of rental or purchase. The car/motorcycle chase is so funny that I nearly choked watching it. Every car crash was filmed from multiple angles and those were edited in to look like different crashes. Ray Milland and Rosie Grier on the motorcycle is the funniest scene ever in a movie. The budget for this movie did not exist. The music soundtrack is classic 70's bad-movie-music. I can't believe this movie does not have a larger cult following. If you only see one really bad, entertaining movie the year make it The Thing With Two Heads. "},{"Title":"completely, gloriously absurd","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" White racist's head transplanted on to black convict's shoulder - say no more. This is what happens when schlock filmmakers get their hands on Stanley Kramer-style 'social issue' film-making absolute, fantastic chaos. For the first act, it almost fools you into thinking it's going to be a Good Movie in spite of itself - the racism theme is handled with a surprising degree of sensitivity while it lasts, and the mise en scene plays out the comedy/drama high wire act with a good deal of finesse in spite of the two headed gorilla suit. What the filmmakers are really doing though is banking points for later, because there's no dramatic balance to be had once Ray Milland plunks his chin on to Rosey Grier's shoulder - it's completely, gloriously absurd. It rides a dirt bike, negotiates for nooky with Rosey's skeptical GF, yells Shut up! more times than Duane Jones and Karl Hardman. The filmmakers milk this one incredible visual gag for every drop, which is a good thing because elsewhere they don't show much flair for comic timing - not one of the litany of wacka-wacka cop reaction shots elicits the smallest reaction. Oh and did I mention that the escape-car chase scene occupies the ENTIRE second act? That's some pretty serious chutzpah. And you gotta love how everyone goes out singing Mike Curb! So while as usual the crew is probably having more fun than the audience, in this case the crew is having LOTS of fun, and it does rub off. "},{"Title":"Extreme Time Waster","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow,I don't care if you can excuse this movie's lameness by calling it a B-Movie.  Cause it is LAME.  I am glad that I wasn't the poor sucker that rented it and sat down to watch a good movie (it was on cable and I was on my computer).What a waste of time on the movie directors' and producers', a waste of a movie budget(however low it is) and a waste of space.All in all I rate this movie a .............. WASTE> "},{"Title":"Funniest unintentionally funny film of all time!","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Must been seen by all! Should be required viewing along with Airplane, Buffalo 66, Anchorman, Napoleon Dynamite, Team America World Police, Sideways, Bad Santa, Windy City Heat, Zoolander, Kingpin, Best In Show, Meet The Parents, Office Space, Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me, This Is Spinal Tap, Raising Arizona, Dr. Strangelove, Kentucy Fried Movie, Monty Python and The Holy Grail, Life Of Brian, Meaning Of Life, Vacation, Used Cars, After Hours, Caddyshack, Ed Wood, The Rutles All You Need Is Cash, The Jerk, Fargo, The Big Lebowski, There's Something About Mary, And Now for Something Completely Different, Fletch, I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, Hot Shots, Hot Shots Part Deux, Scary Movie 3, Heaven Can Wait, American Psycho, Sixteen Candles, Pee Wees Big Adventure, Top Secret, A Fish Called Wanda, The Naked Gun, Naked Gun 33 1/3, The King Of Comedy, Crumb, The Man With Two Brains, Real Life, High Anxiety, Pink Panther, A Shot In The Dark, Pink Panther Strikes Again, Return Of The Pink Panther, Revenge of the Pink Panther, Bad News Bears, Young Frankenstein, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Blazing Saddles, The Producers, Tommy Boy, The World According To Garp, The Survivors, The Big Lebowski, Dirty Work, Beavis And Butt-Head Do America, Better Off Dead, Christmas Story, Christmas Vacation, Accidental Tourist, Young Doctors In Love, Bottle Rocket, Johnny Dangerously, Wallace & Gromit in The Wrong Trousers, Wallace & Gromit in A Close Shave, & Kung Pow Enter the Fist. "}]