[{"Title":"Sure, The Godfather made Al Pacino a star, but Serpico kept him one","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"77 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino is one of the best actors around, and he has many definitive roles. His role as Frank Serpico is certainly one of them. He acts with such charm and smoothness in some scenes, while explosive and intense in others.The movie gets into a big plot line about police corruption and Serpico blowing the whistle on the department. It's interesting and the whole point of the movie, but the reason this is such a good movie is because of the character, not the plot. The better scenes include Serpico's personal life and struggles. There's one great part where he explains to his girlfriend why he's always wanted to be a cop. It's scenes like those that make you sympathetic for him.Sidney Lumet and Pacino made a great team for this movie, and proved to be a great team for Dog Day Afternoon a few years later. But as good as a director Lumet is, as good as everyone involved with this movie is, this is Pacino's movie. It's an essential viewing for his fans.My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"The first real power-house performance by Pacino, thirty years down the line still one of his finest","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"72 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet proved himself to be a highly competent and effective director/storyteller for the true story of New York Officer Frank Serpico, who became famous after appearing to testify before the NAPA Commission about payoffs and corruption in the Police Department. At the time, it was unheard of, and it gained Peter Maars attention to write the book, which thus got transferred to the screen as so. But what makes Serpico such a riveting and eye catching picture today are the little things about it, little details in specific scenes and locations that help ring Serpico's emotions far more than true- it's just there. Even more amazing on the part of the actual filming of the movie is that it was at the time filmed backwards (started with the beard, then the mustache, then clean-shaven).Al Pacino, right off of the first part of the Godfather trilogy, took this role with all the fire and compassion that he had in him. He sees in Serpico not just an honest cop wanting some balance and honor in his work, yet also a man, who can get as joyful and humorous as he can act subtle, furious, and thoughtful. This will always remain one of his stand-out roles after all the Scarfaces and Scent of a Woman pictures he can do because he, as well as Lumet, know how to approach such a saga. Plenty of great, compelling set pieces, and even sweet ones (like when he first buys the sheepdog as a puppy). A+ "},{"Title":"Unfair.  Unfair!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"57 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"       Frank Serpico begins his career with the NYPD as an idealistic rookie who believes in the moral value of policing.  He has a simple and old-fashioned ethical code, an outlook which used to be known as honesty.  What he finds is a moral sewer, five boroughs wide, in which almost every cop is on the take.  The police are just another gang of hoodlums, but with more guns than the bad guys.  Even basically decent cops go along with the kickback culture, because a locker-room psychology prevails in which values have become perverted.  Squad loyalty is now a criminal conspiracy of silence.  Detectives do not hesitate to shake-down hoods who are slow to pay.  To Frank Serpico, this is simply wrong.  He wants no part of it.  And so his long agony begins.     Both responding to and helping to shape the mood of its time, a weary cynicism towards authority, Serpico arrived on the screen just as Watergate built to its climax.  Americans could no longer regard their institutions as gleaming examples to mankind of optimism and good government.  The film begins gloomily with Serpico badly wounded, having been shot in the face.  We hear police and ambulance sirens fading, symbolically representing the life-force ebbing from Frank, and the withering of American dreams.     This first-class film is a triumph, and one that could easily have misfired.  Had the crooked cops been depicted as mere thugs, then Serpico himself would have been an archetype, just another two-dimensional crusader.  What gives the film its psychological richness is the realisation that the dishonest cops are NICE.  These are affable, reasonable men who want to like Serpico and want to welcome him onto the team.  The camaraderie is seductive and it's difficult for Frank to hold out against it.  He is besieged by self-doubt, wondering if he is just a one-man awkward squad, or worse - a prima donna, sacrificing personal relationships on the altar of his own ego.     Again, the easy (but disastrous) course would have been to give Frank some big heroic speeches, allowing him to inveigh against corruption.  The film chooses instead to go for psychological truth, and this is what makes the project outstanding.  Appalled, afraid and despairing of ever changing anything, Frank withdraws into himself.  He becomes the spectre at the feast, the silent rebuke, the muted but ever-present conscience of his colleagues.     Though Frank rejects the golden shield which is eventually offered, we feel that the system still means something.  There are still some honest cops, and even after all these vicissitudes, the United States is still a nation of laws.  Lumet's profoundly liberal and optimistic view of America ultimately shines through, but the final mood is one of quiet resignation rather than triumphalism.  Right can prevail over wrong, but a price has to be paid.  Serpico wins his titanic struggle, but he is diminished and saddened as a man.       The film contains some marvellous technical things.  In the opening minutes, the action cuts between Frank as he is now (wounded, broken and alone) and as he started out (the clean-cut, idealistic rookie).  These transitions are seamless, and the narrative logic is smooth and natural.  We see Frank's first moment of disenchantment in a cafeteria when it dawns on him that cops get free handouts of food, but they have to take whatever comes.  This first bewilderment develops until we see the gulf open up between Frank and the dishonest cops, the ones who take the money but also take the self-loathing.     The terrible stress to which Frank is subjected is depicted with skill.  The police department has a huge institutional inclination to protect its own, and this vast weight is brought to bear on Serpico.  Equally, the pressure is relieved cleverly at appropriate points in the narrative.  Frank's 'collar' of Rudi Casaro reaches an explosive climax as this all too human guy reaches breaking-point.  On the other hand, the romantic story-telling interlude with Laurie and Serpico's undercover cameo as an orthodox rabbi break the tension and vary the pace beautifully.     The second-unit work is of a uniformly high standard.  We are shown atmospheric New York streetscapes with grubby brownstones and the massive, overbearing masonry of the Brooklyn Bridge, in knowing homage to the films noirs of twenty years earlier.  The symbols are powerful.  This city, and this police department, are too colossal for one man to stand against them.  Practice sessions in the police firing gallery intelligently reinforce the film's undercurrent of foreboding.  Paper targets obscure the gunmen's faces, suggesting a monolithic force united against Frank, then come hurtling towards him on pulleys, signifying the fate which is rushing to meet him.     Mikis (Zorba the Greek) Theodorakis has provided a classy score.  I particularly liked the jazzy, minor-key horn passage.     Pacino puts in another of the towering performances which have distinguished him as the profoundest acting talent of his era.  He is simply wonderful.  Barbara Eda-Young gives top-notch support as Laurie, the genuinely loving partner who is destroyed by her man's seeming eagerness for martyrdom in rejection of domestic happiness.  If ever an actor exuded confidence it's Tony Roberts, and he is ideally cast as Bob Blair, Serpico's well-connected ally.  Though he can open City Hall doors, he can't actually help Frank at all.  Nobody can.  Christ-like, Frank understands that it is ordained - he must go to the hill alone.       "},{"Title":"Serpico A Name That Became Famous","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"66 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" There have so many crooked-cops-themed films in the past 30 years that this film has lost a lot of its shock-and-awe. The long hair, wild clothes, beads, etc. really date this film, too, it being so early '70s in looks. It's almost become a period piece as if it were the Roaring Twenties except its the Sleazy Seventies.All you have to do is look at the party scene in here and you'll get a glimpse at the early '70s, and most of it is not good. What IS good is Al Pacino's acting, of course. There have been very few films in which he starred that didn't displaying his acting talents to the fullest. This one, along with Dog Day Afternoon and few others, put him on the map, making him a big star. He's been a star ever since.This is a fairly long film but, like Pacino, it's rarely boring. The name of Pacino's character, Serpico, has become synonymous with honest cop. It demonstrates what a strong impact this movie had on millions of people. Gritty? Yes. Profane? Yes; Memorable? Most definitely. When you speak of modern-day classics, this film is one of them. "},{"Title":"Pacino's breakthrough is a timeless classic that shouldn't be missed","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"51 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico, directed by Sydney Lumet at the peak of his career, and also launched Al Pacino into a star status. The story follows Frank Serpico, an ambitious and idealist policeman from his first days at the police force as he is exposed to a routine police corruption and to his final days in the force as he invests all his energy in fighting these corruptions. Al Pacino's Performance as Serpico is one of the best in his career, he plays it so cool and professional that it's easy to forget that back in 1973 he was still at the beginning of his career. He makes character of Frank Serpico unforgettable. The film itself is very credible and honest with no clichés that are often appear in this kind of genre. New York has got a terrific look here. every place in this film whether it's bars or shops or buildings is memorable. Overall this makes for a very unique cinematic experience and shouldn't be missed by any movie fan. Well Recommended. 10/10 "},{"Title":"He's still my hero!","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"68 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Serpico managed to last a lot longer than I did as a cop...I made it 7 years but being a female officer in SC in the '80's was not a cakewalk either! I now teach criminal justice at the community college level and I have taught Ethics classes for 13 years; Frank Serpico is always a part of that course and the movie is always shown. While the movie is old it still holds up. My students always rave about it and some of them even read Peter Maas' book...without being made to! We finished the movie today. We begin discussion Friday and it will be lively, as always. This is well worth the watch/read and make no mistake that it can't be like that now; watch the news.  "},{"Title":"Pacino Shines in Classic Grim & Gritty Crime Biopic","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"42 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd been wanting to see SERPICO for some time; this real-life crime drama based on Peter Maas' nonfiction bestseller about an honest cop fighting corruption in the NYPD was one of the few grim-and-gritty New York crime dramas that my older brother didn't take me to see when I was a kid! -) (I should explain that my brother, 9 years my senior, used to take me to the kind of movies he wanted to see -- films like TAXI DRIVER, REPORT TO THE COMMISSIONER, etc. Fortunately, I developed a taste for them as well, though our mother didn't think they were really appropriate for a girl as young as I was then. -) No wonder this film helped young Al Pacino's then-rising star (he was fresh off THE GODFATHER when he began filming SERPICO) to soar to the stratosphere, complete with an Oscar nomination. Pacino's earnest intensity fuses Frank Serpico's disparate qualities into a spellbinding performance. The guy is a bundle of contradictions, the kind of man who could charm you, move you, and drive you crazy at the same time a nice Catholic boy who can't commit to any of the devoted women in his life; an honest, downright rigid moralist who's also a free spirit known as Paco to his friends and lovers; and an undercover cop with detective aspirations whose hippie-like appearance rankled his superiors and fellow officers even as it helped him blend in on assignments. Pacino's riveting performance carries the film, with fine support by John Randolph, Tony Roberts, M. Emmet Walsh, Barbara eda-Young and Cornelia Sharpe, not to mention memorable uncredited turns by F. Murray Abraham, Judd Hirsch, Kenneth McMillan, and Tony LoBianco, among others. Sidney Lumet's taut direction of the script by Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler does Maas' source material proud, as well as taking advantage of evocative NYC locations (just try getting this kind of atmosphere in Canada, I dare you! -). The sparing use of simple yet haunting music by Mikis Theodorakis sets the tone well. The end result one of the best films of the 1970s and beyond. Rent the DVD to see some fascinating extras about the making of the film and the filmmakers' experiences with Frank Serpico himself, including interviews with Lumet and producer Martin Bregman (no Pacino, alas). "},{"Title":"honest filmaking, good and true story of corruption in NY police department","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sidney Lumet is a director who captures something crucial in city based dramas surrounding legal and political affairs; with films like '12 angry men', 'the verdict', 'nightfalls on Manhattan' and 'Q & A' he shows an excellent grasp of the power plays in civic politics. In 'Serpico' he uses an excellent script to tell the story of an unorthodox character in Frank Serpico, a hippie in a time when most cops were square as a doorway but whose honesty when faced with police corruption marks him out as a man of remarkable character. Unflinching in its depiction of Serpico, the film portrays warts and all, over the period in which he refuses to take money and shows his extraordinary political vindication at an official investigation into NYPD corruption. The story of civic corruption is cogent in any time, one only has to look at great empires like Rome to understand how much corruption plays a part in the shaping of so called civilizations; where the very foundation stones have bodies, so to speak, buried under them or even within them. This film is both informative and honest in much the way 'All the Presidents Men' would be in the following year. Winning Al Pacino a deserved Oscar nomination in the years between the Godfather's Part I and II; it demonstrates the range of an actor who would go on to portray a character in Michael Corleone soon afterwards who is the very nemisis of the character in Serpico. In Serpico there is a dramadocumentary that calls to mind Shakespeares history plays in its depiction of a classical situation of a man ostracized and driven by noble sentiments to embody something of the civic value one expects of servants of the public trust. Brilliant film. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A dramatic and depressing tale","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When Frank Serpico joined the police force he was full of ideals and eager to help bring crime down in his neighbourhood.  He first encounters the corrupt side of his job when he is given an envelope of cash.  Even though he refuses to be part of the take, he finds that it goes too high for him to avoid or ignore.  Meanwhile, his colleagues, who already suspect him of being untrustworthy, begin to suspect him of trying to bring actions against the whole force.  As Scerpio lies bleeding from his head wound, he thinks back over his career.Having read the book several times, I was interested in seeing how such a tomb of a book was brought into a two hour movie. I was pleased to find that the answer to this question was `actually pretty well'.  The film manages to bring off the whole plot by giving the gist and delivering many of the book's most memorable scenes.  There is a problem with the story if you really like the book, but otherwise it works very well.  In fact the way each sequence is important means that the film moves very quickly - it's is often a downside if a film shirks on characterisation, but here it works to the film's favour.Part of the reason the script can get away with little character is that Pacino is really good.  He seems to have fallen into `who-ha' shouting of late, but here he has genuine passion and subtlety in his performance. The support cast includes Roberts, Randolph and others, but really it is Pacino's film and his performance reflects that.Overall this is a tragic true story and it is notable that the film doesn't end with the `and then' text.  There is no happy conclusion to the tale, the corruption that Serpico tried to confront and defeat remains in place after he is finished.  Despite this the film is exciting and dramatic as the story deserves. "},{"Title":"Serpico","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A perfect, true to life film based on the true exploits of a young police officer named Frank Serpico. Serpico was an officer in a time when political corruption was rampant and many of his brethren were found on the take. The true story is brought to the screen under the superb leadership and direction of Sidney Lumet and the brilliant performance of Al Pacino as Serpico. Serpico was said to be known for his eccentricity and Pacino plays it up every step of the way, from the hairy beard to the earrings; he immerses himself into the character. This is the first of two great pairings with Lumet and Pacino. They know character. You see it here and you see it in 'Dog Day Afternoon. They know the streets. Lumet is a avid filmmaker of New York-style films. Pacino walks the beat in his hobo outfits and long hair as if he's a hippie, not a cop. Although an eccentric, Serpico cannot be bought and certainly cannot be had, by anyone... cop or crook Pacino was Oscar nominated, but lost to Jack Lemmon for his performance in Save the Tiger. The film was also nominated for it's taut screenplay, based on the Peter Maas book of the same title.  "}{"Title":"Realistic movie with a gripping and gritty story.","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie tells the true story of Frank 'Paco' Serpico who was about the only honest cop of the entire New York police department at his time. The movie provides a realistic view in the corrupt and tough world of the New York police and tells the story of Serpico in an intriguing and realistic, perhaps maybe even documentary like way.Serpico is a movie with a typical fantastic '70's atmosphere and it's a movie that still holds up today. This is mainly thanks to the fantastic story of the movie and the way it is told. Yep, they really don't make movies like this anymore. I think Serpico may already be regarded as a 'classic'.Actually the story itself or concept isn't that terribly original compared to many other movies from the same period. Still this movie distinct itself from most of those movies, thanks to the perfect directing from Sidney Lumet. Also Pacino's acting and the fact that his movie is based on a true story makes this movie better than most others. Lumet and Pacino continued working together and later made the even better Dog Day Afternoon together.But fair is fair, even though Pacino is fantastic, this is far from his best role. The 'explosion' he later used for his characters in movies is still missing here and it seems like he's holding back. I also think that his Oscar nomination he deserved for this movie was also a bit too much credit for him. Pacino was just a young beginning actor at the time (He had just done his first big role and movie; The Godfather.) and he obviously had still a lot of learning to do.The rest of the cast consists out of unknown actors (with the exception of apparently Oscar winner F. Murray Abraham in one of his first small movie roles, to be honest I didn't even noticed him.) but for a movie like this a cast with unknown actors work really well. It keeps the focus on the movie's its intriguing story better. Apparently there is a lot of hate for it but I really liked the musical score by Mikis Theodorakis. It was really fitting with the movie its atmosphere. All in all this is a already 'classic' typical '70's cop flick in the style of, for instance The French Connection and is an absolute must see.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Prima Donna from another planet","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Meant to be a character study as well as an examination of police corruption, the film is, ultimately, unsatisfactory. About halfway through the film, Pacino's constant, unvaried shouting becomes tedious. The film is not a balanced look at police corruption or a compelling character study. We don't connect the loose hip Greenwich Village Serpico with the cop he that is. He never connects with his fellow officers or for that matter anyone, he's too busy shouting them down or doing one of his street theater undercover routines. None of the supporting characters count or make an impression;it's a showcase for Pacino and his character eventually comes off as a self-pitying,self-righteous, prima donna. Lumet and Pacino are better represented by Dog Day Afteroon(1975). And Lumet's Prince of the City(1981) is a more complex,convincing, and focused study of informing and police corruption. On the plus side, Serpico has a good feel for location and provokes thought. Otherwise, it feels dated,the scenes with his living partners are soapy, and those with his parents are moldy. The score by Theodorakis is inappropriate,the dialog ,especially in the domestic scenes, is trite,and the ending disappointments. In its day, this might have been an eye-opener, now the effect may be the opposite. "},{"Title":"Idealism Vs. Police Corruption","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the late 60's, in New York City, the idealistic Italian descendant Frank Serpico (Al Pacino) joins the New York Police Department and on his first day, he learns that his colleagues are dirty, sharing money received from the extortion of criminals. Serpico refuses to receive the money and reports to a superior. Along the years, his superior does not take any attitude against the corruption and Serpico is an outcast police officer, rejected by his fellows. Further, his personal life is affected and he is harassed and threatened by his colleagues.In 1971, in a drug bust, Serpico is betrayed and shot in the face. He recovers with minor sequels and testifies to the Knapp Commission about the police corruption. Finally, Switzerland gives political to him and he moves to that country.Serpico is one of the best films by Al Pacino and Sidney Lumet about the true story of idealism versus police corruption fought by an idealistic man. I saw Serpico for the first time in the 70's in the movie theater and yesterday I saw it again on DVD, and the film has not aged. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Serpico "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For mysterious reasons, here we have a film that's revered as few. Especially in Greece, where I live, it's considered a classic due to the score having been written by Mikis Theodorakis, a composer with a semi-god status. Sure enough, the music is brilliant, but completely out of context. It just doesn't fit to this movie, period. Now about Al, he deals very well with what he's got, but what he's got is a poser 70s film. Yes we have a story that has actually happened, but the representation and the dialogues are annoyingly stylish and some characters (especially the females) are void of content and personality. It doesn't work. In fact it's a lesson of how to make a real story appear unrealistic. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment from Two Cinema Greats","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Any film directed by Sidney Lumet and starring Al Pacino should be great, but Serpico is mediocre at best. Chronicling the true-life story of Frank Serpico, a police officer who exposed corruption in the NYPD, the film comes from that exquisite golden age of cinema, lasting from the late '60s through the late '70s, when paranoia infected the country and our most trusted and honored institutions were becoming suspect. It's got the grainy, neo-realistic feel that so many of the films from that time period had (and as many of Lumet's own films had), yet it never really works. Lumet's pacing is poor; no scene lasts longer than a minute or two. While one would think this would make for a film with some narrative drive to it, just the opposite happens. It's as if in the editing room all of the important parts of each scene got left out, and what we've been given as a final product is an outline of Serpico's story. No characters beyond Pacino's is really developed, and even he struggles to make something substantial out of his role. This came directly on the heels of The Godfather from the year before, the film that put Pacino on the map. Serpico gives testament to Pacino's abilities and range as an actor; his performance is quite different from that of Michael Corleone. But for me, it's not until his mesmerizing performance in Dog Day Afternoon from 1975 that Pacino really flexes his acting muscles and shows what a true cinematic treasure he is. 26 years later, Pacino was to star in The Insider, another thriller where he played a character who helps to expose corruption, this time in the world of corporate America. My advice is to see Serpico for the place it holds in Pacino's career, but then see The Insider for a suspenseful, terrific movie.Grade C "},{"Title":"Good cop, bad cops...","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unquestionably one of the major films of the 70's dealing with a big theme (police corruption) and with some major talents at close to the top of their game throughout. Sydney Lumet spares us little in this gritty urban drama using almost fly-on-the-wall documentary technique to involve the viewer in the action and stand us directly alongside Pacino as crusading street-wise cop Frank Serpico. Serpico's naive idealism is at first bruised by what at first seems casual freeloading by almost everyone of his new colleagues on the force but which turns to literally a battering as he comes to appreciate just how endemic the inside corruption actually is. Lumet plants us firmly on location in contemporary downtown NY with its rundown apartment blocks, graffiti-strewn streets and lowlife criminal element (and that's just the police!) As for Serpico, we feel his frustration as he cracks under the pressure, his relationship with his girlfriend poisoned as he fails to make the powers-that-be sit up and address what to all intents and purposes is standard behaviour. It takes a great acting performance to carry the viewer all the way through this lonely journey, even when the character himself becomes at times obnoxious and unfeeling to his (few) supporters; thankfully Pacino gives a performance the real-life Serpico deserved. Only very occasionally lapsing into the hoo-ha overacting style that reached its nadir in Scent Of A Woman, Pacino plays it cool and tight throughout, always wary, always looking over his shoulder, playing it for real. If one is slightly sceptical if not critical of his sometimes ridiculous-looking Harry Hippy persona, I think it can be forgiven as being of its time. The ensemble support acting is top-drawer too, everyone is believable as indeed they need to be to make this film work but particular praise should go to Barbara Eda-Young as his put-upon girlfriend and Tony Roberts, free of Woody Allen for once, as his main ally. It's not hard to see the prototypes here for the new generation cutting-egde TV shows which were soon to follow such as Kojak and particularly Hill Street Blues, but that's the least of this film's achievements. In summary then, this excellent film is proof that it's possible for Hollywood to address a potentially unpopular, certainly uncomfortable serious subject, make its point and still entertain. "},{"Title":"Classic biography of a man who proves honesty does triumph over corruption","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico will always be one of the more compelling biographies ever made because its main character, even in the face of an unfair and corrupt world, clings to the virtue of honesty and comes out all right. Stories like that of Frank Serpico, a NYC cop in the late '60s - early '70s who bravely testified against police corruption, fascinate us because they make us wonder what we would do in that character's shoes and feel glad that at the end of the day we don't have to answer that question. Al Pacino stars as the man with these trivial choices, Frank Serpico, who was asked to be the snitch for the NYPD in the Bronx in terms of identifying officers taking bribes from criminals, a role that subjected him to harassment and threats from his fellow officers and caused him extreme amounts of trauma affecting his job and his personal life.Well all come to believe that a police officer's first duty is to the people -- to do the right thing. So does Serpico, so as he has the startling revelation that there's almost no one clean in the police department, we experience the same thing. Our perceptions change as dramatically as Pacino's acting. Initially, Serpico, comes off as this mousy do-good character, a good fit for Pacino's 5'7 frame. When things get bad, the dramatic styles of Pacino that we've come to know over the years really pour out. No one can yell as effectively on screen as Pacino, but he also knows when to step back and command the screen without the use of dialogue. Teaming him with director Sidney Lumet, who always knows how to pick out a script's most dramatic moment, is essentially perfect. Serpico is sandwiched between both major Godfather films, and it offers definite proof of Pacino's leading talents.The script, written partially by Waldo Salt (Midnight Cowboy) is adequate enough to give us a taste of Serpico's moral dilemma. Most of the effective parts are the melodramatic scenes that allow Pacino to use those famous pipes. Everyone in the supporting cast is pretty much forgettable too -- they're all actors prescribed to Hollywood's older school of supporting acting roles just speak with authority in your voice. It's fine, since the film would rather us just identify the as the collective powers of corruption.Serpico is not Lumet's best work, but it has its moments of great visual strength as all his films generally have. He's probably one of the best ever up there with Hitchcock in terms of picking his close-ups. This is really Pacino's chance to shine anyway.What's respectable about the overall tone of the film is that it doesn't preach morals or make empty promises that the good will always be rewarded in the end and the bad punished -- instead, it says that hard honest work counts for something. Serpico takes a bullet to the face for all his grief and leaves the force and the country not long after. Not exactly a happy ending, but a different way of inspiring us in the sense that at least the corruption didn't win. "},{"Title":"Tough, gritty, and full of honesty.","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino dominates every scene he is in as Frank Serpico, a New York City policeman who feels that it is best to be honest and not stick out in public. He is a real believer in trying to turn the city around in the early 1970s, a time when crime was rampant all throughout. Unfortunately, it seems that practically everybody he works with, whether it is fellow cops or the captains and commissioners are all taking place in taking money from the gambling crooks they bring in. No one seems to have a problem with this, except Serpico. And when he decides to do something, he may get more of a fight from his fellow law-protectors than the criminals he is trying to bring down.A year after breaking open in The Godfather, Al Pacino gives a gritty, tough performance as a man who knew what to do that was right and was determined not to let anything stop him. Pacino fits so naturally into this persona of anger, passion, love, and sincerity it is impossible to imagine anyone else in this role. With a strong leading performance, solid writing, and slick directing by master of setting director Sidney Lumet, Serpico ranks as one of the best cop movies and a shining testament to the goodness of one man despite all the corruption around him. "},{"Title":"Diogenes, Have You Looked In The NYPD?","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" For his second Academy Award nomination and his first in the Best Actor category, Al Pacino essayed the title role in Serpico, the true story of an incorruptible cop and a man who Diogenes could have ceased his search for an honest man with.As I'm sure many idealistic young people do, Frank Serpico joined the New York Police Department with hopes of making a difference in society. What he found was a systemic culture of corruption there and faced his own crisis of conscience. Nobody's ever decided where the line is to be drawn. A free meal at a local diner all the way to big payoffs from drug dealers. The police in this film run the gamut, except for Pacino who won't take a dime. His very honesty makes him a marked man.The only problem that I have with Serpico is that he tends to be too self righteous. I do wonder if the real Frank Serpico, who is very much alive, is that way. He seems to repel all possible allies. Personally, I think at some point he should have put his papers in and taken the lesser pension at a point way before the near tragedy which does happen to him.If the script makes him too self righteous, Al Pacino's skill as a player and Sidney Lumet's direction level it out and make Serpico someone we can sympathize with. There's a lot subtlety there in every move, in every facial expression, Al Pacino has even under that heavy beard.Serpico got a nomination for Best Screenplay adapted from another source, it was adapted from Peter Maas's biographical study. Al Pacino unfortunately lost the Best Actor Oscar that year to Jack Lemmon for Save the Tiger. Oddly enough Save the Tiger is about another man at a crossroads in his life and his choice is break the law.Sidney Lumet does love New York, so many of his good films are based and shot there. This one is no exception. I recognized many of the locations of the scenes. Every New Yorker ought to see this film just for that.And I think Diogenes can end his search. "},{"Title":"Fine job.","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" One can't know what the director, Sidney Lumet, was aiming for -- a commercial success probably -- but he achieved more than that. Frank Serpico wasn't a hippy. He disapproved of marijuana because it was illegal. And his face was pock-marked and he wasn't as handsome as Al Pacino. But he was in his way equally saintly.First of all, what a picture of New York City, in all its grime and without any splendor. You could walk a dozen blocks and never be out of a crime scene. There's the Williamsberg Bridge (I think) and not much else in the way of landmarks. Nobody eats at Lutece. The whole place is thoroughly louche.The acting, with the exception of Tony Roberts, is superior.And -- maybe this hit me differently -- it seems to be a movie about police corruption, and of course it is, but it's more than that. The most moving part of the film is a subtext dealing with loneliness. Frank Serpico loses everything, beginning with his girl friend, up to and including his position on the police force. In the lingo of sociometry he'd be a social isolate. Nobody wants to have anything to do with him, except perhaps his family of whom we see little, or maybe an impotent friend who has Princetonian connections in the mayor's office.Oh, it's tough to squeal on your comrades. We all know that. And Serpico suffers in the most saintly way, torn between loyalties to the group to which he belong and the greater values that inform (or are supposed to inform) our society. But what MAKES everything so difficult is that your best friends come to distrust and dislike you.All of us root for Serpico's triumph. We want the NYPD to be cleaned out. (Is it?) But who among us would throw away the casual but still meaningful bonds that we make at work? Would you? I don't know if I would. That, it seems to me, is the principal theme of this movie. Police corruption is the MacGuffin. "}{"Title":"A triumph of naturalism","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Holding a mirror up to the world is not the primary mission of a film. Indeed, for the vast majority of movies, the goal is not reality at all, but heightened reality, or a focus on some aspect of reality. When it comes to film, the majority of stories are best told this way.But there are some stories that are best told in as real and natural a manner as possible. The true story of New York cop Frank Serpico's battle against the corruption that permeated the NYPD in the late '60s and early '70s is just such a story.Everything about Serpico feels 100% real and authentic. The superb naturalistic acting, the lifelike dialogue, the frank and unstylized violence, the unobtrusive direction, the lack of flashy edits or music. Perhaps most challenging of all for the seasoned American moviegoer is the fact that the story unfolds naturally, too. It moves gradually and meanders often. Characters hesitate, are indecisive and sometimes don't do what we expect. And the movie moves at their pace and in their direction--not that of a director, screenwriter, or audience. Just like real life.So, while slow and less than impactful at points, Serpico is as honest and complete a character study as you're ever likely to come across--tailor-made for an actor's actor like Pacino, whose range, presence, and penchant for nuance has never been better utilized. If you want a movie that makes you feel like you were there at a particular time and place with a particular person, Serpico is it.It also bears mentioning that Pacino-as-Serpico is just about the coolest-looking protagonist in film history. Might be my Halloween costume this year...  "},{"Title":"Al Pacino's magical wardrobe","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm thrilled by the fact that I'm not even sure how many films I've done. All I want to do is get better and quantity can help me to solve my problems. - Sidney LumetSidney Lumet has such a huge filmography that it's hard to keep track of everything he's made. In the 1950's he hit us with at least one classic (12 Angry Men), before spending the next 5 years filming TV shows, stage plays and the occasional theatre production.He then made three films in quick succession (Stage Struck, That Kind of Woman and The Fugitive Kind), the last two with Sophia Loren and Marlon Brando. Already we can see Lumet's style developing; he sees himself as a theatre director, content to simply sit back and guide his actors.After some more TV work, Lumet then directed A View from the Bridge, Long Day's Journey into Night, The Pawnbroker and Fail Safe. Here he begins to reveal himself as a bit of a socially conscious artist. These films are all tragic morality plays, focusing on homosexuality, alcoholism, the holocaust and nuclear annihilation respectively.Lumet then spent the next decade trying to branch out. The Hill was a gruff, overtly masculine picture, filled with a cast of strong, sweaty men. The Group, in contrast, was about as feminine as you could get, featuring a cast of lesbians, girls and women. He then did The Deadly Affair, a once influential but now dated spy thriller, followed by Bye Bye Braverman, an absurd comedy in the vein of Robert Altman's Brewster McCloud. With The Sea Gull he tried his hand at Chekov and with the surreal The Appointment he dabbled at Fellini.In the 1970s Lumet did some of his best work. The Anderson Tapes may be flawed, but we can see Lumet playing with space and architecture here, designing his heist story to show off his sets and clever camera work. He then follows this up with 2 great cop films The Offence with Sean Connery and Serpico with Al Pacino. The greater of the two is, of course, Serpico, with its iconic lead performances and superbly claustrophobic aesthetic. It's another one of those man against the system pictures, but Lumet's camera captures well the grit of low-rent New York and the paranoia of being an undercover officer. Pacino - bearded, Christlike and with a procession of hilarious outfits - is even better.Lumet would then have hits with Network, Dog Day Afternoon and Murder on the Oriet Express, 3 films which show him trying to break away from his theatrical roots. He tried his hands at comedy and musicals along the way (Just Tell Me What You Want and The Wiz), but these films haven't aged well.Then came Prince of the City, arguably his most ambitious picture. Vast in scope, Lumet juggles this mammoth crime picture with confidence. Sadly, not many people have seen this film.The rest of Lumet's career has been pretty hit and miss. The best of his later films are arguably The Verdict, an excellent courtroom drama with Paul Newman, and Running on Empty, a sensitive, underrated film starring River Phoenix and Judd Hirsch. 9/10 - Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Beardface","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Review edited for IMDb due to word limit. See wiredonmovies.com for full review.Serpico, its many flaws notwithstanding, is far from being a terribly exciting motion picture. Granted, it is based on the true story of an incorruptible Italian-American cop named Frank Serpico who brought down an entire police precinct that was in on the take. But true stories aren't always warranting for great films. That's the primary reason Hollywood always spices stories up by inserting scenes that never occurred in real life and altering the facts.Serpico could have used a bit of altering. It's just not interesting enough to sustain its material for two and a half hours. Perhaps a ninety-minute movie would have done it justice, but its running time is far too long for such a film. But even then I could probably say it's a well-made film. Too bad it feels so sloppy and cheap.Let me briefly rephrase that in a nutshell It's not a bad movie. It just could have been a lot better. Sidney Lumet should be ashamed. He should have fired the editor the first day on the job. Here we have many different scenes spliced together, in apparently random order, and an unbearably dingy audio track that *plays during (and over) conversations!* Music is essential to all film, but it has to be used correctly. You can't just play a soundtrack throughout an entire motion picture.But Lumet doesn't even do that. He plays it in the worst spots he possibly could. It's as if he went through the entire movie, marked down each scene where there shouldn't be music in the background, then applied it. Even if you're going to burden the audience with music and dialogue blending together at the same time, at least make it *good* music!Many scenes seem pointless and badly executed. Pacino is a standout but the rest of the film is a failure. The acting (save Pacino) is stiff and the dialogue is corny (save Serpico's, but even his gets cheesy sometimes). It's as if everything were scripted by an author and just fed to the actors. Oh, wait, that's exactly what happened. My bad.Did all these people who claim this is the best police corruption film ever made witness the same mediocre blend of poor technicalities and acting and music that I did? Did they not see the horrendous nature of the random interactions being spliced together with separate ones? Did they not notice that every time a crucial character moment came around this really, really bad music started to play over the actors'?The plot is pointless because I've already delved into it--a downtown police precinct is corrupt and they can't stand Serpico's morality. So they decide to plot against him and try to murder him. They fail. First we get Serpico being led away in a car. (He's been shot by a cop!) Bloodstained and in a daze, we see Al Pacino's bearded portrayal of Serpico drifting in and out of consciousness.Then we get the non-introduced flashbacks to the beginning.But Lumet presents Serpico as a caricature, playing by all the rules and fitting snugly into a giant cliché. Al Pacino rises above these clichés, of course, with his hard-edged performance. But imagine how much more powerful it could have been if the director and scriptwriter had liberated him and set him free. Maybe we'd get a performance to equal that in Scarface. But alas, Pacino is simply overburdened with juggling these clichés and only manages to make the character somewhat realistic. Even then he goes through the same routines that all the clean characters go through. (Even Sly made it more realistic in Cop Land.)I saw a documentary once about the real Frank Serpico and what he did after the film was released. He turned into a hermit. He still looks the same, with his beard and all, but it'd be interesting to watch the film with him and have him point out all the things he actually did and said as opposed to what's in the movie. I'm not saying Serpico was corrupt. I'm sure everything is true. I'm sure he was a very nice and moralistic man.But there's a difference between being a moralistic man and a naive idiot like Serpico in the movie. Pacino makes him smarter than he appears on paper but read some of his lines to yourself and notice the sheer stupidity of it all.Pacino's performance is a knockout one, which is why Serpico gets a fair rating in my book and a weak recommendation. But it takes its time getting places, too many scenes are out of place, the music is more often distracting than not and the rest of the cast are insufferable. They could easily have brought down Pacino but he's too strong for that. He's a fighter, just like Serpico, which may explain why he took on the role. Too bad Lumet had to interfere with his performance. Too bad the music had to interfere with the dialogue. Too bad Lumet and the music had to be there at all. Just imagine what Scorsese could have done with this, and how liberating he could have made the character and his interactions. Here we just have a stone caricature of a real man, and it isn't too terribly impressive.3/5 "},{"Title":"Great character study with unsatisfactory ending","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Excellent movies have to leave me feeling fully satisfied at the conclusion. Serpico did not do this although it was an excellent character study.I rooted for New York City police officer Frank Serpico throughout this non-fiction movie. Courageous and honest, he battled corruption endemic among colleagues and supervisors for many years. Al Pacino was outstanding portraying someone whose personality became unbearable to friends and allies as his efforts to report illegal activities were constantly stymied.Toward the end of the movie, Serpico finally achieved some success when New York City's mayor appointed a commission to investigate police corruption and he testified about what was essentially organized crime. This victory came at great cost to his well-being and romantic life.Unfortunately, the movie's end is unclear about whether justice prevailed. The epilogue says nothing about what happened to the movie's characters other than its namesake. I had numerous questions. Were supervisors like the commissioner involved in the payoff system or were they merely intentionally ignoring it? Were any police brass indicted or convicted? Which of the characters that I came to hate during the movie were made to pay for their crimes?Answers to these and other questions would have induced me to give Serpico a higher rating. I wanted to give it a 9 because I was riveted enough to watch several scenes three or more times.But, basic facts are important. Even if I conceded that the movie could have been made before there was a resolution to the corruption investigation, I still would penalize Serpico for not at least informing us viewers about the probe's progress, who Serpico implicated in his testimony and in his interviews with The New York Times and others, and which characters were at risk of prison.Before writing my conclusion, I want to say something about what I consider numerous ridiculous posts on the IMDb message board. Several people said, in essence, that Serpico lacked character because of the way he treated people. The posters are looking at the trees, not the forest.In fact, Serpico demonstrated great character because he was courageous in fighting a corrupt system although going along would have been personally beneficial. The movie is a great character portrayal because it shows how this battle turned an offbeat, but relatively sedate person into someone who was often temperamental, obstinate, arrogant, and nasty.Serpico had many flaws, but his fortitude and ethics are far more important. At minimum, I would assess him as of having far superior character to any of his colleagues who participated in the corruption or knew about it and did nothing even if they were pristine outside of the office.Some of the comments I read remind me of the debate about Oskar Schindler of Schindler's List. He had numerous flaws too, but the importance of what he did meant he had great character.Back to the review. As a character portrayal, Serpico deserves a 9. It also deserves a 9 for its portrayal of Serpico's conflicts with his colleagues and its ability to keep viewers interested in his struggles.As a movie, though, Serpico deserves a lower score because it is a bit too long, some scenes about his personal life could be edited better, the timeline and length of Serpico's police service are unclear, some of the supplementary characters are indistinguishable at times, and, most importantly, I was left unsatisfied at the end because I didn't know what happened to the bad guys.I gave Serpico a 7.ZWrite "},{"Title":"the one man powerhouse performance","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was so convinced that Al Pacino's best performance was in Scent Of A Woman, but that was before I saw Serpico!!! Al Pacino, in what I feel is his best role, plays Frank Serpico, an honest cop who takes on the corruption of the entire police force. With the motto to serve the people, Serpico comes into the force to find that he is the object of all ridicule because of his honesty and dedication. And with a view to not succumb to the corruption he becomes the 'wierdo cop' with whom nobody wants to work. Through innumerable transfers Serpico can't cope with force anymore, and when the police commissioner chooses not to help him, he decides to take matter into his own hands. The irony is that his cause is given notice only when he gets shot in the face. I really liked the way the movie began, showing the wounded Serpico being taken to the hospital. With a few reactions from his superiors, the press and his fellow cops, 'six of whom said they'd have liked to shoot him', the audience is taken on a flashback of Serpico's life and the events that led to him getting shot. The ending was equally powerful, especially in the scene where Serpico was given the Gold Shield and he refused by saying, Why this? For being an honest cop or for being stupid enough to get shot in the face? With a powerful script, moving music, great performances and a brilliant director Sydney Lumet (Dog Day Afternoon, another fabulous movie) Serpico is one powerful movie experience. It is made with a certain realism that makes the audience feel for the protagonist and everything that he goes through. Also with so many hair styles and facial changes it is amazing how there is not one technical error with reference to the script. The movie is worth having as a collector's item so if you haven't seen the movie go and buy the DVD now. "},{"Title":"A gentleman and a scholar","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The real Frank Serpico is a gentleman and a scholar. He treats people with respect, be it a beggar on the street or your average Joe blow. Unlike Bo Dietl One Tough Cop, Frank Serpico is the real McCoy. I've had the honor to meet him and found him to be friendly and an affable caring man. He does not brush you away and pretend you don't exist like Mr. Bo Dietl does to people that do not interest him or his career. Frank Serpico never let all the publicity go to his head as did...you know who. When the going gets tough and dangerous...I want Frank Serpico , who not only served his country in Korea, but was a true hero cop, by my side. "},{"Title":"In part phony movie","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll give a 7/10 for this movie, but only because it's entertainment.Several years ago and at frankserpico.com, a website that was supposed to have been created by relatives of Frank Serpico, former NYPD officer, I read an article that was supposed to have been written by him and it debunked some aspects of the movie Serpico of 1973. Try to find that piece today, good luck. He's provided or presented some talks since 2000 and he didn't disparage this movie, but you have to listen to the real Frank Serpico. Unfortunately the server for frankserpico.com isn't presently accessible. There's a blog, but it's apparently in Canada and who know who is hosting the website. The article I had read about the movie was supposed to be by him.And it was considerably more different about the attempt on his life than what he's said in some talks since 2000. The article described the two NYPD officers that were with him when he was shot in the face as if they were part of a set-up against his life. Either he didn't describe the situation that way when he spoke at some assemblies since 2000, or it didn't sound the same way to me.In any case, the movie Serpico (1973) apparently is a docu-drama that contains some falsehoods and only he could say what's true in this, and not. Someone should find a way to communicate with him about this; BUT, he provided talks since 2000 and there're videos at YouTube for this, including about this movie. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" it was Al Pacino's first big screen masterpiece of acting. The Godfather was really Marlon Brando's showcase vehicle, and The Godfather, Part Two was a year away, while Dog Day Afternoon, also with Lumet, was another year further out. Pacino's Frank Serpico covers a lot of ground in his time on the force, and the two and a quarter hour film moves so briskly that it seems much longer, but in the good sense. As a biopic, it wisely focuses on the meat of the man's public impact, not a cradle to grave psychodrama. We see the thousand little ways that corruption breeds and spreads. Not only is evident it out and out graft and bribery, but in parking ticket quotas, freeby lunches, and the like of countless seemingly harmless acts. Serpico will have none of it, as he is shunted from precinct to precinct, and mocked by his fellow cops as a goody-goody, untrustworthy, and dangerous- all because he's decent and ethical. The non-stop harassment eats away at his insides and his mind, destroys his relationships with women, and lands him on a mission to clean things up, by whatever means he can.However, bureaucracy slows down his quest, until he connects with another cop, Bob Blair (Tony Roberts), who guides him across minefields of political machinations, until they both decide to go public to the New York Times. Consequently, Serpico is abandoned on a drug bust, by his partners, and shot in the face- the point at which the film begins, then proceeds to its coda. The film ends with Serpico going public at the Knapp Commission hearings, and then we get the credits telling us of the aftermath. Sidney Lumet had a perfect grasp of the streets and the times in this film, and the old clichés about them not making films like this any more is true. Compare this to the Academy Award-level 'issues' films of recent vintage- The Hours, Million Dollar Baby, Monster, or this year's Brokeback Mountain- and there's simply no comparison. Realistic, but poetic, films like this are just not made by the damnable Hollywood machine any longer. And few independent films can afford the budget and time needed to craft so meticulous a work- Joe Carnahan's recent Ray Liotta vehicle Narc being a welcome exception. Yet, films like this, Dog Day Afternoon, The French Connection, The Conversation, Taxi Driver, All The President's Men, Apocalypse Now, and the like, still tug at the American psyche. Surely, there will be a time in the not-too distant future that such films will be welcome again? "},{"Title":"One of Al Pacino's best performances","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" What's this for? For bein' an honest cop? Hmm? Or for being stupid enough to get shot in the face? You tell them that they can shove it.If you were alive during the 70's then there is no question in my mind that your favorite actor was Al Pacino. He ruled during that decade. His performance in Serpico playing the title character, an honest cop who refused to participate in the corruptive system that surrounded the NY police department, is considered by many to be his best work, which is saying a lot when you take into account his other films during that four year span both Godfather films, Dog Day Afternoon, and Scarecrow. He was nominated for an Oscar for his performances during four straight years and surprisingly came out empty handed. It wouldn't be until his eight nomination in 1993 for his lead performance in Scent of a Woman that he would finally receive his dues (a category in which he was also nominated for Glengarry Glen Ross). It's astonishing to look back at his career and see how many great performances he delivered over time, but especially during the early 70's. Serpico is a film that must be seen primarily for his energetic performance, which foretold what an illustrious career he would have ahead of him. It didn't hurt that the great Sidney Lumet was directing this true story based on the biographical book written by Peter Maas. His choices for location all over the different NY boroughs gave the film a sense of authenticity for this genre film. Lumet was interested in focusing on this character and portraying the emotional effect that the corruptive system had on him in the most realistic way possible and he succeeded. It's been more than 40 years since Serpico has been released and its themes remain relevant to this day.The film opens with a bloodied officer being rushed to a hospital in the back of a police car. We find out that he's an undercover cop named Frank Serpico (Al Pacino) and he has been shot in the face. When one of the police inspector's receives the news his immediate reaction is that a fellow officer must have shot him. The next scene is a close-up shot of Serpico's eyes that are still moving and then the film takes us to the 60's where we see a younger version of him graduating as a police officer from the Academy. From the very beginning we can tell that Serpico is self motivated and honest. He aspires to become a detective, but his idealistic world comes crumbling down when he witnesses his fellow officers accepting bribes from gamblers and drug dealers. They offer him money, but he doesn't accept, which in turns makes him new enemies. His next move is to enlist the help of a trusted officer named Bob Blair (Tony Roberts) who sets him up with higher ranked officers to whom he can report his partners' corruptive behavior, but all they end up doing is transferring him to new divisions. Their promises of cleaning up the department go nowhere and Frank's increasing frustration begins to take a toll on his relationship with his fiancée Laurie (Barbara Eda-Young) as several years go by with the same results. With very few friends and a lot of enemies, Frank knows that his days as a police officer are numbered, but he remains hopeful that someday the truth will be revealed. Lumet expertly manages to portray the passage of time in a rather convincing manner here without resorting to spoon feeding the audience. The editing is handled in superb fashion and Al Pacino's physical transformation is a great indicator of how distrusting of the system he's becoming. He is the driving force of the movie and the main reason why the film succeeds. He gets to shine in the subtle and quiet moments such as when he's simply enjoying his back yard listening to opera and starting a conversation with his next door neighbor, or during the powerful emotional scenes where he takes all his anger and frustration out on his fiancée or a criminal he just busted in the streets. Serpico shaped the genre and the way some action films were being handled by delivering a more authentic and true to life film that added resonance to the subject that was being handled. The material was handled seriously by the screenwriters who delivered an honest adaptation and weren't there simply to entertain audiences, but to deliver a message. That is what has made this such a memorable and thought provoking film to this date. Al Pacino is the only actor who really gets to stand out here because the entire focus is on him and as time passes the rest of the characters come in and out of his life, but he is reason enough to check the film out. http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"An honest cop. Who would believe that?","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico is directed by Sidney Lumet and adapted to screenplay by Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler from Peter Maas' biography of NYPD officer Frank Serpico who stood up to expose rife corruption in the force. It stars Al Pacino, John Randolph, Jack Kehoe, Biff McGuire, Bernard Barrow, Nathan George and Tony Roberts. Music is by Mikis Theodorakis and Giacomo Puccini and cinematography by Arthur J. Ornitz.Great story telling meets a first class acting performance in Lumet's searing movie. Frank Serpico (Pacino), a legend to us mere mortals out on the street, but the most hated man on the NYPD, so much so he almost paid for his sense of what's right and wrong with his life.Picture follows Frank through his integration on the force and onto the build up of corruption he comes across. All the time we are also getting an insight into the man himself, his life and loves outside of work, with Lumet and Pacino making sure Frank is not painted as a saintly perfectionist, there is no halo above his head, he has flaws like everybody else. New York is expertly painted as a raw and grubby place, the hustle and bustle a nuisance, and the seamy underside where crims and dirty coppers dwell makes you feel like taking a shower. It proves to be a riveting character study and a thought provoking expose at the same time, while ultimately it proves to be a touching experience come the culmination of the drama.Excellent. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Beautifully Portrayed Period Piece","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having stumbled across Serpico by accident, I was incredibly impressed by Pacino's acting, not to mention the exceptionally well written and plainly interesting story.What will be no surprise is that for me, the ethical dilemma faced by Serpico is what makes it a brilliant story and timeless case study of morality. Serpico is a difficult film to watch at times precisely because of the protagonist's stalwart decision making and integral resolve to do the right thing. Clearly Serpico is in the right, that is difficult to contest; he is facing down system wide corruption within a police force that spurs crime for kickbacks. Pacino beautifully and timelessly portrays an aspiring young police officer that because of his decision to resist, transforms from being a happy, fancy free, and in love man into a very embittered albeit resolved loner and vanguard.Serpico takes on extreme bitterness and personal risk for the sake of changing a corrupt system, for being in the right and being a person with the fortitude to affect change.At the time of the film's release in 1973, folks throughout the world in the wake of the 68' movement learned first hand how difficult and personally challenging resistance could be. Many of those actors, like Serpico, acted ethically but many (and I believe Serpico's fictional character) did not anticipate the true costs of fighting a corrupt system alone. While systemic problems endured, loved ones continued to go uncared for, pollution mounted, and cities crumbled (evident in the film's gritty New York setting that was a key aesthetic of 1970s malaise -think Taxi Driver or Mean Streets for more examples from film).The entire film, I waited for the moment I knew would never come. Although it is easy to pass by, Serpico really had two ethical choices the path he chooses in fighting corruption, and the path of leaving the police force in exchange for his safety and happiness.Not only Serpico but those that love him, his friends, his family, and (perhaps most importantly) the women in his life are forced to suffer with him as he chooses the path of ethical purity.After nearly losing his life, Serpico, in a key moment of painful contemplation while he sits up in his hospital bed, rejects the prized detectives badge. In his testimony before the grand jury, Serpico states beautifully that fighting corruption requires not only commissioners but ALSO police officers to undertake change.Although I know it was based on a true story, I like to think that Pacino's character found a way to make the most out of having survived, perhaps going back to the woman he loves in all but word.Fantastic wishful thinking aside, what we are left with is a beautiful portrayal, while though historic, makes timeless commentary on what it means to be moral in an immoral world. "},{"Title":"Classic Pacino...","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico is film by excellent director Sydney Lumet who brought you films like 12 Angry Men, Network, Dog Day Afternoon, Verdict and many others. In other words, Serpico is made by one the best filmmakers of the last 60 years and stars Al Pacino in one of his greatest performances. What else do you need? That's a great recommendation for those who enjoy real films with strong characters and great storytelling.Just go watch Serpico and enjoy Al Pacino at his very best. Serpico is a fantastic film with a lot style, humanity and gritty realism to spare. If you like human dramas with terrific performances and masterful direction then go watch Serpico now! "},{"Title":"You could always give that money to charity...","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nobody likes Serpico. Nobody is supposed to like him, he's not the sort of character most of us can relate too. A weird, absent minded, righteously-nagging (in a way) voice that begins to burrow into the police bureaucracy like if it were its own conscience.Yet he is the good guy, he fights, he commits his life, he sacrifices his future wife, his friends, his health, to make right.This film stings. Would we have done the same? This movie is so real it's bitter, like life itself.Lumet has crafted a brilliant jewel that stands out among all cop movies. "},{"Title":"Gritty, Tense & Utterly Enthralling","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This crime drama about rampant police corruption and an honest cop who refuses to be a part of it, is extraordinarily powerful. Based on Peter Maas' best-selling book, it tells the true story of a young police officer called Frank Serpico (Al Pacino) who, at great cost to himself, resists becoming involved in the pay-offs and bribes which he quickly discovers are a normal and widespread part of life in the NYPD.Part of the strength of this movie comes from the fact that what happens on screen is depicted in a very realistic and objective way that avoids sentimentality and makes good use of some well chosen New York locations. The way in which Serpico's personality and conduct are portrayed is also commendable, as no attempt seems to have been made to gloss over his more unflattering qualities.After undercover cop Frank Serpico is shot in the face and critically injured during a drug bust, he reflects on the events that brought him to this situation and his story begins when he embarks on his career as an idealistic police officer who's determined to discharge his duties with absolute integrity. He's initially shocked by the apathy of a more experienced officer who's not interested in responding to a call concerning a violent attack on a young woman and is then equally appalled when a suspect is routinely beaten up before being interrogated.Bigger problems arise, however, when it becomes apparent that a culture of corruption is so prevalent in the Department that when he refuses to participate, he immediately gets treated with suspicion and distrust and his life in the job becomes very difficult. Serpico also doesn't readily conform to the culture of his organisation in certain other ways as his bohemian lifestyle, hirsute appearance and interest in ballet provoke both ridicule and suspicions about his sexual orientation.Serpico tries to expose the wrongdoings of his fellow officers by reporting what he knows to his superiors but it soon becomes clear that they have no interest in taking action and are only concerned about protecting the reputation of the Department and avoiding any adverse publicity. The frustration and anger that he experiences as a result of this causes Serpico a great deal of anguish and contributes strongly to his inability to maintain relationships with his girlfriends.Serpico's sheer persistence eventually brings him some success but predictably, it comes at an extremely high cost.Frank Serpico is an exceptional character in many ways as not only is he remarkably single-minded and relentless but also he remains defiant and committed to his own crusade even when this makes him totally alienated and despised by almost everybody in the NYPD. His actions could be seen as being obsessive and ill judged or incredibly brave and noble. Either way, he is unquestionably an heroic person whose achievements, against what appeared to be impossible odds, were amazing.Al Pacino's Oscar-nominated performance captures the complexity and driven nature of Serpico perfectly and achieves tremendous intensity in the way that he conveys his character's compulsive nature and ability to cope in an environment in which he's constantly isolated and in great personal danger.This movie is a unique story about a unique individual and the matter of fact way in which it's told is gritty, tense and utterly enthralling. "},{"Title":"New York In The Seventies","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" When a film's runtime exceeds two hours, beware. It may mean that the film is very proud of itself, takes itself very seriously, and expects that viewers will gush with praise for its Herculean effort. Such is true of Serpico, a film as much about its star actor as about the naive, good guy cop named Serpico, trapped by institutional corruption. The entire film orbits this star actor. And that's the main reason I don't care for it.With his annoyingly nasal voice, our star plods along all overwrought and heavily burdened, metaphorically begging for Academy Award recognition. How unsubtle can one be? The film's story would have been better with a lesser known actor, one who doesn't overwhelm the script's premise. The film would also have been better if they had chopped off about thirty minutes of runtime, by cutting irrelevant or repetitious scenes included solely to accentuate our star playing such a heroic role.Serpico does have merit, but mostly in its background visuals. Filmed entirely in New York City, the film just reeks of a dark, gritty urban landscape. Old, drab brownstones; back streets piled high with garbage; depressing interiors with green, grimy walls; cold industrial lighting; non-artistic graffiti splattered on outside walls; noisy trains elevated on ugly steel scaffolding &#x85; For all the rot, it does at least feel real, and pleasantly unadorned. Visuals are helped along by an absence of background music in most scenes. Ambient urban sounds add to the gloomy realism.This film succeeds quite well in showing us New York City as it existed in the early 1970s. But the script is a letdown because the premise and the Serpico character are so unsubtle. There's very little subtext here. But its worst element is the casting of a star who turns what could have been a riveting true-life story into a cinematic vehicle to showcase his own proud performance. "},{"Title":"An important movie","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here we have the ultimate story of police corruption and the one man who took a stand against it. That man was Frank Serpico, the man this movie is centered around. This film was another teaming up of Sidney Lumet and Al Pacino, and while the results were not as good as when they teamed up for Dog Day Afternoon, the film still has a lot of merit. The highest merit perhaps is that Pacino's performance as Frank Serpico is now credited as one of his best. The role was more than perfect for the loud mouthed, rough and tough Pacino. The film itself is about Serpico's fight against police corruption and the horrible ridicule he received from his peers for it. It is a true story of courage and perseverance.The story behind this man Serpico is definitely interesting. It was surprising to see just what lengths he went to in order to expose this corruption which all his peers don't seem to have an issue with. It was really pretty shocking to see the darkest side of law enforcement and just how low they could stoop to pick up some extra cash. Serpico's role in all of it was very interesting as he at first had to sit by and watch it happen. As the film progresses he does more and more about it until he has a full fledged investigation by the end, working precariously and diligently to expose the corruption. Law enforcement is a complex world, and Serpico showed just how much goes into the job and the morality, or lack thereof, in its inner workings.What this film is about is undeniably interesting, but what actually happens in the film tended to lose my interest. It is a slow moving film because Serpico's battle against corruption was evidently a slow one. Not a whole lot happens, especially towards the middle. Once we see where the film is going it slows down considerably. I don't want to say that I ever lost interest in the film because I always wanted to know how the story would play out, but I became impatient at times. There are a lot of characters and a lot of locations so it is important to pay close attention to this movie at all times. It's imperative to watch this movie in the right setting and mindset, because you have to be ready for a rich and in depth story. Perhaps I wasn't. I won't know until I get around to rewatching the film.Despite anything I can say, I could never deny that Sidney Lumet knows how to make high quality films. He is someone that, at least in those days, didn't slack off on his films. He made the best picture he could and utilized any creative outlet he had to make the best films possible. Sometimes he succeeded, and other times not so much. Serpico is definitely a success in the quality department. It is a high grade film that boasts a lot of care and attention to the story it tells. The narrative style might have had some bumps along the way but the film itself is a very well constructed piece of cinema that should be recognized for what it is.I didn't love Serpico but it is no doubt a good film. The story is one that is very sophisticated and important to society. I'm not going to try to sound like I'm well versed in current day police corruption, but I would imagine it is still prevalent, making Serpico a still relevant film. And thank God that such a relevant story should be told by a director like Sydney Lumet, and that the man behind the story should be portrayed by one of the greatest actors of all time, Al Pacino. "},{"Title":"One Honest Cop vs. The System","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" As you would always expect, Al Pacino offered a solid and steady performance as New York City police officer Frank Serpico, an honest cop stuck in a sea of corruption in the department who earns the enmity of his fellow officers by trying to blow the whistle on the goings on. After a truly eye-catching opening in which Serpico is rushed to the hospital after being shot in the face (the question asked - although the viewer has no background at that point to really understand it - is whether he was shot by other cops) the movie settles down as it tells Serpico's story and explains what led up to the shooting. In fact, the movie itself begins to resemble Pacino's performance solid and steady. It's certainly not an action movie, and it doesn't feature the shoot-outs and sustained excitement that you might expect from a police drama. It deals more with the nitty-gritty Serpico's frustration at trying to get his superiors to listen to him, the impact it has on his personal life and the ongoing revelations of the corruption that existed. That corruption is endemic. The story doesn't reveal anything particularly dramatic - cops are gambling, getting paid off, etc. It says more about the police culture of the day than about the nature of the corruption itself. There was a sense of entitlement; a sense that everyone's doing it, so why shouldn't I? It demonstrates that as a result of that sense of entitlement, a cop who doesn't play the game is not only on the outside and friendless within the department, he's also fair game for anyone. That was portrayed very well. The mystery of the shooting that the movie opened with is eventually revealed, and the movie ends on a high and hopeful note, with Serpico offering testimony at a commission set up to investigate police corruption.Neither the movie nor the role are Pacino's best, and in fact this is obviously overshadowed by the fact that it's sandwiched between Pacino's famous role as Michael Corleone in Godfather I & II. This shouldn't be overlooked, though. It's a good movie and a good performance, even giving rise to a short-lived TV series of the same name. "},{"Title":"Gives you faith in good over evil, and in Pacino over a sometimes routine film","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" (1973)Sidney Lumet's Serpico is based on such a compelling story, and is told so well, you really can't not like it. Al Pacino dominates, and he is in every scene. This means the movie is based almost literally on what Frank Serpico saw and did as a moral and unshakeable cop in New York just before the film was made. It's filmed with gritty realism but without sensationalism, though you might say a little artlessly, too, as if Lumet just wants to get the job done and not get in the way. In fact, Lumet wasn't involved in pre-production, called in just a filming was to start, so there might be a disconnect there. The support cast--mostly other cops plus two sometimes convincing girlfriends--is very good, though very few of them are developed at all.So it's a very good film with a great story--a plain enough summary of a movie that won't let you go. But wait, you do have to let Pacino take a bow for another absorbing, intense performance. It's his movie. And Frank Serpico, who just saw it for the first time last year, after carefully avoiding it for almost forty years. A great article of the real Serpico from January 2010 can be found by typing Serpico on Serpico in google, and look for the New York Times article, worth the fast read! "},{"Title":"Pacino is the life of 'Seprico'...","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the true story of New York City policeman Frank Serpico, who eventually went undercover to expose the corruption of his fellow officers, after being pushed to the brink at first by their distrust and later by the threats and intimidation they leveled against him. Now, making biopics is not everyone's cup of tea, but when you hear Sidney Lumet -- the seasoned filmmaker, you are assure yourself that's it's going to be worth. But what really works here in Al Pacino, who packs a performance that is tremendous.As a film, 'Seprico' is fascinating, but boring as well. The film takes off with a bang, but later becomes a never-ending saga. Some Biopics are boring, 'Seprico' isn't amongst those, but it has it's share of flaws that can't be erased. The film has a bland second hr, it falls on it's face, but the finale makes up for it.Coming to the right points, Lumet's direction is catching, so is the cinematography by Arthur J. Ornitz. In acting, Al Pacino packs in a tremendous performance as 'Seprico'. The Legendary actor never disappoints, and 'Seprico' is just another example. He the biggest asset of this film, in fact, M writing this review because of Pacino's performance.'Seprico' is a widely regarded as a classic today, for me it isn't a classic. Watch it only and only for Pacino. "},{"Title":"A visual feast...","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had a chance to watch it on a projected screen without sound. Imagery was so outstanding that I felt the need to review it regardless. Hence, sound design and any information conveyed via dialogue will not be present in this review. Heads up.Most striking element of this film is the angelic looks and stoic facial expressions of its main character. As we seamlessly weave from scene to scene, sequence to sequence, Pacino's youthful and angelic looks juxtaposed against his violent or at times stagnant behavior continuously surprise us. There are many ways to psychoanalyze this yet, I'll leave it at that. The cinematographer's done nothing short of a brilliant job of capturing depth and movement which adds an extra layer of mystery. Costume and hair design, though monumentally time stamped, are aesthetically so pleasing that I wanted to be shuttled back to the 70's to experience the flaring sleeves, close cut shirts, loose tops, the soft cotton touch. The effect of such costumes in a nothing-less-than a violent film is once again the element of disbelief As hard as it is to believe the angel is very much misbehaving, it is hard for us to imagine why there'd be so much violence amongst softly-clad people in comfortable plush settings... Then of course, the exposed brick walls, tagged subway entrances, graffiti covered staircases, these are all elements of the harsh exterior. A visual only exploration of this film conveys the soft, fragile and good internal worlds against a backdrop of harsh and violent exteriors, New York streets during the 70s through the lens of the angel. Once again, we can go back to the nature vs nurture argument but I'll curb that and allow you to fill in the blanks if you are prone to psychoanalyze. I strongly recommend it to visual aficionados, and lovers of the 7th art. "}{"Title":"One of the better films of the 70's, and one of the most underrated. A good spotlight and showcase of corruption, red tape, and dirty police agency politics.","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" For years I had been wanting to watch this movie I knew it was one of Pacino's best, and I must say Serpico didn't let me down it's a wonderful film that with each scene you watch you feel the gripping drama and intense power it brings. And the lead Al Pacino in my opinion gives one of his most raw and powerful intense performances ranking him right with his performance of Roy Cohn in Angels in America. And Sidney Lumet does it again he shows he can direct stories so well yet he was probably helped here since this was an actual real life thing that occurred on the New York City police force in the early 1970's. And really Frank Serpico should be given a hand for the way he stood up to police corruption.As you can see from the first parts of the film when newly hired rookie policeman Frank Serpico(Al Pacino) is hired he's young eager and has the desire and will to be a superhero type of a cop. As evidenced by the scene of him hustling down the rape suspect. Still he's by the book and straight as he will not participate in the beating of suspects and he believes in following up on investigations and learning legal procedures to the best of his ability. Right away Frank sees that honesty and the truth is not respected as he even receives mistreatment and scorn from fellow officers for small things he questions. Only later Frank sees the big problem on the integrity menu that's most of the officers are on the take from money transfers and taking bribes.One by one he's faced with disbelief when he takes the info to higher ups they always give him the BS of the runaround type and telling him what he wants to hear just like any politician would. It's all red tape of the police agency. The film really combined the elements corrupt establishment and counter culture well as Al in his role is such a hero for standing up against the big crooked bad guys.Really Serpico is a great character story of one man's brave real life courage who fought for truth and honesty. I clap for it for showcasing just how corrupt the police were in New York proving government has many flaws and also as many can relate it's not only the police forces but many other agencies are corrupt as they have so much red tape with administrators and policy people being yes men types. This film showcased that stuff so well. So by all means this is a must see film that's intense and truth seeking clearly one of Al Pacino's best. "},{"Title":"Made in America","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've used the phrase 'quintessentially American film' before and inspite of much deliberation, I've been unable to come up with a more apposite start to my thoughts on Serpico. I repeat the phrase because the difference an individual can make in the larger scheme of things is perhaps the one theme that chimes best with the American audience. Every reaffirmation of their founding ideals in cinema has met with a thumbs-up from the American public. More than that. I believe it is right up there with the contributions of the United States to world cinema along with the musical, the animated feature and film-noir. It may not be a genre on its own and seems palatable only when it has American origins. I don't think this theme can have similar success in a European setting or for that matter any other cinema in the world in terms of the proportion of the cinema goers who embrace it. Apart from numerical claims, it is usually better understood and well-made by directors whose thought strains are distinctly American. Sidney Lumet is one of them. His films (notably 12 Angry Men, Dog Day Afternoon, Network, The Verdict) involve searching examinations of the American system and have been noted for pitting 'the little guy against the system'.This film traces the descent of its hero Frank Serpico, a police officer in the NYPD, into disillusionment, frustration and eventual paranoia as a consequence of widespread and unchecked corruption at all levels of the NYPD. His attempts at disclosure through various portals while bearing the brunt of ridicule by his peers form the fairly straightforward narrative. As has been made out, the whole setup serves as a tour-de-force for Al Pacino. His balancing act between individualism and ideological fixation helps establish the character as a rallying point. Given the time at which it was made, in lesser hands Serpico could've come across as totally anti-establishment or uncompromisingly obsessed with an impracticable ideology, neither of which would've resonated in the same way with a large audience. With Pacino, I never winced at the idealistic outlook. It seemed natural.In a remarkable instance of outfits really adding to a persona, Pacino veers towards a hippie look &#x96; beaded chains, aviators, leather vests, pajama-like pants, light shirts and the like. Add a beard to this equation and a maverick personality emerges, accentuated by the clothing. Brilliant ! "},{"Title":"Interesting cop thriller that dares to go against character type through using real life accounts.","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching Serpico now feels like a throwback to the 1970s, in particular the film-making of the time when American cinema was willing to employ a well respected and somewhat famous director and have him make a film that is complex, intriguing and demands attention. Made at a time just before Spileberg, Lucas and co. pioneered the blockbuster and the movie franchise, Serpico joins that elite list of films made right at the very end of an era; a list that might include the first two Godfather films; All the President's Men and although I didn't like it so much, The French Connection. A modern day equivalent of Serpico might well be recent Best Picture nominee Michael Clayton, as an individual seeks to find the truth behind a certain event amongst a world of corruption.As a film placed in a genre, Serpico can be rather ambiguously labelled but then again it gets across the complicated and coveted feelings that come with life in general. Serpico is a romance, complete with failings; it is a drama; an espionage thriller and a hard-boiled detective story about a man down on his luck. For a policeman in the real world, life can be all these things and if the film is true to the nature of the events that played out in Frank Serpico's life circa 1959 to 1972 then it captures the feel of multi-generic events and content that goes on within a person's life and lifestyle perfectly.Set amongst New York in the 1960s and with all the bother that comes with it, Serpico is a grimy and gritty thriller with a real sense at its core; the sense that honesty can and will prevail amongst the down and outs. Frank Serpico is played by Al Pacino, riding a wave after 1972's Best Picture winner The Godfather, a cop amongst many others; a number amongst the many other numbers but a cop with a difference. Director Sidney Lumet recognises the typical, conventional character in a hard-boiled cop film and it being the 1970s and all, it isn't too difficult even now to identify that caricature. But Lumet presents Serpico as a counter balance to that image and gets across an atmosphere of honesty and cleanliness despite Serpico's role which is, after all, as a New York cop.Lumet does this by instilling the audience with a distinct feeling that Serpico is a talker more-so a fighter; later on in the film and indeed in his life, Frank will fight via his talking. Serpico in the early exchanges does not hit and punch his way through life but instead will ask questions and talk more than anything else. If the typical caricature of a hard boiled cop is one that rushes all over the place, shoots or assaults first and then asks few questions later, then Serpico is the opposite of this. Serpico rises above this, primarily because he is smarter than the gritty, hard boiled cop persona and stands out amongst everyone else. Scenes that best demonstrate the honesty and integrity of Serpico is when he pulls a young criminal out of the back of a police truck following a station beating and takes him for a coffee.Another instance is in the station bathroom when a peeping tom incident occurs but the film has the integrity to resist cutting to a point of view of the female certain characters are looking at &#150; Serpico is involved and any scene with him, we feel will come across as clean-cut and honest, much like the character and his clear beliefs. So what happens when an individual threatens to break down the boundaries of a cliché? Well, questions arise if you're not part of the norm, what are you a part of? This film eventually has its characters question Serpico's sexuality if you're not a hard bodied; shoot first and ask questions later 'man', then what are you? Serpcio has to deal with antagonism and quips to do with his sexuality and his want to resist falling into a typecast, this is a good source for antagonism given the film has established priorities for Serpico's character.What's really quite interesting about the film is its acute disregard for formula. Rather than progress as a one-route story about a man trying to overcome individualism, the film is a series of decisions; moral decisions that all draw back to Serpico as an honest and standout character. Certain scenarios such as marrying love of his life Laurie (Eda-Young); whether or not he gives an officer 'the arrest' after doing most of the work in running the crook down and when the envelope of money arrives, it acts as the catalyst for bigger things to come.With regard to its study of one man ignoring the conventions, Serpico as a film still carries a hard boiled edge but it's more prescribed to other cops; a bathroom beating in another room entirely acts as a good example. Recently, I saw a Jason Statham film called War in which he himself as a cop beats up some poor guy in a restaurant bathroom; nameless and faceless protagonists beating others silly for the sake of revenge on something he was unconnected to in the first place. Seemingly gone are the days in which a film like Serpico will dare to have their cops talk or interact with their enemies rather than batter them. Never mind, Serpico for all it's worth is still a pretty good film. "},{"Title":"Different type of intensity","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Surprises me how many types of roles has Al Pacino played, ranging from Godfather to Scarface to Serpico. The issue this movie takes up is the problems faced by good cops in NY back in the 70s. Al Pacino character is quite intense in the movie and plays it to perfection. His personal life which does not have much to cheer about is also ruined by his profession when he is left helpless in a plot (somewhat similar to The Departed). He is not afraid to go against the odds to prove the right and that is well reflected in his eyes. Pacino's whole body language keeps changing with the movie, starting off with relaxed and then becoming more & more stiff. Surely one of Pacino's best.. "},{"Title":"Serpico and the intense Al Pacino","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a true story.It tells about a NYPD officer Frank Serpico who testified against police corruption in 1971.In this film by Sidney Lumet the story of the good cop is very well told.Serpico from 1973 stars Al Pacino.There's nobody who could do the job better than him.He is very intense in portraying the character.And he also looks pretty much like the real Frank Serpico with his beard and untidy appearance.Then there's the late great John Randolph portraying Chief Sidney Green.Jack Kehoe plays Tom Keough.Biff McGuire is Capt. Inspt.McClain.Serpico's sweetheart Laurie is played by Barbara Eda-Young.Tony Roberts plays Bob Blair.Allan Rich is Dist.Atty.Herman Tauber.M.Emmett Walsh is Chief Gallagher and F. Murray Abraham is Detective partner.Also Judd Hirsch is seen there playing a cop.The movie looks very realistic portraying the work of a policeman.Serpico was a really good experience. "},{"Title":"A good, realistic cop drama","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico tells the true story of officer Frank Serpico, a New York cop whose unflinching honesty lands him in hot water with his unscrupulous colleagues. Can he blow the lid off the police force's rampant corruption or will he die trying?Coming close on the heels of The Godfather, this was one of Pacino's first notable roles. He does a fine job of showing the many sides of Serpico, deftly combining nuance and theatrics. In fact, his performance resulted in the first Best Actor Oscar nomination of his career. The supporting cast is made up of lesser-knowns but they all have an air of authenticity about them.Sidney Lumet's direction is well done, without being flashy. He mostly keeps it simple and lets the actors do their stuff. The score by Mikis Theodorakis has a distinct early seventies cop movie feel. I'm not especially crazy about it but it's only used sparingly anyways.If you enjoy Pacino's crime dramas don't miss this one. I wouldn't say that it's quite as good as four or five of his best but it's certainly well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Gritty but Overlong","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The true story of a cop who stands up to corruption in NYC police department makes for a gritty film. Pacino is in his element as the honest cop and makes up for the film's shortcomings. The problem is that the story does not have a sustained narrative; it's basically vignettes that illustrate corruption and Serpico's aversion to it. As such, the running time is quite excessive and the scenes become repetitive. The scenes concerning Serpico's social life are not very interesting and serve to detract from the main theme. Lumet's films tend to be tightly paced so the main reason that this one drags is the under-developed screenplay. "},{"Title":"The honest cop","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico is the story of Frank Serpico, a policeman who reports the rampant corruption evident in the New York police. The film is based on a true story and explores the career and personal life of Frank Serpico.Al Pacino delivers a skilled and forceful performance as Frank Serpico. Serpico's character is interestingly shown as multi-faced and not simply as completely heroic. The less sympathetic side of his character is seen in his abusive behavior in a relationship due to the strain from fighting corruption. The rest of the cast is also notable, particularly John Randolph as the hard-edged veteran Chief Green, who is also interested in fighting corruption.The film's story is generally quite engaging, especially in the second half, though less so at points. The sense of overwhelming corruption is staggering and effective. Serpico's honesty shines through and is inspiring to witness. "},{"Title":"David vs. Goliath in New York City","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story of police officer Frank Serpico who, practically single-handedly, took a stand against the enormous corruption within the NYPD, and paid for it dearly, is still fascinating and still relevant; and thanks to a killer performance by Al Pacino, this biopic by Sidney Lumet stands the test of time. Serpico isn't quite as timeless as Pacino's and Lumet's second collaboration &#150; the classic Dog Day Afternoon (also based on a true story, but with a bit more liberties taken) &#150; but it rises entirely thanks to Pacino, who turned Serpico into a universal icon of integrity and idealism, with his beard, long hair and penetrating stare, as a hero who fights within the establishment and against it.Along with The Godfather saga and Dog Day Afternoon this is one of Pacino's greatest performances, and one that earned him an Oscar nomination, and helped make him one of the prominent American actors of the 70's, alongside the likes of Robert De Niro, Jack Nicholson and Dustin Hoffman. Serpico was a part of the revolution in American cinema in that period, which was becoming younger, darker and grittier &#150; and like films such as Taxi Driver, A Clockwork Orange, Dog Day Afternoon, Straw Dogs, One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, Midnight Cowboy &#150; it stands the test of time. It's definitely not the best of that list, and it's not high on the list of all-time essential classics; but it's fascinating, gritty, honest and realistic drama, with an important message, and for Pacino's performance alone it's worth every minute. "},{"Title":"It has aged a lot better than people think","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is as good now as when it first came out. Things haven't changed by much, but Pacino has only gotten better. While the film has some detractions in the supporting cast it still views better than most of what has followed it. Tony Roberts might have been better cast, but the rest of the policemen seemed believable. I was happy with the small window into his personal life in the beginning and the way it was slowly filtered out until he had nothing left but himself. The movie proves that truth is stranger than fiction, as others have, since no one would believe of the size of the corruption, but it seem believable when viewed. A good movie which shall be just as good in twenty years.  "}{"Title":"A good cop, now an endangered species!","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A realistic if somewhat overbrutal look on being on the right side of the law when even your comrades aren't, a classy film that sometimes shows the good policeman as a 1 in 1 million, really it's only about 1 in 10, anyway, getting back to the point, the film follows Al Pacino (The Godfather, Dog Day Afternoon, Frankie and Johnny etc). or Serpico as We know him fighting for his job.Interesting fact! almost the entire film is a flashback!Good But Not Brilliant***/**** "},{"Title":"The Stoolie as Hero","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Film makers almost always depict informers negatively.  On the Waterfront may be the only other exception to this tradition.  Like Brando's Terry Malloy, Al Pacino's Serpico isn't all that sympathetic a character (for very different reasons), but in both cases the actors' performances win you over.Serpico presents two types of cops.  The first is affable, reasonably competent, but corrupt.  The other is a loner, dedicated to the point of obsession, and squeaky clean.  The first type consists of every New York cop save one, namely the second type, Frank Serpico.  Although  effective dramatically, this is hardly the way it was, or is.  The majority of cops are not grafters or worse, and there's more than one cop with Serpico's zeal and idealism.  For another view of the NYPD I recommend Brian McDonald's My Father's Gun, the story of three generations of New York cops.  You'll find there was another cop on the force who sang even louder than Serpico to the Knapp Commission, and the reason why his book wasn't made into a movie. "},{"Title":"I love the film.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched Serpico tonight for the first time in over 10 years.It amazed me just how vital and powerful this film still is  after all these years. Since there is still, unfortunately,   police corruption, as well as honest cops who work to stop it,   Serpico remains timeless. It got a vote of 10 from me "},{"Title":"Weak script","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino, who is, as often happens, perfect, steals the show and is the only real satisfaction, single-handedly carrying the movie.The script lacks interesting story lines, deeper supporting characters and more generally substance. No power really emerges from the story and it is hard to find striking passages. A lot of scenes are poorly connected, but most importantly time is badly handled. There are many big ellipses where you don't really know how much time passed, and this clearly makes the unfolding of the movie unclear.Moreover, the rhythm is very slow and the 2h10 don't help to dynamize the already thin plot, although a 15 or 30 minute cut probably wouldn't have made any difference as for the interest. "},{"Title":"One of the reasons 70's cinema is so celebrated.","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Made in between the two Godfather epics, Serpico is a more quiet and sedate movie compared to the movies it is made either side of. It is also a superb film that deserves mentioned in the same breath as those movies, as well as Dog Day Afternoon (another Pacino/Lumet/Bregman collaboration), The Deer Hunter and Apocalypse Now when celebrating the brilliance of 70's American cinema. Serpico is both plot driven and character driven, features one of the best performances from Al Pacino, two decades before the bluster and loudness that accompanies the actor in most of his performances today, a magnificent script full of detail, character and events as well as assured direction from Sidney Lumet, who deserves as much credit for his work as Coppola and Scorsese got during the same period. It has taken me years to actually get around to watching this film, having heard it about for years when ever I hear about films that I love like The Godfather and Dog Day Afternoon, and after a lot of anticipation, I wasn't disappointed, this is a masterful film. It takes it time to say what it needs to be said, but it is never dull and has a lot to love about it. Pacino's performance is so assured, it mixes the internal broodiness of someone like Michael Corleone with the anger of Tony Montana, but stays on the right side of acting, never going overboard like he does in De Palma's epic. His is strong, willing and frequently looks like a bum in the movie, albeit a cool early 70's bum. The pain etched into his face throughout most of the second half of the film and the complexity of his performance throughout is ample enough reason why I, and of course many others, do regard him as one of the finest working actors in the history of the medium. Sure he can be blustering, but in a film like this he is so full of passion it simply makes one want to applaud him throughout.The film is not a fast paced one, admittedly, but neither does it take forever to go anywhere, it takes its time, doesn't rush, and lures the audience into it's story. We are pulled in to the plight of Frank Serpico, the cops who are corrupt who make his life hell, the equally hellish situation he finds himself in when he turns those cops in to his almost catastrophic shooting which is where we find him when the film begins. The film is an indicative reason why many critics and cinephiles regard the 70's (certainly the early to mid 70's) as the best period of American cinema. A movie like Serpico is indicative of what American filmmakers did so right during that decade. They told stories, stories that were gritty, violent, tragic, but most of all, they were stories that could suck you in and be provocative. Serpico is one of those movies. It is a best for Pacino and a best for the decade. "},{"Title":"Vintage Pacino","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SERPICO (1973) **** Al Pacino, John Randolph, Jack Kehoe, Barbara Eda-Young, Cornelia Sharpe, Tony Roberts, F. Murray Abraham.  Pacino received a richly deserved Best Actor Oscar nomination for his sharply edged performance as real-life undercover narcotics cop Frank Serpico who exposed a wealth of corruption in the New York City Police Department facing all too many tempting offers of bribery, promotions, and ultimately retribution by his fellow brothers in blue.  Look quick for Judd Hirsch as a uniformed cop. Gritty lensing by consummate New York afficianado Sidney Lumet and also nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay. "},{"Title":"Serpico- Time has not been kind to the movie or its star.","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clearly I am in the minority for those who have commented on this film before me as I did not find it anything but average.Serpico tells the story of Frank Serpico, a young cop who only wants to do his job and lead an honest life. He is confronted from the very onset of his career by police abuse and high level corruption. This is the center of the drama throughout the film.Perhaps in 1973 Serpico was a groundbreaking movie in regards to its subject matter, but no longer. Today we have countless movies that explore the same subject material and do it much better such as American Gangster with Denzel Washington and Russel Crow. By 2008 standards there is nothing remarkable about the portrayal of an honest cop vs a corrupt system, or the internal strife which compounds the situation, to be found in this movie. A modern viewer with no personal experience from the 70s will be left scratching their head at this movie.If you like Pacino you will not be disappointed in his performance while at the same time he is still the same old Pacino (though at the time I guess he was new). I cannot help but think that most of us would be very unimpressed with his acting abilities if this movie were to come out today. This movie is only for those who have a taste/ hobby for older movies; but will hold little value, entertainment wise, for most others. "},{"Title":"Movie ages poorly","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie ages poorly, they can do so much better camera work, acting, and script writing today.  It's not a bad movie either.  If the movie is that accurate about the police, we can thank Serpico for its reforms.  Question I asked myself during the movie is why have a police department if everyone is on the take.  Good thing internal affairs was created as a result, even the good cops were afraid because no one policed the police. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Dull and pointless","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I understand they wanted to make a film about the well known whistle blower. But is this a story that really needed to be told? Is this Serpico guy an interesting character? Is his story interesting in cinematic terms? Apparently it's not. Nothing about this film is interesting, and the only reason I didn't fall asleep while watching it is the fact that whenever Pacino is on screen he manages to infuse the scene with energy. Any other actor would have made this film virtually unwatchable.OK, so it was big story. Cops took bribe on a regular basis. But as I said, a big news story does not necessarily make a good cinematic story. There is nothing remarkable about Serpico's private or professional life. Nor was there any real suspense or mystery regarding his attempts to combat corruption. Scene after scene we see a bunch of events take place, but it's hard to tell why we are watching them, apart from the fact that they supposedly took place in real life. Real life does not necessarily make a good story, tough. The conflict between Serpico and the establishment does not come across as a story that can keep the audience interested. Same thing with Serpico's private life. We never learn enough about Serpico or his love interests (despite the film's considerable length) in order to care. As an audience I want to be immersed in the story, and not be reduced to a bystander that is asked to witness a sequence of events.A total waste of time. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico is a fascinating character study and a masterful police/courtroom thriller in one movie. It features one of the all time great film performances from Al Pacino in the title role as a conflicted cop who just wants to do the right thing, and another excellent directorial turn from that unsung American master, Sidney Lumet.All Frank Serpico ever wanted to be was a cop. He is uncomfortable on the job from the start as his colleagues on the force cut corners and lie in their paper work about who caught who. An initial bust of three rapists ends in one of the perpetrators - the least criminal of the group - beaten savagely, but still unwilling to divulge the names of his accomplices. Serpico convinces the young black man to change his mind through diplomacy rather than violence.Smart police-work like this puts Serpico on the fast track to detective work, but he finds that the higher he climbs the promotion ladder, the more often he is expected to turn a blind eye to blatant police corruption, including superiors rubbing shoulders with mobsters, and criminals who don't even try to hide their bribery attempts, so assured are they of immunity from the palms they've greased.Serpico's climax, after so much tension is felt by the viewer through Al Pacino's characterisation, his voice, his eyes, his face, his body language, is shockingly violent and heartbreaking, but it's the solemnly life affirming conclusion I will remember. "}{"Title":"A New York cop discovers that the force is totally corrupt.","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Starring Al Pacino, Written by Peter Maas ( Book ), Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler ( Screenplay).Directed by Sydney Lumet.Reading some of the online reviews I realize I am probably in the minority but this wasn't my cup of tea.If it wasn't for the wonderful portrayal of the main character by Al Pacino I probably would have switched off the TV. He was terrific and carried the movie in my opinion. The plot was average and was full of padding and I was losing interest towards the end. Some of the acting was questionably wooden and the less that can be said about Serpico's live-in girlfriend the better!I think part of the problem is that it is considerably dated and is full of what are now considered Movie clichés so I probably would have enjoyed it more if I had watched it years ago.This is my first Al Pacino film and I thought he was incredible and the location filming was nostalgic.But on the whole I'll give it a 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" More than forty years after it was made, the name Serpico is still synonymous with heroism. The multiple award winner features arguably one of the most successful actors and directors to ever grace the silver screen, but was Frank Serpico really a hero? Frank Serpico (Al Pacino) wanted nothing more than to be a police officer in New York, but once he gets there, he finds that things aren't as he'd hoped. The department is full of corrupt cops, but Serpico wants no part of it. He has no intention of turning them in, but when he won't take the money, everyone just assumes he already did, making Frank a target that has to act in order to save his own life. At first this film seems like just another police tale, that's been blown way out of portion by Hollywood, so why is it considered one of the top 100 films ever made? The combination of Al Pacino's infectious personality and Sidney Lumet's methodical and innovative story telling. At the time Serpico was made, Al Pacino was the brightest star in Hollywood and for good reason, he just has a way of getting people behind whatever character and project he's associated with. As for Lumet, he is known as an innovative director for simply trying things that everyone had available to them. Lumet uses different angles and close ups to make things more intense and exciting, as well as methodically going deeper into the story. It's this combination that made Serpico much more than simply another cop movie and a film that should be seen by all movie lovers. "},{"Title":"Still relevant","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico combined the talents of up-and-comer Al Pacino and director Sidney Lumet. Pacino had just broken into the Hollywood scene with his performance in The Godfather and Lumet had already directed successes like The Pawnbroker after a successful string of television gigs. Here, they sought to dramatically portray the life and times of Serpico, an honest cop in a sea of corrupt ones.And that already sums up the entire film quite nicely. We're introduced to Serpico, just a regular nice guy. He becomes a cop, eager to do good, and slowly but surely becomes aware of how many cops don't do their jobs. From nickel and dime stuff (shakedowns and payoffs) to large scale corruption (in the narcotics division). Yet, Serpico doesn't buckle under the pressure, but maintains his integrity, an act with which he puts his own life at increasing risk.The acting is one of the main reasons to watch Serpico. Pacino's peak was undoubtedly in the 70s. He received back-to-back Oscar nominations for The Godfather, Serpico, The Godfather Part II and Dog Day Afternoon and it's not hard to see why. Pacino has always been a highly dramatic actor and his skills are on full display in Serpico. Pacino captures Serpico's youthful enthusiasm (in the relationship with Laurie and when he's just starting out as a cop) and his mounting frustration (when Serpico's integrity is tested more and more).Speaking of mounting frustration, that's one of the best parts of the screenplay the gradual shift in tone. The film starts with Serpico driven to a hospital after suffering a gunshot wound. We don't know how he's been shot, but the rest of the film flashes back to when he became a cop to the fateful incident. As such, the film starts out relatively lighthearted with his promotion to police officer and his idealism. And then the film shows glimpses of corruption on a small scale. Towards the end, Serpico's dealing with highly organized corrupt narcotics officers. Through it all, it becomes harder and harder for Serpico to defy his colleagues without fearing for his life. The film expertly captures this downward spiral. Sadly, it's also the film's structure and overall storyline that might be its greatest weakness. While the shift in tone is wonderfully realized, not a lot changes. You're basically watching countless variations on Serpico defying police corruption and it occasionally drags the experience down, though it all depends on the viewer. One might appreciate the slice-of-life style, while another might get bored. Overall though, Pacino's acting, the great directing and screenplay all coalesce to provide a thrilling experience. "},{"Title":"good cop bad cop","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" well AL pacino in his young career he brings his acting skills to new levels in this film about crooked cops its 2hrs 30 Min's long its a gritty cop film he is a rookie cop who wants to help but with crooked cops on the take he wants to clean up the force but the higher power don't want know I cant believe this is a true story its stunning movie as AL pacino plays out his skin as good cop what a film from the 70s well he deserves Oscars for every film he is in well 8/10 well new York that's 70s cop thrillers for you looks dirty and gritty the director really goes for the jugular and AL pacinos character doesn't get help from nobody he endures scorn and mistreatment from his fellow cops with his intention of integrity the character development of serpico combining the establishment and counter culture of breath taking suspense and his character study about the inherent government laws of the 70 this is my 50 film review only 950 to get my badge "},{"Title":"May Well Be Pacino's Best.","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1972, The Godfather made stage actor and aspiring film star, Al Pacino, one of the biggest stars in the world and of the decade. One year later, he outdoes himself as Frank Serpico a policeman who battled police corruption everywhere in New York, as he was the only honest cop on the force. He must deal with corn and mistreatment from crooked cops at every turn as most eventually want him dead. As Pacino was preparing for the role, he spent days with the real Frank Serpico as research. When the movie was released, Al Pacino received his biggest robbery from the Academy. It may even be the biggest robbery in the Academy's history. Seriously, he was so good, as the audience could feel anything and everything he did. His emotional and riveting intensity is very rare. His only superior role, as some say, is as Michael Corleone in The Godfather Part II. But that is arguable.I myself am an actor, and the best performance I think I ever did was portraying a character where I used Pacino as Serpico as inspiration. I would not have done as well if I did not use this as the blueprint. It is performances like this that make me happy to be an actor. "},{"Title":"Corruption runs high, in true to fact, telling of story","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" When a movies been around for yonks, and you hear good things about it, and it comes around to viewing time, sometimes you can be heavily disappointed. Not that this is a bad movie. On the contrary. I just expected much more from it. Al Pacino, again, brings his magic to the screen in a film by a director who makes good and great movies. Based on real life character, cop Frank Serpico, blew the whistle on nearly a whole precinct of bad apples, where they are less than displeased. Like Jeremy Wigand, who blew on the tobacco industry, we have the same scenario here that sees Serpico, many looks, and utter dislike, among death threats, etc. The movie follows biographical format, instead of going for some exciting material, amidst it, and does suffer, where there was some really dull plodding moments, but hey, the films been drawn, from fact, and I kind of admire the choice the movie has taken, and Pacino's fantastic, and solid acting, sells it. Serpico is a good movie, but just not one, I really like. "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is a certain warmth that some films bring about when you like its characters so much, without feeling manipulated, and when you stop thinking of the movie as a movie.Considering Serpico is based on a true story, the latter may not be a huge surprise, although Lumet is a proved master. The likability of Frank Serpico should also be attributed to Pacino, who makes a perfect performance. He got an Oscar nod for the part, but lost to Jack Lemmon (for Save the Tiger) one of Pacinos annual losses between 1973-1976.Serpico is depicted as a too good of a person for his own good, a character who often makes you frustrated. Its clear that Frank lets his ideals get in way of his own best, and that of the people he cares about. In that way, Serpico is more of a Christ figure than an anti-hero full of darkness and bad behavior. The nuances in Serpico (and Pacinos acting) is still strong enough to create one of the most likable and memorable characters. Seeing New York in its early 70s is another treat, with its portrayal of the grittiness and easy-going Village life.Serpico is the type of person you would like to be (minus his eventual misfortune). The movie is the type of film you always hope to discover (minus absolutely nothing). Flawless in every aspect. "},{"Title":"Really Cool Movie","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" They don't make movies like this anymore.It may take liberties with the truth, but it's still a good film.And check out a couple things-- a. Pacino's early voice which is so different than the one he adopted in the 90s on out. b. great shots of what NYC was like in the 60s/70s. They had vending machines in the subways!.The only negative? The musical soundtrack sucks. It doesn't fit the movie at all.The Plot.Serpico is a cop in the 1960s-early 1970s. Unlike all his colleagues, he refuses a share of the money that the cops routinely extort from local criminals. Nobody wants to work with Serpico, and he's in constant danger of being placed in life threatening positions by his partners. Nothing seems to get done even when he goes to the highest of authorities. Despite the dangers he finds himself in, he still refuses to 'go with the flow', in the hope that one day, the truth will be known. "},{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" One in a series of ultra-gritty cop thrillers of the 1970s, SERPICO is a masterful piece of cinema and a true classic of its genre. It stars the inimitable Al Pacino as Frank Serpico, a mild-mannered NYPD cop who gradually becomes sickened by the rampant police corruption he sees around him, and who decides to do something about it.SERPICO is so good because it's so unique. Sure, there are the usual cops-vs-bad-guys scenario dotted here and there, but for the most part the bad guys are Serpico's fellow police officers themselves, which makes for a film loaded with suspense and increasing tension. The sense of foreboding, given that the viewer knows the outcome, is second to none, and there are some electrifying stand-out moments, like when Serpico absolutely loses it when bringing in a suspect.Sidney Lumet's excellent direction adds to the real-life and inherently gritty of the movie, while the New York backdrop is expertly realised. And in a film of strong performances, SERPICO inevitably belongs to Pacino himself because he's excellent in it. Without Pacino, this would have been a good little film anyway; with him, it's simply great. "},{"Title":"Good Cop & Bad Cops Galore","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet's Serpico stars Al Pacino as the legendary undercover New York Police Department Detective Frank Serpico. Serpico's claim to fame was as a whistleblower who blew the whistle on his colleagues on the force who were accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from the mob. Talk about the ultimate nonconformist! Serpico joined the NYPD because he wanted to be the man who knew what was going on in any situation. Our real-life hero gets on the force and discovers to his chagrin that everybody is dirty. He refuses to accept the ubiquitous bribes and his brothers-in-blue ignore him initially until he decides to talk to outside agencies. Meanwhile, Serpico didn't dress like a cop when he went undercover. He shunned the departmental white socks and sometimes his own colleagues made the mistake of thinking that he was a street hoodlum. Lumet lensed the action entirely on location in New York City. Scenarists Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler received Best Screen writing Oscar nominations and Pacino was tapped for a Best Actor Oscar. Neither won, but Pacino walked off with a Golden Globe for his performance. Lumet opens Serpico with our protagonist getting shot in the face by a man with a small caliber pistol and then the film goes into flashback mode and we watch as the young, idealistic Serpico encounters police corruption on a scale that horrifies him. He is transferred from one department to the other with the assurances of his superiors that investigations will be conducted to root out the evildoers, but they are only lying. Eventually, Serpico and his pals talk to The New York Times and the ball really starts to roll. About a quarter-hour away from fade out, Serpico resumes where it opened and Serpico survives a facial gunshot wound and heads roll. Serpico is a powerful film with scores of character actors appearing in minor roles before they were recognized. This is a landmark film and Lumet would return to the whistleblower with his later cop thriller Prince of the City. Not to be missed. Serpico not only spawned a short-lived television series but also inspired the Robert Blake show Baretta. "}{"Title":"A Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching movies, you often become immersed in the life of the main character. You see through his eyes; all the heartache, sorrow, pain and emotions that haunt them. Frank Serpico, the protagonist in this film, is a special man, though. Not for his unique charm or wit, but because he always fought the good fight. Regardless of the challenges he faced or struggles he endured, Frank always remembered the cause he was fighting for. Throughout Serpico, it's hard not to like this guy. He acts with integrity. Is an intellect who finds meaning past money. And above all, he serves as a paradigm of justice and morality in this world, almost. The biggest conflict Frank appears to have, though, is the burden of the city he's carrying on his back. He's aware of the corruption that runs the city. Knowing that the ideal justice he once perceived is being made a mockery, he attempts to fight this battle the best he can, but he seems alone in his cause. It's evident that it is too much. He would have to push away all his loved family and friends, and this cause was something he would literally have to take a bullet for.With all this being said, Serpico is truly a breath of fresh air. Frank is evidence of the good people still in this world. That despite all the darkness we may be surrounded by, that there's one candle that can brighten the whole world. This movie also displays the realities of combatting such an immense problem deeply rooted in an impenetrable system. Frank shows us that we would be a fool to tackle such an extraordinary feat, but we would be a fool not to. "},{"Title":"The Story Of The Wise King.","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino gives an excellent performance as Frank Serpico,an oddball undercover policeman in New York who refused to take any bribes or kickbacks like everyone in the department does. This at first makes them suspicious of Frank, but over time, it turns to open hostility which forces Serpico to go to higher authorities to expose the corruption, but becoming a whistle blower comes at a high price, as he is abandoned in a dangerous situation, resulting in him being shot, and eventually leaving the force, and going into exile.Tragic story of how one honest cop was punished by being outnumbered. The story read to Frank by his girlfriend about the wise king who drank from a well poisoned by a witch that everyone in the kingdom had drunk from, turning them crazy except the king, just so that he would be normal, and concludes with How the people rejoiced when the king regained his reason. is a perfect analogy to Frank not joining in the corruption, and should make the viewer think. "},{"Title":"Police corruption is nothing new; It goes all the time everywhere.","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie about Police corruption back in 1970's is nothing new to the younger generations. This activity has been going on for a long time, and any men who tried to expose it or talk about it ended up face down somewhere. This movie was the early beginning of the disclosure of these types of corrupt dealings and operations by some the Law Enforcement Community, whose job is protect us, Civilians, from Drugs and Violent Crimes. Another recent movie about this same issue was American Gangster. Sadly, these types of activities continue in the present day in our big Cities under the shadow of conspiring members of the Law Enforcement Community who will never stop as long as there is greed in their hearts! Some men have dignity that Money cannot buy, while some others do sell their Souls for an extra few Dollars in their pockets! "},{"Title":"Down and Dirty","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard to know what to say after so many comments. One thing for sure&#x97;the movie is relentlessly single-minded in sticking to its one plot line. The theme of police corruption is never far from the focus, while Serpico (Pacino) is in just about every scene. The undercover cop is certainly no idealistic reformer, no long speeches about civic virtue or talk of leading a crusade. Instead, he appears driven by the simple schoolyard imperative that cops are supposed to be honest, which he applies with dogged persistence no matter what. In fact, at times he appears almost inarticulate about anything beyond his own survival amidst the pervasive corruption.Interestingly, the movie could have glorified his heroic independence from the corrupt system. Certainly, traditional Hollywood would have. Here, however, no such effort is made. Neither the dialogue nor the photography romanticize him beyond the scruffy, bull-headed street character he appears to be, and Pacino makes the most of it.Much of the movie's considerable impact comes from trying to find somebody, anybody, in authority willing to take on the flourishing cops-on-the-take sub-culture. It's this part that's perhaps the most unnerving, given conventional beliefs. Even the ending remains suitably ambiguous, without the usual reassurances of justice triumphant. Anyway, the movie strikes me as unusually uncompromising in its depictions, thanks, I believe, to the critical climate of the counter-culture then in bloom. Ten years earlier and I bet the film would never have been made. "},{"Title":"The Rule rather than the Exception","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Many of Sidney Lumet's films (Twelve Angry Men, The Hill, Dog Day Afternoon, The Verdict, A Stranger among Us and others) deal with questions of crime and punishment, and Serpico is another which falls into this category. It is based on fact; Frank Serpico was an Italian- American New York police officer who served with the NYPD between 1960 and 1972. During that period he became horrified by the levels of corruption he witnessed among his own colleagues on the force. He tried to take his concerns to his superiors, only to find that they were reluctant to take any more than token action. Eventually, after being shot in the face in the line of duty in 1971, he testified to the Knapp Commission, a government inquiry into police corruption. Serpico starts off as an idealistic young patrolman, and the film details his gradual disillusionment with police life, especially after his transfer to the plainclothes branch, where he discovers that corruption has become a virtual way of life on the force. We see police officers taking paybacks from pimps, drug dealers and other criminals and routinely threatening or committing violence against those who refuse to pay. It becomes clear that this sort of behaviour is the rule rather than the exception; indeed, Serpico is regarded as dangerously eccentric for his refusal to demand or accept bribes. Serpico's physical appearance changes along with his attitudes. In the early scenes he is very much a clean-shaven, short-haired all-American boy, but as the film progresses his hair grows longer and he acquires a droopy Zapata moustache, later accompanied by a beard. He justifies this change to his superiors by pointing out that it will enable him to blend in more effectively for undercover work, but there is a strong implication that the real reason is a growing sense of identification with anti-authoritarian attitudes, often symbolised in the sixties and seventies by long hair and a beard, as with the hippie movement. Al Pacino had become a major star following the huge success of another crime film, The Godfather, the previous year, and, as in that film he gives another stellar performance here. It is not an intensely dramatic performance; there are no lengthy speeches angrily denouncing police corruption as a threat to American democracy. Frank Serpico, as played here, is not some clean-cut, crusading white knight, which is how the hero of a film on this theme would probably have been portrayed in earlier decades. Pacino's character is more everyman than superman, but the sort of everyman who fiercely holds on to his integrity despite all sorts of subtle (and some not so subtle) pressures. Pacino was nominated for a Best Actor Oscar, one of his four unsuccessful Oscar nominations in consecutive years between 1972 and 1975. (It is a long time since I last saw Jack Lemmon's performance in Save the Tiger, so I will suspend judgement on the merits of the Academy's decision). The corrupt officers we see are not obviously wicked individuals. Some of them seem congenial, even likable; they merely lack the strength of character needed to refuse to conform to the culture prevailing in the force. Despite his professional competence, Serpico becomes deeply unpopular with his colleagues, not so much on account of his unwillingness to take bribes but on account of his willingness to speak out. The stress on him leads to problems in his personal relationships with his girlfriends. Eventually he is shot during a drug raid after his colleagues have deliberately sent him into harm's way, something they clearly regarded as a safer way of disposing of him than attempting to kill him directly. Serpico was made on a relatively low budget of only $1 million, and starred no really big names other than Pacino, but was a major commercial success at the box office. Its popularity may have been assisted by the fact that it came out in 1973, the year in which the Watergate scandal broke, making any film about corruption in public life very topical. Since then it has taken on something of a classic status as a tale of the little man standing up against the system, a sort of Mr Smith Goes to Washington for the seventies. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Exploring NYPD Corruption!","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico is a perfect film that tells the true story of how the police were corrupt in New York City way back in the 1970's. Everything is just perfect with this film from the screenplay to the casting. The lines in this movie were just so memorable.This gritty cop film is about a honest cop who would never take money on the job. Because of his honesty, his fellow cops despise him for that. Frank Serpico decides it is for the best to do all he can to change the integrity of the NYPD.Al Pacino did a heck of a job as Frank Serpico. He is one of the greatest actors ever and this movie is a good example why. The way he went about his business and how his mistreatment changed his home life just made you sorry for the guy.Overall, this is a very great film! This is possibly Al Pacino's best movie. I rate this film 10/10. "},{"Title":"Typifies the 1970's U.S. gritty cop thriller....","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's so much about Serpico that typifies urban crime in '70s America. This true-life account of police corruption benefits from Sidney Lumet's workmanlike and unflashy direction, with gritty streets with their even grittier natives, providing the backdrop.Al Pacino produces one his best ever (Oscar nominated) performances, unsullied by the overacting that blighted his later career. Going undercover and wishing to remain as un-policeman like as possible, at least in appearance, Frank Serpico has a complex home life, that we fortunately get to share, as this helps us establish his character.For 1973, we are allowed many subjects that we now take for granted but few could, or dared back then. Drugs, an overwhelming paranoia over homosexuality in the force and some graphic violence are handled - times have moved on, of course and so their treatment is varied, shall we say.There is a lot of detailed talk and natural scenarios that lead onto other scenarios and as such, there aren't shoot-outs every five minutes. This is an intelligent film that does have its moments of action but it's about the man Serpico and his mounting enemy - his own employers. That's enough for any person to handle and Serpico doesn't always handle them well. But, that all adds up to an even more interesting story.John Randolph co-stars as Serpico's Chief and the whole cast, a plethora of people from low-lifes to cops are all uniformly good.Why only 8/10? This film has been round for quite a while and this latest viewing must have been my fourth. It remains very watchable, every now and again but it has lost its bite a bit and its length is just a bit more than one can about bear, at 130 mins. For Pacino watchers and those who enjoy a good, absorbing cop drama, especially an adult gritty one, then Serpico is a must. "},{"Title":"pacino classic","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Simply put this is one of Al Pacinos very best movies and a real tour-de-force.Based on the true story of Frank Serpico an honest cop who uncovers and fights to expose corruption in the New York police force this film features a masterful performance from Pacino. It is Pacinos powerhouse performance that really resonates with the viewer and keeps you spellbound. The film itself in parts is quite complex and talky but there are moments where the film explodes into life as does Pacino even the quieter moments though smoulder with tension. Pacinos character appearance changes dramatically, from the start he is a smart and clean cut new recruit to the end a bearded hippy like character brought about by the necessity of his job and the toll of fighting the system and the effect it has had on his life. It is not all in appearance that Pacino shows his acting range his character is also very changeable veering from professional to eccentric, vulnerable yet strong, caring yet cold but he never loses his honesty or his determination to fight corruption. It is his cause that you really root for, you admire his bravery when his colleagues turn against him and above all you want to see him win his fight. It is a very human story of one mans mission to do what is right but the average man would not have the courage to. Frank Serpico did have the courage and Pacino shows you why as he embodies Serpico perfectly. The other characters in this film are all good but it really is all about Pacino it is his film.Overall an excellent film and a perfect example of why Al Pacino is one of the best actors ever and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Serpico (1973)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This feels like a sane reaction to the protofascist DIRTY HARRY. Harry Callahan's frustrations as a cop are that he's too constrained by silly things like RULES and doesn't have the freedom to be a complete Nazi asshole. Frank Serpico's frustrations are that the people who are supposed to be overseeing the corruption within the police force are corrupt themselves. Can you guess which character I appreciated more? The film (based on a true story) has a gritty realism and a narrative that makes economical use of jump cuts without disorienting the viewer. Pacino is compelling and makes Serpico's integrity feel like a true passion rather than grandstanding heroics. The cast is also populated with a slew of hey it's that guy! actors. It's not the kind of movie that's worth getting too excited about, but it's very solidly put together and watchable. "},{"Title":"Untouchable (dvd)","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" After the classic Godfather and before the classic Dog Day Afternoon, Al delivers another classic for his second film. I don't know any other actor who has such an epic start of career! In a Watergate time, this biopic is about a courageous officer who denounces his fellow corrupts colleagues and above all, his complaisant hierarchy. As any man drives by principles (a bit like me), he cuts himself of any relationships (taking things too much at heart) and he pays his courage by a lonely life (if we except his dog). It's funny but watching it, it reminds of another two Al's movies, albeit they will be done long after first, Righteous Kill because on the same topic, you can understand why the later is a crap (totally unrealistic). Then, with Carlito's Way, because the two movies share almost the same beginning and a bearded Al that is totally connected with the streets. I don't know if Al chooses his own wardrobe but he's totally in. Another strong point of the movie is its incredible reality now, the derelict precincts and under pressure cops are seen anywhere, especially at TV (NYPD Blue for example) but at that time, it was a first. Next, the movie starts as fast as a bullet and in a few minutes, you'll understand the harsh and incredible madness of the crime reality. Being a patrolman in NYC is as hard as being a soldier fighting overseas! Not bad for a movie that was released some 30 years ago! "}{"Title":"Pacino Proves His Acting Talent In Serpico","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino made only one film in between The Godfather and The Godfather Part II.That film was Serpico. This proved what a great actor he is and why after 40 years,he still is known as one of the best in Hollywood.If The Godfather made him a superstar,Serpico kept him one.Serpico stars Al Pacino playing Frank Serpico.Aside from Pacino,it also stars John Randolph and Tony Roberts.It was directed by Sidney Lumet. The movie was based on the true story of New York City policeman Frank Serpico,who went undercover to expose the corruption of his fellow police officers,after being pushed to the brink at first by their distrust and later by the threats and intimidation they leveled against him.It was based on the book by Peter Maas.The the film covers twelve years in the life of Frank Serpico, a NYPD officer who wants to do the best he can as a policeman. Working as a uniform patrolman, Serpico gets every assignment in. Then he moves to plainclothes assignments, where he slowly uncovers cops doing drugs, taking paybacks and other forms of corruption. Serpico decides to expose this, but is harassed and threatened. The struggle leads to infighting within the police force, problems in his personal relationships, and life-threatening situations. Finally, he testifies to the Knapp Commission, which met to investigate police corruption.Al Pacino's performance carried this film from beginning to end.He truly was an unbelievable actor that can transcend his role from The Godfather as evidenced by his performance in this movie.It really proved that he is not just a one-movie wonder and that remains true until now that he still is a widely known movie star until the age of 70.Aside from that,he managed to make this film interesting with his portrayal of the man who wants to hold true to this idealistic values. That is what makes him effective that the viewer may find sympathy in his character.Finally,credit as well goes to the superb direction of Sidney Lumet.Serpico may not be as popular as The Godfather but nevertheless,it remains one of the best films ever made not only in the 70's but also up to present. "},{"Title":"One of Pacino's finest performances in this taut biopic...","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is based on a book by Peter Maas, it tells the true story of cop Frank Serpico and how he exposed corruption amongst members of the New York Police Department. I did see it a lot of years ago but couldn't appreciate then just what a very good film it is. Yes, it seems a little dated today, but it's more about the characters than the surroundings. I'll tell you more after this brief summary.We begin with Frank Serpico being rushed to hospital in a police car having been shot in the face. We then go back to the beginning, with him graduating from the police academy. He soon finds that life on the streets is very different to what he expected. For instance, cops get free food for turning a blind eye to double parking at a certain diner. Eventually, after trying a couple of departments, he ends up in plain clothes and is transferred to a new division. It's when he's handed an envelope with money in that he realises just how widespread the corruption has become. Unable to take it to his commanding officer, he turns to his friends, the mayor's office, anyone who'll listen. He makes it clear to his colleagues that he won't take any money and, despite extreme pressure, he never does. He is given the run-around by all those he thought he could trust and eventually it gets too dangerous for Frank. He has to turn to his one last hope; but is it too late for Frank? I'll leave it here so the Spoiler Police don't get the idea I'm on the take.I should mention that the film doesn't just concentrate on Serpico's working life, but his personal life too. The women he lived with and how his situation affected his relationships with them. An excellent performance from Al Pacino as Frank Serpico is the highlight of this one, he is really great! Also worthy of note are; John Randolph as Chief Sidney Green, Jack Kehoe as Tom Keough, Biff McGuire as Capt. Insp. McClain, Barbara Eda-Young as Laurie, Cornelia Sharpe as Lesley Lane and Tony Roberts as Bob Blair. Oh, and I also spotted a brief appearance from Judd Hirsch as a Cop (uncredited).I won't say this film is all about Al Pacino, there are many other factors that make this a great film, but without him I'm sure it would have been very different. The film was made just a year after the real Frank Serpico retired from the force and went to live in Switzerland (according to the closing credits) and so I guess the story must have still been pretty fresh in the memory of many New Yorkers. It has a very gritty feel to it, as many films of the period do, and this really lends itself to the stark reality of the situation Frank finds himself in. I must say I got really involved with the plot and, despite having seen it before; I was still intrigued to see the outcome. It's a great film with one of Pacino's finest performances&#x85; Recommended.My Score 8.5/10.IMDb Score 7.8/10 (based on 30,502 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score 90/100 (based on 39 reviews counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"Self definition","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Duty. Search. The pieces of cold truth in a strange place. A film about the ages of memory. About old looks and refuges in the shadows of time, about love and curiosity, about letters, pictures and walls of paper, about a young Jew and his plastic little bags. Description of self discover. About dreams and illusions, about a lost village and a woman who expected. A splendid film for its silence's moments. For the images of a far-off New York. The crash of two different mentalities and travel in a ambiguous past.Detachment of masks and a handful of old land. Then, two furniture places and the waters of future. Silents and strange peace of special justice. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Films of All Times Serpico (1973)","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Guess who got shot? Serpico.- You think a cop did it? I know six cops who said they'd like to. Fresh out of the Godfather, Serpico was the film that further cemented Al Pacino's status as a powerhouse performer. Based on the story of real life cop, Frank Serpico, who had almost the entire police department turn against him for being an honest cop, Serpico is a gritty drama about dirty cops and the politics that came with it in the police department in the 60s.Given the material, this could've been an edge of the seat fast paced thriller that could have easily catered to the popcorn entertainment bracket but when you have Sidney Lumet's name in the credits, you could almost always be rest assured that it wasn't going to be the case. Now, make no mistakes though. Serpico may not be fast paced and it certainly isn't a pop corn entertainer but a thriller it still is, and intense in ways that makes this film worthy of an intelligent audience.Adapted from the Maas book by Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler, Serpico is a difficult film about police corruption and the man who tried to fight it. Although backed by a fine supporting cast, Serpico is a film that belongs to one man and one man alone and not only does he justify his presence in the role by giving it what it demands, instead, he goes two steps further and delivers a splendid performance! Near flawless and a testimony to the enormous amount of talent the man is credited for.From the clean Shaven look to the handlebar mustache to the bearded Hippy look, which Serpico adapts to avoid alienation from the regular crowd which a normal cop suffers, Pacino slips into the skin of the character and shines in what has to be one of his most natural performances. This was the Pacino before he got into his other avatar. The Pacino before Scarface and Tony Montana. The Pacino, before he developed his other loud style which to be honest, still kicks ass!! This was the Pacino that you saw in The Godfather and you would go on to see in The Godfather Part II and Dog Day Afternoon.Like all Sidney Lumet films, this one too, is a slow film and tests your patience at times, but sit there till the end and you will be rewarded with a film that goes beyond just making a shallow statement or telling a simple story. It tickles your conscious and makes you question and that, in my opinion, has always been the sign of a good film. The fact that you can relate to a character like Serpico, a man who wants to do what he always wanted to do and will not turn a blind eye to things, even if it risks his own life, is not surprising. Serpico is a character who's in a place where you've once been yourself or you surely know someone else who was.At 2 hours and 10 minutes, Serpico may feel lengthier than it is, but at the end of the day the big question always is that whether it's worth it or not! Thankfully in Serpico's case it is! A fine example of good writing and a realistic approach, there's a good reason why this movie is rated as one of Pacino's finest. Lumet, to me, as brilliant as he was, was a hit-or-miss director. From that perspective, not only is Serpico a hit, it hits the bloody bull's eye! Recommended!! 8/10 Written by Aamil Keeyan Khan for MuvieMadlyDeeply.com "},{"Title":"Best Dirty Cop Movie Ever?","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The true story about an honest New York cop (Al Pacino) who blew the whistle on rampant corruption in the force only to have his comrades turn against him.What can I say? Al Pacino shines here. Today he is known as the gangster type, but he really excelled in this film as a cop and in Panic in Needle Park as a junkie. Pacino has been typecast and kids today may not know the full extent of his greatness.This film must be seen by all. It really must. As for the scene where the narcotics officers are ordered to smoke marijuana, I have no idea if such a thing really happens. "},{"Title":"An intense cop-thriller of gripping realism ... an inspirational story of idealism and integrity ...","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank Serpico is a man whose heroism is almost too dramatic to be believed, except that his story is true, and sometimes, reality provides heroes, maybe unglamorous or uncharismatic, but whose behavior and convictions are inspiring models, transcending the context of their actions. And Serpico, the cop who fought police corruption to the point of being almost alienated by his own convictions and risking his own life, is an extraordinarily story of gritty realism, carried by one of Al Pacino's most defining and iconic roles.What is so powerful about the film is its total detachment from any desire of making Frank Serpico like a kind of modern Robin Hood. It's the typical Lumet's New-York, of the 'New Hollywood' wave, with such a confident and intelligent direction, a romantic portrayal would have been unlikely to happen anyway. Serpico is of the same vein of other early 70's realistic cop-thrillers, like The French Connection and Dirty Harry &#x85; but where Dirty Harry flirts with a certain fantasized view of the Police force, Serpico is carried by a character who'd look like an average schmuck if he wasn't the lead role. He's an Anti-Callahan, but his virtues transcend his appearance and are perfectly illustrated by one of my favorite scores, the music of Mikis Theodroakis. It does come out of place sometimes, but this music perfectly illustrates this mix of idealism and integrity that inhabits the heart of Serpico , one of the greatest cinematic heroes.Integrity &#x85; This is Frank Serpico's virtue, it's a natural choice. He was a cop, by vocation, through a sincere idealism protecting the good people, applying the Law. However, from his first days at work, you get the idea that he's an outcast. Why? Because he doesn't take the money. Bribes, greasing the beck, being paid to close the eyes are perceived as blasphemies in his faith on Law. Popularity isn't his quest, nor does he want to be accepted, they're all wrong and he's right. And we know he's right, not because he's Serpico, but because, he represents the Law within the Law, a sacred principle of integrity, that shouldn't be taken for granted just because you're a police offer. The badge and the uniform don't make the policeman; it's something deeper than that. It's a sense of honor that goes beyond the prestige of the uniform, and the pretentious and dangerous idea that just because you're on the right side of the Law, you become untouchable and you have the right to make your little arrangements.And that's an interesting irony of the film that the most honorable cop is the only one who doesn't look like one. Through the (undetermined) time span of the film, Frank's appearance will evolve from a mustache to full beard until he looks like a hippie, even a junkie. His undercover disguise is so believable it emphasizes his difference from the rest of the police. And it makes Al Pacino's role even more memorable, a nice entertaining touch to make us forget this hippie was Michael Corleone one year before, and another tribute to Pacino's precocious versatility.Serpico is also a loner, despite his allies in the film, his women, and one or two friends... he might have been a hell of a buddy to hang out with he's funny, likes to drinks, to party, to enjoy life &#x85; but his choice, his persona, his actions ultimately exiled him from the normal life he should have lived, and no matter where he's transferred, Bureau of Narcotics, Criminal Identification etc. he's a misfit. Hell, even the loan sharks is friendly with the cops and considered good people, and in one of the most powerful and satisfying Pacino's rants, Serpico put him and his friends in their places, ready to stand alone for his own conviction. He know there's something rotten in the Police, that corruption is part of the procedure and his personal battle will make necessary to try other sources, outside agencies as they refer to. The only way to let the truth be spoken. His quest, as noble as it is, will alienate him so much, he'll reach the breaking point, to become a martyr ... a hero ...What would be a hero without a quest? He wants people to know, but who to trust? Serpico doesn't care to be labeled as a snitch or a rat, he just wants to do his job properly, and the corrupted system is an enemy. And the only solution is to inform, to allow an investigation, to put an end to this filthy behavior. He's already alone, he lost his 'friends', his girlfriend, and became an easy target for any set up. And despite the investigation that faces the protection of the big shots, he'll put alone his life at stakes because he has nothing to lose. Because you always pay the price, Serpico's not a scapegoat, nor a victim, he's a man who chooses his path out of convictions, and that deserves respect. He's a real life Terry Malloy with no cinematic glamor, just a poignant view of life and a sense of duty, that would be comic if it wasn't so tragic, as Serpico said, they rewarded him for being a honest cop?An idealistic example of courage and integrity, who stood alone for justice, for principles, Serpico is one of the most inspiring cinematic heroes, driven by Al Pacino's intense performance. One of the best of the 70's.*** By a tragic coincidence, this review was written on the day the great director Sidney Lumet passed away. Saddened by this loss, I think this is an opportunity to pay tribute to a legendary director whose gripping dramas that always respected the viewers' intelligence provided a gallery of inspiring characters, from Juror #8, Sonny Wortzik to Howard Beale, and the two Franks, Galvin and Serpico. REST IN PEACE, MR. LUMET *** "},{"Title":"The High Cost Of Honesty","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino made his name in The Godfather, but he became a star here as the title cop who stands up to a corrupt system. It's a stark, gripping, somewhat melodramatic real-life story both memorable and flawed for the way it embodies character-driven 1970s cinema.Serpico's education in the ways of the New York Police Department begins when he discovers he's not expected to pay for his lunches because the luncheonette owner gets a break on double-parking. Soon he witnesses shakedowns run by cops for gambling money. Serpico is told to play along. But he doesn't want to compromise himself or his sense of integrity.Why should I stick my neck out? Serpico asks another plainclothes officer, Don Rubello (Norman Ornellas) when Rubello tries to offer him some easy money.It's already out - for not taking the money, Rubello replies.Ornellas is one of a number of supporting actors with meaty New Yorker faces who makes Serpico so distinctive, giving chase with a maniacal gleam in his eye one moment, giving Serpico that calm word of warning the next. Even many of the no-name characters in this film turned out to be names later on, like Judd Hirsch, M. Emmet Walsh, and future Oscar-winner F. Murray Abraham. The biggest surprise for me was seeing Jaime Sánchez, Angel from The Wild Bunch, as one of the less friendly cops who try to coerce Serpico into taking payoffs like the rest of them.Director Sidney Lumet and writers Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler don't portray the corrupt cops as especially nasty people for the most part, which makes more noble Serpico's decision not to play along, and eventually call them out. Jack Kehoe, who plays Keough, the most vocal of these crooked characters, genuinely likes Serpico despite his beatnik manner. Who can trust a cop who don't take money? Keough asks Serpico, reasonably.What Lumet gives us in Serpico is not just a police corruption story but a real character piece. Much of the film follows Serpico in his regular daily life, meeting women, engaging in small talk about ballet and Borgias, playing with kids at a fire hydrant, talking Italian with his mother. One memorable sequence features Serpico buying a sheepdog puppy from a strung-out-looking couple outside his new apartment building. It has nothing to do with the story but everything to do with our larger sense of Serpico. Scenes like this would have been cut had Serpico been made a decade earlier or later than it was.Pacino never looked better; with his gentle gaze and full beard he looks like Paul McCartney during the making of Let It Be. Decked out in pinkie rings, pirate earrings, a leather satchel, and sunglasses, you aren't supposed to see him as a cop at all as he cruises the vividly ugly rundown streets of upper Manhattan and the Bronx, protecting and serving without protection himself. Pacino gives you that ferocious intensity he's known for, yet a lot of humor and mellow understanding, too. He's hilarious in an early sequence with a couple of trigger-happy cops who mistake him for a punk.There is a bit too much yelling, though, and too much of the film's time is taken up with go-nowhere domestic scenes featuring Serpico's women. The corruption story is there, but it helps to read up on the Knapp Commission and Serpico's real-life case in order to follow along, as the film focuses more on the emotional toll of Serpico's journey toward honest disclosure.All in all, I liked this film as much for the digressions as for the main story, but don't think it achieved the kind of balance that merits it being considered as a true classic. Lovers of 1970s film will want to see this anyway; it captures an type of filmmaking as lost today as silents or musicals. "},{"Title":"unflinching look at corruption in the NYPD; Pacino astonishing","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an exceptional, straight-forward film about corruption in the NYPD and about the efforts of cop Frank Serpico (Al Pacino, with the sort of passionate, versatile performance which has made him a legend) to expose the corruption he encounters in the NYPD. Serpico is an unconventional cop. He is interested in ballet, in literature, and wears his hair long when most cops favor short hair cuts. Despite being a policeman who most other policemen find inscrutable though, Serpico is a straight arrow on the job. He will not take the bribes that most cops accept as a matter of routine during the '60s. Serpico is careful not to unnecessarily antagonize his fellow cops while remaining true to his principles, to the extent this is possible, but eventually his refusal to go along with his colleagues' corrupt practices causes tension with them. Serpico, via a contact of a sympathetic fellow cop, attempts to go to the highest ranks of the NYPD with his allegations of corruption but finds even the top brass at best overly busy to deal with his claims in a timely manner, and at worst, sympathetic to the corruption within its ranks. Serpico is caught between the gears- continuing to work while his colleagues become more angry at him while becoming increasingly frustrated at the disinterest of the NYPD brass shows in following up on his allegations.This film succeeds largely on the breathtaking performance of Al Pacino. Pacino conveys the passion, the eccentricities, the doubts, the integrity, and the determination of Frank Serpico. The plight of an isolated cop in his precinct is dire. Given the period of time, the money at stake, and the prevalence of corruption, Serpico's isolation in the department is profound. He is able to remain true to his conscience but even this mentally strong man is not completely immune to the pressure and ostracism he faces within the department. Whether Serpico's whistle-blowing will do any good in the long-term is the question which the film ultimately turns on. Serpico really is a lone wolf, working in a very unaccommodating environment, confronting entrenched power which could quite easily get rid of him, in a scenario in which a lot of power is at stake. Yet he remains true to his principles and to himself. The performance by Pacino, as noted, is breathtaking. Frank Serpico is a fascinating character in a difficult environment and this provides significant grist for Pacino to work with. Sidney Lumet directs very calmly, moving the action along at a steady pace and ensuring that Serpico's increasing isolation within the department is detailed while also ensuring that Serpico's character is fleshed out enough that he is a compelling character. To this end, the writer of the screenplay should also get some credit for creating a compelling image of a dramatic moment in New York history. "},{"Title":"More than just a cops life","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico is based on the true life of Frank Serpico. Sydney Lemut directed this movie when he was at his best. This Movie also had a great impact on the life of AL Pacino. The way Al Pacino Played the character of Frank Serpico is truly great. Al Pacino was so obsessed with this character that he actually pulled off a driver and literally acted like a Cop! He also invited Frank Serpico so he could observe the way he should play his character. The movie has many elements to keep anyone at the edge of their seats. If you have not seen this unique movie than i suggest you rent or even better buy this movie and experience what makes the movie what it is. "},{"Title":"An absolute piece of brilliance garnished with a brand mark of AlPacino","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" How often could we watch a movie created from a real story that can really stir your heart...This is absolutely one like that.What a piece of classic!! Great direction! I would give a 9 for the directional credit. The reason for cutting the rest is that the movie lacks to get attention of the audience in one to two frames ,though they need to be treated similar way in order to make the movie closer to real-life conditions. About performances...what can I say?? As usual The AlPacino gives the best performance when he has been cast in a movie. But it is not an usual performance from the beast of the action. He is one of the best the Hollywood has ever got. In every scene in this movie he showed his frustration to be marked by the society. If you ask me whether you can watch it, I would rather say,what the hell have you been doing. Go Get it now man! "}{"Title":"Superb ...","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's one of the finest performances for Al Pacino in his early career . Great  method acting  by Al in a very good scripted movie about the widespread corruption in the police department he works in . The police corruption was a big problem in New York especially in the 1970s till early years of 1990s . This movie is based on a true story of a man whose long and loud complaining about widespread corruption in the New York P.D made him a rejected individual on the force and put him in a near-death experience . Opening of the movie is with Pacino ' Serpico ' blood covered his face in a car that's going to the hospital in a high speed . Its an interesting beginning to the audience and this will put us in a rising suspense to find out what happened to this wounded man . After that , the movie shows the graduated day of ' Serpico ' with a great joy and his family is around him . A lot of happiness that will turn down later when he figures out the corrupted colleagues he works with . The main theme soundtrack is swell and remarkable . "},{"Title":"I'm a marked man in this department.","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino shines again with a terrific performance of Frank Serpico.Sidney Lummet brings to us a true gritty story about a cop named Frank Serpico who stood against corruption as well as his other police officers as he refused to take up money as a bribe.And what do you expect from Pacino.Just his style,his commanding voice,some pretty good dialogs & well some refreshing performance.Pacino delivers every time.Can't remember any average performance from him in any film.He is the best.Rest of the star cast is good but the movie mostly revolves around Pacino.Just the movie brings to us more of him.How he gets into the character.How he stands in face to face with his friends.An honest cop who fulfills his duties with great integrity.The movie drags at some places but its only the presence of Pacino that makes the audience glued to the screen.Direction from Lummet is very good.We never get the shades of 12 Angry Men from him but still he knows how to portray a character on film.Pacino as Serpico stands as again one of his finest performances.Serpico said that he is a marked man in this department but surely with such unique performances he has become the marked man of International Cinema for me.Now i can say,oh boy,can he act,he is no short of a legend to me. "},{"Title":"Classic crime movie that focuses more on the main character's life.","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now I enjoyed Serpico big time. I think it displays one of those rare cases where a cop/aspiring detective isn't corrupted by the system and society. But I also think that some aspects about it feel out dated by today's standards. What do I mean? The way society looked way back then (obviously), and the way the Serpico character is meant to be some sort of urban hero.Don't get me wrong, I loved Pacino's performance. It's one of those acting displays that enriches the screen. He controlled perfectly the movie's pace, and perfectly displayed the complicated emotions the character required.The score is kind of a letdown but I didn't mind about it that much. The Direction is crude, raw, but perfectly captures the movie's tone. This is a classic crime movie that focuses more on the main character's life. Some scenes that stood in my mind the black man captured by Serpico, Serpico getting shot by the drug dealer, Serpico's discussion with his last girlfriend, Serpico rejecting money, and some more. "},{"Title":"Both Revealing and Sincere In the Manner of the Best of True-Life Dramatizations","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" What I find fascinating about Frank Serpico as Sidney Lumet's film sees him is his striking metamorphosis through the story. When Serpico is a rookie, he is almost boyish in his grooming, and as time passes and he grows more seasoned, he grows a beard and dons a decidedly liberal look in order to blend in without the look and feel of a cop, which even law- abiding citizens resents. Pacino expounds the value of form, objectivity, activity, and aggression. Peculiarly, like many American heroes, himself and his fulfillment are the leading underlying principles.What is so reassuring about him as a real-life character is that he is man in its purest form physically, emotionally and psychologically. He is most self-assured and unapologetic in attitude and behavior, comfortable in his skin and fearless in his ambitions. Beneath his initial clean-cut appearance lies a hormonally raging animal ever ready to take down the rapist that gives chase early in the film. We are stunned at how vigorously and almost supernaturally he runs after this guy. He nonetheless feels obliged to subdue this bestial nature, hoping to achieve a higher connection. It does not take him long to realize that pure intentions and prurient desire need not be mutually exclusive.The film opens with this dogged philosophical hero flaccid in the backseat of a police car, covered in blood as it races to a hospital with lights and sirens blaring. He has just been shot. The rest of the movie tells the story of Serpico's career up to this moment, starting with him becoming a police officer in 1960. This is not quite necessary, but it is an interesting liberty to take with an oft-overused device to juxtapose the consequences with the origins, because it immediately gives us a feeling of what the film will really be about. He begins his career with very romantic perspective of the line of work he's chosen and believes in non- brutal methods to catch criminals. He also refuses to take part in police corruption, particularly that which involves shaking down and taking payoffs from gambling and drug dealing operations. The fact that he simply cannot be bought gains him the suspicion of his fellow officers all over the majority of the precincts to which he is assigned.Sidney Lumet is a director who captures something crucial in city based dramas surrounding legal and political affairs; with films like 12 Angry Men, Network, and even Dog Day Afternoon to an extent, he shows an excellent grasp of the power plays in civic politics. Lumet's style is very intimate with the script. Resolute in its interpretation of the first police officer not only in the history of the NYPD, but in the history of any police department in the United States, to step forward to report and then testify candidly about pervasive, organized police corruption, the film describes his classic battle to maintain a grasp on his personal life, over the stage in which he declines to skim off the top and illustrates his unusual political vindication at an official investigation into NYPD corruption.Sometimes when I see a film that involves timely political wrongdoing or social disorder, I become frustrated because more often than not, those problems are still relevant years after they are made, sometimes half-centuries after they are made. But a story of city corruption is relevant in any era. One merely has to look at great empires, Las Vegas, organized religious establishment, all sorts of turn-of-the-twentieth-century immigrants, and really the history of any one of the most powerful nations on earth to be aware of how much corruption plays a part in the molding of self-styled cultures and societies. What Serpico reveals is that although this sort of corruption is a way of the world and essentially always has been, it is not inevitably an innate feature of humanity. "},{"Title":"Serpico Portrait of an Honest Cop","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story of Serpico should be absurd and you know why. He is the kind of cop that everyone wish for the better security of a society but at the same time he is the kind of cop that is very unique, that is not only a menace for the criminals but also for the majority of the cops, well actually and technically those are criminals too. This film is about that man, a man that wasn't the common cop and that's because he was what a cop should be. He has a dream and he has everything that he needs for that dream yet he was going to live the reality. He never woke up from his dream and considering everything that was a real valuable thing and very very unusual. This is the evolution of man, the weird cop who was not weird because his unusual appearance for a cop but because he never accepted bribes, he was very suspicious because of that. This is a successful film, it shares the frustration and the rest of the similar feelings of Serpico and obviously when Serpico can do what he wants it is fair and absolutely satisfactory. There is a scene that I found extremely powerful, when Serpico arrest a criminal by his own, a criminal who is for Serpico's partners good people. Suddenly Serpico becomes what at first he wasn't, you know he is not more kind with criminals. Is unique because in the first confrontation between Serpico and some criminals he is the one arresting one of them yet are others the ones that have some fun with the criminal. Now is a different situation, now Serpico is alone and his motives are not because of the criminal, his motives are because of the cops, his own partners, and his frustration, his anger of being witness of why cops believes that a criminal is good people, of course because those are the same scum. All of this obviously relies on the ones near Serpico. His girlfriend simply represents all the personal life of Serpico and how his work changed everything. She has a wonderful dialog or better a wonderful little story to tell, of course the story of the king. She understood him, that's why she left him I think. But there was a little hope and at a point you feel thankful with two characters, I don't really remember their names but I think you remember them very well. But everything just is realistic so a simple song can't change something.As the producer featured on the extra material of the DVD says, Al Pacino is still there but definitely he is not more Al Pacino. Is not a complaint, he has given everything, like De Niro or even like Carlos Santana. After my favourite picture of all time, The Godfather (Francis Ford Coppola, 1972), he had in 1973 a fantastic professional year with this superb performance together with the one in Scarecrow in which he made a great team with Gene Hackman. Here everything relies on Pacino but everyone else did also a great acting job. Finally, Serpico is a very recommended picture, actually and sort of sadly is only the second film of Sidney Lumet that I watch (being the other Dog Day Afternoon). This is not a film that I would like to watch very often but still is a great one. I think the next step for me is to re- watch the overlooked near masterpiece Scarecrow. DVD We have Sidney Lumet and a producer telling us their memories about the beginning of this project, about the filming, about Frank Serpico, their favourites scenes, etc. Every minute of this material is quite interesting. It includes some anecdotes with Frank Serpico (for example Frank wanted to be practically stick to Pacino during the entire filming, obviously a very uncomfortable situation that of course was impossible) but I think the most curious is when Sidney Lumet talks about the score of the picture that is featured with the photo gallery; You will feel good for Lumet. The other extra is the theatrical trailer, then a great DVD. "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a drama, character study, thriller, among other things. It is a tour de force, near magna cumme laude. I enjoyed the brilliant acting of the sometimes, slightly, overrated Al Pacino. He is in top form here, rarely ever overacting, or letting down the character. He really does a superb job; a performance to study. Because life itself is a very complex thing, it is all the more astonishing that they managed to pull this off so well. Typically, film makers/Hollywood have a tough time with recreating true-stories. For one thing, they always come off as hard-boiled and flat. Again the complexity of life is what is needed to do a film based off of life. Hollywood, when even well-endowing one of these films, usually fail. That is why this film is so impressive. Another reason why this film is so successful is, simply, the courageous story. It is just a well-written movie that takes great pains to study character. It is pretty simple, really. A great story that pays homage to its own material; the complex nature of a persons character. Just get it. "},{"Title":"One man against the rest....","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank Serpico is an honest, hardworking and good cop who finds it difficult to fit in the police force in NY in the seventies. Besides being a cop he is also into the more alternative life-style of that period of time and on that account he finds himself even more alienated from his colleagues. He lets his hair and beard grow and dresses very hip to the irritation of his superiors.The movie portrays the police force as thoroughly corrupt, the cops as lazy bastards and the superiors as more interested in the image of the force than doing the necessary and right thing which is in this case to conduct a proper investigation into the allegations made by Serpico.As mentioned in almost every review I've read on this movie Pacinos performance is outstanding and very believable. And if you like the dusty, old, brownish colors so typical of films shot in NY in the seventies this film is a must.You could say that this movie falls into the category one man against the system which has been a theme in so many American movies. I don't know why this is a common theme in American movies but maybe it has to do with the American dream; that everything is possible for the strong individual. Although the story is good I couldn't help wonder if he &#150; in the real story - didn't get more comfort, sympathy and help than was portrayed in the movie. The way I see it is, that America is still very much in love with the story of the hero who can pull through without too much help from his surroundings and beat the system. And despite Serpicos hippie attitude and the fact that he is not physically superior he is still a hero very much like John Wayne. Of course without the most annoying and stereotyped clichés but still he beats the system&#133; It is as if he had gotten more help it would sort of have ruined the story. Am I wrong? /Simon "},{"Title":"An Honest Cop in a World of Police Corruption!","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is truly an interesting film. A huge breakthrough film for Al Pacino, this propelled him to stardom. A fast-paced jaunt through the boroughs of New York City, this film never lets go and grips you to the final betrayal. In the end Serpico had to quit the police force but he did leave a mark for future improvement and change to take place. His courage and steadfast tenacity is exhausting to watch but understandable in the morass of police corruption that had infected the many precincts of New York City at the time. A good movie. I highly recommend this work of Al Pacino. He is a great actor in this film and does not disappoint. Al Pacino, like Clint Eastwood, just gets better with age but it was this movie that showed Pacino's great talent and the potential that propelled him to future stardom. "},{"Title":"Pacino shines early in his career","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet's Serpico got Al Pacino a Golden Globe and an Oscar nomination for his performance as an honest cop.This was a gritty performance that focused on Pacino for 99% of the movie. I don't know any other actor that could probably pull off this performance. Sure, he had support from a fine cast and the New York location was critical, and Mikis Theodorakis score was beautiful, but this was Pacino through and through.While he seemed great in the Godfather, he really shows that he can act in this film. "},{"Title":"Acting 101","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot of this picture is more than decent. You have a police man (Al Pacino) and his struggle/fight and it's all based on a real (life) story.What really helps this movie, is Al Pacino. He's acting his heart out in this movie. And that alone would/should have earned this movie a 10 out of 10. But because it is based on a true story, the plot sometimes doesn't move forward like it should. You could also say that Pacino is so dominant, that it brings the movie as a whole down.But in my eyes, he's the reason you should watch this movie. Before he did Scarface, he did this movie. And his performance matches his Tony Montana character/impersonation! o) "}{"Title":"Tough and atmospheric- Love Pacino's outfit charade!","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" A hard-hitting mix of cop movie and character study. The true-life-story greatly eliminates sentimentality and adds lots of grit. Corruption, relationship problems and street jargon blend effortlessly. It also feels like a perfect representative capture of time and atmosphere of NY in the early '70s. Pacino's performance is absolutely flawless, and you just gotta love that constant outfit charade he brings into almost every new scene! Only complaint is the schmaltzy music score and a bit saggy pacing midway through. Another example of how a movie has convinced me to read the book it's based on. Now, onto that novel! 7 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"Powerhouse Pacino.....","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico is a powerful tale of an honest undercover cop named Frank Serpico, played with finesse by none other than Al Pacino, all dressed up like a hippie, complete with long hair and a beard.Serpico is one of the few honest cops in the New York police department who refuses to take any extra money or bribe, unlike his fellow-cops and partners. He begins to find it difficult carrying on with them, as they are not too happy with him not co-operating. Serpico attempts to bring the police corruption to light.Al Pacino turns in a terrific performance as Serpico. His anguish and anger shows to the fullest and one totally sympathizes with him as the movie progresses. One particular memorable scene, when he makes an arrest and brings the man to the precinct, shows Pacino displaying anger like never before. Tony Roberts is great in a supporting role as Serpico's friend, Bob.Sidney Lumet directs it well, but the movie could have been a tad shorter; it feels like we didn't really need to see some of the scenes which the film could've easily done away with. The editing could have been better. Also, the background score was all wrong in some of the scenes.Those are the only couple of minuses as far as I can see.All in all, Serpico is a must watch for Pacino fans and for any movie buff in general. "},{"Title":"Best cop movie i have ever seen.","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie, i love the story and the excellent acting job by AL pacino and the rest of the cast.This movie is one of my favorite movies, and i think it is the best cop movie i have ever seen, i like it better then the french connection.Serpico is a movie that a lot of people can respect, for it's plot and the awesome acting job by pacino.I also like the 70's style of this movie, it has that cool new york 70's style that works perfect for the movie, i think serpcio should have won a few Oscars.Evene though it is a critically acclaimed movie, serpcio deserved more then just 2 nominations and i highly respect this film.And i highly respect Sidney Lumet, his movies are great and i own serpcio, and i will always own serpico. "},{"Title":"Serpico","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" THIS IS the definitive performance by Al Pacino. He was definitely robbed of his best actor Oscar. It went to Jack Lemmon for his role in Save The Tiger Lemmon was by far one of the greatest actors in history, however Al Pacino's performance as Frank Serpico was far more Oscar worthy on many levels. I remember seeing this in the movies at the time of release. Thankfully the DVD of the film is excellent. And, of course, let us not forget the powerhouse director who was able to get the most out of his actors, Mr. Sidney Lumet. Mr. Pacino, your performance as Frank Serpico will always be one that stands out amongst all others. Your thoughts, if any? aramm6@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Paco.","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" You'll love to see the calm and compassionate Frank Paco Serpico in the beginning of the movie, who never takes money and is never contaminated by the wrath of participating in police brutality -- the African American kid who was abused gains Serpico's favor because of this. Watch how Paco selflessly gives up his girlfriend in the bathtub scene when she tells him what is to happen in two months unless he marries her. And from being the honest cop and gentleman, you also get to see an intense Paco, with righteous fury after being countlessly taken by disappointment of the whole system being corrupt. And I didn't expect the 5 dollar puppy sheepdog to grow that big.I also recommend DOG DAY AFTERNOON. Both Serpico and that are excellent movies documenting true to life events in the form of narrative motion picture. Both from Sidney Lumet. "},{"Title":"Top-notch performance by Pacino and nice original score by Mikis Theodorakis","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've always heard of Serpico and how good of a cop film it is, so I decided to rent it. The film was as good as people have said it was. Al Pacino's performance as Frank Serpico, the honest, undercover cop who was turned down by his colleagues plays a really good performance. Even though he's no Michael Corleone or Tony Montana, he still plays a nice performance as Frank Serpico. The music played by Mikis Theodorakis is very soothing and sounds like he is playing Italian music, it reminded me of The Godfather. This is actually the first Sidney Lemut film I have ever seen and in the future I will see more of his films. Overall, good movie with good performances, nice original score, and also good cinematography. I recommend Serpico. Hedeen's Outlook 8/10 *** B "},{"Title":"I liked it but ...","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a great Al Pacino film. It is as good as any of his earlier efforts. I, in fact, think that there are two clearly definable eras of Pacinos career and this is representative of the first. Pacino was particularly effective at displaying the shift that took place in Serpicos Psyche over time. We can all relate to the changes in behavior that job stress can cause. I think everyone has made any other comments that I could have possibly added. But I have one comment-what was up with the non-uniform plaid shirts that some of the uniformed cops (including Frank Serpico) were wearing on patrol at the beginning of the film? I need to know! This might be s strange question-but it was a very strange scene. "},{"Title":"YOUNG PACINO IN SMOOTH FORM!","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of Al Pacino's early triumphs immediately after THE GODFATHER and he seems relaxed and comfortable as the heroic cop who got shafted working for the NYPD in the 1960's. Filled with great New York character actors, nice gritty N.Y. atmosphere and only the presence of Cornelia Sharpe (one of Al's girlfriends) brings things down, although she looks perfect for her character.A 7 out of 10. Best performance = Mr. Pacino. Tony Roberts plays his usual yuppie (can I trust him?)type suit. Sidney Lumet is a wonderful director, greatly under-appreciated since the late 50's and certainly an actor's director and his book is fascinating on making films. One of the best '70's New York stories and the poster is famous. "},{"Title":"As they say..good guys finish last.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Serpico...a great film. Ya the movie may have it's setbacks not being much of a action film, or having great actors moments which define certain actors but it still comes out as a good film.For one, Al Pacino as Frank Serpico was excellent, as him being the biggest name in the film and his impeccable fashion made him the American hero.Kinda leaves you thinking...good guys finish last. A must see for those who like true stories or who are Al Pacino fans. Oh yes there are his scenes of high voltage voice and some great acting give this movie it's worth.8/10  "},{"Title":"Why I did not give a 10/10 though I thought it deserved it...","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Serpico is one of those movies that in my opinion, you enjoy watching, you learn form it, you discuss it after but it will be a good while before I decide to watch it again.It is a very touching story showing how bad it can be to be an honest cop in a corrupted system, as if corruption is a must and if you are not part of it you are unwanted, endangered a total outsider who even looks stupid.The only reason I could not give this film a 10/10 is because it appeared at time too slow losing its breath. There were scenes completely unnecessary and pointless where out of a sudden it became interesting and exciting again.Even though a real story a sad end would suit it better. "}{"Title":"A fair cop","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pacino on fire as un-corruptable cop Frank Serpico.He chews the scenery and runs away with the film a la Scarface. The story seems to take second place as the other characters are merely, well, characters in his story. We take it as read that every cop is dodgy and on the take.  There are some classic lines of dialogue and even a source of sampling for Cypress Hill's IV album. The costume designer would have had a field day, the beard designer would have been worked pretty hard too.Good movie, doesnt really drag, seems a little one-sided; it does more for Al that it does for Frank. "},{"Title":"Serpico (1973)","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Serpico is a crime / drama based on the true story of Frank Serpico, a NYC police officer who started a crusade against corruption on the force.  Al Pacino gives a top-notch performance as the title character.  The film takes you through his matriculation as a rookie officer fresh from the academy up until his testimony at the corruption hearings.  You feel for Serpico's plight to get his voice heard while others are trying to hush it.  Great direction by Lemet coupled with superb production that puts you right in NYC during the early 70's.  All in all this film is not to be missed from your collection.  It has blessed mine and I rate it a 9/10. This film shows Pacino in his nascent stage as an actor and from this performance you can see that he was destined to be just what he is today, one of the greatest actors of all times. Enjoy and Peace...Buggieblade  "},{"Title":"A movie that may now seem cliche but brilliant for it's time","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Al Pacino has got to be one of the greatest actors of our time.  This film today would be another same old same old cop drama but for it's time it was a new idea.  A true story in fact.  My wife does not usually get into this kind of movie but she would not leave the room.  This is a miracle in itself.  This film for today's standards would be considered okay but that is b/c we are all so desensitized to what is going on around us.  This story is brilliant and is played out great by Pacino.  It did need a few more good actors to pull off the ultimate movie but it did great with what it had.  I can't beleive it took me this long to see it.  Don't wait any longer. "},{"Title":"still a good one","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the camera and sound do give you 70's feel, but the movie is still a good one, with Pacino's act and Lumet's directing skills. Hong Kong had also serious corruption problem in the police force in 60-70's. The ICAC(Independent Commission Against Corruption) was set up by the end of 70's, and the situation gradually improved. Seeing a person with integrity against a bad system is still very touching !! "},{"Title":"Purely realistic and a great starring actor","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To everyone who wants to see the movie for the first time and doesn`t know if it`s worth it This masterpiece won`t disappoint you. The way of Al Pacino`s acting and the highly entertaining story make this film unique. All the characters are great, though the most policeman are just bad guys, who take money illegal. Nevertheless, you can count this movie as a classic of the 70`s, because the atmosphere is truly amazing and authentic. You can see the movie over and over without getting bored and that is something really special in today`s movie culture.   "},{"Title":"A gripping portrayal of a struggle for not conforming","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The direction(Sidney Lumet) and acting(Al Pacino) are first class. The movie has a very smooth pace and hits the viewer with very understated scenes that scream. All the scenes in which serpico is confronted with corruption are superbly rendered. The angst and helplessness of an honest cop in the face of rampant corruption is presented very realistically.It is a superb lesson in character portrayal and character building.The only downside I could think of is that the other characters around serpico are not delved into with details and are sketchy. I would have liked to know more about the supporting characters that understand and encourage serpico but they are skimmily portrayed. Anyway the whole  movie revolves around just Serpico and both the director and the actor have done a great job.ANd the music is also great. I will be watching the movie again just to catch up with the soundtrack again. In all its a treat.Enjoy, Adi "},{"Title":"AL'S A GOOD GUY...ABOUT TIME!!!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Serpico will always be remembered as one of Al Pacino's best movies and perhaps one of the best movies of the Seventies.Ironically, Frank Serpico is not living in Switzerland as was reported at the end of the film.  He now lives in New York and continues to battle police corruption.One of the most haunting parts of the movie is the musical score, especially when the closing credits are rolling.Highly recommended.Rating  **** "},{"Title":"Seeing it explains why this is considered a classic","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SERPICO from S.Lumet is a really worthy film to watch. Based on a real story about police corruption and with great performances (especially from Pacino), it is too interesting to miss. It's not slow as others indicated. This is 3rd Lumet film I see and I think this guy is great. He's got a great taste for scripts. And he delivers them pretty neat. I have to say here that police-corruption phenomenons in my country is common. Recently (last years) did they form an independent division to investigate police corruption. Mikis Theodorakis score is a bit annoying, at least to me, too familiar and really not-suiting the film. But then, again, I am greek, so what do I know? hehehI recommend this film to everyone  "},{"Title":"Genuine Hero","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are scant few public figures upon whom I would bestow a title of hero.  Frank Serpico is one.This titanic individual embodied the purity of motives, sweetness of spirit and tenacity of acting upon his convictions. He obviously was more interested doing his sworn duty to uphold police work principles than in exposing corruption within ranks.Yet, his colleagues wouldn't leave him alone.  They were so steeped in the context of their own corruption that they demanded he conform to be like them. Like the character of Howard Roark in Ann Rand's novel, The Foundation, so real-life Frank Serpico chose to expose professional irregularities.  In blowing the whistle on a corrupt hardcore ten percent and weakly conforming eighty percent who wished they were honest, Serpico achieved something few have done.  He truly made a difference by significantly leading to the reform of a hundred-year hardened bureaucracy.In this film re-enactment, Al Pacino throws himself into the title role with total commitment, giving a strong and convincing portrayal of a remarkable individual.The presentation, made in consultation with Mr. Serpico, offers a fair and accurate account of the events that took place in this important case.In doing so it holds up a mirror to us all to examine our own level of commitment to high moral values, particularly when challenged with adversity.  "},{"Title":"30 years after the story repeats again","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw Serpico for the first time in 2003, 30 years after its realization and i think that the situation described in the film, still happens. I don´t know the reality of New York, now after Giuliani´s administration. I hope that the 11/9 attacks don´t involve a case of police corruption. Respect of Serpico, I see the same situation on my country, but now. It sadly how a movie, that was realized in 1973, can be present in our times. About the police situation in Argentina, I recommend to see El Bonaerense that will be exhibited in USA, the next days. ey, Pacino, you are great!!! could you film the part 2 of this film?  "}{"Title":"One of my favorite things about this film.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite things about this film has always been the score by Mikis Theodorakis arranged by Bob James. I consider it to be exceptional. As for the film itself I consider it mediocre at best. Anyone who has ever experienced police corruption first hand would have to agree that the brutality and viciousness of that sort of a situation goes way beyond the images depicted in this movie. There are good scenes in this film yet it's far from being perfect or worthy of any amount of critical acclaim. After gaining a reputation for being an honest cop refusing to take bribes or payoffs and then being transfered to one of the most dangerous assignments on the force as a result could anyone actually believe that one of the first things to happen is a warning from another corrupted police officer to stay away from challenging the thousands of dollars scammed in their district on a weekly basis. I doubt it. The truth and actuallity is much more low key. How else to cover up brutality and corruption? "},{"Title":"Pacino rocks!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think Al Pacino is good in almost everything he does, but this movie was particularly good.  He plays Serpico, a young hippie cop who is astonished by all the corruption in the NYPD.  He becomes puzzled and then infuriated to the point where it almost drives him insane.  This is a true story and there's lots of information about the real Serpico on the 'net.  But rent the movie -- you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"A fascinating must-see","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Biographical story of NYC cop Frank Serpico's fight against corruption within the police department.  Part police thriller, but mostly a fascinating character study of one man's personal occupational struggle within the police force, as well as the repercussions it has on his personal life.Thirty years later, this film is still as powerful, and it still boasts one Al Pacino's best career performances.***1/2 out of ****MPAA Rated R for pervasive strong language, and for some violence and nudity. "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest cop movie ever made...","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SERPICO stands out as a classic in the genre of cop films.  Al Pacino is outstanding in the title role and captures the essence of the man who REALLY did turn the NYPD on its head and expose all of the corruption hidden below the surface.Depressing as a reminder of how many institutions are undoubtedly full of people on the take and others willing to look the other way, this movie is also a great story of what one person can do to make a difference in the world.Maybe one of the most charming aspects of this movie is the way it was made, kind of a throwback to substance over style.  Sometimes it almost feels like a documentary, so gritty and realistic are the scenes which appear to have been shot almost completely on location in New York.You don't see very many movies like this anymore.  These days, it seems like filmmakers are always in a rush to move to the next thing with quick cuts before the split second attention span conditioned audience has a chance to lose interest and switch the channel or get up to grab a snack.  Serpico is told with a slower, more deliberate pace, more concerned with character development and nuance than with moving quickly on to the NEXT THING.  There's no razzmatazz.  Only truth and depth. "},{"Title":"Quintessential Al Pacino","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies Al Pacino ever did and one of the best police movies, ever.  SERPICO struck a tremendous chord when it came out.  A movie about police corruption where the hero is a long-haired, bearded, flakey, counter-culture loner at a time when long-haired, bearded, flakey counter-culture people were uniformly treated with scorn and suspicion by Nixon's Silent Majority of the time.  But it is the button-downed cops in suits who are the criminals and the hippie is the man of integrity.Pacino really gets into the guts of Frank Serpico and he brings out the torment and the isolation that a whistleblower experiences when he tries to swim against the current.  All Frank Serpico wanted was to be a good cop and be allowed to do his job.  We need more people like him.  We need more movies that are as good as SERPICO was and is.   "},{"Title":"Serpico","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very well put together film that obviously inspired works like Erin Brokavich.  Frank Serpico was a fine testament to bravery, not just for risking his physical well being but for denying himself the natural inclination to belong among our peers.  Serpico's incongruity was the interesting aspect of the film for me.  He reads classic literature, likes the arts and relates to a modern/liberal crowd.  He dresses strangely and wears long hair and moustache and beard.  The other undercover cops dress in suits and ties and stick out like sore thumbs.  Today Pacino's character looks a little out of place, but when this film was released the nation was having a hard time with folks that were different and dressed or looked weird.This film doesn't hold up as well as some of the other classic films from the great late 60s/early 70s era of American filmmaking, but it still well worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Kept me off the force.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Frank Serpico is the ultimate police officer.  As graft and corruption swell around him, Frank stays true to the NYPD mottos,  To serve and protect and New York's Finest. I first saw this film as a child growing up in NYC. It kept me off the force. This film is more frightening than any horror movie, because it was based on the true experiences of a real person.This is probably Al Pacino's best pre-growling era film. It was made right after the real life hearings, and is about as authentic to the 1960's, and early 70's vibe as humanly possible. "},{"Title":"mixed opinions","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After watching the film, I have mixed opinions. The character played by Al Pacino, is a very strong character and it is easy to empathise with him.Although in some places, Serpico is slighty hard to follow, i believe it is a very true to life and gritty film. Even some of the camera work and sound reflects on the film being realistic. All in all, I enjoyed the film and was left feeling satisfied with the ending.   "},{"Title":"More relevant than ever","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one's a grabber, kids, and even more relevant than it was when first released.  Has anyone besides myself noticed that the  world seems to be descending more and more into people being out for themselves?  Just in the way they talk, drive and carry out their daily business.  Much like the cops on the pad in this film.  Pacino hits like white lightning as one of the few who dared to stand apart.  Did anyone besides me notice how, in one scene, he managed to pour exactly equal amounts of champagne for himself and his girlfriend without visibly trying to?  That alone showed in a microcosmic way how exacting Serpico must have been.  Just one of those little throwaway bits that makes you smile once you realize what you've seen.  Pound for pound, a grabber of a movie.  None of my usual Metallica picks to watch this one by... that would demean the purpose of this film, and Serpico likes opera anyhow.  Who am I to argue? "},{"Title":"For the record, I take back comments made on June 10,1999.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being that I was not at the scene when Frank Serpico was shot in Brooklyn, New York, and the fact that I have received evidence of police- misconduct by more or less hearing it from the horse's mouth, I set the record straight and apologize to Frank Serpico. This apology comes from one that has seen more than his share. Take care Frank. "}{"Title":"Set up to be killed or carelessness?","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not trying to take anything away from Frank Serpico, But when you go up to a tough tenement apartment, be it in the Bronx, Brooklyn, or where ever, and your attire is less than a police uniform, even less, you look like a Mugger You don't knock on the door of a drug dealer, and say,Oye, Dame algo. Which in Spanish means,Listen, give me something. And then when the door is opened you try to force your way in by Yelling, Police! It only takes a second or two for the bad guy to react in a situation like that. What I believe happened was that the drug dealer was spooked and let one shot go. By the time Serpico's other partners whom the movie show closely near him can react, he is wounded in the face. In reality there was only speculation as to the possibility of the other officers not reacting fast enough. This scene was greatly embellished to captivate the audience's further opinion and make Serpico a living  Martyr I respect him for his integrity, but I must say that I read in his web-site, where he states, I have  more trust in the Mafia than the Police, because the Mafia are not Wolves, in Sheep's clothing. No way JOSE! There are many cops that should not be on the job, particularly high ranking officers; let us not always blame the cop on the beat, but there are many,many good and honest cops that risk their lives every day for you and I. The Mafia is insidious. God forbid! if one day Serpico finds himself in a dangerous situation that he cannot get out of. Who is he going to call? 911? or the Mafia? Again, I'm not trying to take anything away from this man, but let's use some common sense here. "},{"Title":"That gun takes a 14 shot clip...you expecting an army?","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino portrays real-life New York City patrolman Frank Serpico, who is ostracized by his colleagues after exposing corruption within the police force. Punchy, ugly urban tale spares us none of the horrors of the city's gritty underbelly. As an actor's showcase for Pacino, the film provides a first-rate display of the leading man's raw, nervy talents, which--coupled with his work in 1972's The Godfather--helped make him a star. As an entertainment per se, Serpico is long at 130 minutes and grating on the ears. Director Sidney Lumet, he of the Shouting School of Acting, encourages his cast to bust their lungs barking at each other, while Arthur J. Ornitz's 'colorless' color cinematography, filmed on-location, is authentic without being particularly vivid or expressive. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Pacino in Copland","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Adapted from a biography by Peter Maas, 'Serpico' had major impact on how cinema depicts members of law enforcement. Unlike older stories that portray cops in an heroic light, 'Serpico' examines misconduct within the police system that screenwriters had rarely, if ever, addressed. In prior decades, the integrity of police officers was 'off-limits' for American film and television, a silence that Frank Serpico helped to break.Serpico, who is now a college lecturer and mentor, joined the New York City Police Department in 1959 as a patrolman. He eventually became a plainclothes officer and found himself isolated after refusing kickbacks that fellow cops took with itchy palms. Serpico hoped to address the problem by following NYPD's chain of command, but was eventually behind a tell-all New York Times article that forced Mayor Lindsay to organize the Knapp Commission in 1970.Dino De Laurentiis stepped forward to produce the film adaptation of Maas's book, written by Waldo Salt with revisions by Norman Wexler. 'Serpico' was filmed while the Knapp Commission lingered in American headlines. Veteran director Sidney Lumet came on board as an eleventh-hour choice and the film's starring role went to Al Pacino, who was Oscar-nominated for his turn in 'The Godfather' and would receive a Golden Globe (for Best Actor in a Dramatic Film) as the police outcast.Running two hours and ten minutes, 'Serpico' is a straight-up biopic that focuses on the cop's hardest trials. Pacino, who met and studied the real-life officer, portrays Serpico as an intense, driven figure who was equally open-minded and thickheaded. There was an intellectual, adventurous Serpico who enjoyed ballet with his girlfriend, studied the habits of animals, and looked for the good in all people; on the other hand, he was a self-loathing, arrogant fellow who was consumed by the no-win battles he vowed to fight. Serpico, at least on film, is admirable in his demands for police integrity but not very likable as a man in private. As the film progresses, we see him do little except walk a dog, complain about recent plights, and run two lovers into the ground.Total heroism, however, is reserved for fiction. Serpico was an unusual cop with glaring strengths and weaknesses in his personality. Pacino succeeds in bringing out the many facets of Serpico and is helped by an able supporting cast. Since the film was tightly budgeted, most supporting roles were filled by lesser-known but capable actors Tony winner John Randolph ('Earthquake,' 'You've Got Mail') plays Sidney Green, a police chief who respects Serpico from the beginning. Biff McGuire is adequate as Captain McClain, a counselor whom Serpico asks for help but is unreliable. Tony Roberts fills the role of Bob Blair, a hotshot detective with 'connections' to the Mayor's Office. Cornelia Sharpe (Leslie) and Barbara Eda-Young (Laurie) fare well as Serpico's love interests. Curiously, well-known actors F. Murray Abraham and Judd Hirsch have uncredited bits as police officers. 'Hill Street Blues' alumnus René Enríquez appears briefly as a Spanish literature instructor.Sidney Lumet's direction is very good as usual, but the film has its weaknesses. The main problem rests in Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler's script (cut down from 240 pages!), which focuses on Serpico and his lonely position in the NYPD hierarchy. Most of the supporting characters - who dart in and out of the storyline - are only used to push matters along and lack true dimension. The far-reaching impact of Serpico is not examined in detail, either. For those who were not around to feel the Knapp Commission's impact in 1971, 'Serpico' appears told from the main character's self-imposed bubble.Editing by Dede Allen and Richard Marks is also not to the high standard of Lumet's other films. Dialogue is occasionally out of sync with the actors and changes of angle are not quite correct. This was not entirely the technicians' fault, as a breakneck schedule forced Allen and Marks to edit the film while shooting. Lumet did not want a score (he did not use one, for instance, in 'Network'), but was forced to compromise with De Laurentiis; the few clips of music by Mikis Theodorakis (arranged by Bob James) are schlocky and an unwelcome distraction. A major strong point is Serpico's photography by Arthur Ornitz ('Death Wish,' 'An Unmarried Woman'), the late cinematographer who specialized in New York City venues.Overall, 'Serpico' is a wall-to-wall Al Pacino vehicle that delivers. Perhaps a bit too long and technically imperfect, the breadth of Frank Serpico's legacy and the determined role-playing of Pacino make 'Serpico' a film of lasting importance. Paramount Pictures, the film's original distributor, has realized this and assembled a strong DVD of 'Serpico' for its Widescreen Collection. The 'Serpico' disc gives justice to Arthur Ornitz's photography, using a print with clean visuals and strong colors; grain is rare in backgrounds and there are no visible artifacts.Sound is offered in Dolby Digital 5.1 surround, the restored mono track, and dubbed French. Subtitles are provided in English only. The mono track was used for reviewing this film and sounds of average quality; dialogue is sometimes muffled by background noise but Theodorakis's score comes through loud and clear. Sizeable extras include 'Serpico from Real to Reel,' a ten-minute featurette on co-producer Martin Bregman and director Sidney Lumet's genesis of the material; 'Inside Serpico,' a 13-minute program on Serpico's filming; a gallery of images and advertising materials with commentary by Lumet on the film's music; and the theatrical trailer. Unfortunately, Pacino himself is not interviewed, while the extras and DVD case fail to mention his Golden Globe win and Oscar nomination for the role (?). Yet Paramount's disc is highly informative and pays more than enough homage to a famous story of the 1970s.*** out of 4Roving Reviewer - www.geocities.com/paul_johnr "},{"Title":"Brilliant Performances","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico (1973) **** (out of 4) Sidney Lumet's terrific police drama about a cop (Al Pacino) who refuses to take money from the bad guys. This is no where near as brilliant as Dog Day Afternoon but it still remains a great film from the decade. I think the biggest problem is that it goes on a bit too long and some of the political messages are done too heavy. Other than that this is a highly entertaining film that has plenty of drama as well as some nice laughs. Pacino, once again, delivers a remarkable performance as the weird cop. "},{"Title":"Pacino shines.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" A great commentary on the corruption of the police and the government, which I feel even reflects society today. Everyone is full of corruption and evil that it just becomes the normal thing. You don't even think twice about the terrible things you do. Then, when someone is good and tries to do the right thing, they are simply written off as crazy and everyone will do what is in their power to stop them. The hospital scene is one of the most heartbreaking of all time, for me. Serpico had been working his whole life and had gone through so much unbearable pain to do what is right and to get that gold shield but in the end he rejects it. It shows a real arc for this very complex character.He has completely given up on life and has become an empty shell. He had tried to do so much to help stop the corruption and all it did was get him shot and more death threats. He did the right thing and suffered the consequences from the bad guys, yet it didn't stop there. He knew that taking the shield would have meant nothing. It was the corrupt department's attempt to shut him up or give him some kind of false praise for doing the good deed. Taking it would have been the worst thing he could have done, at least in his eyes. It's a true act of defiance, rebellion and noncooperation. He wouldn't be silenced by these corrupt men, and he would fight them until he died. Al Pacino is a powerhouse in a performance that rivals his in Dog Day Afternoon, which I consider to be the greatest performance of all time. He switches so seamlessly from subtle inner pain to an exploding, paranoid maniac. He displays such a range of emotion though it never feels like he is trying to hard or overacting. Such charisma and absorption into a role is rarely seen, and Pacino does it to perfection. "},{"Title":"Al Pacino or not, Attempting to bring a voluminous book to one little old Screenplay about Cop Corruption just doesn't cut it.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Leading off, let's first of all say that this is on film that has a really good look and feel of New York City (at least as far as this Chicago boy can see; having at least visited there several times in my adult life.); at least in the way that they used the city, identified as being Astoria, Queens, for its location shooting.There is no reason that we should look at the adaption of a book like Peter Maas' Serpico into a film as being some sort of Holy Crusade or altruistic venture designed to elucidate corrupt practices existing or previously existing in any Police Department, be it the N.Y.P.D. or any other. The Movie business, although speaking in selfless, lofty and unselfish terms during the annual Academy Awards Show, in actuality lives and dies with the almighty barometer known as the Bottom Line. O$CAR'$ significance lies less with the Art Museum and more with the U.$. Trea$ury.There is no denying that this is a major motion picture. One did not get Al Pacino for some pot-boiler, meant to get shown at the Drive-In Theatres, before being quickly dispatched to TV, Home Video or perhaps directly to Public Domain. Such star power demands a really good supporting cast; what with John Randolph, Tony Roberts, Jack Kehoe and Hank Garrett. Interestingly, there are some actors featured in the uncredited category such as Judd Hirsch and F. Murray Abraham! Where SERPICO really has a radical departure from the usual, even the much better than the usual Cop Flick is its central subject of dishonest practices and their rampant widespread institutionalization throughout the Police Department. This subject is not one that is easily explored and portrayed on the screen. A movie must go very deep in underlying foundation exposition in bringing any true understanding to such a problem. It isn't enough to portray just a simply one dimensional scene as; Wrong Doer is confronted by Bad Cop, usually an older White Guy. Wrong Doer gives Bad Cop some money or an envelope. Bad Cop winks, nods and leaves.It's not that we opposed to any discussion of corrupt practices in any unit of Government on any level, be it Local, County, State or Federal. We object to well meaning, but strictly shallow water excursions; when what are needed is some deep exploratory dives with full SCUBA Gear.The film attempts to put in 2 hours or so what a 500 page book would find difficult to cover. To their credit, some of the most poignant scenes come early on in the film. They are the short business involving Frank Serpico's (Al Pacino) and his veteran Uniformed Cop partner's having lunch at the diner. When Serpico orders the roast beef sandwich (I think) and it comes to him with very fatty meat, the old guy tells him just to take it, inasmuch the Cops are fed there for gratis. This little example using a petty incident is trivial in its effect on the movie, but profound in understanding just what a Cop faces from day one. Everybody wants to influence you and your job, everybody; that's to one extent or other.The 2nd scene involves the forcible Rape that Serpico went out of his way to clear-up by arrest, only to find out that his efforts were drowned out by the daily bureaucratic grind of the Police Department. The lesson learned would seem to be that one shouldn't extend oneself beyond the necessary. This is not easy to take for some guys, like Serpico, for example.Any story that wishes to deal with such a problem as in the story here must look much deeper. Remember, for any person to be in a more choice position on a Police Department has to rely on some extracurricular influence to both get and keep such a spot. Such influencing agents would be ones connections, be they to some politicians, some prominent clergyman or some captain of business or industry. The connections are called by several different terms. It may be one's Clout or Drag. The influential benefactor may be called by say your Chinaman (Chicago) or your Rabbi (New York), or any other local term.This is the real cause of corruption and it runs deep and is never spoken of or even recognized to exist. After all, those promotional exams are strictly on the level. Aren't they?NOTE Mr. Ryan's expertise comes from his 35 year career on the Chicago Police Department; where he had varied assignments from Beat Cop in the most crime-ridden, economically depressed neighborhoods, to Directing Traffic in Loop (Downtown), to Motorcycle Cop, to Youth Division School Unit and finally in The Detective Division's Missimg Persons Bureau. "},{"Title":"cop an attitude","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hot off The Godfather, Al Pacino got the equally good role of New York cop Frank Serpico, who exposed corruption in the NYPD. The movie really gives one an insight into the Big Apple in the late '60s and early '70s, and we see how Serpico was basically the only cop on the force who took his job seriously. Eventually, of course, his cohorts took revenge on him.What's really interesting in the movie is the contrast between Serpico when he's in uniform and when he's undercover, looking like the ultimate hippie. But above all, Serpico shows why Al Pacino is one of the greatest actors of our time. And of course, this was when director Sidney Lumet was going through what was probably the best period in his career (along with Murder on the Orient Express, Dog Day Afternoon and Network). A great movie. "},{"Title":"Real life courage!","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Being in the arena of law enforcement I can't imagine the great and extreme level of courage that Mr. Serpico showed. The movie quickens your pulse and makes you feel as tense as Frank Serpico must have felt. Al Pacino did a superb job of bringing out the emotions of frustration and abandonment. Serpico is a true David and Goliath picture. At the start of the film Frank Serpico's views and commitment as a rookie cop gives you insight to his moral fiber and helps you understand why someone would want to have a career in law enforcement despite the danger. The journey he takes is paved with free meals and kick backs that he tries to avoid but in doing so turns his fellow officers against him leading to his being set up and shot in an attempt to silence him. Serpico is an amazing tale of one man versus a corrupt system. Serpico is a truly inspiring film. "},{"Title":"May the Force be on the Take","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SERPICO features Al Pacino in his best period.During this time he would also act in the first two GODFATHER movies.Pacino shows his great acting talent in SERPICO as he plays a desperate cop who doesn't approve of the widespread corruption in the New York Police Force.SERPICO is based on a real event which makes it even worse.Sydney Lumet(NETWORK,THE WIZ)makes every cop except Serpico look like a corrupt figure.The events take place in the desolated surroundings of New York as it was in the sixties and seventies.This period of New York has got some really bad sides to it but it has also inspired some brilliant directors to create some of the greatest films ever made in the USA like TAXI DRIVER,THE FRENCH CONNECTION,DEATH WISH and MIDNIGHT COWBOY.Somehow all these films are connected to each other.To me the seventies are really the epitome of American Film making and,sad but true,the New York situation was responsible for these great films.SERPICO contains some fine New York based actors of the seventies like Al Pacino,John Randolph(SECONDS),Tony Roberts(PLAY IT AGAIN SAM,ANNIE HALL)and I also believe that I saw John Vernon in a cameo appearance. There are also two actors that play in DEATH WISH,a similar film about New York and it's badly operating police department.These two actors are Edward Grover and Damien Leake.SERPICO is not a movie about positive things or good people.Even Serpico himself becomes a bad guy when he gets frustrated,still he never goes over the edge.A good actors film with intense play by Al Pacino and a provocative and daring story about the police.  8/10 "},{"Title":"The story of the policeman Frank Serpico","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The book written by the same Serpico is much better than this drama. Pacino did his best acting in the role of Serpico, a man who always fought against the corruption inside the police of New York city. However, the film was able to show the main connection of corrupted cobs with mafia in New York, the way Serpico was mistreated by his colleagues and the risk he had everyday in his action. It is funny to see when the great jury did not allow Serpico to talk. Probably this was done to protect a bit the already deformed reputation of New York police. In any case, the plot and the messages of the film are beneficial for the health of the Big Apple, a town with too many famous attributes, including a heavy criminality.   "}{"Title":"Where's Marty?","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story of Frank Serpico is fascinating and so is Al Pacino's performance but this movie isn't. I'm sure the book by Peter Mass is 100 times better then this movie. This movie would have been a great movie if either Martin Scorsese or Brain de Palma would have directed. In fact what bothers me about this movie is the direction. The movie is pretty slow and Sydney Lumet gives the movie no style what so ever. It's amazing to see such a great story go to waste. And such a fantastic performance by Pacino as well.2(**)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"This movie attacks the NYPD but the real villain is organized crime.","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie seems to go astray in its emphasis on Serpico's crisis as mainly a manifestation of police corruption, which in reality could not have been the major part of his problem. Serpico's main problem had to be with organized crime. Undoubtedly it was someone in the Mafia outside the police department, representing the collective will of a mob of cop hating criminals, who ordered his hit. My own situation may provide a parallel. After Serpico left the department, I later worked (as a civilian) in the same NYPD unit where he had worked on criminal identification. Shortly after I began successfully doing 10 percent more than my quota of identifications, word got out on the street. Then as now, there were Mafia punks everywhere in New York City just waiting to start trouble with anyone who got on the wrong side of organized crime. I couldn't walk ten feet in Manhattan or Brooklyn without somebody spitting on the sidewalk in front of me or trying to jostle me or start a fight. Like everyone else, I used to wonder if it was someone in the NYPD who was causing my problems, because undoubtedly organized crime occasionally has successfully infiltrated the department. But in retrospect, I'm sure the real source of the problem was the Mafia outside the department. Criminals connected to organized crime were punishing me (and a lot of other people) for doing a good job for the NYPD. Serpico doesn't make that point very well and it should have.I can also attest to the fact that this seemingly realistic movie goes wrong when it comes to important details like atmosphere and characterization, which are less authentic than in ordinary TV shows about cops. I never met Serpico in person, but around the time that the film came out, he made a number of appearances on late night talk TV, where he told the story of his conflict with the NYPD bureaucracy and discussed his appearance before the Knapp Commission. Understandably, he wanted to publicize his dispute with the department in order to get the benefits he felt he was entitled to. He was very much like Telly Savalas's Kojak or Robert Blake's Baretta, who are genuine portrayals of the cop type, physically imposing, ribald funny and very outgoing, but not at all like the character portrayed by Al Pacino, who is poorly typecast as a scapegoat from tragedy.The real point the movie should have made is that anyone in law enforcement who zealously does his job is a target for organized crime. Maybe another movie could tell the true story better than this one did. "},{"Title":"Pretty good police-flick","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Serpico' is about a straight cop in a world with corrupt cops. Normally this would be just another one in this genre, although I think it is one of the first. It is too bad I have seen so many other movies that were made later before I saw this one. The true story is brought with suspense and especially Al Pacino as Frank Serpico makes the movie better than it actually is.You know Serpico will be shot later in the story because the opening scenes reveal that. You want to know what happened to get it that far, you want to know if it was a cop that shot him, or a criminal (although the cops are the real criminals in this movie), and if it was an accident or not. Because the movie opens like this the movie is a little more interesting than it should be, but that of course can only be a good thing. You can guess where it will go although it is not sure for who can be trusted and who can't be trusted, not for Serpico and not for us. Because the smart way the story is edited in the beginning and the terrific performance by Al Pacino this is better than the average police film. "},{"Title":"Response to 'MovieAddict2005 on 'Serpico'","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Beofre I go on; I gave this a 9 out of ten because it truly is worthy of it - a fairly low budget film that's a classic, and watchable time after time.Felt compelled to write this not just to comment on the film, but the absolute load of toss that MovieAddict wrote - I could go on for hours pointing out the mistakes that he made in relation to the story, but that would take far too much of my time. Suffice to say that his comments are directly opposite to that of other viewers' comments - obviously a non conformist - hats off to an individuals I say - well, usually anyway, but undividuals with no taste? - come on man, its fantastic. What's the point in adding crap to a true story when the facts are good enough? Think you need to re-evaluate yourself - good luck.Al Pacino can do no wrong - classic actor in a classic film. "},{"Title":"pacino acts perfect","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I always heard from friends that this film is one of Pacinos worst films. In fact i must say this is true! The story is boring and you don't even get many good dialogs. The only good thing about this one is the good acting of Pacino. The clothing and his way of playing an honest cop is ingenious.I think this film is totally overrated. I must admit that i don't like police flicks but i think even if your a fan of it you don't like this one.129 min ... a waste of time.If you like to watch a film only because of Pacino..go and rent it.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Serpico","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had always heard about and seen images of this film, specifically because of the leading actor with a beard, and it was a crime drama film I was always going to see, from BAFTA nominated director Sidney Lumet (12 Angry Men, Dog Day Afternoon, Network). Basically, set in the 1960s and early 1970s, in New York City, young Italian descendant Frank Serpico (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Al Pacino) started out in the New York Police Department as an inexperienced cop who starts out undercover. Unlike his colleagues, Serpico refuses a share of the money that the cops routinely extort from local criminals, mostly drug dealers and pushers, he reports this to a superior, but they refuse to take any attitude, and over the years Serpico becomes outcast and rejected by his colleagues, he ends up harassed by them and his personal life is affected. It is during a drugs bust on February 3rd 1971 that Serpico is betrayed by colleagues and ends up shot in the face, he recovers from his injury and testifies before the Knapp Commission, a government enquiry into NYPD police corruption, he takes the stand on a grand jury investigation, and in the end he receives a New York City Police Department Medal of Honor, a disability pension and moves to Switzerland following his resignation. Also starring John Randolph as Sidney Green, Jack Kehoe as Tom Keough, Biff McGuire as Captain McClain, Barbara Eda-Young as Laurie, Cornelia Sharpe as Leslie, Tony Roberts as Bob Blair, John Medici as Pasquale, Allan Rich as D.A. Tauber, Norman Ornellas as Rubello, Edward Grover as Lombardo, Albert Henderson as Peluce, Hank Garrett as Malone, Damien Leake as Joey, Joseph Bova as Potts, Gene Gross as Captain Tolkin, M. Emmet Walsh as Gallagher, Judd Hirsch as Cop, Tony Lo Bianco as Cop, Kenneth McMillan as Charlie, Tracey Walter as Street Urchin and F. Murray Abraham as Detective Partner. Pacino gives a good performance as the real life cop who helped expose the corruption of cops taking hush-money and bribes and becomes a marked man, I will be honest and say that I found most of the picture rather talky, it was interesting in some parts, but for me the best sequences were those of action, e.g. the raid where Serpico gets shot, but overall it is a worthwhile police thriller based on a true story. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, it was nominated the BAFTA for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Mikis Theodorakis, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Watch it now. You will see. Spoiler but who hasn't seen this?","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes I know, Serpico, the all time classic Al Pachino movie. Yes I really enjoyed it along time ago. I watched it recently. I have to tell you. I couldn't stand it. Al Pachino is a great actor in this yes. The film is very dated, yes. Kind of cool to see the 1970's new york, funky styles old cars etc. But. The Serpico character is annoying. So self righteous to the point of annoyance. Yes I know that is what the movie is about but it really grates after a while. The relationship with the girlfriend is so silly and annoying all in itself. I found myself rooting for the bad cops and being irritated with Serpico's whining self hating antics. Even the wussy 1970's escapist way of ending, moved to Europe. I don't know try the movie now. You might se what I am saying, maybe not. "},{"Title":"A fine film from a mainstream cinema's finest era","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet has spent a lifetime making thrillers about police corruption; 'Serpico', made in the early 1970s when Al Pacino, its star, was at the height of his career, is one of the best. Although the basis of the (true) story will be familiar to most (being essentially the same as every other story about police corruption), the film gains from its convincing portrait of its time; in fact, it may even have improved with age, as that time becomes more distant from our own. Serpico himself is portrayed by Pacino as not just hippyish, but also whining, a hero sympathetic on condition you don't have to spend too much time with him. It's not quite as intense as 'Dog Day Afternoon', Pacino and Lumet's other great collaboration; but it is another strong movie from mainstream cinema's finest era. "},{"Title":"A minor classic","Date":"21 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although gritty and realistic in a distinctively early 70s way,this film is not quite the equal of certain police classics from the same era. Perhaps the problem is the need to stick to a true story; however, a worse fault in the attempt to portray everything in black and white morality. The film's attitude to Serpico is summed up by one of his girlfriends (he has several in the film) saying everyone loves you! I love you! something which could have come from the mouth of the scriptwriter, so obsequious is the script. we see Serpico buying puppy dogs from kids (yes, really), befriending black guys (after they have had a good beating from the bad cops)and charming the ladies. His love life is depicted as an uncomplicated series of hippyesque flings; in reality the real Serpico was married 4 times, something not even hinted at; his average marriage in the 60s lasted 4 years. But being married would perhaps have made him seem too 'square' to chic audiences of the time while the more conservative would have found a serial divorcée problematic. Don't get me wrong, the real life Frank Serpico was a hero for exposing police corruption but he was no secular saint. By contrast, the police are almost demonically depicted. They sadistic beat criminals and are more interested in pursuing their money pay-offs than solving crimes. Not doubt there were many bad apples in the NYPD but not to the complete widespread degree as seen here. Al Pacino's performance is as good as everyone says. "},{"Title":"Al Pacino in great police drama from the golden era","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Al Pacino in great police drama from the golden era.Al Pacino plays the role of real life Frank Serpico a man disgusted by the blatant corruption in the NYPD. We follow him as he is more and more estranged from the force he so proudly wanted to join.Serpico is truly one of Pacino's greatest films and a true masterpiece from Hollywoods golden era of film-making. All takes place in several boroughs of New York and the city itself is a character. I find it so interesting because this movie is yet another one of Pacino's early works where he really hasn't settled in as Al Pacino. Don't get me wrong I love him in Heat as well but his roles from the 70ths are more diverse.The movie has got a real sense of grit in it and that is maybe most down to the look and feel about 1960-70 New York.What I love about this movie and many others from the same era is that the director doesn't need 500 explosions and CGI to tell a great story. "}{"Title":"The Quintessential Cop Film","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is no doubt that Serpico is the greatest cop movie made to date. I cannot imagine a production of a cop movie today that does not pay homage to this film &#150; for Serpico is like the mother of all police problem films, it is the bible which all stories fall under.Serpico tells the tale of a perfect man (Pacino); a man who enjoys everything good in the world, and fights against the crime that he faces on a daily basis. Pacino not only faces problem at work, but at home with keeping domestic relationships. In a way, the life of a good cop is show to be existential.The film is elegantly produced, with camera angles that reflect not an action film, but an art film with a certain ethical twang. There are countless scenes where the camera is placed in a way where the viewer can witness two or three interesting actions that relate to the environment of the film. This is unique in a film; especially in a film made in the 1970's.There is a desolate and foreboding feeling about the New York that Serpico revels in. He enjoys his job, and the viewer enjoys seeing him enjoying it. The emotional experience is transcended when the problems that he faces are spilled offscreen, and the viewer takes the emotional baggage.Needless to say, this isn't a movie that needs much introduction or talk through a review. I just suggest you see it.RATING 10/10 The reality is that we do not wash our own laundry - it just gets dirtier. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favourite films of all times. I was born in 75 so I was too young to see this the first time around but the simple right from wrong love story, gritty, true story, i would love to have met the real Serpico. It is brilliant true and heart felt, fantastic, Al is brilliant. Filmed in the real life of New York, which adds to the feel of the film. Show's that a good film does not need always special effects. Gritty, funny, tear-jerking for it's time. Hope they never make a remake!! Bought it on a 3 in 1 film Serpico, Narc and The untouchables all good films but saw Serpico years ago. All watch and judge for your selves "},{"Title":"Another very good film that could have been great","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is quite good, but mainly because of the subject; the direction seems uninspired and fairly bland. I suspect a more talented director, like Martin Scorsese or even Brian De Palma could have done much better. The story revolves around a cop, named Frank Serpico. He quickly discovers that he is the only one on his unit who doesn't take bribes, and tries to move to another division or police force. After he finds out that no matter where he looks, every single unit is corrupt, and finally decides to fight it. The film follows him through his struggle, and details his experiences. The story is good, very good, but the direction is just too bland for us to care all that much. Luckily, the film isn't too long and the film does have some good dialog and good acting to keep you watching, and if you do follow the story, you'll most likely like it. The plot is pretty good, develops at a good pace, and maintains your interest in it. The acting is good, with Pacino giving the great performance that most expect from him. The characters are well-written and credible. The cinematography and direction is nothing memorable, and is, to be honest, both dull and bland. The dialog is mostly well-written, and contains its share of quotable/memorable lines. I understand that the film is based on a real cop, who apparently did just what the film claims he did. I have no idea whether or not the film does a good job of portraying Serpico, since I have never read or heard anything about the real-life one. All in all, a pretty good movie that could have been great, in the hands of a better, more talented director. I recommend it to fans of crime-dramas, Al Pacino, and possibly of the book. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Al Pacino delightfully versatile","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having seen most of Pacino's films, I still think this is the best ever. Not yet stuck to his usual latter day hoo-haa-mannerisms, he shows many sides of himself, and I very much like the character he's playing here. Serpico reminds me of one of my childhood friends - alternately irresistible, irrepressible and irritating, anarchistic in a healthy way.. all in all, the realistic aspect of the movie is all fine and good, but doesn't matter so much to me. Definitely a movie to see. "},{"Title":"A real life horror story","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film based on the true story of New York City cop Frank Serpico.  Serpico, it seems, is alone in his goal of being an honest cop in a corrupt department.  His life is constantly in danger.  Not because of criminals, but because of dirty cops trying to protect themselves. Al Pacino is great, as usual, in the lead.  The film covers a time frame of many years, thus my only complaint with the film is that it is, at times, difficult to keep track everything that we see happen.  In a way, this film is scarier than any horror film you'll see.  To think what money can do to people.  "},{"Title":"This movie made Frank Serpico a legend","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" No matter how generous Frank Serpico's deed was, he still was a snitch, who was betraying his colleagues. It was a very brave and generous act, but I think that it's wrong to peach on your colleagues, since it wasn't a question of life and death, but he had it's own opinion. Many people reasonably hated him. This film gives us an opportunity to put ourselves in his position. To him being a policeman was not only a way to make a living, it was what he always wanted to be. He wanted to be a good cop. No wonder he felt bad, surrounded by corrupted cops, who wanted to make him feel bad about himself because he's not taking bribes, like it was something disgraceful. This film shows how brave he actually was, because not only he went through a deep psychological pressure, he was risking his life too. Needless to say how brilliant Al Pacino was in this film. "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated Movie","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serpico has very little going for it. It is an extremely boring and tedious film. It is noteworthy for its grittiness, but that's not compelling enough to invest the time.A great deal of the film is devoted to characterizing the main character, Serpico, with many subplots and scenes that lead to nowhere in particular. And, surprisingly given all the energy and effort to breathe life into this character and given Al Pacino's talents, the character remains rather flat and one dimensional throughout. He's an honest cop caught up in a corrupt system that views him as a threat. You probably knew that going in. A good chunk of the film has us watching him having girl trouble, having fun with pets, going to a big party, strangely doing ballet moves in the precinct, riding a motorcycle, exploding in rage, etc., for no clear reason. He's not terribly likable by the end, either, having alienated what few friends he does have, again for no clear reason. His actions are almost entirely emotive, primitive, and illogical plus tinged with childish motives.Supporting characters come and go, a lot, and some of them are engaging at first. But they are routinely discarded and left undeveloped.There are very few action scenes, unless you count a raging Pacino as an action scene. One of the action moments (the fire-escape caper) is hilariously improbable, poorly written, and executed with shockingly badly direction. The movie is very slowly paced. Boredom abounds.The film ends in bizarre fashion that undercuts Serpico's tenacity, which is one of the few admirable qualities he does carry throughout the film. He basically punches out. Why now? After all this drama? "},{"Title":"curious","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very curious, the telling of this story. And very un Lumetlike. Not only is it somewhat non-linear, but it is done in a kind of telegrapheze. The scenes are almost jump cuts of each other. Serpico's mustache-beard becomes the time frame, and as a side bet, his frenetic wardrobe. Has a man ever worn more hats, almost like he is badly in search of a character. For me, this movie was something of a one trick pony, very tiresome after the first few minutes. Okay, I get the point, you don't like cops on the take, and for the rest of the film mostly you watch them gobble the money, until finally in the last few minutes you go to a newspaper. Not a single scene I would ever want to see again.Whereas The Fugative Kind, The Verdict, plenty of those scenes I have watched over and over again.Though at least this is early Pacino, and he is not trying to yell his fellow actors off the screen. "},{"Title":"My favorite film...","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Simply said, this is  a brilliantly acted, well directed film about a man who suffered for doing the right thing. Hollywood should make more like it.This film should be shown to young people who still have no idea what character is. "},{"Title":"If It Was Made in 2008, It Would Suck","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I enjoyed the overall theme, I think that the movie was bad.There were useless scenes - the party, the 2 cops in the bathroom watching through a window, the ballet, the acting class, some useless stuff which didn't need to be there.Performances were kind of stiff - even from Al.His costumes - plain clothes undercover were horrible even for the 60's / 70's.His hairstyle for that same time period was atrocious...even for a hippie and lets not start on his nasty beard.It's a good story that can become boring as it progresses. In todays films, this would be a dismal movie.It had it's moments, but could have been a little more intense - even for that time and for that type of movie - some more action.What I did like is the fact that he was human and not a super cop type, but there was lots of unneeded and just bland stuff that made this overly dreary to watch a second time. "}{"Title":"How did the scenery taste, Al?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Because you sure chewed up pretty much all of it.I love Al Pacino. He is one of my favorite actors ever and I love it when he goes completely over the top like in Heat Cause she's got A GREAT ASS! AND YOU'VE GOT YOUR HEAD ALL THE WAY UP IT!!! But there's a point where that stops being great and becomes just a crazy man yelling his lines. Overwrought doesn't begin to describe the acting in this severely overrated film. I understand that Frank Serpico probably had a very intense life but did he really scream 24 hours a day? If that's the case, no wonder nobody liked him. Sidney Lumet was a great director and Al Pacino is a fantastic actor. If you want to see a great example of Lumet and Pacino working together at the top of their game, rent Dog Day Afternoon and skip this. Your ears will thank me for it. "},{"Title":"Not a cop film fan","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented this because Max turned it into a high school play in Rushmore. As I watched Serpico, I noted that in the 50 dvds I own, and among dozens of other favorite movies, I don't own a single cop movie. I just never find them even slightly imaginative or engaging. I have no interest in each new benchmark for cop movies, and each new attempt quickly devolves into the same two-hour-plus star vehicle with little room for anything but the male lead; Blow, Traffic, The Departed, Prince of the City, Carlitos Way. These are easily as formulaic as chick flicks. I have no idea why Depp, Cheedle, DiCaprio, Williams & Penn are interested in doing these movies, but maybe we can blame it all on Serpico. At the 40 minute mark I was already irreversibly bored.Even as a kid I wondered if there was a better person to perform the role of superhero/goodguy Serpico, rather than Al Pacino with his favored expression; the dead-eyed stare. As Serpico he has a gift of alienating both peers and friends. This movie is a catalog of clichés that made a movie and it's characters seem authentic in the 70s, that now seem pretty hoary. The Boston Strangler is just as dated but a better film. Cop movies easily fall victim to self-righteousness and become sanctimonious in the depiction of good, or equally sanctimonious in indulging the actor playing the villain. Do I care that a cop named Serpico tried to clean up the New York Police force? Sure. Do I care that his story was turned into a very conventional attempt at 'serious' film? Nope. the movie was too lost in various Oscar grabs and sanctimony. "},{"Title":"Not even Al Pacino can make this movie coherent","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie should never have been put out in this form. There is absolutely no coherent plot. An example Suddenly Serpico has made a total transformation, we do not know why, nor do we care. One scene follows the next without any cause or justification. The movie portrays New York in the 1970s like it was some kind of depressing place, or something. It just makes everything look ugly and nasty, and still this movie is just too far out.Why should we care about these selfish and strange persons? The acting is also really bad. I spotted a nurse, which just could not act, and it was hard to believe she was really a nurse. Probably I could have done a better job as extra in that movie. I did not like the movie 12 Angry Men either, so, all things considered, I find Sidney Lumet rather overrated. I am not sure what other movies he has done. Anyway, Al Pacino is much better in Scarface than he is in this movie and as Michael Corleone in the Godfather movies which is also a rather shallow performance and some nasty movies, quite frankly. "},{"Title":"Could they make a dumber movie ??","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mel Ginson put it perfectly in hi smovie Payback -- Crooked cops - do they come any other way? If I had been born any dumber - I could have been one of them! Describes Serpico to a Tee. Because - he was dumb - dumber than dirt. He had an inside track on dishonest cops - all he needed to do was - keep his mouth shut - go to the Feds - go to the IRS or the N.Y. Attorney General - he could have busted ALL of them. Instead - he acts like a twerp - trying to be honest - couldn't make a more ridiculous movie if they tried. I ust rue all the electricity & Union wages wasted on this piece of crap. Just for once - just once - I'd love to see a cop movie with people acting intelligent. If I wanted to watch dumb people acting - I'd run down to work - at least I'd get paid for it. It was so aggravating - i regret the day I ever spent any dollar on it. Certainly - hope to NEVER see it again. Want to talk about it - I'm at ml2348@att.com "}]