[{"Title":"MISTER  Hart............","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Story of Bottoms and cohorts trying to make it through first year of Harvard Law. Of anything I ever saw this is the one movie that made me want to go to law school. It's one of those treasured movies I feel like I lived; I actually used to set my watch, sit back and smile before my exams just like my boy Timothy. Bottoms perfectly captures the feel of a smart, hip and modest kid from the sticks trying to hang tough in the pressure cooker. Houseman was a behind-the-scenes movie guy who became an overnight sensation with his portrayal of the brilliant, caustic Professor Kingsfield. Wagner is hauntingly beautiful as Bottom's elusive love interest. I don't know how someone first viewing this film today would look at it, but it still has a classic, timeless quality for me and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"as a film school staple.","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"33 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thirty six years ago (!) before multiplexes and without the blunting effect of Tarantino and Bigelow, regular effective and intelligent movies like THE PAPER CHASE were made by film companies who co-existed in a gentleman's game called production and exhibition. Films like this were made as stand alone statements about life and love and education, and were shown in luxury cinemas that had furniture (lampshades, even!) in the foyers and well dressed, informed adult staff. Today, in this clever new century we have an industry that has sawn off its own creative head in order to film the blood spurt, and reduced movie-going to all the elegance of a supermarket. Other comments here will tell you the whole story, but as with this comment, each distill down to one thing THE PAPER CHASE is an excellent and interesting film made in a year of truly exceptional memorable films. Sadly THE PAPER CHASE has not been seen on TV or in cinemas for three decades either, a calamity hopefully balanced by a DVD release so new generations can discover what sensible life and times 1973 was....and how life had hope and success within reach. Timothy Bottoms and Lindsay Wagner have never really gone on to anything better either. The late great John Houseman reinvented a career at aged 71 in this film and won an Oscar for his withering excellence. What a great script and performances, and a defining film in many ways. Students in film schools everywhere should study THE PAPER CHASE ...perhaps along with LOVE STORY and CARNAL KNOWLEDGE two other films of the same period that fit the look and style and success of this film. I would love to sit in on a discussion by today's 20 year olds who having seen each of those three films can explain their success. "},{"Title":"In The Case Of Hart vs. Houseman","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I shall recite the facts of the case, forthwith. An idealistic first year law student from the Midwest, named Hart (Timothy Bottoms), along with several other students find themselves unprepared for the academic rigors of Harvard Law School. Their insecurities bump up against the high standards of the renowned and intimidating Professor Kingsfield (John Houseman) who teaches a class in contract law. Further, Hart happens to become romantically involved with a woman named Susan (Lindsay Wagner) who initially fails to tell Hart that she is Kingsfield's daughter. Complications ensue.The Paper Chase is a rather slow moving drama laced with occasional humor. The dispassionate story is simple and straightforward, if perhaps slightly contrived. It lacks emotional intensity, especially by today's standards. But that's somewhat to be expected for a setting that is so cloistered and cerebral. Characters are stereotypical, but still interesting.And the heart of the story is the discourse between student and professor, especially as Hart relates, or fails to relate, to the demanding Kingsfield, a man who never smiles. Kingsfield has a one-track mind. He lives, breathes, and sleeps contract law. He expects his students to do the same. Always impersonal, he's like an intellectual robot. And half the fun of the film is listening to John Houseman's monologues, as he fills the room with (Kingsfield's) intelligence.The film's color cinematography is fine; camera takes are very long. The film's visuals do look dated. Guys have long hair. And students use ... typewriters -- yikes! Background music is intermittent and mostly classical. Overall acting is fine. Both Timothy Bottoms and Lindsay Wagner give credible performances. And, of course, John Houseman is terrific. I can't imagine anyone else in that role.Low-key, and nostalgic in its view of education, The Paper Chase is a good film to watch for its high technical quality, for its theme of the individual trying to measure up to society's expectations, and of course for the wonderful performance of John Houseman. "},{"Title":"A must see for One-Ls","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So, you're planning on starting law school in the fall, are you?  Even if it's not Harvard, you should definitely watch this movie to see what the Socratic method is all about and why you should carefully choose your study group members.  Even though this movie was made nearly 20 years ago, it still rings true and feels current.  John Houseman gives a terrific performance as the terrifying Professor Kingsfield.  An absolutely outstanding movie! "},{"Title":"law school pressure and the pre-bionic woman","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have friends who have gone to law school and their subjective descriptions of how intense an experience that was seem to be validated in this now 30-year-old film.  Houseman and Bottoms shine, the rest of the cast (while a bit too stuffy) seem to compliment them without flaw.  I liked seeing a very young (unspoiled) Lindsey Wagner in her pre-bionic woman days.  Truthfully, though certainly dated at this point, this film still held my interest.  I was, however, disappointed in the last scene, for although it may have meant to be liberating for the Bottoms character to shift his priorities the timing, (upon receipt of his final grades) seemed ill chosen.  Still, one can't help but root for him through all of this. In the end one wonders if while retaining his idealism he sacrificed his sanity. "},{"Title":"An education about getting an education","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Have there been any other movies that are as good about the process of getting an education?  Yes, you can guess from my login name that I'm a lawyer.  I didn't go to Harvard but I can attest that the student/faculty struggle the movie depicts is realistic (and thankfully confined only to a few traditionalist Socratic profs now).  The stress and tension involved in getting a law degree is accurate, too.  We had a saying, the first year they scared you to death, the second year they worked you to death, the third year they bored you to death.  I'd seen the movie years before I went to law school and then I watched it again a few months after I graduated.  I actually started getting sick to my stomach and shifted uneasily in my chair as I watched the classroom scenes.  It was the one and only time a movie induced a flashback for me and I can understand now why some war veterans cannot watch war movies.  John Houseman hadn't been in a movie in years when he made this one and he got a deserved Oscar for it.  Having a babe like Lindsey Wagner would've made law school easier but I wasn't that lucky.  On the other hand, the romance in the movie depicts a dilemma that many people find themselves in---they're caught up in an important part of their life such as getting a degree, dealing with a very challenging job, and then suddenly an opportunity for romance comes along.  Do you let the romance distract you from your larger cause?  The Competition was another movie that dealt with that romance vs. career theme and did it well.  "},{"Title":"This was one of the great films of 1973,and it shows in grand detail.","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The year was 1973. The top ten films of that year were sure fire Oscar contenders and some were one of the highest grossing pictures of that year. The Best Pictures of 1973 were American Graffiti,The Sting, The Exorcist,Save The Tiger,Cries and Whispers,Paper Moon, Cinderella Liberty,The Way We Were,Papillon,Serpico,The Last Detail,A Touch Of Class,not to mention the several movies that shattered the box office receipts that were the best of the genre,the action flick/marital arts adventure smash hit Enter The Dragon,and the Southern crime drama Walking Tall,and the musical Jesus Christ Superstar. The movie that took home the statues that year was The Sting,which won seven Oscars including The Best Picture of that year,1973.And the one movie that defined a generation,even some who have never seen it,it is still one breathtaking piece of cinematic work,and even 30 years after its release,it still has that impact,and that motion picture,The Paper Chase still holds that stance to this day. This was a film that had some great performances,literate screen writing,sensitive direction and handsome production. This was a tale of a young law school student from Minnesota,in his first year of Law at Harvard,is confused by his professional calling versus his inner evolution as a human being,may seemed a bit timeless yet dated,but instead goes into the vortex of his experiences as a student as he goes through the motions here,which gets the audience a series of sideways though entertaining of the thespian declamations. James Bridges directs his own adaptation of the novel by Jay Osborn. Jr. But the performances here are sensational,with Timothy Bottoms,who is excellent as the puzzled law student,Lindsay Wagner as the girl who plays not only his love interest,but is the daughter of a tyrannical college professor. But the one who steals the show is John Houseman,who won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor in 1973 gives a outstanding performance as a hard-nosed but urbane law professor. A man who looms over students like a quietly arrogant Goliath. The three players here constitute the pervading plot triangle that gives the picture its intensity-Houseman as the classroom dictator,Bottoms the uncertain supplicant,and Wagner,who plays Houseman's daughter. This is a film that in some places,particularly on college campuses in shown as a midnight movie for student and it is available on video for those who really want to know what the experiences of being a law student is really like. A must see. It is to note,that Houseman later replayed his role of the college professor in a much-respected and Emmy nominated television series based on The Paper Chase,which ran for six years on television. "},{"Title":"The craziness of the first-year law student...","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Timothy Bottoms battles through his first year at Harvard Law School, attempting to stay one step ahead of his no-nonsense professor, but inadvertently falling for the instructor's comely daughter (Lindsay Wagner, pre-Bionic Woman). Director/screenwriter James Bridges adapted the script from John Jay Osborn, Jr.'s book, and does a pretty good job realizing the many pressures of academia. Bridges was the perfect director to work in 1970s cinema, and, with Gordon Willis' cinematography, he brings a gritty yet unshowy style to the movie that looks good without ever seeming pretentious. On the other hand, there's nothing very colorful about lectures or study groups no matter how polished the handling. Certainly worth-seeing for the acting alone, with John Houseman giving an Oscar-winning supporting performance (he was later tapped to star in the television spin-off). **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Do Hippies Dream of Good Grades?","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper Chase charts the relationship between James Hart, a hard working student in his first year at Harvard Law School, and Professor Kingsfield, an imposing teacher who both terrifies and fascinates Hart.The film offers nice ambiance &#x96; quiet study halls, ancient academic buildings, dimly lit student accommodations, tense classrooms and study groups &#x96; and so for anyone who has attended a prestigious university, the film has a certain charm. This is academia as pure romance; campus as a fantasy-land of character building, imparted wisdom, young love and tough life lessons.Mostly, though, it's the film's distinctly 1970s vibe which really elevates things. Like most Hollywood films of the era, The Paper Chase borrows liberally from New Wave and Neorealist movements, lending the film a tone which oozes an air of relaxed realism. Its cast, with their 70s moustaches, bell-bottoms and big hair, also convey a sort of anti-establishment vibe, which most Hollywood movies at the time possessed.The film is also strange in the way that it manages to both romanticise Harvard and be against Harvard types. As the film unfolds, Hart goes from a kid killing himself chasing paper (paper chase literally means chasing grades, knowledge, money, status, approval etc), to a kid who realises that external approval ultimately does not define who he is, what he knows or what he's worth.The film is too ambiguous (or confused) to be accepted as a simple pro-hippie middle finger to paper chasers flick, though. Professor Kingsfield may be the typical stern father figure who rules with an iron fist only because he wants what's best for his boys, but there is also a sense that Kingsfield is himself a man resigned from the paper chase. That it is Hart (and the Professor's disgruntled daughter) who is really projecting an authoritarian image onto Kingsfield, when in fact the elderly man really is, in his own way, himself a sort of anti-authoritarian figure, in possession of very strong values. What the film offers is thus something slightly different to other anti-establishment, counterculture movies of the time. It's not a matter of sticking it to the man, but recognising that the man (in this case, the authoritarian Kingsfield) is demonized only because man is fundamentally unable to define himself unless he places himself in opposition to others.8.5/10 &#x96; An excellent film, its appealing atmosphere making up for its failures as a romance or message movie. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Can You Dig It?","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this on an early VHS video transfer that was just awful.  I then saw it years later on TCM in widescreen DVD format and was blown away by all I'd missed on that c****y video version.  This is a first rate drama of a harried Harvard law student.  Make sure you see this in widescreen so you can get the full effect of the wonderful scenes like the one where Hart and his buddy sneak into the upstairs library with the glass lighted floor to sneak a peek at Kingsfield's law student notes.  I especially liked the way director James Bridges reflected the lighted floor off of Hart's glasses.  A very nice touch from an underrated director.  No car chases, no action sequences, no over the top plots, just a simple character driven story set in the beautiful Harvard law school.  This is what great filmmaking is all about. "}{"Title":"How much are you willing to sacrifice?","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As hard as it is to believe, this film makes studying exciting. The Paper Chase shows the difficulty of a first year law student. The endless studying sessions are followed by frustrating classroom encounters. The point of this film is that to succeed one must not sellout their ideals. People are changed by their experiences in this film. To win, one must place perspective on the pursuit of academic goals. Are good grades worth sacrificing love and friendship? Is flunking out truly the end of the world? At the end of the film Hart has come to realize that he has been just chasing after a paper diploma. "},{"Title":"Graduate school exposed","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I cant say this movie is anything at all like law school, but I have been in a PhD program for seven years and I know this The Paper Chase is far and away the most accurate representation of the first year of graduate school as depicted in film. Not there are really *any* depictions of graduate school in film, at least this one gets it right. The students at once detest and seek approval from a professor who cares very little about whether or not they make it. They must rely on one another to get through the year but in the end it is up to each one as individuals whether or not they succeed and go on, or  even if they want to continue. Some may knock what might appear to be a cliched cast of first year law students(not unlike a World War II movie) including the arrogant one, the kooky one, the rich guy, the brainy one, the selfish one, the self doubting one--but honest, all of these stereotypes exist in every first year grad program in every department across the country.If you think you want to go to grad school, this movie may (and hopefully will) cure you. "},{"Title":"This movie seemed to validate my life","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had dropped out of Harvard Law school in 1969, not because of a girl, but because I wanted to see life before I saw Vietnam.  I later found out about the Marine Reserves and avoided Vietnam, but I had always wondered if I had made a BIG mistake (I did have a successful career in data processing, however).When I saw this film, I immediately knew I had made the right choice.  Most of my professors were just blustering blowhards who were trying as much to intimidate me as teach me (Kingsfield must have taken lessons from one professor of mine in particular, although Houseman was not half as intimidating as he was!).Hart's realization that experience is almost as important as education( although sometimes not as lucrative) was a turning point in my life, and I have never looked back.Not enough credit is given to Lindsay Wagner in without a doubt what was her best performance--brava! "},{"Title":"A great movie, especially for those considering law school","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A lot of what this movie contains jibes with the exact things I've been researching in my quest to figure out if I'd like to try law school. Socratic Method,  Case book studies, study groups, 1st year hell, Finals Uber-crunch time...and  the lack of a life outside of law school.  The romantic element adds a nice touch  and serves as a necessary plot line to keep this from becoming just a boring law  school trials and tribulations flick.  It is actually relevant as it addresses the issue  of maintaining relationships while in the midst of pursuing what is, for many, a  lifelong dream in one of the most rigorous programs of study existing in post graduate education. Keep in mind, however, that this IS just a movie.  I can see this movie discouraging 90% of potential law school students from giving it a try.  The main  antagonist is a BEAR of a professor who is legendary for his role in humiliating  students in class.  At one point, he gives the movie's main character a dime as  he says Here's a dime.  Now go call your mother and tell her that there is serious doubt that you will ever become a lawyer. This film is almost worth giving a look-see just for the dated 70's hairdo's alone.   Keep an eye out for the character by the name of Bell.  So obnoxious and pompous you love him.  The Paper Chase is a classic which needs to be seen by all.   "},{"Title":"Excellent film about law student facing difficult professor.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent film, not just because it is well written, cast, directed, and edited, but, more importantly, because of its message, which for me, supersedes the plot line in pointing out how important educators/teachers can be for us for the rest of our lives.  One may not like a particular professor/teacher, but that professor/teacher may have a very special effect on us as we develop into who we ultimately become.  The possible reasons are diverse, such as honesty, pushing us to our intellectual limits, which no one has done previously, integrity,encouraging us when such meaningful encouragement has not previously been perceived, etc.  Seeing this film reminded me of a select few educators from high school, college, and graduate school whose effects are still felt and appreciated. "},{"Title":"Outstanding performances","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This 1973's sleeper proves to be one excellent piece of work. Starting with its director James Bridges (famous for his `The China Syndrome' direction), who establishes himself as a great director, but unfortunately couldn't get the reputation he actually deserved. Also Timothy Bottoms is outstanding in one of his first screen appearances (after such classics as `The Last Picture Show' and 'Johnny Got His Gun') one of the most underrated and certainly the most unjustifiably unsuccessful good-actor ever. However, in every single film he was cast in, he was able to show his screen capabilities.Lindsay Wagner, another good actress who failed to achieve a successful career at movies, kept appearing in some reasonable known pictures, never as great as this one. His character, although not as great as Bottoms' one, was certainly well portrayed here.John Houseman won an Academy Award for his role as the malicious but stunning professor Kingsfield. He continued the role on the long-running series that followed the film.The story is quite simple, as we follow Bottoms' character on his first year at Harvard his relationship with other students, his devotion to Kingsfield himself, his romance with Wagner's character and above all, he have the opportunity to watch a great film made by a forgotten director, starred by outstanding movie actors (in which Bottoms is by large the better one) in one of the greatest cinematic moments of the year.*****/*****  "},{"Title":"The Socratic Method","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In America, there are only a handful of prestigious school which when mentioned, acquire the status of sacred centers of learning. Harvard Law school is one of those. In this film a young, naive, Midwestern, farm boy, James T. Hart, (Timothy Bottoms) enters with all the expectations of a wide-eyed innocent opening a present. His goal is to eventually graduate with all the honors associated with the prestigious school. But like running directly into a plate glass window, Hart discovers that acquiring said distinction is to be had only with diligence, hard work and a successful Socratic encounter with a no-nonsense professor, one, Charles W. Kingsfield Jr. (John Houseman who is superior in this role) To his credit, Hart accepts his quick losses with a determination, never to repeat his mistakes. Along the way, he meets Susan, (Lindsay Wagner) a major distraction, and unbeknown to him the professor's daughter. The film is quite interesting while in the arena of legalities and with a troublesome study group. However, his romantic interludes serve only to obstruct his personal ambitions to get his life organized. Graham Beckel plays Franklin Ford III, Kevin Brooks is James Naughton and Edward Herrmann is Thomas Craig Anderson, all members of his circle of learning. A good film depicting academic life on the grounds of Harvard. **** "},{"Title":"Gets the Adrenaline Going","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a student who is finishing his first year of law school, I had to hear what all the fuss was about. So, I ordered the DVD (I couldn't rent it anywhere), sat back and watched.The opening sequence PRICELESS. . . and utterly realistic. My adrenaline immediately began to flow when Professor Kingsley, within the first minutes of the first day, scanned the class roster and called on the movie's protagonist, Hart, to discuss the grandfather contract's case of Hawkins v. McGee. I empathized with Hart entirely as on the first day of my first law school class, I too was called on to discuss the very first case of my property class - what an experience that was! I now look back upon that day with a smile, but at the time, like Hart, I felt uneasy to my stomach immediately thereafter.I recommend this movie to just about anybody. It is very earthy, with a decent musical score, and has decent drama intertwined with some comic relief. . . . Good luck on your final exam. You will need it. This movie, however, will hit home I'm sure with anybody who currently attends law school, or anybody who has entered the profession already. I have recommended to friends of mine who entertain the possibility of attending law school, to give them an idea about what roughly to expect.While the Paper Chase does provide a bit of an extreme view of the trials and tribulations of law school on various levels, it is on point. The studying, the anxiety, the bickering within the study groups, the outlines, the competition - it's all there.9/10. "},{"Title":"Best Close up of Life in Academia","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movei shows how hard people really work everyday in college or postgraduate school to make something of themselves. I went to University of Michigan, and I saw how hard people were really working to make the grade. Watching the film made me rememeber a lot of the stress I went through, even rememebring times I wanted to leave, because I had trouble with the exams or having arrogant jackass profs. I'm now in graduate school here at Rochester, and I am trying very hard to make the grade and establish myself as a chemist. I may not have gone to Harvard, but what you see in the paper chase, you can see at most renowned academic institutions.Watching Paper Chase now reminds me of how hard i need to work to succeed in grad school...and also how getting a girlfriend can wait. "},{"Title":"Dated but interesting character studies","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" WARNING - this review attempts to explain the meaning of the movie which helps make sense of the ending - you may not want to read it until you've seen the movie! On the other hand, after reading this you may want to see it again.I recommend this movie and give it an 8.25 - most people will find it very watchable, some won't care for it.This movie was a puzzle to me for years. I really liked it but didn't get it - the ending never seemed to work. Somewhere along the road the light went on.On the entertaining level, the character studies are good. There really were people like Hart at school, as well as the rest of the student characters in the movie. Houseman was especially entertaining as the Professor. His character still holds up, which is what makes his acting performance so good. Lindsey Wagner has a role similar in style to that as well. Both Houseman's and Wagner's roles are more caricatures than character. Bottoms and the rest of the actors are filling roles that are more realistic, which is one reason why they may or may not stand up to time, be misunderstood and loose some freshness 30 years later. Hippy society is gone - you just cannot capture the emotions, feelings, and personal experiences of a time and have someone who was not there get the full experience of it. I related to Bottoms role when I first saw the movie but now it is a little dated, times have changed. One of the small, underlying themes of the movie is the culture clash of young vs. establishment. All the characters are rich, entertaining, well acted, directed, and filmed. The lighting and sets give a romanticism to the feel of the movie - ivy walls, beach scenes, comfortable houses. Overall, this is a solid piece on movie making.One interesting scene was the hotel for the big study. I remember how radical that scene was at the time - threatening the manager with doper stuff. That looses allot over time and seems out of place today, even a little awkward. It is surprising how well that scene worked when the movie was new - it was the perfect comic relief then. It, also, was a microcosm of one of the movies themes young vs. establishment.Here comes the part you may not want to read if you haven't seen the movie.But the underlying meaning behind the movie is about a guy taking the next step toward adulthood. It is so well hidden behind all the other stuff going on in the movie the enormity of it gets missed - you might not realize it is the main theme. The movie isn't just entertaining - it is almost a documentary of the 19 to 20 year in a person's life. Bottoms character is no longer a high school teen, but is now at the beginning of the road to maturity. Each character that interplays with him represents the different paths he could take. Lindsey Wagner's character represents the soothing inner self, urging him on, helping him take those steps that most young people are reluctant to take, nurturing him. It is the childhood safety he is leaving. Houseman is his doubts, his challenges, the hard stuff we need to learn, a taste of the side of life where we take responsibility for ourselves - adulthood. The toughest thing about growth is it means change, something many people fear. Near the end, Lindsey asks the all-important question &#150; can you stand on your own? - watch for that scene at the beach house, turns out it is the key to understanding the movie. He does the work, he prepares, he steps up to the challenge and in that he finds the toughest part is done. The last thing to do is take the test, which turns out to be easy. It is almost anti climatic, that scene is one of the shortest in the entire movie. On the surface, the entertaining part, that is what most of us thought the movie was all about - will he pass this course or not? But it turns out the movie was all about his growth. In the end he knows who he is and where he's going, that's the symbolism behind not looking at the grades - he already knows. The grade Houseman puts on his test is the confirmation that he knew he passed &#150; you don't score that well on a test and not know it before you actually see it. I think the last scene, where the grades are all but ignored, was for the benefit of ending the 'entertaining' side of film and as a final gesture of the real theme. The real end of the movie is the scene in the elevator. At this point he realizes what all the stuff that came before was about - it was the path to growing up. He knows inside that he passed. Houseman turned out to be a guide - tough but true - and has brought him through. He recognizes that and thanks him. He understands what role Houseman played in his life and now is ready to go on. For such a short scene it is really climatic - yet most of us didn't get it either. We thought it was about the callowness of Houseman's role. The point is his time 'test' is over - he is now Mr. Hart.At least that's how I see it "}{"Title":"The Prevailing Rules to Adulthood!!","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Naive and unassuming pipsqueak from the Midwest (Timothy Bottoms) goes off to an ivy league university, and, he is in for a rude awakening!! The aura of intellectual pretentiousness that an eastern law school flaunts around, becomes something that effortlessly obliterates Hart's idealistic and innocuous mid western demeanor in record time!! This movie is about decisions, decisions that are based on crystal clear reality!! Academia becomes fatiguing whether he wants it to be or not!! Hart (Timothy Bottoms) is hit over the head with the fact that law school transcends mandating adulthood, it now evokes the tenuous exuberance which correlates to an unprecedented personal challenge for him!! Hart (the student) is enamored with Professor Kingfield, his brilliance astounds him!! Coincidently, he is kind of seeing Professor Kingfield's daughter.. She points out to him time and time again that this diploma at the end of the rainbow concept is ludicrous.. This movie does not pair Hart with his professor's daughter for purposes of situational comedy; more to the point, it is for a comprehension of a full ideological perspective!! His relationship with her is not for comic relief, nor is it really about sex, more significantly, she acts as a succor for social enlightenment!!It is all pretty much laid out for Mr Hart It does not matter whether he can understand Professor Kingfield, it does not matter if he passes or fails, and money does not necessarily matter either!! What matters is that Hart should get his head out of his rear end and decide whether or not he wants to become a lawyer!! Paper Chase is a very good film because it purports the essential concept about prevailing ground rules!!! College is not about precocious chicanery, it is about constructing your future, not just in terms of your career, but also, in terms of your fortitude as an adult! Ultimately, Paper Chase presented itself as one big acrimonious jeremiad!! Look at it this way, someone had to do it..Great acting!! Terrific Movie!! One more positive aspect to this film How many movies make you think? Pondering the issue of what you plan to do and be in your life is, after all, very important!!! What is more important, however, is what your philosophical stamina enables you to prioritize effectively Wouldn't you say so? Paper Chase points this out brilliantly!! The film Paper Chase possesses a saturated intellectual gratification which it provides for the movie audience to ruminate!! I give it five stars!! "},{"Title":"It captures the essence of the law school experience","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's been almost 40 years since I entered law school during which this movie was released and viewed with great interest by just about everyone in my class. For some, it was a fairly accurate depiction of the emotional drain first year law school can bring about. We didn't see these folks again after the Christmas break. For most, however, it was a bit 'over-the-top' fun - strategically useful to impress family and friends who always seemed to be oddly curious about the academic rigors involved in becoming a lawyer. Our law school sponsored a frosh-night just before the first week of classes and, after the movie was released it was played as the highlight of the evening. For those of us in second and third-years who were also invited, it was great fun to observe the incoming, first-year students squirm and grimace as if it were they who were called-upon to recite the facts and finding in Carlill & Carbolic Smoke Ball. Housman's performance, while undoubtedly brilliant and, indeed, a major dramatic focal-point of the film, would have been rather softened in reality. The students in my class (and no doubt the ones both before and after) were superbly aware of their own social rights and responsibilities and they certainly were no wall-flowers by any stretch. They would have very quickly and resoundingly stood-up to that sort of intimidation and it wouldn't have happened again. And yet, now, some 40 years later, having just seen the movie again, I must say, upon reflection, it really does capture the essence of the law school experience. It is a jealous mistress; romantic relationships, sports, hobbies, casual fun - all of it becomes secondary to the almost overwhelming curricular demands. As is suggested in the film, it is not just a question of learning material, memorizing statutes and jurisprudence; it is more than that. It is a matter of changing the way one sees reality. To this day, even though I am a retired lawyer, I look at a vehicular accident and I think 'tortious liability'. I hear an ambulance and I think 'wills and estates'. I watch Dads alone and fumbling uncomfortably with their kids in MacDonald's on Saturday morning and I remember the 'custody and access' battles in which my clients were engaged. To me, the movie is as fresh and evocative today as when I first saw it. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1L at Minnesota here and, yes, law school can really be like this sometimes. (Absent having the Bionic Woman randomly throw herself at you, that is...it's not real fertile ground for single guys like me, but what the hell...). I've had very Kingsfield-like professors. I have one of them right now. I also understand Mr. Hart's absolute joy at finally giving a really good answer to one of Kingsfield's questions and being recognized for it by his classmates. THAT happens all the time. Someone will knock a question in con law or property or something clean out of the park, and the rest of us will thank that person.I also appreciate the unfortunate Mr. Bell. Obsession with property law happens to the best of us...at least half of my section is fixated on working through this stuff and not letting down our lovely professor. Of course, we don't need 600-page outlines like Bell's because she's, more or less, distilled everything you ever need to know about real property into eight pages, but approaches might differ. Don't get me started on the Rule Against Perpetuities...If you're thinking of going to law school or know anyone who's in law school, you ought to watch this movie to get some understanding of what it's really like. (I know the Mr. Hart feeling first hand...day one of civil procedure began Mr. Coates, what was the travel of the case in Goldberg v. Kelly?) Just don't take the romantic scenes too seriously, except for the one at the end where (SPOILER ALERT!) Hart redeems himself as a human being, and pay close attention to the classroom scenes with John Houseman. Also, the case law is mostly correct, and I appreciate that kind of attention to detail. "},{"Title":"Very well crafted movie.","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the movie that introduced me to the unique acting styles of John Houseman. His acting persona was miraculous, in the sense that it was minimalistic yet overwhelmingly mesmerizing. Believe me, anybody can underact a part, however, the trick is to do so while walking the fine line between deadpan delivery and just lifeless drek. Actors that always underact and always bore us are like Chuck Norris and Steven Segal. They could never achieve that subtle nuance of a master like Houseman. As for the rest of the movie, Bottoms is top notch, Wagner is very convincing and the other supporting cast do a very credible job. However, its Housemans performance that deserves the most credit here. "},{"Title":"So here's what has always bothered me about this movie","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why would they each member of the study group only outline one class and then exchange their outlines? The point of outlining is not to have an outline (I am guessing that commercial outlines existed in the 70s so they could have saved themselves the trouble). The point of outlining is to go back through your own notes and synthesize the information that you learned throughout a course. If you go a whole semester without taking any notes, relying on one of your classmates to give your their outline then you haven't studied at all and will get a crappy grade on the exam! The other thing that bothered me is that their outlines were way too long. Therefore, not really outlines at all, but a narrative of all their notes for the semester. While the movie was good overall, this particular plot element stood out to me as unrealistic and annoying. "},{"Title":"John Houseman steals the show...a winner! score 8.5 (out of 10).","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All I could say about The Paper Chase is that John Houseman STEALS THE SHOW IN A VERY CONVINCING PERFORMANCE as tough law school professor, Charles Kingsfield.  It maybe one of the best supporting performances of 1970's cinema.  Judge for yourself.  The background of Harvard Law school student life is impressive as well as screenplay.  Every post secondary scholar of higher learning should see this movie!  After I did, I went out to buy a poster of Kingsfield for my college dorm!!!! Score 8.5 (out of 10). "},{"Title":"Nice depiction of nonsexual teacher obsession","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The acting and direction are all there.  The movie sets the  atmosphere, builds tension, and gives us a nice payoff. But the most original part of the movie, is the obsession that Hart has for the law professor.  There's something about that relationship that rings true, even if you've never gone through it yourself.Well done. "},{"Title":"The original pilot movie of the TV series","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's funny but I recalled having seen a few episodes of the TV series that ensued much, much later and never saw the original until a few years ago on cable TV. This is it; the original has Timothy Bottoms as the main protagonist whereas the series keeps John Houseman as the Professor but changes the student cast (as far as I know). I think John Houseman does an outstanding job as Kingsfield. It seems tailored to his style for some reason. Rest of the cast do a good job at portraying their stereotypes; anybody who's been to college know that they exist. Overall, a pleasurably enjoyable movie the drama is well communicated to the audience, you smile, feel the pressure of these young men's lives. Keep one for the library.  "},{"Title":"Nostalgia, Memorabilia, and One Degree of Separation&#x85;","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" READER BE WARNED This review of PaperChase contains an astonishingly high ratio of nostalgia and memorabilia to actual reviewing. You are therefore forgiven in advance for thinking the reviewer self-indulgent, whimsical, and easily distracted. PaperChase was the first film I reviewed professionally. That is, in the year 1973 someone actually paid me cash money to write a review on this film for a city paper with a fairly large circulation. Looking back on it now, I am mortified to realize that I remember very little about the film except for the specific performances of Lindsay Wagner and John Houseman. I don't remember Bottoms at all, and this is especially irksome because my memory for film is, I have been told, considerably above average. (Plus, this is my 101st review on IMDb, so clearly there exist OTHER films out there that, somehow, made a more lasting impression..?) Wagner -- this was before she was picked to star in Bionic Woman and become a icon of the era -- was memorable mainly because she was simply gorgeous. On this salient point I am surprisingly clear-headed. Houseman, in THE best-known role of his career, played a professor who did not merely teach a topic, he morphed into the topic, he BECAME the topic, and then dragged his students kicking and screaming along with him. It is not well known, but the character Houseman portrayed was based on an actual person, a law professor teaching at Harvard. In the politically-correct environment of today -- where teachers in general are discouraged from doing anything that might impede the burgeoning self-esteem of a student; and students are discouraged from doing anything that might show they hold their teacher in any sort of regard -- it is hard to imagine this sort of character surviving for long in the real world, without being either sued or fired or pilloried. Nonetheless, this character caught fire with the public at the time, and while the other characters from this film were thrown under the bus, -- the forgettable characters, you might call them -- they spun off a major TV series (called, of course, Paper Chase) that starred Houseman, and allowed millions more viewers all around the globe to get to know this oddball character better. ******Here is another odd bit of trivia, mixed with a heaping teaspoon of Coincidence, and sprinkled with yet more self-indulgent nostalgia. At university, in one of my classes, we had a professor who himself had once been a student at Harvard of the very same individual upon which the original Houseman character had been modelled. And this professor of ours had chosen, in turn, to model himself on that teacher; so effectively I had an actual class that was taught by the Houseman character, with only two degrees of separation. Just like Houseman in the film, our professor was never content to let a sleeping topic lie; he was always in your face, changing it up, looking out to lobster-trap those students in the class paying the least amount of attention, and then make them pay dearly for their transgression. One day I did something I had never done before or since -- I arrived late for his class. Now, if you are still following this review, if I have not scared you away, you are by now perhaps ahead of me on this story. No, I did not simply walk in and sneak over to my desk. No way. As I took my seat, my professor (the one trained by the real-life Houseman character) stopped himself in mid-delivery, delivered a pregnant pause, addressed me by name, and then politely asked me to explain to the entire class what specific event had justified my being late for HIS class&#x85;.? I looked up and meekly stated that I had been in a car accident, and I had rushed over as soon as the police gave me the OK to leave. (This was completely true, BTW). The professor's face cracked as if it were made of plaster-of-Paris, and for a single, brief, moment the person underneath the mask peered through. Are you OK? he asked in a different tone entirely, and meant it. I said yes, I was, and the class resumed. "},{"Title":"Hero worship in an ivy league law school","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At the time when this movie came out, I felt this was a very candid look at campus life. Having seen it again after more than three decades, it is still worth watching but somewhat dated. The movie is about a free-spirited first-year law student torn between independence and his hero worship of a tyrannical professor. It does have one riveting performance in John Houseman's Professor Kingsfield. That performance has stood the test of time. Timothy Bottoms, Graham Beckel, Edward Hermann, and James Naughton give good performances as law students. Herman and Naughton have gone on to greater heights. Timothy Bottoms and Graham Beckel were the main characters, along with the youthful and lovely Lindsay Wagner, who just happens to be Kingsfield's daughter as well as the female interest. The location shooting is beautiful on Cape Cod and there is a winter scene by a lake (where the perplexed Mr. Hart takes a swim). The indoor takes of ivy league buildings are true to form; as a Canadian aside, the hotel where the two boys cram for their final exams is shot at the Windsor Arms in Toronto. The movie gives glimpses of student life, with the usual pranks, and a study group afflicted with predictable personality conflicts. There is a palpable feeling of panic whenever Kingsfield calls one of his students by name, especially the unfortunate Kevin Brooks, played to a tee by James Naughton. Some interesting performances and a good script by James Bridges, who also directed. "}{"Title":"The Paper Chase on Reel 13","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The programmers at Channel 13 made an interesting choice to kick off their new (and kind of exciting) Reel 13 project in selecting James Bridges' 1973 paean to law school THE PAPER CHASE. I realize that 2008 marks the 35th anniversary of the film, but if it's anniversaries they're interested in, why not select a film with a little more punch &#150; say THE STING or American GRAFFITI &#150; or even if they wanted to go back 50 years to show us GIGI or VERTIGO &#150; something that opens this new initiative with a bang.But THE PAPER CHASE is what we got and so THE PAPER CHASE is what we'll deal with. I hadn't seen THE PAPER CHASE since I was fourteen years old or so and mostly remembered it as being boring and a little dull. I was excited to re-watch it on Reel 13 because I felt that now, as a more educated and hopefully more sophisticated viewer, I could fully appreciate it for the important work of art that it was supposed to be, but&#133;no &#150; it's still pretty boring.I don't mean to be flip about it. The more educated version of myself can now see why the film didn't work for me and ultimately, I think it boils down to the episodic nature of the piece. The film follows first year law student James T. Hart (Timothy Bottoms) on a series of misadventures and anecdotes mostly revolving around his borderline obsession with one of his professors, but also dabbles in his relationship with a local woman he meets, the lives of some of his fellow students, the pressure of finals, etc., etc. There are a number of good and interesting scenes in The Paper Chase (I particularly like the scene on the frozen lake and most of the study group scenes), but as a whole, they don't add up to much. The film doesn't have a sufficient overall arc or thru line and the result is a jumpy and disjointed narrative.Part and parcel with all that is the trouble with the romantic relationship between Hart and Susan, as played by Lindsay Wagner (who two years later would become television's original Bionic Woman). Firstly, they meet when Susan comes up to him randomly and abruptly on some Boston street and asks him to walk her to the corner because someone's following her. And he says he'll walk her all the way home. What??!?? Are you kidding? This is how our romantic leads meet? Then, on the walk home (we never see the alleged stalker, btw) all he does is ramble and babble about law school &#150; the Bionic Woman looks (appropriately) bored and disinterested. A few scenes later, he lurks outside her house, builds up the courage to knock on the door and she instantly invites him in. Cut to a light turning on when they are naked in bed. I mean, really??? I know the seventies where freewheeling and everything, but this is ridiculous (or am I the only person that these things don't happen to?). And then, in this post-coital scene, he starts philosophizing about law school AGAIN. I swear &#150; the BW has only had two or three lines of dialogue to this point. And wouldn't you know it, guess who's daughter Susan turns out to be? It's contrivances like those that can ruin a script/film. Furthermore, I have long maintained that writers and filmmakers need to take the time to build a foundation for the important romantic relationships in a film. We need to understand and feel why two people like each other and are together. Bottoms and The Bionic Woman have absolutely zero chemistry together as actors and neither is their relationship strongly supported by the script. As one of the key (albeit tenuous) conflicts in the film is the balance between Hart's romance with Susan and his pursuit of good grades at Harvard Law School, the lack of effort put into the former does serious damage to the overall impact of the film. (Sidenote The relationship had some potential in the sense that both characters seemed to be separately obsessed with the same person. I thought this was kind of an interesting (and unique) idea and a potential building block for them, but the film doesn't capitalize on it nearly enough, instead letting it linger drifting in space).The film is mostly remembered for the performance by John Houseman as Professor Kingsfield. He won many accolades for the performance, including the Academy Award as Best Supporting Actor of the year. Now, Mr. Houseman's performance is fine &#150; after all, he was a stodgy and imperious professor at Julliard for twenty years before this so playing a stodgy and imperious professor at Harvard was hardly a stretch (as Neal Gabler jocularly hinted at during his opening remarks) &#150; and he has a lot of snappy, quotable lines of dialogue. However, I hardly felt he was Oscar-worthy. Houseman won the Oscar because he was a legendary theater producer and director (he worked with Orson Welles and the Mercury Theater, etc.) and it was a fun story that he was making his acting debut at the age of 71. If you really look back at that year, I think you have to say that the best supporting performance was Jason Miller as Father Damien in THE EXORCIST. I mean, he was amazing &#150; subtle and displayed lots of range. I would even rank Robert Shaw in THE STING, Jack Gilford in SAVE THE TIGER and hell, even, Paul LeMat in American GRAFFITI all above Houseman here. (Does anybody have any thoughts on this? I'd love to have a revisionist Oscar vote here &#150; weigh in with your comments and postings on the Best Supporting Actor of 1973 if you get a chance).(For the rest of this review, check out our myspace page at www.myspace.com/realthirteen.) "},{"Title":"Will you give me the facts of Hawkins v. McGee?","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah yes, the Paper Chase. This movie has been forgotten by many, except law students. This movie is first year law school. My dad (who graduated from law school the year this movie came out) made me watch it before I started my first year. I though yeah right, it can't be that bad. I was wrong. This is exactly what it is like. I had a professor exactly like Kingsfield my first year (to this day I cringe when I see the guy), and know students exactly like these people. They even used the same damn Contract cases that every first year student has read for the last fifty years. John Houseman did a fantastic job as Kingsfield, especially since I don't think he had any legal experience going into the role.The movie revolves around Mr. Hart, a kid from the Midwest who gets into Harvard law school. Hart begins to learn the ropes and how much competition is involved. His study group is one of my favorite things in the flick. Everyone has been in a study group, or had a study buddy in law school. There's always someone who you know won't make it through, some annoying geek, a complete jerk, and a guy who's a little full of himself. These are law students.MUST WATCH IF YOU'RE GOING TO LAW SCHOOL. "},{"Title":"best ever character study","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would describe this movie as a classic, engrossing, compelling character study. Timothy Bottoms does a great job portraying James Hart, a smart, self-absorbed, socially awkward 1L. Bottoms' character is taken with Professor Kingsfield, the notoriously difficult teacher of contract and tort law. James Hart suffers as he tries to gain recognition as a young would-be Kingsfield, and his life is complicated by a mature woman who turns out to be Kingsfield's daughter. Hart is likable,and one cheers from him, and yet he has his bad moments. His behavior is horrible at times. Hart's study group is a fascinating bunch of guys brilliant aristocrat Ford, arrogant but smart Bell, meticulous robot pimp Anderson, mentally ill genius Brooks, and nondescript O'Coonor. However, the law itself, with Kingsfield as its incarnation, is the main character of the movie. The law is approached with extreme seriousness and absolute dedication. This is one of very few movies that compares favorably with the book. Buy it. Rent it. Love it. "},{"Title":"The story of first year law students at Havard","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the film does an excellent job of presenting the intensity and ridiculousness of college. The movie succeeds in putting things in perspective by making one lose his or her perspective and then regain it. It is a worth while film for anyone wishing to go to college or just remember what it was like. Rent this Animal House, Kicking & Screaming and School Daze to get the complete picture. Though this has the best professor of any of those.  "},{"Title":"Interesting early Timothy Bottoms movie.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When George 'the younger' Bush was elected POTUS a few years ago, a silly TV comedy series sprang up briefly, called 'That's My Bush.' It lampooned Bush, and his wife, by showing him as basically a dunce. The actor who played President Bush so well was no other than ... Timothy Bottoms, all grown up almost 30 years after he starred in 'The Paper Chase', which was shown on the TCM channel a few evenings ago. This is one of those older movies I always knew about, but had a title which interested me not at all. What the heck is a 'paper chase', anyway??Well, it turns out to be a rather nice, if not great, movie. Bottoms plays a first year law student with unlimited ambition. Turns out he is dating the daughter of his most famous, and toughest, law professor. The movie's title refers to the quest of many of the law students, 'chasing that piece of paper', the diploma and transcript with all A's, so that they can eventually get that plum job.  In the end, they begin to learn that there are more important things than that chasing that paper. "},{"Title":"So do YOU want to become a lawyer?","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Law may be a prestigious profession, but The Paper Chase makes it look as though the process of getting there is something else. James Hart (Timothy Bottoms) is a first-year law student in Harvard. He's in a class taught by stuffy Charles W. Kingsfield Jr (John Houseman). To further complicate matters, Hart is in a relationship with Kingsfield's daughter Susan (Lindsay Wagner). Needless to say, Hart's life proves more and more difficult.Houseman won Best Supporting Actor for his role, and you can see why. Embodying the old order surrounded by the new generation, he brings a snide but understanding presence to the screen. At the helm is James Bridges, who also directed The China Syndrome. Whether or not you seek to become a lawyer, you might want to watch this just to know what law school is like. Interestingly, while Houseman won Best Supporting Actor for this, Best Supporting Actress that year went to another paper-related movie Tatum O'Neal for Paper Moon. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but overrated by some","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Story about first year law students at Harvard Law School. Movie primarily focuses on James Hart (Timothy Bottoms) and his dealing with tyrannical law professor Charles Kingsfield (John Houseman) while romancing his daughter (Lindsay Wagner).This is a good film but wildly over praised. The script is very good, it's well-directed and acted...but this tells me nothing more deep than other college movies. I always knew where this was going. Also the romance plot between Bottoms and Wagner is sort of ridiculous--no way would she fall for him. And Bottoms looks horrible with a 70s Afro and mustache. Still this is worth seeing.It's very well written and (partially) directed in Cambridge MA (where Havard Law School is) which really gives the film a good shot of realism. Also the acting is good by almost everybody except for Wagner. She's very beautiful but lousy. Bottoms is just great but best of all is Houseman. He deservedly won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for this role. This movie is just worth seeing for him. Also it was surprising to see how casually sex was treated in this picture--but this was long before AIDS came around.So it is good and worth seeing--but no masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A Guide For a First Year Law Student","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Potential law school candidates, don't freak out when you see this movie. This movie wasn't quite like my first year of law school, but that's because I didn't go out of my way to spend all of my time trying to impress one (let alone any more) professors. It is likely that your professors are not going to behave like total bastards as Sir John Houseman did in this movie as Timothy Bottom's contracts professor, since your teachers are obviously pretty willing to help you out and guide you through three very rigorous years of study. But, then again, law school is much different from other levels of education, and the first year is the hardest because you're being trained to think like a lawyer and get in touch with that part in your brain where you can critically analyze things. And, as this movie suggests, when you do feel yourself slipping and/or falling behind, do not suck up to your teacher or kid yourself that everything is alright. The point is to go into things with your head on straight. Think realistically and don't panic!And yes, contract law is going to be one of the roughest first year courses.The story here concerns a first-year student's trials and tribulations at Harvard law school. He seems to be running around in circles sometimes, trying too hard to stay on top of things. John Houseman plays his stubborn and defiant contracts law professor who he consistently butts heads with, especially when it comes to dating the guys daughter and trying so hard to impress him. The story is actually pretty ridiculous. But then again, it would probably be pretty boring to watch an hour and half movie about a kid with his nose buried in the books as most first-year law students are. It is definitely worth a shot if you are considering law school, but don't freak out.  "},{"Title":"Mildly interesting","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mildly interesting.The trials and tribulations of a group of first year students at Harvard Law School. Focuses on one student in particular, James Hart (played by Timothy Bottoms). He immediately finds himself out of his depth, particularly in Contract Law where the teacher is a curmudgeonly, stern man who has taught the subject for 40 years, Professor Kingsfield (John Houseman). However, through hard work he starts to cope. Then he starts a relationship with Susan (Lindsay Wagner) and it is soon apparent that he may have to choose between her and passing his courses. To make matters worse, she's the professor's daughter.Reasonably interesting. The slog that is University life, especially in a tough course in an incredibly prestigious institution, is well shown. Also well examined are the effects of the pressures on students, and how some manage to cope and even thrive, and some not. However, the story is quite dry. Never really becomes compelling or truly engaging. Feels clumsy at times. The romantic side is quite dull and some sub-plots go nowhere.Performances are mostly quite solid, especially in the main roles. John Houseman got a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his performance as Professor Kingsfield.The movie spawned a TV series which ran from 1978 to 1986. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Law School Drama","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A first-year law student (Timothy Bottoms) at Harvard Law School struggles with balancing his coursework and his relationship with the daughter (Lindsay Wagner) of his sternest professor (John Houseman).This is probably more a critique of the book than the film, since the script follows the old story very closely from what I understand in my opinion, the inclusion of the professor's daughter was not necessary. It provided a strange angle that had little to do with the primary conflict, and the relationship itself never gets all that developed. The film would have been just as strong with a student raging against his teacher.That being said, I loved it. I really like the idea of college kids trying to do better and impress their professor, especially when he is strict and demanding. John Houseman, of course, is incredible in the role, but Timothy Bottoms should not be sold short. Although he is not a big name compared to Last Picture Show co-stars Cybill Shepherd and Jeff Bridges, maybe he ought to be. "}{"Title":"Houseman's overpowering presence","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's the start of Harvard Law School for first year student James T. Hart (Timothy Bottoms) from Minnesota. Charles Kingsfield Jr. (John Houseman) is the commanding contract law professor. Frank Ford invites him to join his study group and James picks contract law. James starts dating Susan Fields (Lindsay Wagner) but it's not until Kingsfield's cocktail party that he finds out she's actually Kingsfield's daughter recently separated from her husband.It's a slow build. The style is pretty stale like old musty law books. However it captures a tension from James' fear in class. This college movie isn't about beer pong or wild parties. It is about the rigors of learning. Houseman is an amazing presence that overshadows the whole movie like a bogeyman in a horror movie. There are a couple of great new actors Edward Herrmann and Blair Brown as law students. "},{"Title":"Recommended Story of a Student's Pursuit of Knowledge","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper Chase is a film about reverence and passion. First year law student James Hart (Timothy Bottoms) attends Harvard Law School and is rudely introduced to the rigors of pursuing a law degree. Particularly in the Contract Law class of Professor Kingsfield (John Houseman). Kingsfield is an impersonal, imposing, intimidating, stone-faced authority figure who chews up first-year students and spits them out. But it is through Kingsfield that Hart learns a reverence for the law.Hart embraces the discipline and self-denial of the academic pursuit amid the stress that permeates the school, especially due to the expectations (internal and external) some students face.Hart does have one distraction--Susan Fields (Lindsay Wagner)--who encourages him to find balance in his life and not be so manipulated by Kingsfield and the entire system.I saw this film when it was released. I enjoyed it then and I still enjoy it. First, it has a great script, striking a nice balance between the technical aspects of law theory and the emotional struggles of the law students. The acting is very enjoyable. What a cast of young actors Timothy Bottoms, Lindsay Wagner, Edward Herrmann, to name a few. Houseman delivers an Academy Award winning performance. A young Blair Brown is even in the cast.If you enjoy films about people of passion, then this is a good film to watch. I also recommend The Competition and Amadeus. "},{"Title":"Law School Drama.","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Timothy Bottoms plays a first year Harvard Law school student(Hart) who struggles with the competitive nature of his classes, and the heavy load of studying and all-night cramming he must endure if he is to succeed. He finds himself both impressed yet annoyed by the imperious yet brilliant professor Kingsfield(John Houseman, superb in an Academy Award winning performance) His acerbic wit and emotional detachment is tempered by his experience and fairness. Hart begins a romance with a woman named Susan(played by Lindsay Wagner) whom he is stunned to discover is Kingsfield's daughter! Edward Hermann & James Naughton costar as fellow students and study partners, who have their own challenges and issues.Most interesting and well-acted film overcomes contrivances by being otherwise well-scripted and directed(by James Bridges). Captures its time and place well, and Houseman steals the film. "},{"Title":"The Facts of the Case Are These The Court Finds in Favor of The Paper Chase","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When idealistic one-l (the catch term for first year law students) Hart first enters Prof Kingsfield's contract law class at Harvard Law School, he is unprepared that he was expected to have read the first assignment prior to the first lecture. Hart becomes Kingsfield's momentary target and loses his breakfast for his troubles. This is the inauspicious beginning to the twists and turns of the first year of law school as depicted in the very fine film The Paper Chase. The thrust of the story is not only about the law school itself and its trials and tribulations as portrayed in the courtroom-like lecture hall of Kingsfield's contracts law class but also the distractions that can interfere with the studying process.Although the story centers around James Hart, played with exceptional realism by Timmothy Bottoms (the actor was only 21 or 22 when he played the role which would have been quite young for a law student), the star of the show is really Prof Kingsfield, played with emotional detachment and cruel insensitivity by John Houseman in an academy award-winning performance. Kingsfield is the pure unemotional intellectual who, fairly or unfairly, challenges his students--even to the point of cutting them down as a way to weed out those who probably won't be able to make the grade. Rumor has it that Prof Kingsfield was based on a real-life Harvard Law Professor who was known for his cut-throat antics towards his students in class while also being one of the most expensive attorneys in the country.Several other stories interweave with Hart's experience at law school. There is the study group, made up of a mixed bag of lawyer-minded students who also have ambitions and egos the size of Mount Everest. There is Ford, the bow-tie-wearing student who is probably the most intelligent of the one-l students. There is Willis Bell, the intelligent but arrogant fellow student who thinks he is smarter than everyone else including Kingsfield. Seems like every college class has a Bell of some kind. Edward Hermann has a small role as another student who seems closer to the correct age for law school, and the most level-headed of the bunch. And then there is Kevin Brooks, intelligently and realistically played by James Naughton, the memory-gifted student who probably aced all his exams as an undergraduate but doesn't have the kind of mind to analyze tough law cases. Naughton's portrayal is exceptional and often overshadowed by Houseman's. Hart also becomes involved with a woman (lindsay Wagner) but doesn't really know who she is until about half-way through the story. She also becomes a distraction to his studies.But of course, the best scenes are Kingsfield's contracts law class. Houseman seems like he was born to play the tough law professor who would give a KGB interrogator a run for his money. He is tough, uncompromising, unforgiving, and not terribly complimentary, even towards his best students. But as the film progresses, you get the sense that he is strangely fair. Law is not the profession for the weak-minded or the thin-skinned. In the first scene he challenges Hart to fill this room with your intelligence. Better to find out in your first year if you really have the kind of mind, and skin, to be in the world of lawyers. And you have to negotiate Kingsfield if you want to continue the obstacle course.A relatively realistic portrayal of the toughness of Harvard Law School seen through the eyes of the students and all the ins-and-outs that go with it. And John Houseman as Kingsfield is worth the price of admission alone. A movie not to be missed particularly if you are thinking of entering the world of law. And be prepared if you do. There will most likely be a Kingsfield that will judge whether or not you have a case to pass. "},{"Title":"Decent and honest movie","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie about the experiences of law students at Harvard Law School. The reality is that it is an excruciatingly demanding task to make it as a law student. The main character, played by Timothy Bottoms, is a likable, earnest law student who gets along with most everyone. He is in a study group, where there is an agreement for each of the six in the party to concentrate on taking notes for just one course. Then, they must share their outline with the other five. He chooses Contract Law. The problem is that the professor there is out of 1984. He is totally dedicated to teaching and his image as a grand professor. There is no room for humor and equality of any sort with this professor. He idolizes this man, but at the same time hates him. The best part of the movie was when the main character sneaks into the classroom early one morning and stands at the professor's podium. This is a perfect image of the new law professor taking the torch from the old-fashioned suit and tie law professor. You can see that he dreams of being a law professor today, and 1972 was exactly the time that the more informal, hip law professor took center stage. All in all it is a good movie that lets you now how demanding it is to be a law student. "},{"Title":"Great film for a great time!","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember going to see this movie for the first time at a drive-in theater back in 1973. I did not know anything about the movie but after viewing it, I loved it. I was in college at the time and could relate to the chaos and workload the students were experiencing. This movie showed college life the way it was back in the late 60's, early 70's era. It was a great time to be in school. Life was an adventure. I watch this movie whenever I can and it takes you back. There are 4 movies in this era that all have similar theme of love, college, and rebellion. The other movies are The Graduate, Love Story, and The Sterile Cuckoo. Each movie relates the time, place, and feel that was that era. There is one thing that The Paper Chase did not have that the other movies had, and that was a great soundtrack that played through it. Come Saturday Morning for The Sterile Cuckoo, Scarborough Fair for The Graduate, as well as other Simon and Garfunkle songs, and The Love Story Theme for Love Story. With all the songs and artists available at the time I feel a great soundtrack would only have enhanced this wonderful movie. I am a musician so I guess I am just biased about songs. "},{"Title":"has its 'Hart' in its right place","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie only because somebody in my law class recommended it to observe the socratic method of teaching. But this movie achieves a lot more than that. The best thing about this movie is it doe snot wish to accomplish a great deal. In a quiet, but a gripping, way we are taken through the chronicles of a first-year of a law student. A student who is the protagonist for reasons unimaginable now. He speaks less, but is likable. Compared to movies where every male lead has to possess fighting and talking skills in addition to inherent ability to pick up women, Mr. Hart here comes as a welcome break. He is subdued, his achievements are not humongous and yet, his character has an instant charm on the virtue of being realistic. The story is strictly separated into beginning, middle and end. So, the narrative is unfettered by the needs to differentiate the movie into parts. Instead, the movie emerges as very believable with its seamless narrative. This is much before the multiplex era, yet there is an amazing visual quality. Some scenes like the one in the football stadium and the one on the beach are beautiful picturized. Having some wonderful classroom scenes and using silence as a great tool, the movie comes across as a warm and smart. It is a simple tale, yet it is sweeping in many ways. The absence of need to adhere to any cinema clichs lends a certain credibility to the movie. the acting is top-notch and each actor slips well into their characters. My personal favorite is Hart, who uses his silence and body language to deliver a likable performance despite having a single memorable dialogue. Overall, this is a delightful product whose simplicity is further appreciated by our unreasonable demands of movies these days. "},{"Title":"A story of men","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film, above all, is about men and their journey. We see this from the opening scene where the established Professor Kingsfield, a legend in his field, first interacts with nascent first year law student James Hart. Hart yearns for the status of Professor Kingsfield and his intellectual brilliance, a point the movie brings out at various times. But while Hart moves through his first year of law school and explores the nature of the coveted Kingsfield, he is really on a deeper quest than simply getting through this first year. Throughout the movie we are left wondering, does Hart really have an interest in law, or is he just infatuated with the body of work of Professor Kingsfield? Does Hart even want to become a lawyer or just do something large with his life? There is not much given on Hart's background (though we learn he is from Minnesota), and just as little is given on his new girlfriend's background, also Kingsfield's daughter. But we do learn from Hart and Susan's relationship that the two are seekers, creators, and she adeptly draws out the fact that his deeper passion is still coming into formation. "},{"Title":"John Houseman's Film Debut!","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ironically, John Houseman made his film debut here and won both the Academy Award and Golden Globe for Supporting Actor. He richly deserved it for his performance. Houseman would act until his death. He wasn't a newcomer to acting. In fact, he taught drama at Juilliard and was part of Orson Welles' Mercury players theatre company. While Houseman is a scene stealer, the film chronicles the first year law school student's difficulties. Timothy Bottoms does a fine job in the student seeking his teacher's approval or just notice his existence. Bionic Woman's Lindsay Wagner plays Susan, his girlfriend. There is an excellent supporting cast such as David Naughton and Edward Herrmann. The film is slow at times and there is not much action or suspense. "},{"Title":"THE PAPER CHASE (James Bridges, 1973) ***","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I used to have a copy of this, recorded off Cable TV, but never found time to sit down and watch it; eventually, I upgraded to this DVD-sourced edition (complete with accompanying full-length Audio Commentary, but which I had to forego on this occasion!). A renowned Oscar-winner for theatre and film producer John Houseman's belated star-making Supporting Actor turn (though not his debut, since he had played a bit part in John Frankenheimer's superb political thriller SEVEN DAYS IN MAY 1964), the movie was also justly tied up via the poster tag-line with other successful youth movies of the period, namely THE GRADUATE (1967), GOODBYE COLUMBUS (1969), SUMMER OF '42 and THE LAST PICTURE SHOW (both 1971) &#x96; with the last of which it also shares leading man Timothy Bottoms. With respect to the latter, the late Roger Ebert opined that his natural performance here exposed the mannerisms of actors like Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight...yet, after an impressive initial run of pictures, Bottoms' career took a nose-dive in the 1980s and never recovered!The title is very apt, since it deals with the grueling academic life of first-year students at Harvard law school (the whole ambiance being impeccably caught via the Oscar-nominated sound recording); still, even if they have several subjects related to the matter, we only ever see them attending the Contracts classes presided over by severe Professor Houseman (whose intrinsic coldness leads him to not recognizing pupils outside the auditorium!) &#x96; however, it may well be that, when the novel was turned into a TV series (which ran from 1978 to 1986, and for which Houseman reprised his signature role), the faculty was better represented! Since the myriad aspiring lawyers are divided into study groups, we obviously follow the one which protagonist Bottoms (whose locking horns with Houseman extends to after-school activity, since he starts romancing the old man's divorce' daughter &#x96; played by TV's future Bionic Woman Lindsay Wagner!) forms part of these include one coming from generations of lawyers, a bully, a married man who has a photographic memory but no understanding of the topic (who, having failed his first test, attempts to commit suicide on his birthday!), etc.The film, then, is good-looking (lensed by the respected Gordon Willis), well-acted (though Houseman is not required to do much other than pontificate and patronize, there is no denying the power of his presence and delivery here!) and, while necessarily heavy, clearly intelligent (the Oscar-nominated adaptation was by director Bridges, whose brief career in the latter capacity only saw one other notable title i.e. THE CHINA SYNDROME 1979). It also, as I said earlier, embraced the socio-political concerns of the era &#x96; so that Bottoms is both a longhair and a rebel, who not only infiltrates the segregated part of the library so as to unearth the Professor's own notebook from way back, takes up residence in a hotel room away from sycophantic colleagues and aggravating staff by making an unholy mess of it and, at the very end, even throws away the all-important exam results without bothering to look at his grades! "}{"Title":"Not as good as remembered, but Houseman is iconic","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was delighted when I discovered this film playing on cable. I remembered it with fondness. But, as often happens in life, the reality wasn't as enjoyable as the memory. In fact, this is one of those rare circumstances where a subsequent television series was probably better than the original film.So what is the problem with this film? I've often felt that most successful movies (and there are exceptions) need someone that the audience can root for. It's often the underdog character, though not necessarily. But this film has no one to really root for. Early on, you are rooting for Hart, but as the film progresses law school is turning him into such as ass you really want to throw him to the side. In the television version -- at least as I remember it -- Hart was more likable...someone to root for. You really can't root for Kingsfield's daughter...although, again, you do early on. But she turns out not to be a gem, either.So, among the main characters, that leaves you rooting for the Ebenezer Scrooge of the story -- Professor Kingsfield. In reality, John Houseman's iconic portrayal of the law professor is the only real reason to watch this film...and to savor this legendary performance (which earned an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor.Timothy Bottoms isn't as impressive as I remembered him being; and I kept thinking, Get your damned hair cut! Ah well, it was the 1970s. Lindsay Wagner was okay as Bottoms' love interest. As mentioned, John Houseman's performance was just great fun! Of the other law students, James Naughton had the only part that stood out, although Edward Herrmann was dependable as always.It's a good film, and a brilliant performance by Houseman, but this time I give to edge to the television series which made all the characters just a little more human...and humane. "},{"Title":"Much of the Popular Appeal Has Worn Off","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie was quite popular on initial release. In retrospect, I expect young moviegoers viewed the story as an anti-establishment statement. The crest of the counterculture movement may have passed by 1972, but Nixon was still in the Whitehouse and the war in southeast Asia was continuing despite the president's secret peace plan. I mention this background because the movie's subject matter&#x97;a student's struggle with a tyrannical law school professor (Houseman)&#x97;has, on the face of it, limited popular appeal. But if we take Hart's (Bottoms) struggle as one of moving toward an enlightened understanding of what joining the establishment, as a Harvard lawyer, requires, then we can understand the popular appeal, at least among the young of the time. After all, the movie is pretty much a one-note narrative, concentrating on the subtly dehumanizing effects of law school success under the imperious gaze of Professor Kingsfield.Frankly, the movie now seems rather slow and uninvolving. Unfortunately, the pace is too stretched out&#x97;for example, watch Hart walk meaninglessly across the cafeteria before sitting, when better construction would start with his setting down his tray at the table and eliminating the needless walk. Then there's the one-note narrative with little side appeal for those not particularly interested in how to succeed at an elite school. Neither does it help that Hart's romance with Kingsfield's daughter suggests clumsy contrivance, as another reviewer ably points out. Nor, for that matter, is there much chemistry between them. On the plus side is the generally excellent acting. Surely, the marvelous Houseman creates one of the most dislikable non-villains in modern cinema. Then too there's the pregnant symbolism at movie's end. Atop a soaring rock in the surf, Hart ends the paper chase by tossing away his still sealed course grade from Kingsfield. He's managed finally to surmount the dehumanizing process that the moneyed establishment requires for admittance. What he will do now as a result is left properly unclear.All in all, the movie may not have much cinematic appeal, but the message remains as relevant now as it was then. The counter-culture may have faded, but the system endures. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Harvard romance that was probably made to swim in the wake of Love Story. Thankfully, it's not nearly as bad as that flick. 'S'not good, though. Timothy Bottoms is the guy and Lindsay Wagner is the girl. I'd take Bottoms over O'Neal any day of the week (he's quite good here, too). Wagner is dull, but I don't want to hit her with a baseball bat like I do with Ali McGraw, so that's a bit of a positive. Really, the romantic angle isn't the main focus here. This is much more concerned with Bottoms' actual academic experience at Harvard Law School. He studies under a professor played by John Houseman, who won an Oscar for his role. I must say, this strikes me as one of the most undeserved of all Oscars. Houseman shows a bit of character here and there, but, for the most part, he's a pretty stereotypical ivy league professor type. The role must have been hugely popular at the time, though, as it spawned a television series five years afterward in which Houseman starred as the same character. The film, as a whole, is simply boring. Maybe it would appeal to ivy league types, but, as someone who never had the aspiration and as someone who is far beyond his college years, I could not care less about the plot of this film. "},{"Title":"authentic look at a world that no longer exists","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was an undergraduate at MIT when this was filmed--I even took a class at Harvard via cross registration. It is hard for people today to believe that this movie is totally authentic--oh a bit exaggerated but that is how it was in certain classes.Today everything has changed I read some of the reviewers who don't believe this movie is authentic. This is wrong. Things today have in general been dumbed down a lot across the board.The movie It is good beautifully filmed acted and fun to watch.Have no desire to go back and relive that part of my life. In any case you can't it is gone forever.Oh I don't think he is quitting Harvard Law School when he makes an airplane out of his grades....just trying to humanize himself somehow for his girlfriend.RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"Do you have a hairy hand that needs fixing?","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Do I think you should watch the Paper Chase? You bet your a** I do! Timothy Bottoms showering with two other dudes in a dorm shower, going shirtless whenever possible, creeping outside the professor's daughter's apartment? It's got it all! Timothy Bottoms' 'stache and curly hair withstands the test of time. Great side characters include Pimp and Robot Pimp. Timothy Bottoms does not need an invitation to your house. Before you know it, he's already there preventing your friends with photographic memories from committing suicide. This film has helped me reach the upper echelon of law school by taking the following steps (1) Get it on with your professor's married daughter after walking her home for ten minutes; (2) Arrive to class early, like before the school opens, just so you can stare wistfully at your professor through a crack in the door; (3) Always break and enter into the library; (4) Study by writing S on the wall of your dorm; (5) Call your professor an SOB in front of the class - it's the most intelligent comment you'll say all year; (6) Keep your priorities straight - unsuccessfully writing a paper is more important than having an affair with your professor's daughter; (7) Your outline should not be shorter than 800 pages. Just remember, although your professor may forget your name, he will never forget the inappropriate, obsessive man crush you had on him. "},{"Title":"Great Movie !!","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great movie !!! A must see for law students and those considering a higher education. Inspiring. I love how the movie encapsulates the mood of the 70s with young adults trying to achieve something better in life, but also trying to balance work with life. The professor is the icon of professor-hood from that era. Teach, lead, but don't get close to the students, make them hate you a little to keep them on their toes. And he never lets on that he knows the student is dating his daughter. Then there are the students who get all caught up in the drama and have to make it all about THEM. This movie was satisfying on all levels and a good movie for teenagers to watch with their parents as they prepare for college. "},{"Title":"Grueling Rituals.","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It must be tough to get through Harvard Law School. Everybody says so. And I have a friend who was flunked out. Too dumb to make it. The poor guy had to go on and get a doctorate in history from Columbia. I'm sure Marine Corps boot camp is harder but it only last a few months, not a few years.Timothy Bottoms is a first-year law student at Harvard. He must deal with three issues. One is his class in contract law, given by the stern, brilliant, Socratic Professor Kingsfield -- John Houseman, in a career-making role. Everyone is having trouble with the class because Houseman, though a thorough egghead and friend of presidents, is a supercilious and abrasive teacher. Bottoms adores him.The second issue is Bottoms' far-fetched love affair with the peachy Lindsay Wagner. He spends a few minutes walking her home when they first meet. The next night he knocks on her door and before we know it they're taking a breather in the sack. What a gal. She turns out to be Kingsley's daughter but it hasn't got much to do with the story except that, after all her experiences with lawyers -- her father, her estranged husband -- she's become contemptuous of rational, organized life and enjoys spontaneity. This sets up a nicely joined conflict with Bottoms and his agenda, because if he intends to get through his relentless and demanding schedule, there's not much room left for the improvised life.Probably the most dramatic and well-written issue is that of the study group that Bottoms joins. It consists of six bright and industrious young men. Bell is the cutting and selfish one who refuses to release his notes to the others, as promised. He's too good for the others so he quits. Another guy quits. A third guy, who has a photographic memory but a cognition block, and who is saddled with a pregnant wife too, almost commits suicide before he leaves school. The interplay between the six members of the study group is pretty interesting.The movie takes us through Bottoms' tribulations from the beginning of the first semester to the end. What a Herculean task it is. People bite their fingernails to the bone and run around in a frenzy. It must take not only drive but personal pride to so thoroughly discipline one's self. Thymos, the Greeks might have called it -- spiritedness coupled with the desire to be recognized. A Harvard law degree makes you part of a brotherhood. It opens doors. All true, and all understandable.Yet there's some quality about this movie that seems adolescent. The story comes across as one of those autobiographical adventures dealing with the conflicts and achievements of one's youth, and in fact the writer, John Jay Osborn Jr., was a graduate of Harvard Law. (And the John Jay is no accident.) The movie begs for an appreciation of all the trials Bottoms undergoes in pursuit of that ancient magic.It's the kind of thing that's hard to write without the loss of some dignity because it can't help looking a little self-congratulatory. And, after all, the protagonist makes it through with an A on his finals, whereas the blockhead with the photographic memory tries to shoot himself. It's tough alright. But you want to hear MY sob story? At a semi-fancy graduate school -- oh, not HARVARD -- but that other place in New Haven and still another place, I was enrolled in a program in which classes began at eight in the morning, six days a week, and ran until four in the afternoon. We collapsed doing homework at our desks at about one in the morning, and the assignments were still incomplete. In the movie, somebody tries suicide before quitting. I simply gave up the scholarship and quit the program. Emotional maturity means, among other things, the ability to keep your spiritedness and your physical appetites harnessed by reason. The Greeks said that, too.I swear, there's a scene in which Bottoms and his buddy creep into the red set room, the sanctum sanctorum, a depository in which all the notes and rough drafts of all previous Harvard law students are kept locked away. Bottoms has a brief, reverent speech about the passing on of wisdom, the beatitudity of it all. And it's filmed more breathlessly than Keir Dullea's dismantling of HAL's electronic brain in 2001. Well, it's still an interesting movie and mostly believable too. God knows that Parris Island and Camp Pendleton have had their share of movies about initiation rites. So let's have one for Harvard Law. Harvard was the first university established in the United States. Next up a tense exploration of the trials of a law student at William and Mary, university number two on the list. "},{"Title":"My suggestion for my students","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is to be seen by everyone who either has children going to school, plans on going to school themselves, or knows someone in school. In short it should be a seen by everyone.Students will rise to whatever level you set for them. If you set it too high they will still try to climb the mountain. (Curving is definitely called for in the case where the bar is, unexpectedly, set way too high.) If you set the bar too low they will try to climb under it - no matter how low. They hate working for something and will try to turn the class into a joke. I know this firsthand - I am a college instructor.This movie brings forth the best in students - get with the program or get out. Would you go willingly to a professional who was babied throughout their education?? I don't think so. In fact we all try to avoid those who aren't real professionals at their jobs (sans Basil Fawlty ). To that end I gave this movie a 9 out of 10.-LDPS let your children watch this before attending for the school year... it may just be that helpful.______________________________________________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "},{"Title":"re fascinating but slightly overrated","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you've spent even a day at law school, you'll find this movie fascinating. (I know there's at least one Contracts professor out there who is the polar opposite of Kingsfield, though.) However, I think this movie betrays its early 1970s roots by going a little too overboard on certain things, particularly Hart's relationship with the Lindsay Wagner character, and I particularly found the ending goofy, a little too Jonathan Livingston Seagull for me. However, words can't express how deserving John Houseman was of his Oscar for this performance (I didn't see much of the TV series), and all the commercial gigs that his performance in this movie later spawned. "},{"Title":"great movie! all time classic.","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" warning- possible spoilers.......... Professor Kingsfield is the world's leading scholar of contract law and the toughest, most feared teacher in the Harvard Law School of the late 1960s. Enter the brilliant but naive James Hart, law student from Minnesota and would-be Kingsfield fan. Professor Kingsfield uses a variation of the Socratic method- the case study approach. Students teach themselves the content of the law, but Kingsfield uses socratic questioning to develop the students' analytical skills. Kingsfield is emotionally abusive in his approach, but such tough love is necessary to prepare these neophytes and ingnues to face a real judge in a real courtroom. Hart also suffers from time management problems due to his on-again, off-again relationship with a very special married woman. See the movie. It is a classic. (note- my college history prof, much nicer than Kingsfield, used to socratic method to great effect. But one needs a great teacher and interested students who will actually read and think.) "}{"Title":"Almost a Classic","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Advance warning - this comment will give away the ending of the film.Just watched The Paper chase for about the fourth time, and I have to say that it a fine movie on many levels.  It is well-acted and gives interesting insights into the rigors of law school.  All the scenes in Kingsfield's Contract Law class are fantastic.Still, each time I see this film, my opinion of it is lowered, for the simple reason that I find the ending harder and harder to swallow. The lack of a deep, burning, passion in the relationship between Hart and Susan was clear. There was warmth between them, but if Susan loved him as Anna loved Vronsky, or if Hart loved her as Romeo loved Juliet, things would have been different. Given that Hart often managed to keep their relationship in proper perspective as he pursued his dream of becoming a lawyer, and that his passion for the law seemed to have peaked near the end of the term, his decision was truly shocking.As a viewer, I had come to admire Hart for his steadfastness and tenacity, but in the end, I wondered couldn't he have had both Susan and a great legal future? and if he could only have Susan or a great legal future, would he really have made this choice? Had Susan helped him make the right decision about his future, this movie would have been a classic.  With this ending, it doesn't quite measure up.  "},{"Title":"A must watch!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that the relationship of hart and his girlfriend was not shown in detail, it was not enough to make Hart think of giving up his law study. it seemed quite a normal relationship. overall a very nicely directed film. Lindsay is still as beautiful today as she was 30 years ago and Timothy Bottoms is one of the most talented actors of his time, actors like him are hard to find now days, he really brought life to his character and to the film, and every growing person goes through Hart's stage, so it looks quite realistic. Even if there is a remake of this film using all the latest technology and covering all the flaws, it will not be able to compete the original film. Its a must watch and i give full 100 marks to the film.  "},{"Title":"Clever!","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the most cleverly written films ever. Bottoms is superb as the law student who must choose between a romance with Lindsay Wagner and a difficult battle for a diploma where he has to tackle books and John Houseman's brilliant law professor, Kingsfield. Aside from Houseman's Oscar winning performance, there's James Naughton, Edward Herrman, David Clennon and Blair Brown who all add wonderful support in this timeless classic that will continue to impress over and over again.   "},{"Title":"The Best College Movie Ever","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie before college and liked it. During college I thought it really fit a lot of what I was feeling. I see it now and it takes me back to those long study sessions, the college professors, the competition and the people that were trying to pull you in other directions. I have seen this movie so many times I almost have it memorized, but to me it is still fresh and real. I didn't go to Law School and I didn't go to Harvard, but I think this movie is universal for anyone who went to college and anyone who felt the pressure of competition for grades. Some of the other comments are looking for a deeper meaning to the movie. I think it is very self-explanatory. For me, it is just the way it makes me feel. It just puts me right back in college sitting in a lecture hall. I really don't know any other movie that does that for me. I also thought Timothy Bottoms was going to go on to great things after this movie, but this was really the pinnacle of his career and he is perfect as Hart. Rent it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"1973 was a great year for movies, Oscars notwithstanding","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I started seeing a ton of movies in '73, which was mostly cause of The Exorcist, which was an extremely big deal that year.  I saw it twice the night I graduated from grammar school so after that, my Mother could hardly say that anything else was too 'mature' for a 13 year old.1973 was also an interesting year for movies in general.  Several 'low-key' movies like Scarecrow, Cinderella Liberty and The Paper Chase represent the year (for me) much more than one of the most puzzling Best Picture winners, The Sting.I had enjoyed Timothy Bottoms in The Last Picture Show and sensed this deep, inner sadness in the characters he portrayed.  I never felt that coming from another actor.  Its like he's brooding to the nth degree, but you don't mind.Four things happen (1) Timothy goes to law school, a class run by John Houseman (2) Timothy tries to have a relationship with Lindsay Wagner (3) Timothy obsesses about John Houseman, and (4) Timothy goes to study group and socializes w/some study group buddies,  It may sound dull but for some reason the movie is extremely watchable.  And for some reason I found it fascinating that someone would brush their teeth and shave while in the shower, and have been doing both ever since I first saw this movie.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Inciteful, witty, and Introspective","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper Chase is a fairly timeless movie well-embodying the nervousness, anxiety, and stress to perform that schooling (especially higher level) thrusts upon all students. While the romance in the story seemed more of a gimmick and an afterthought mostly, the main narrative of Hart (played very well by Bottoms here) is fun to watch and easy to identify with. Likewise John Houseman hits his vain and detached professor character spot on obviously deserving his Supporting Oscar for it. He's out to force his students to think or make a fool and mockery of them. Supporting cast all are interesting and have been around along time at no surprise due to the age of the movie. Edward Herrmann and Richard Nelson show why they're stalwart in a supporting role in early roles. The Paper Chase is a fine genre movie worthy of a watch especially if you've ever stressed out at school. "},{"Title":"Grading Future Lawyers of America","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This insightful look into first year at Harvard for law students captures the sense of it accurately - so it seems - through a short list of interesting characters and a mood of academia. John Houseman grabbed most of the attention as the intimidating professor who lectures and grills the students mercilessly, and he cuts quite a figure for those who are impressionable, but the most interesting sections for me were the study group. Here we observed a half-dozen (or less, as the year went on) prime examples of a future upper class, or the ruling echelon of our society. This is where they all had their beginnings as students of the art of manipulation, that is, manipulating society as they see fit. Lawyers do run our society (unfortunately); they make all the rules and break 'em. The study class is not composed of caricatures, however. They're fully drawn, realized characters from different parts of the country, all with the same goals, as it happens. How they each succeed and fail based on their individualistic natures is fascinating to observe. When the group begins to fall apart, it's a microcosm of society, of community.Timothy Bottoms as the lead character, Hart, a deceptively sharp youngster from Minnesota, is terrific; this is the best role of his career. Lindsay Wagner as his on/off girlfriend fares a little worse; she seems to exist only as his sounding board and occasionally lectures him (almost like her father, played by Houseman). In fact, their relationship is probably the weakest part of the picture, which makes sense in a way. The important parts all involve Harvard Law School; it has to be that way. She does give voice to a crucial theme of the picture, how our society is governed by and lives by the accumulation of paper. Paper, including the acquisition of grades, seems to determine a person's worth, even seems to define a person. This comes across as abnormal when so described; but, we're all trapped in it. So when Hart makes his little rebellion against the paper in the very end, I suppose he lives up to his name. But don't hold your breath. "},{"Title":"For Those Who Care","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After the egregiously painful Love Story, we are once again treated to the world of law school. This time Hart (Timothy Bottoms) is a Minnesotan in the world of Harvard Law. A chance encounter with a young lady Susan (Lindsay Wagner) leads to repeated coitus only for Hart to discover later that his SOB professor (John Houseman) is her father.Much like Love Story's Ray Milland, the only interesting character here is the SOB. Houseman won Best Supporting Actor at the tender age of 72 for putting his money where his mouth was having stopped teaching acting to finally do it. He followed this impressive cinema debut with a string of Smith Barney commercials where he told us, They make money the old fashioned way they EARN it. So awe-inspiring was this work, it lead Orson Welles to hawk Paul Masson wines.Keep your eyes peeled for a nice supporting cast which is far more interesting than the milquetoast leading characters. Edward Herrmann is excellent in the Edward Herrmann role. This debut led to other jobs such as the Edward Herrmann role in The Great Gatsby and the Edward Herrmann role in Franklin and Eleanor. He can be currently seen in the thoroughly enjoyable Gilmore Girls in the Edward Herrmann role.Thanks to Love Story and The Paper Chase, thousands of people went to law schools hoping to nail a hot WASP. The unfortunate consequence of these enrollments is that one can now be sued for just about anything.It is not that this movie is really bad (like Love Story is), it is just more of a TV movie than a movie-movie. It isn't dated, just... eh. "},{"Title":"Doesn't stand up on appeal","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The acting was very good. The photography was good. So why didn't I like this movie? Because the script sucked. Are we supposed to believe at the end that Hart chucked the entire Harvard Law experience ... for what? To make a paper airplane out of the envelope containing his grades? Great symbolism if you're watching this and you're 20 years old (as I was in 1973), but nowhere up to that point do I have any reason to think he's going to become anything but a hotshot lawyer who's screwing his evil professor's daughter for good measure. The rest of the characters were so underdeveloped as to make the movie seem amateurish. Beyond John Houseman's acting, I don't understand the acclaim it got. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper Chase is considered to be a classic, but not because it's a good movie, but rather because of the performance of one man, John Houseman. His Academy Award winning portrayal lead to the films reputation and even spawned a successful television series, however similar to Dead Poet's Society, this film is revered for just one performance. The Paper Chase takes place during freshman year at Harvard Law School, where the students meet Professor Kingsfield (John Houseman), a throwback to when school was hard and degrees had to be earned. Kingsfield relishes in his reputation as the toughest Professor on campus, and his students have no idea what they're in for. Timothy Bottoms stars and really is one of the big problems with this film. He's the student who had to work harder than the rest just to get there, and wants nothing more than to become Kingsfield's favorite, but he's an !@#$%^&. How are viewers expected to get behind and root for someone who is so selfish and vile? As for his counterpart, John Houseman, he really was terrific and earned every bit of credit he has received for his performance. Without Houseman's portrayal of Professor Kingsfield, this film would have been quickly forgotten about, forty years ago, but it was the kind of performance that makes a career and carries a film, something that will never be forgotten. From the stand point of a moviegoer, the film is slow and boring, with a leading character I couldn't stand, but as a fan of film, I can't help but be impressed by John Houseman and recommend that his amazing performance be seen by the fans of today. "}{"Title":"Goofs Galore -- Why didn't someone fix these??","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie in a theater as a prelaw student in 1973 and have watched it countless time since. I think it's an excellent movie, but there are two horrible dialog flubs, and I can't for the life of me understand why these weren't fixed First, when Moss is giving Brooks the hypothetical to analyze he says, So, you're sued on two accounts, the one relying on the statute and the other ordinary negligence Moss should have said the there were two COUNTS, not accounts. A count is a group of paragraphs in a complaint that establishes a single theory of recovery. Someone should have yelled CUT and had this scene re-shot. Then, later in the movie as Brooks is lamenting to Hart that is failure is all but certain he says You should have been there . . . You should have seen the mess I made out of Moss' hypothesis WRONG! Any 1L will tell you that Brooks should have told Hart that he mangled Moss' HYPOTHETICAL. Again, letting such an obvious mistake go uncorrected is just sloppy. And can someone please explain the screamer? Tombs tells Hart that he screams every Friday and Sunday at the stroke of 1200. (I assume 12 midnight since it's the windows show it's dark outside.) Help me understand ... The incident takes place on the first day of class based on Tombs comment that Kingsfield ripped up a 1L that morning. In what world do classes for a semester begin on Friday??? Or Sunday??? When the Screamer performs Tombs is in Hart's room giving him a 1L orientation -- at midnight????? I must admit to never having read the book, but this seems to be a really careless bit of script writing. "},{"Title":"Good picture which does not truly live up to its name","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have watched this movie on more than one occasion. Sadly, (with the exception of Houseman's performance) the sum of its parts do not add up to its title. The key well at least in my opinion to the movie should have been the quest and methods that one will engage in to secure or get grades either while in Law School or while in an undergraduate setting. It also examines the various types of people who attend and enter law school. By now I am sure that you the reader has realized that I never attended law school yet truly wished that I had become a lawyer in my professional career. The simply fact that Hart throws away his grades without looking at them is naive as well as simplistic hogwash. His friend Kevin who attempts suicide because he can not analyze the law is more to the point. Kevin admits that he was accepted to Havard Law School because he has a photo eidetic mind which makes him a great LSAT participant but does not make him a great analyst of case law. People like him who dropped out of law school and people who were accepted to law school(s) because of admission boards with political correct philosophies still make me sick to my stomach. Paper grades mean everything!!!!!!! Even if you are a three headed purple serial murderer. The grades and LSAT score you receive are the be all and the end all to money and all the good fortune it brings. Hart's friend Keven knew this and expressed the same and this should be the overriding message of the movie. Of course Hollywood would never make such a movie it would be too realistic and on point. "},{"Title":"Very different from the TV series, but well worth seeing...","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved the TV series The Paper Chase and watched it on CBS as well as when it switched to Showtime back in the early 1980s. Yet, despite my love for the show, I didn't get around to seeing the original movie until now. The reason for seeing it now? Well, my wife bought me the first two seasons and it seemed like a good idea to finally see the movie and do it before I watched the other DVDs.It's pretty interesting that although the movie is VERY different from the show, they both are very good--but in different ways. While the TV series was a good family show, the movie was a bit more adult in tone as well as more cerebral and slower paced. This isn't a bad thing really--just different. Plus the supporting cast if VERY different. Here are a few differences Ford is present in both and is similar--except that he really needed a haircut in the movie. While his hairstyle was the rage in 1973, for an Ivy League brat, this didn't look right and the TV character looked more the part.Bell is an evil sociopath in the film--a truly nasty individual with definite signs of Asperger's Syndrome. In the TV series, he's a dumpy loser who somehow manages to make it into law school! There is no female law student in the movie. Instead of the red-headed platonic friend in the movie there's a hot female sex/love interest played by Lindsay Wagner who is NOT a student but the daughter of the scary Professor Kingsfield! This major plot element in the movie is totally non-existent in the TV series and the sexual tension was omitted to make it more family-friendly. This is THE biggest difference between the two.Timothy Bottoms is a nice guy as Hart but he's also sexual and a man of the 1970s. The TV Hart simply never had sex or thought about sex and is a bit like the comic book character Archie--a nice, safe and hard-working young man. And this explains why later James Sevens (from the TV version) went on to play a priest in The Father Dowling Mysteries! I personally liked BOTH characters--one was a bit more realistic (Bottoms) but the other was more likable and sweet--and seeing him progress through the series was very satisfying.So why did I give this movie an 8? Well, one of the biggest reasons is that it's written and acted so darn well. Despite being a somewhat forgotten film today, it was marvelous from start to finish with many wonderful performances. John Houseman was brilliant and received an Oscar for a great performance. But the movie was certainly not all Houseman--with a lovely ensemble cast. Another reason I liked it was that the film was so amazingly original. You can't find another movie like this one! And finally, I liked the gentle pacing and way it was directed--slow, subtle and very competent.My advice is see them both--compared to a lot of the crap out there today, the film and show are shining beacons of quality. "},{"Title":"Law School Was Never Like this, Mr. Hart!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ***1/2 to this very interesting study of a first year law student.Our hero, Mr. Hart, never thought that law school would present the challenges that it did.He meets up with a crusty old professor played by the distinguished John Houseman, in an Oscar bound performance for best supporting actor. From the moment that Prof. Kingsfield steps into that lecture hall, you know that he means business. Those famous school Delaney cards are used by him to call on students. The latter had better be prepared to cite certain cases depicting the examples that the good professor wants cited in his group. Due to the severity of Prof. Kingsfield, who takes no hostages, in his pursuit of excellence, study groups are formed by students. Each student will be assigned a certain number of cases to familiarize themselves with and then educate the group.If this isn't enough, Mr. Hart, who at times is berated by Prof. Kingsfield, falls for the latter's daughter.Will our hero make it to the sophomore year? See this fine film and find out. ***1/2 "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A reasonably interesting schooling drama, the film is helped by having fairly good characters who are actually interested in studying, and a strong cast-against-type performance from Bottoms in the lead as an outgoing student. He does look rather silly under all that makeup and hair work, but delivers nonetheless, yet the film is best known for John Houseman's acting, with him winning the Oscar for his role. His character is sadly two-dimensional, or at least inasmuch as can be taken from surface value, and therefore he does not have too much to work with. The romance between Bottoms and Wagner is also not developed well, but besides for these few problems, the film is very solid stuff until towards the end, with a predictable, silly climax and clumsy comedy following on. With some good use of panning and quite realistic noises of college too, this is still definitely one of the better films of 1973, even if it is hardly perfect. "},{"Title":"A LINDSAY WAGNER CLASSIC FILM!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"                  It is always refreshing to look back in time and see the great performances of actors like Lindsay Wagner as ( Susan), Timothy Bottoms (James T. Hart) and John Houseman (Charles Kingsfield). The photography was fantastic and the actors all performed their roles with the greatest of easy.  This is a film that can be enjoyed by anyone going to college with the aspirations of becoming a lawyer or doctor and have to deal with their professor's old fashioned IDEAS and at the same time, love to give them a hard time and upset the so called APPLE CART of LEARNING!  Professor Kingsfield acted like a WISE OLD OWL, and knew everything that James Hart was going to say and do in his class. It is quite apparent he deep down liked his qualities and he also played with his head!   This film should never be taken seriously, it is a very enjoyable film showing how you can fly your grades into the OCEAN! "},{"Title":"Dreck","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a student at a fairly prestigious law school myself, I can tell you that this is a movie any law student today will find laughable. I don't know what law school was like 30 years ago, but now it's much more laid-back and accommodating than is portrayed in this film.If you're watching to get ideas about law school, you need to take this movie with a grain of salt grades are nowhere near as important as they're made out here, professors are nowhere near as harsh, and if you've attended any American undergraduate institution within the last ten years, odds are you've experienced the Socratic Method.Our hero is a mewling, fawning sycophant, who lamely idolizes his professor, treats his girlfriend badly, bucks for attention in class (we call these people 'gunners'), has a silly 1970's hairstyle, and is shown (distubingly often) in a Speedo.My law school buddies and I like to watch this movie and laugh at it. Recommended for those who have no interest in attending law school and for those already there who want a good guffaw. "}]