[{"Title":"Putting the 'f' into arthouse.  (possible spoiler)","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"57 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The European arthouse movie, since the 50s at least, has been generally seen in opposition to Hollywood.  Instead of relying on cartoonish genre, broad comedy and loud, violent action, it supposedly offers analysis, detail, character, critique, context, civilised intelligence.  Crudely put, Hollywood appeals to the senses, European films to the mind. LA GRANDE BOUFFE is an almost archetypally European movie - a Franco-Italian co-production, directed by a noted auteur, Marco Ferreri, and starring arguably the three greatest of all European actors, Marcello Mastroianni, Michel Piccoli and Phillipe Noiret.  It features allusions to philosophy, art history and literature, and is confined, Bunuel-like, to the single set of a decaying town mansion.  It is also about four middle-aged men stuffing themselves to death, blocking toilets until they messily explode, and, er, breaking wind.Ferreri treats his theme of excess - food, sex, self-pity - with an almost Oriental restraint, matching lengthy, static long shots so dense with detail and so darkly lit that it's often difficult to make anything out, to extreme close-ups, pitilessly exposing yet also strangely moving a bit like Ozu filming Fellini.  It's hard to know how to recommend this film - and I do, very strongly.  Four professionals - a cook, a pilot, a TV producer and a judge - convene at the latter's unused mansion to spend a weekend non-stop eating a prodigiously elaborate feast made from the choicest meats many prospective meals are walking about in the garden.We gradually learn that they have come here to die, but Marcello is unable to continue without sex, so they hire some prostitutes, as well as inviting a local, seemingly innocent, teacher, who is soon revealed to have appetites equal to any of the men.  And so the men eat.  And eat.  And eat.  They sometimes have sex, watch antique 'erotic' slides, drive cars, get sick.  But mostly they eat.  They even have competitions to see who can eat the fastest.This, ironically, does not sound very appetising for the viewer.  There is no narrative drive for instance - any conflict possibly brought by the pure, innocent Andrea, a symbol of life in an atmosphere of decay, to whom Phillipe proposes marriage, are quickly dashed by her own taste for depravity.  The men decide to die, and we watch them do it.  The film begins with a methodical introduction to all four characters, and ends as methodically picking each one off.So what is the film about?  Is it an allegory - a group of fairly representative French bourgeois gathered in a knackered mansion with a sparse, dying garden, might suggest so.  But an allegory of what?  The decline of French masculinity, patriarchy, capitalism?  The judge and TV producer especially are examples of the most powerful, potentially corrupting forces in Western society, the law and the media.  The women all escape and survive, although the closing shot of Andrea returning to the home is highly ambiguous.BOUFFE is very Bunuellian, from the EXTERMINATING ANGEL-like idea of bourgeoisie trapped in a mansion (figured in the inability of Marcello to leave in his sportscar, doomed to drive up and down the avenue), to the profusion of animals, observing the men's descent into bestiality, as they grunt and hoot and growl, and become fatal slaves to their appetites.  Is it a study in decadence - there are many shots framed like grotesque parodies of Renaissance paintings; that optimistic project is flatulently shot here.  There are allusions made to both Boileau - the father of French neo-classicism - and Brillat-Savarin, whose Physiognomy of Taste is a famous combination of philosophy and gastronomy which the four men take to nihilistic limits.  Is it a death knell of film, as the parody of Don Corleone suggests, as four old men watch slides like a corruption of early cinema?I don't know.  But for me the pleasures were many.  The home itself, stuffed with so much bric-a-brac you can barely make out the characters.  The fragmentary motifs returning in the coolly formal style - the replaying of certain scenes and shots; the repetition of the inchoate, beautiful, yearning tango music, which is connected to one character but shifts as he becomes a ghost.  The museum of the dead culminating in the extraordinary, triangular shot of the sprawled Ugo, with Marcello and Michel behind him.  The limitless, ingenious, grotesque variations on sex and food.  The gross comedy.  The genius compositions.  The colours.  The sight of three actors who have starred in some of the 20th century's supreme artistic achievements running from faecal rivers, and putting the rump back into rumpo. "},{"Title":"Watch a unique movie, nothing like you'll ever see","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"48 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you want to see what freedom of artistry and wild imagination is all about, don't miss this movie. It's a one of a kind and leaves you wondering - why don't they make movies like these anymore? OK, so it's grosse, and anarchic, and discomforting. But it's also a brilliant tragicomic story about four middle-aged friends who lock themselves away in a country house and feast literally to death. Plus there's this unbeatable quartet of actors - Mastroianni, Piccoli, Noiret and Tognazzi - playing roles with their own Christian names, which says a lot about artistic honesty. A pity there are no more Marco Ferreris around. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A True Original","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Marco Ferreri is one of my all time favourite directors, for both his fearlessness in pushing boundaries and his piercing originality. Ferreri's greatest achievement was making relentlessly intellectual films that also managed to entertain. While many other European directors could get caught up in their own genius, Marco Ferreri was never pretentious enough to forget about his audience.La Grande Bouffe is one of Ferreri's best and most notorious films. The premise is infamous, four friends gather at a country mansion with the intention of literally eating themselves to death. When this becomes tiresome they hire three prostitutes and invite the local school teacher to join them. This is not a film that follows a linear narrative, instead it expertly crafts a sense of atmosphere from a series of acutely observed vignettes. There are enough unforgettable images and surreal happenings in this film to make Salvador Dali green with envy. The meat garden, Andrea and Michel's flatulent love making and Philippe's relationship with his nanny are just three that come to mind. There is genius at work here, this is not an exercise in empty symbolism but a disturbing slice of modern life.The impact of La Grande Bouffe has not wearied with age. The sex scenes are possibly less confronting (although Marcello's inventive use of a champagne bottle still raises eyebrows) but the film's psychological impact has not been dulled. The characters' ruthless pursuit of death is all the more disturbing given their unadulterated appreciation for life's pleasures. For a film with such disturbing content, La Grande Bouffe is also effortlessly entertaining. Ferreri somehow manages to balance the building tension with black humour, raunchy sex scenes and even budding romance.This is probably a good time to mention the cast. Ferreri has gathered together a who's who of European cinema. Ferreri regulars like Mastroianni and Tognazzi combine brilliantly with French heavyweights like Piccoli and Noiret. Andrea Ferreol more than matches it with these acting giants. She deserves significant credit for her illuminating performance as the open minded school teacher with the appetite of a blue whale.La Grande Bouffe is intelligent, disturbing and unrelenting. Most importantly, it is also entirely non-judgemental. Ferreri would never insult his audience by suggesting to them what they should think. If only more modern directors had taken note. "},{"Title":"The collapse of a miniature consumption society.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A pilot, a cook, a choreographer, and a judge (+ a teacher!). Every key aspect of the western culture is present in this brilliant, surreal farce. The only ideology the men and the poor Andréa hold is one of hedonistic consumption of food and sex. The prostitutes are the sensible ones, leaving out of the game in time. They represent the outsiders, people who refuse to take part in the destructive lifestyle, and are saved.If you hate symbolism, you might watch this as a very funny and brilliantly acted comedy. If you don't mind the symbolism, every time you watch it again you'll find new depths in Ferreri's witty commentary of modern western lifestyle. Personally I don't mind it, hence 10/10. Belongs to my top 10 of all times. "},{"Title":"An extraordinary movie. Sad and depressing but shot through with black humour.","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'La Grande Bouffe' (aka 'Blow-Out') is an extraordinary movie, the kind of movie you just can't imagine getting made these days. While shot through with black humour it is very sad and depressing, and for me just as bleak as say, 'Leaving Las Vegas'. Instead of alcohol these dissatisfied men decide to kill themselves using food. Marcello Mastroianni is the best known of the four stars but Michel Piccoli (Belle De Jour), Ugo Tognazzi and and Philippe Noiret are equally impressive. The acting from all four is first rate and really makes the premise believable. Director Marco Ferreri went on to make the Bukowski adaptation 'Tales Of Ordinary Madness' another uncompromising, f*cked up and beautiful movie. I highly recommend both films which are difficult viewing, but worth the effort. "},{"Title":"To Kill a Cat You Should Choke It with Cream","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can be a better protest against hedonism than to kill oneself in the most hedonistic way to sate oneself with food and luxury and sex to death? So four old friends gather together in the luxuriant family villa belonging to the one of the participants and start devouring their way to exotic quietus, I should warn you though, the spectacle isn't for the hungry, and however difficult the task may seem it turns out to be quite feasible. What is the most great in this movie is its thick atmosphere of absurdity and surreality of everything happening on the screen and at the same time a verisimilitude of this occurrence. This movie also brilliantly managed to catch a zeitgeist of its epoch. At the time the film was announced to be a scandal of the year. "},{"Title":"A Disturbing, Impressive and Unforgettable Movie","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The aircraft pilot Marcello, the chef Ugo, the TV choreographer Michel and the judge Phillipe decide to terminate their lives with a great pleasure, eating and having sex with three prostitutes and one school teacher invited to participate in their orgy. I watched this unforgettable film in the 70's and I was very disturbed with this impressive metaphoric movie. In Brazil, it remained unreleased on video until a couple of months ago, when fortunately it was 'rescued' and released on DVD by the Brazilian distributor 'Versátil', specialized in masterpieces such as Fellini, Rosselini and Visconti. Now I have just had the chance to watch again this weird and daring movie about the decay of the society of consumption, empty and compulsive, searching for sex and food (material goods) much more than they need. The main characters use their Christian names. This movie is also a great black humor comedy. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) A Comilança (The Binge) "},{"Title":"An amazing piece of art","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You smell it, you taste it, you feel it in your stomach, it nauseates you, but it also enchants you. Never found another senses-involving movie like this.SPOILERSFour friends, Marcello, Ugo, Michel and Philippe (Ferreri kept the actors' real names here), tired of their ordinary lives, decide to commit suicide just by eating and eating and eating to death. They get together at Philippe's house on the outskirts of Paris, and their ritual begins. After some time passed just eating, Marcello and Michel decide to invite some prostitutes, to cheer up the situation. Philippe invites a female teacher instead. Her presence in the house will be determining, for she turns out to be insatiable, both for her eating and sexual appetites, bringing all of the four friends to death. The prostitutes leave the house soon, disgusted by its inhabitants eating behavior, and there Andrea, the teacher, will soon encircle herself of corpses, the dead bodies of the four poor friends.Director Marco Ferreri reached perfection in this fantastic, opulent representation. Very few things connect with reality here, thanks also to the stunning locations, decòr and photography. Philippe's house is one of the best sets I ever saw. I'm going to take a trip to Paris and try to find it. The four great protagonist, taken from an ideal top ten of the best european actors, give a great prove of mere role-playing, together with the humongous, unreal Andrea Ferreol, who fills up the house and the screen. This is art in its purest form. 10/10.     "},{"Title":"Never forgot this movie","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was so colorful...I just never forgot it and the concept was engaging. I saw this movie in San Francisco in '73 or '74... I cannot remember all the details in order, but yes, three guys went to a villa in the countryside of France and ordered huge amounts of food to be delivered. At first, you just thought it was a fun party, then it got to be bigger and bigger...women came by, etc, etc. I had lived in Europe just prior to seeing this movie and I so enjoyed the scenery and just the ambiance. I assumed it was not a what they would call a full running movie and just played in certain theaters but a place like San Francisco in the 70's had the right audience. "},{"Title":"Attack on bourgeois decadence or comment on death?","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Four individuals plan to eat themselves to death at a retreat surrounded by women and non-stop catering. Throughout the film each character philosophizes, make sexual innuendos, have sex, and gorge themselves in one vice or another in every scene.I've seen the film a few times and it remains enjoyable. Each character has their own traits and different ways of exiting life. Prostitutes come and go yet a female school teacher decides to join the horde until the very end.Sadean to the core, without the pessimism, their hedonistic lifestyles continue until their bodies (or mind) can no longer take it.A satire of course, but given the time it was filmed can probably be looked at in a few ways. Three of the four characters greatly enjoyed their time even when facing death. Half expecting to see them have a revelation or biting realization on life, instead they continued on the same path. Kind of hard to have a satire without some sort of tragic ending or change in plans of the patronized characters.Not a masterpiece but worth seeing. The film is even strangely erotic. I don't think it comes together as a full fledged mock of society either. I dare one male to deny he would not enjoy a weekend at a retreat such as this. "}{"Title":"Decline of the capitalist society seen through the eyes of an iconoclast film maker.","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Marco Ferreri's film La Grande Bouffe is a scathing attack on the hypocritical ways of our modern society in which too much importance is given to wealth creation.His film is also a truly accurate portrait of the decadence of materialist society which promotes hedonism.The film goes on to make a vitriolic assault on people who have wealth and their ways and manners to spend such a wealth.All the acts shown in the film like over eating, orgies,living life to the fullest without giving a damn about morals and what the society would say I don't care attitude are all the products of human mind which does not like to rest.This is the reason why three young men of different socio economic backgrounds who happen to be friends decide to make merry knowing fully well that they have adequate means to engage themselves in such a wild pursuit.It can be surmised that by showing that irresponsible wealthy people can even die of over eating Marco Ferreri wanted to suggest that it is not only the countless unfortunate poor people in this world who die of hunger. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The two other Marco Ferreri films I've seen, Dillinger Is Dead and Bye Bye Monkey, I found utterly boring, I must admit. I was a little wary of La grande bouffe, though I had always wanted to see it. I've always been drawn to stories where a group of people (or more usually a couple) lock themselves up together and slowly kill themselves, or screw each others brains out. In this film, four men (Marcello Mastroianni, Michel Piccoli, Philippe Noiret and Ugo Tognazzi, all playing characters who use the actors' real first names) come together in a palatial estate to screw prostitutes and eat themselves to death. No real reason is given. The prostitutes don't make it very long. The constant feasting disgusts them, and they leave. The only woman who does stay is a Reubenesque teacher named Andrea (Andrea Ferreol), who is intrigued by both the food and sex (unlike the other women, the idea of food and sex together turns her on). This movie is a tad too slow. At it's best, though, it's fascinating and hilariously gross. Food seems quite unappetizing after about a half hour of this. I loved the performances. Definitely of interest. "},{"Title":"Le Grande Perversion","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Superb black comedy of an ageing quartet gathered for a feast of epic proportions in which they indulge every gluttonous whim with culinary abandon. Their erotic gorging, groping and fondling of food and flesh is both appetising and arresting, as one by one, they stuff themselves to morbidity. It's with a tinge of sadness that their food fornication gradually comes to a halt, when the last man can no longer brook another chocolate pudding or roast pig.Those who appreciate gourmet cooking might find appeal in the vast menu, but will likely be shocked by the flatulence-passing, naked-backside food preparation techniques of these randy chefs. The cast periodically combine their appetite for food with unbridled sexual encounters while they prepare meals, to which the viewer is treated in full detail. But while the sets, costumes and dialogue are all, equally colourful, there's a distinct lack of momentum and coherent storyline in the near two-and-a-half hour epic. I submit, respectfully, there's only so many kitchen orgies one film can sustain (particularly as this isn't a loop) without a more concrete purpose.The cast are formidable in their distinct characterisations (and appetites), and it seems as though each has resigned to his own despair at a life unfulfilled. While Mastroianni does little cooking by comparison with Piccoli, he more than compensates with his sexual appetite at any number of the prostitutes assembled for their last supper. Le Grande Bouffe is a raw, uncompromising comedy like no other and should be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"There's no pleasure in dying","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Four men want to die. This is not a spoiler, it is essential information. On viewing the film again, I realized that the opening scenes are quite explicit Where are you going? - I have given you power of attorney. Four good-byes from the restaurant, from the studio, from the airplane, from the wet nurse.Only it is not so easy. The men can't just eat themselves to death like they planned to. They need help.And help comes. Andrea Ferreol shares their food and more. She takes them to the edge - the moment where there is still a chance to turn around and continue living.The men die alone. The women survive the prostitutes know when to pull out, Andrea walks away at the end. The food is great (I got very hungry!), the photography quite excellent and the dialog just enough. Very relaxed, too. Mostly about food, recipes, small talk really. That's why it is essential to know and to remember what they are doing.Is it a good film? Absolutely. Is it gross? The camera does not look away. Not from the beautiful food, nor from the results at the other end of the digestive tract. It shows desires, ecstasy, fear and loneliness too. And it does show the big emptiness within the men. Too bad this emptiness cannot be filled by hors d'oeuvres, pate, fish, meat or elaborate pastries. "},{"Title":"A Strange Film To Say the Least","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of men hire some prostitutes and go to a villa in the countryside. There, they engage in group sex and resolve to eat themselves to death.The film was somewhat controversial upon its original release with its scatological humor and comic depictions of sex and over-eating. This seems like something you might expect from Bunuel, mixed in a bit with 120 Days of Sodom (or Salo). Not as gross, of course, but it seems to come from the same sort of feeling.I have no idea what was going on in France / Italy in the 1970s to make such strange films. I understand Bunuel's criticism of the bourgeoisie, as he had more or less always had a left-leaning streak of satire in him that came to the forefront later on. But here? If it is satire, it is much more obscure. "},{"Title":"La Grande Bouffe  a parody","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" La Grande Bouffe is, of course, a parody of how far one may go to end this life on Earth. The film was like a bomb in the industry at that time but today it has, perhaps, another meaning. The sexual relation that the teacher (Andrea) is over going in the film was in the 70 very provocative and still is. She, by the way, is the only one getting out alive in the film. All five actors are playing true people that don't compromise. They stand behind what they believe in. Nobody was asked to take the film seriously but everybody is taking it personalty  who wants to die of an overdose of food and sex ? Good question. Why not. Personnaly, I appreciated Andrea's free will and sexy style  of course I am a man  subsequently a macho  but, that is another discussion. "},{"Title":"An ode to excess","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is no question that many of us are slowly committing suicide by overeating, but the idea of eating until you die is probably a very unpleasant way to go.Yet, four men, three-time Oscar nominee Marcello Mastroianni, four time César nominee Michel Piccoli, two time César winner, and three more nomination, and a BAFTA winner Philippe Noiret, and Golden Globe nominee Ugo Tognazzi, join together to eat themselves to death.They are eventually joined by two time César nominee Andréa Ferréol and three whores because Marcello, the airline pilot, cannot manage without them.Needless to say, they eat and eat, engage in eating contests, and make expected noises when their bellies are full. They are constantly cooking and eating, when they are not doing things like using a manifold as a dildo.Michel gets constipated and what do they do? They manipulate him until he is relieved and then feed him more. The three whores finally get disgusted with the constant eating and leave. Just the four men and the teacher (Ferréol) remain.It gets a little creepy after two die and the rest go with them sitting there watching. But they do not last long, as they eat themselves to death.The film is quite funny at times, grotesque at times, and sad that excess is celebrated.The first-rate cast all gave excellent performances. "},{"Title":"Inside the depths of human lust for satisfaction","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, I must say that this is a strong movie. It feels like a punch in the stomach. The way that the plot unfolds the characters, and lets them fall into the abyss of lust for flesh and material satisfaction is so powerful, that I could really feel the pain of that punch in my stomach after wards. The way that comedy and drama are constantly mixed on this film is extraordinary. I haven't seen anything like it, wanting to laugh, feeling disgust, sorrow and sympathy at the same time during a scene. And such scenes are all over this film.The symbolisms are plenty and obvious, some even to the most common of eyes. The archetypes, the stereotypes, the needs and the musts of western life are sarcastically exposed to the viewer.Personally, I think this is an all-time classic, a film that still has a reason and something to say, so many years later. My only objection, and the reason for not rating it as a 10/10, is that some scenes could be a lot shorter, but then again this is a personal point of view, as a realize that many people want or need the dramatization that a long scene with skilled actors offers. "},{"Title":"Death by kidneys, in an exquisite sauce, helped along by guinea fowl and warm, practiced flesh","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wild boar, ready for the most subtle marinades...two superb deers with soft eyes, flesh imbued with the perfumes of the Clouves forest...ten dozen semi-wild guinea fowls fed on grain and juniper...three dozen innocent Ardennes cockerels...one dozen chickens from and around Bresse...a hindquarter of beef from the rich pastures of Charolais...five dozen innocent salt-meadow lambs from Mont Saint-Michel... Since this is a family site I won't describe the delights of the prostitutes they've also ordered. You'll see those soon enough. When these four sophisticated men, ennui leaking from their souls like the fluid draining from those two superb deers, speak of kissing the oyster, it's not the oysters they have in mind. In fact, what they seem to welcome is death by satiation. If food and sex are humankind's two glorious distractions from boredom, these four men discover a way to check out with a belch and a groan. It will be glorious, endless dinner at the unused Paris manse of one of them. The Whore Menu will be a masterpiece...a sauté of fat and lean given by four gourmet epicureans for three young ladies in twelve courses. Crayfish a la Mozart on a bed of rice with sublime Aurore Sauce...soft-shell lobster served as a first course... The dinner will be memorable...four jaded men, three whores and Andrea (Andrea Ferreol), a schoolteacher. And we're only 44 minutes into this more than two-hour movie. One thing for sure, There'll have to be breakfast What on earth are we to make of the tired lives, mounds of kidneys bordelaise and pointless exits of Marcello the pilot (Marcello Mastroianni), Michel the television big shot (Michel Piccoli), Philippe the judge (Philippe Noiret) and Ugo the chef (Ugo Tognazzi)? Much can be read into this movie, and much has. I suspect that the more some people natter on about its meaning, the less meaning it has. What it does have, however one-note the movie becomes, is the intense flavor of La Grande Black Comedy. The four men become clueless comedians in their own overly nuanced sophisticated pleasures and jaded feelings. If we didn't quickly realize that Marcello, Michel, Philippe and Ugo weren't just grownup, spoiled children, stunted in their approach to women as well as food (and acted by four superb artists), La Grande Bouffe might deflate under its own weight. Even as the whores depart, we still have the schoolteacher, a woman of unexpected delights and comforts. She brings a certain wholesomeness to sex on a kitchen table. Like an encouraging pairing of wine and cheese, she makes sex and food a pleasure...and she pairs well with Philippe for a while. Some fine black comedies may end sadly; they don't all need to end with irony. I'll admit that the last line in the movie, Is it all right like that, Ma'am? Meat in the garden? comes close. "},{"Title":"Sit, Eat","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a sort of adventure in shocking an audience. It failed with me because I've been exposed to so many more incisive things.But I like the way it is put together. It is a sort of Love's Labors Lost meets 8 1/2 Women. Though both those films came after, they are far superior.Four men gather in order to eat themselves to death via gourmet food. They attempt it in remote solitude, but love and sex intrude. First, we have some prostitutes, then a chubby local schoolmarm who falls for them all. The sex &#151; with her &#151; is tender, never hungry and significant. She becomes a sort of witness, our surrogate in the thing, watching as each of her lovers expire from life, because of determined living.There is a scene copied later a much better in 8 1/2 Women where our woman masturbates an old man while he expires. There it is a gift; here a duty. And that's the problem &#151; the thing has no poetry. Sure, there are plenty of attempted metaphors, but they all seem mechanical.The grand sweep has us with relationships as passion, passion as sex, sex as consumption, consumption leading to death. A meal late in the game is ass tart. I think this could be done effectively and may have been done somewhere. But meanwhile, I recommend the later films.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"The work of a man arrived at the height of mental alienation LA GRANDE BOUFFE","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Things will never be passed through the mind of director Marco Ferreri when they had the bright idea to give life to this Opprobrium's magnificent  will always remain an indissoluble mystery. But the unfortunate spectator, who wasted two hours of his life to see the work in question, is gripped by strong doubts that his stubborn mind just cannot accept the big blowout like that masterpiece that everyone should be proud ? It 'necessary to make a dutiful introspective analysis that seeks to identify the philosophical notions intrinsic. Prologue four friends who share the same passion for good food, they decided to exile in a villa outside Paris, with the intent to commit suicide by eating. Slowly, one by one, their wish is granted. Ferreri's intention, as long as there ever was one, was to depict, through cruel and (in)significant metaphors, the decadence of the society of consumption that began in the inevitable tunnel of the self-destruction. And considering the opinion of the overwhelming majority of film critics, is for this reason that La Grande Bouffe deserves to be counted among the greatest films of all time. Now, that the undersigned does not claim to be a universal opinion, as the press freedom and freedom of speech is sacrosanct, but a sincere and personal downsizing summarized as follows the goal can not always justify the means. Obviously this assumption Ferreri does not has even remotely considered, choosing the most drastic to go. La Grande Bouffe is the work of a man arrived at the height of mental alienation the example of how rampant addiction (de)generated by a crowded, pompous critical praise, can plage literally the mind of the average spectator . Vaguely subversive, unnecessarily provocative, decidedly nihilistic, the film turns out to be an unprecedented obscenity in wanting to show a (fake) world to the brink of the abyss that engulfs himself. With frequent extreme close-ups intent to improve the most repeated movements of the chewing mandibles committed to swallow lots of food, masturbation and explicit scenes orgiastic, vomiting, flatulence, oral and anal irritating, frequent, predictable bowel burns, La Grande Bouffe leads repeatedly in complacency exasperated that has ever existed in the describe a universe glad to drown. The complete humiliation of the two greatest pleasures of life, food and sex, here undermined by one spasmodic physiological needs tended to want to symbolize the four gentlemen in the picture the endless and deadly desire for food intoxicated, (fake) emblem of an impending apocalypse. Also, of note the odious sexism, the objectification of women reduced to real objects to the consumption of the frantic, squalid and uninhibited sexual desires of man. Not to mention the defeatist and improper meaning given the word Love, a victim of delirium in a scary movie without a shred of humanity and moral worth. If this is a masterpiece, we are fresh! Not to see, to avoid unpleasant side effects. "},{"Title":"Food For Thought","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one for the Pseuds Circuit by virtue of the fact that it is possible to 'read' virtually anything into it. With no plot to speak of it's just a voyeuristic trip as we watch four middle aged men literally eat themselves to death. They are described as friends but there is no back story to explain what a judge, an airline pilot, a chef and a man in the media have in common and on what basis they would form 1) a friendship and 2, a suicide pact. As long as we're tossing questions around we might also ask WHY four such disparate men should make such a decision and what, if any, provision they left for any relatives involved. For that matter we could also ask why actors of the calibre of Philippe Noiret, Michel Piccoli, Ugo Tognazzi and Marcello Mastroianni thought this was a career enhancer. "},{"Title":"about  keeping a face in hight society","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just a fact that you can see four of all best actors in unusual ugliness in the same movie,magnifies the interest to the picture.Never before Marcello Mastroianni acted so different role like here. Another fact -that all of the four personages are named the same as the actors,leads to the thought,that the actors and the director Marco Ferreri divided the same fillings on a subject of modern hight society,its eternal chasing after satisfactory which does not have limits include moral,and inability to get away of it. Like in another Ferreri movies,here there is no need to think,just to follow,and understanding will come. The picture is very good example for different cinema,although the one plus four biggest stars of the Europe and for my opinion of the world. "},{"Title":"more sexy and much more gross","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Seeing this again after a gap of many years I was struck by the fact that it seemed at once more sexy and much more gross. I remembered the humour and the surreal touches as well as the excellent performances from Marcello Mastroianni, Michel Piccoli and Phillippe Noiret but was surprised at the sensational and pivotal performance from the delightfully plump, Andrea Ferreol. The guys have arranged a giant eating session, later spiced up with the ordering of three prostitutes as we come to realise that their intention is to eat and f*** themselves to death. Andrea plays the 'innocent' local school teacher, also roped in and it is she who ends up showing the rest a thing or two. It is a marvellous, sexy and invigorating performance amidst the disgusting surroundings of gluttonous eating mixed with vomit and s**t. Not an easy view, I'm not even sure to whom I might recommend it. A restaurant critic perhaps! "},{"Title":"Yummy , yummy , what a gorgeous looking pudding","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is absolutely one of my all-time favorites . A degenerated generation is celebrating their suicidal tendencies . A must for every depressed person , who looks into a big black hole thinking about tomorrow !!! Watch it , feel it , eat it !  "},{"Title":"Bon Appétit!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"17 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a tale of four men from different backgrounds - a judge, a pilot, a TV celebrity and a chef - who decide to retreat to a large old house to indulge themselves with a gluttonous feast. And also to enliven the soiree, they hire some prostitutes, as well as a female teacher. They consume a huge assortment of various food, from pork and chicken, to pate and deserts. This leads to gastronomical problems with excess flatulence. Also, the judge is in love with the teacher and wants to marry her, but doesn't mind that she sleeps with the other three fellows. It seems to be just a mass orgy of food and women, with the outcome being inevitable tragedy. But it is remarkably well acted with a talented cast. Bon appétit! "},{"Title":"Not only original, but rather fantastic","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's not the purpose of death using the pleasures of food and sex as the ultimate sin. It's the cynicism used against the great value of life, the spirit. These 4 people and the women involved are figures, most respected in our society. From captains to judges, to teachers and dancers, all these people seem to turn exclusively to flesh, ignoring the values of the mind and thought, as it were completely unimportant!Are they right, or wrong? They don't care, nor the audience. What it matters the most is the way it's done rather the cause of it. The food and sex, both represent the ultimate good in life, the birth and as it is used to provoke death, seems to become a great innovative aspect of sin which rarely has been used elsewhere (also represented in a Greek film called tempelides of Eforis koiladas)Finally if we must wonder ourselves the reasons this suicide is meant to be committed, we must first answer to our own reasons for living! Why are continue supporting a social system which is based in violent survival hunting? Why we categorise life as ethical and unethical and most important why every action we take is good or evil?Death as life are so pointless, equally to mind and flesh. There's nothing left to remember, apart the joys of the present... "},{"Title":"A ferocious,savory,sarcastic flick","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Marco Ferreri's ultra film resembles the lugubrious Salo,but La Grande ... is superior.A macabre story about five cranks (4 men and a Miss,who comes in later,as the men's guest) who lurk to eat.Possibly,a surrealistic joke (but I have my reservations about this kind of lexicon,since the worst critics,confronted with playful movies like La Grande ... or Kill Bill,usually resort to such pointless rubbish,getting lost in mumbling symbolical interpretations, and keep speaking about ...semiotics,etc.,that kind of crap;but a movie is a show,not a textbook of symbols,allegories,etc..).A story of brutal grotesque,including visually (e.g.,the sex scenes between Mrs. Ferreol and the four men).It is also a kind of a Marxian diatribe,a scabrous, contemptuous,even fanatical,but far-sighted Marxian satire,about consumerism,lechery,an obese Nympho and farts.Were it not true that style is the substance (the 2 are not like 2 ingredients),La Grande ... would be a perfect case of Style Over Substance ;but since this idea is not acceptable,and the style is the substance,we must conclude that the style itself is flawed in this movie (because of this lack of content),though the technical skills of Ferreri are undeniable.It certainly is an impressive and thumping movie.A ferocious,savory,sarcastic,licentious,scathing and sardonic,and visually copious flick,La Grande ... coins many memorable scenes(1) the morning tenderness between Philippe and Nicole,one of the most bizarre love scenes ever;(2)the Andrea tart;(3)the funeral courtyard,packed with dogs and viands. Beautiful cinematography,and a lecherous show.It kind of grows on you,the more you think about it,the more you analyze it.Marco Ferreri was a master;in showing sexuality,some directors are constipated, banal and ridiculously solemn (Bertolucci,even ...Antonioni);others are concupiscent (Brass);Marco Ferreri avoids both traps.The characters are accurately molded.Mastroianni is handsome and well-dressed.La Grande ... is a highly esteemed,far-famed,very acclaimed fetish,its reputation always precedes it.I must admit I expected something better;one of the movie's main strengths is the cast,although La Grande ... in no way can be called a Mastroianni,or a Tognazzi,or a Noiret film.(I do not regard it as an actor-movie,although the acting is flawless;it is certainly an auteur-movie.Not especially for those who want a Mastroianni movie,or a Tognazzi movie,but for those who look for a Marco Ferreri movie.I will not treat it,here,as a Mastroianni/ Tognazzi/Noiret/Mrs. Ferreol movie.Marco Ferreri uses them as a quintet,or as a five-heads monster)It is a dejected flick about excess, dehumanization, dementia,uncouthness,etc.,very a la Bataille/Blanchot.The excess is a Sade/Bataille/Blanchot/Baudrillard theme,taken over by Pasolini,etc..The treatment of this theme here succeeds in giving a grim,sardonic,sensual show,and a Marxist digression.(My mother,with whom I watch and/or discuss many movies,strongly dislikes both Piccoli and Noiret;she considers the later precious,ridiculous and affected.Anyway,Noiret performs richly in La Grande ....) "},{"Title":"A funny and sad expose of the human condition.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie which is both humourous and sad.Four men decide to enjoy a weekend of eating, of appreciating the art of fine cuisine and the company of one special lady. They come from different backgrounds but have been close friends and each reveals more about himself as the movie progresses.It could be said that some simple pleasures outweigh all the success one is ever likely to achieve. "},{"Title":"Grim","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While I do appreciate the intention and the fine acting, the plot was completely depressing. I needed Prozac after the first 15 minutes. It brought me down and I stayed there for quite sometime. Even thinking back on it I feel glum. I am sure the aim was to be a real downer and it surely succeeded.I liked the fact it was in France because that made it so much more believable. Americans are no where as near as wacky as Europeans. They will do anything. Eating oneself to death is absurd. Even for the 1970's. It was truly appalling to watch even as fiction. Pleh.Just one Americans opinion. "}{"Title":"Not my cup of tea","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film on TV, and what I can say is that this film is really disgusting.  Of course it is what Ferreri wanted to do but I felt bad during the film.However the actors are excellent. "},{"Title":"A feast of a movie.","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film about four men and one woman who enjoy a weekend of eating and sex is warm, funny and also sad.During the sessions of indulgence the characters reveal themselves and it soon becomes evident that they have chosen a novel way to decide their futures. "},{"Title":"bizar, but interesting...","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Today I saw this movie again, after - I think - about 20 years (I was around 11 to 13 years of age I suppose)... In my memory there was this guy who exploded after eating too much. This movie has been in my mind ever since I saw it in the early '80's and last week I could get my hands on it again. For some reason I have mixed some things up. In my memory they where always eating in the garden and it was summer. It wasn't like that at all... The guy exploding, wasn't really exploding, that was the toilet ) but he died after farting for several minutes and his bowels just let go... bon appetit!Anyway, I also didn't had any memory about the sex in the movie, but then again, I was 11 to 13 years when I saw it; sex wasn't really a thing to think about at that age I suppose, food was more important!I have voted 7 out of 10, 'cause I think it was - in a way - brilliant, but not that brilliant, that I am thrilled by the story itself...  "},{"Title":"Interesting but not a classic to me","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Interesting movie (especially for 1973) but not a classic. Good acting, decors, humor and symbolism. A movie about solitude, emptiness, disconnectedness, decadence, longing and escapism (sex, food).7/10 "},{"Title":"disgusting","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Disgusting is the very first word one has to think about and I suppose that it is perfectly appropriate. Pervert, inhuman as well as intriguing..What made four seemingly successful&contented men decide to eat themselves to death? This is the fact that Ferreri left to us to find out..Does his apocalyptic vision of the (contemporary?) vanity projected in La grande bouffe correspond with reality? Or is it just a warning?P.S. Just compare with Pasolini's Salo or de Sade..  "},{"Title":"But why?","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Three character-less characters decides to commit suicide by eating themselves till death...and succeed. But why? What is the point? There must be some huge socio-political message but I missed it...completely. The culinary, however, shown in the movie was exceptional. I guess that was the point. And the effect of someone over-stuffing themselves even with best of cuisine shall be nauseating and it is in this movie. I didn't like it. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Too dull to stomach.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Marco Ferreri should have gotten some kind of honorary award for turning a seemingly surefire premise into an astonishingly dull movie. The characters don't exchange even one meaningful line of dialogue during the film's two hours. That means that they don't connect with each other, and we don't connect with them. And that means that we're not in any way affected by the wild goings-on; we simply occasionally observe that hmmm, that must have been provocative in 1973, and we move on. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Somewhat unrealistic-nothing exceeds like excess?","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is supposed to be a criticism against consumerist society. Well,it could have been done much better.In fact,few people even in the Western world afford&allow themselves to indulge with such delicacies, the most expensive champagne. It is therefore a criticism of capitalism not as it really is,but as it is wrongfully depicted in some Communist propaganda about Western decadence.Note that the events in the film must take place , in the year 1972 or 1973,because its characters know The GodfatherPart one.This means the affluent society just before the Oil Crisis put an abrupt ending to the almost thirty years of relentless economical growth after 1945.So,realesed in 1973,the subject would have already been dated.It would have been much better if Ferreri would have made this film in the 80's,because it fits the materialistic credo of the following decade.The idea of the middle-aged man contemplating suicide was well used in films ranging from The Waltz of the Toreadors to Scent of a Woman.Here the suicide pact between four quite wealthy middle-aged men is just unrealistic,especially if there is no logical reason,no plan,no actual pact.Only one character has diabetes and he dies in the most quick and painless manner by eating an entire cake and then passing away as if he fell asleep,as if he wanted desperately to convince the audience that he's dead,when not only the actor but even the character seem to fake it(death of course).But we know nothing more of his ailment and if this is the actual reason. Nor do we know why the other three are doing this.Mastroianni should have stuck to La Dolce Vita,there his character experiences another kind of death and suicide,not physically,slowly defeated by a pleasure-seeking society.This part was the criticism of consumerism without graphic violence,vulgarity,physical signs of pain.But in this film,also being called Marcello,like in Fellini's masterpiece,his part is becoming a tasteless copy of his former part,another,more fleshy Marcello.The death scenes are more of an insult to intelligence rather than disturbing.The viewer is supposed to believe that the four deaths are plausible,if a doctor or even a person without medical knowledge can tell that neither of the characters could die in real life like they did here.They seem to know far too good when exactly they are going to die to be for real!Besides,in every thorough scientific analysis of the symptoms before and in the moment they died it is clear that the cause of their death is just a big deceit.Praised for its divinely decadent mood,this very mood is rather shabby. The villa which is supposed to be a gateway into the decadent verse,of luxury,of vintage class&style looks awfully tasteless and unimaginative,a sterile visual experience completed by a bunch of underfed,dirty poultry running around.And the Bugatti that just drives back and forth without advancing,in a surreal way of defying the laws of mechanics and the very mission of even the worst car,when it should be a fast vehicle.A hint at Isadora Duncan's death?Or just a symbol for the fact the pact once made,trough some incredulous,inexplicable and unrealistic laws of destiny no one will leave the house alive?The food which also serves as suicide weapon is understated and rather unappetizing,though expensive compared to the real French-Italian gourmet cuisine.The literary symbols are also out of placethis film should be a modern Satyricon,but it lacks the picturesque style of the Roman masterpiece,the Godfather-imitation is too anecdotal and superficial and Boileau's oak and its story are completely redundant in the plot line,because the hint that Boileau's world of classical harmony is dead in our postmodern times is a too obvious truism.The spectacular factor of Satyricon-style banquets is also lacking.The film should be a warning against the mortal sin of gluttony. Actually it is both pathetic and deprived of any realistic expression or emotion,because a real-life French or Italian gourmet would relish all these foods and many more without dying,without even getting sick.Ironically,only hours after I saw the film I also embarked on a weekend of lavish eating and drinking in a secluded mountain villa with my friends and,almost needless to say,after having consumed similar quantities none of us dies or even got sick,lol!-of course there was no suicide pact in our case.No exceeding excess(though made in the materialistic eighties,years of overspending,the same film would have had another message and such quantities of food would not have been used for dying,rather as a status symbol or even a psychotherapy in favor of living).It fails to condemn materialism because neither its temptations are shown as appealing or sinful(and even less as deadly)nor is death due to them the slightest bit possible in real life,and also failing to bear any lessons against excessive greed.One ends up pitying not the basic needs and vices of the characters,nor their low morality,rather their immense tastelessness(even in death)and their unimaginative behavior exhaling mediocrity,essentially non-intellectual though their are supposed to be educated.The parallel between food and the forces of life and death,of eroticism and passion is key element in films ranging from the tragic Como l'Agua para chocolate(where food and recipes are present in the most disturbing and intense moments of the character's doom)up to that forgettable pseudo-entertainment called Woman on top.In this film it was just misplaced and misused.Much more convincing films about how consumerism and the promise of material happiness in a shallow,ruthless society have a crippling impact on the individual,but not necessarily trough food and suicide pacts,like Blow-up,La Dolce vita,Clockwork Orange,Scarface,Citizen Kane,Wall Street or American Beauty-in all this masterpieces the characters are undergoing their own suicide without knowing,being dragged in the downward spiral of greed much more complex than for food,they may or may not be wiped out physically,but always(and in the long run much more painful)innerly.This film,on the other hand,where even the four deaths fail to be credible,is a shame,but fortunately an exception in the usually so artistically accomplished,so flawless European cinema. "}]