[{"Title":"A realistic movie about a love affair","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A Touch of Class starts off being about a married cad's misadventures in attempting to hook up with a divorced woman who's up for the no-strings-attached sex. It makes the movie's title somewhat ironic, doesn't it? More than likely, A Touch of Class refers to double-Oscar winner Glenda Jackson (Women in Love and this movie), who's just about one of the classiest actresses I've seen. Beautiful, regal, and armed with acerbic British wit, she's the perfect foil to the brash and American George Segal, who incidentally looks just about the same 30 years ago as he does now in Just Shoot Me, except with a better body.A Touch of Class demonstrates how opposites attract - something I've very familiar with. It's a romantic comedy but its comedic element peaks halfway through the movie with a scene in which the two leads engage in an all-out battle that culminates in a clothes fight and a sex fumble. After that, it's primarily about the two trying to make their love affair work despite Segal's marriage. A successful romantic movie draws us into its convolutions by making us care for its characters and what become of them, which A Touch of Class achieves by giving us the realistic trials and tribulations of an extramarital couple. "},{"Title":"A classic charming period comedy.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The plot summary listed on this website for this movie does the movie a great discredit. This is a charming comedy of mores that couldn't get made today because of our changing ideas of what is and is not moral. The script sparkles with great lines and the emotional life of the film is complex. In today's world of black and white morality this movie will be misunderstood. It's not about philandering or cheating. It's about unexpected love and the complications of that. Today's audience won't get it, but for the generation for whom this film was made, it still touches the heart. The great music score features two terrific Sammy Cahn/George Barrie songs. One of my favorites to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Jackson excels in lightweight fluff","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A love story with a built-in dead end they're crazy about each other, but he's already married. Attempt to recapture the sophisticated romantic-comedies of yesteryear is put to the test under a heavy-handed direction which doesn't know what it's going for, laughs or pathos (the former occasionally bumping clumsily into the latter). There's nothing wrong with a good mix of laughs and tears, but this scenario is cluttered up with too many dolts (like Paul Sorvino's best friend character, who is tiresome the minute we meet him) and too many montages which set no certain mood. Oscar-winner Glenda Jackson is warmly sarcastic throughout--and she's delightful working with George Segal--but their characters lost my interest after an hour or so. There's too much bickering over nothing, too much intensity melting away into love-starved giggles. The picture is a situation comedy but there are only occasional laughs, all early on. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Two Top Comedic Performances in Half a Hysterical Film","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" At times screamingly funny, at least during the first hour, A Touch of Class boasts two fine comedic actors in top form and a script that manages to hit more highs than lows. After a catchy title tune, George Segal and Glenda Jackson meet a few times by chance before on-the-prowl Segal, who boasts of never cheating on his wife in the same city, moves in for the pounce. However, the divorced Jackson, who needs some good uninvolved sex, agrees to a tryst if they can manage something better than a quickie in a one-star hotel with dirty sheets. From this point the screwball comedy antics pile on. A returning wife and in-laws complicate the arrangements for a week in Spain, and an unwelcome friend shows up for the same flight to Malaga. The laugh meter rises with a faulty clutch, a spastic back, and a sexual performance rating that is on par with a Christmas card from the butcher.The comedy is in high form as the couple spar and parry towards consummating their relationship. Unfortunately, love enters the equation, and the unwelcome friend slows the merriment further with a serious turn about guilt. Although the pace picks up again when the couple returns to London, the damage has been done, and A Touch of Class fails to return to the hilarity of the first hour. Segal and Jackson are certainly not to blame for the sluggish mid section, and both performers deliver fine comedic performances that never go over the top for a laugh and retain a depth of character when the mood turns serious. The film belongs to the two stars, and they play well together. However, the supporting players in general fail to register with the exception of Eve Karpf as the slyly knowing Miss Ramos at Iberia Airlines.Symptomatic of the movie's slowdown is a scene where Jackson and Segal watch Brief Encounter on the television in their love nest. The Celia Johnson and Trevor Howard classic is a heavy weepie drama, and both characters wring the handkerchiefs while they watch the film. Although the temptation to insert shots from another film about marital infidelity was obviously too strong to resist, the scene further dampens the film and pushes the characters into a soul-searching phase that leads to the inevitable fadeout. Perhaps if the lovers had watched A Night at the Opera or Bringing Up Baby, viewers would have left the theater laughing instead of sullen like the weather in the final scene. "},{"Title":"Great fun about adults who like sex","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Underrated, as far as I'm concerned. One of the top sex comedies about two very real people who are both mature and interested in sex. It doesn't hurt that Glenda Jackson's so very committed to the role and George Segal's so very sexy.That title tune's a pip, too. Nominated for Best Picture and deservedly so. This is the sex comedy that modern filmmakers should look to. "},{"Title":"I tell you why this is a classic(comedic)love story.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The on-screen chemistry between Glenda Jackson and George Segal is magical. This is the kind of affair everyone fantasizes about.  The way the story unfolds and flows is quick and reveals all the interesting aspects of these two people who are accidentally thrown together.  There is a very physical lovers' quarrel that will have the viewer laughing convulsively.  There are also tears.  The Voice of Reason in the movie is the character we both love and hate.  I lost count at 31,the number of times I have watched this movie.  After all these years, it is still one of the great love stories.  "},{"Title":"Could have been a hit","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Glenda Jackson and George Segal are the big plus of this romantic sex-comedy that starts of in a really funny way and promising to be absolutely hilarious but then, as the movie turns rather melancholic or sad or `serious', loses a lot of its power and becomes even a bit improbable.The two actors &#150; today we don't actually know either of them any more &#150; seem to have no problem with the fact that the screenplay contains a lot of long, argumentative dialogue and they even manage to enhance the sharpness and wit of these dialogues by their acting. The quarrels between this odd couple are absolute highlights in the history of the comedy of sexes, those before their `relationship' as well as those in the hotel in Málaga, where the relationship almost ends.As soon as the two come back to London, I got the feeling that the director rushes the story. The film could have been longer without becoming boring, indeed it should have taken its time to describe the developing love more accurately. In fact, characters introduced are not dealt with any longer (Vicky's gay colleague was absolute unnecessary), both of the two have children but they don't turn up any more. And then, quite suddenly, the movie is over.It's really a pity. With these two fantastic actors, this comedy could have been a hit.  "},{"Title":"Bittersweet","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bittersweet comedy helped immeasurably by the chemistry of the stars and the skill of their performances. Glenda is brash and delicate in equal measure, George bombastic but good natured. While it shows the pitfalls of infidelity it doesn't judge its characters for their choices and actually presents all the relationships, including Glenda's gay assistant's, evenhandedly rather surprising for the 70's. As far as her receiving an Oscar for this performance, she's sprightly and more relaxed than she usually was on screen but I doubt that even she expected to grab the prize for what is a customary solid job but hardly extraordinary. "},{"Title":"Charismatic Star Performances rise above a clichéd script","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A TOUCH OF CLASS was a charming romantic comedy about a married American businessman (George Segal) who lives in London and drifts into an affair with an English fashion designer (Glenda Jackson). Though the script borders on the cliché, Segal and Jackson manage to rise above rather ordinary story thanks to their surprisingly effective on screen chemistry. Jackson actually snagged a second Best Actress Oscar for this film (something that still baffles me to this day)but Segal is just as good as she is. Personally, I think this is one of Segal's best performances...Segal's Steven Blackburn is urbane, sophisticated, witty, and sexy and his attraction to Jackson's Vicki Ellesio is a bit of a puzzle since her character is sort of a bitch, but the film is still worth a rental if you've never seen it. "},{"Title":"A good movie for those who like to fantasize about forbidden love.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in 1976 and loved it. It was the first time I saw a movie where a woman had an affair with a married man that made me sympathize with the woman. At the same time I also felt sorry for the man, but not as much because he lied to her about his marriage making her think he wasn't happy with his wife and that their marriage was a sham. I've tried several times to rent this movie but have not been able to find it. I've tried all the main rental places such as Hastings, Hollywood Video and several smaller mom and pop type video rental places, but all to no avail The movie is good because it shows all the pitfalls of getting involved with someone who is married and yet has a tenderness about it that makes you understand why it happens. It is good for young girls to see because they can see how a man can take advantage of a gullible young woman by saying the right things. At the same time, it is interesting that the lead female role play by Glenda Jackson is anything but gullible in every other way. She is a strong woman with a strong personality who speaks up for herself but falls into the all too often belief that her love can make all the difference and that their love is so unique and wonderful that it cannot possibly fail and that he will leave his wife for her because he cannot live without her. Unfortunately, real life is not like fantasy and the practical takes over when the sun rises on the often cold reality of the pain and financial strain that breaking off a relationship can bring. Also, this man like many others didn't want to leave his marriage he just wanted to have an affair to fill whatever voids were there real or imagined. Still, I liked this movie and have often thought about it over the years. For me this is the true test of how effectively a story touches me. "}{"Title":"Lots of wit, tons of humor, and, yes, a touch of class","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A very witty, funny movie about an affair between a spoiled, married American business man (George Segal) living in London and a somewhat caustic British fashion stealer (Glenda Jackson).Whether they're fighting (some of the funniest verbal fight scenes ever!) or dealing with the reality of an affair (with some very poignant moments), the chemistry between Segal and Jackson works and the script is exceptional. Jackson's performance is particularly terrific; also notable is Paul Sorvino's performance as an irritating-but-wise friend.IMPORTANT - If at all possible, watch the uncut, uncensored, uninterrupted version of this movie (i.e., don't watch it on broadcast television for the first time).  "},{"Title":"Actor-driven story that succeeds.","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an a movie about two irascible persons who meet and want it all, with bittersweet results. Although the two principal characters are obnoxious, their chemistry together simply overcomes their natural propensities to try to one up the other. George Segal and Glenda Jackson are wonderfully casted for their respective parts. The entire movie is basically a farce; the plot is so contrived that no one can possibly take it seriously. By all rights, the movie should have ended with their first argument at the airport. But this movie is driven not by the story but by the actors who succeed in transforming a ludicrous script into an award-winning movie. Jackson plays an excellent straight man to Segal's whining antics, and Segal, in turn, manages to transform his character from a two-dimensional stereotype of the spoiled American into a character with some depth and feeling. Together, Segal and Jackson form a duo that the audience can care about. Less skilled actors would have come off as shallow; with Segal and Jackson, the story is enriched and becomes entertaining. "},{"Title":"Stress Relief in Early 1970s London&#x85;","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A Touch of Class is directed by Melvin Frank who also co-writes the screenplay with Jack Rose. It stars Glenda Jackson, George Segal, Paul Sorvino, Hildegarde Neil and Mary Barclay. Music is by John Cameron and cinematography by Austin Dempster.Two great lead performances and a sharp script propel this delightful sex comedy forward. Plot is no great shakes but it matters not in truth, divorced English woman meets American married man, an attraction is there and they agree to go away for a brief holiday to indulge in some stress relieving sex. Upon arrival at the Spanish resort, a number of things get in the way of the couple actually copulating. Once achieved, things start to go a bit sour, and the bickering and withering sarcasm starts. But hold on, there's more twists to come, right up to the bittersweet finale.Genuine laughs are dotted throughout, Jackson's waspish tongue an utter delight, and the pic never teeters over the edge into sentimental hog- wash. It's obviously a product of its time, though the extra-marital affair theme is daringly mounted for the era. A lovely film, funny, poignant and literate. Score! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Subject of Infidelity a Walk in the Park","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Love Affair has been a constant in movies since their beginning and will probably continue to be so as long as cinema is around and society is the way it is with men and women. So comes A Touch of Class, directed by Melvin Frank, which feels completely like a frolic. It manages to successfully depict a cheating relationship with a homespun, almost as if it were normal, feel. The dialog is a mix of cheekiness and older generation frankness. Not having seen many '73 movies, Glenda Jackson is the stand-out performance and apparently received an Academy Award for her work, which seems too high a praise - but the performance is still good to be sure. Filming locations were on locales, and Paul Sorvino looks a bunch younger than most of the movies I've seen him and his full of spirit and even sage. Segal runs his mouth like typical New Yorker. Definitely worth a watch for the performances, sometimes the dialog, and peek back into the 70s yester-decade. "},{"Title":"A Touch of Class--35 Years Later","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You've got to view this as a reflection of the Sexual Revolution in its full 70s swinging mode, where infidelity within an unhappy marriage was viewed as less simply immoral than now. As such it's a charming time capsule with very good casting. I thought this movie was terrific (albeit imperfect) at the time, when I saw it as a teenager. Of course it seemed very sophisticated to me then--and it made me infatuated with George Segal, who seemed so goofy and charming and attractive. A perfect post-Bobby Sherman interest for a curious 12- year-old.As for Jackson's Best Actress win--well, there really weren't a lot of good roles for women at the time. This is a particular instance (like Louise Fletcher's very-supporting Best Actress win for Cuckoo's Nest) that proves how dismal the competition was in that era. Of course there were fine actress performances in films during the 70s, albeit ones too small or too foreign or too art-house-y to be noticed by the Academy. But really, the whole era just sucked in terms of substantial women's leading roles.The film's own dated sexism is apparent in its obliviousness toward divorcée Jackson's drop- everything-whenever-called neglect of her children (guess she has nothing better to do!) whereas much attention is given to Segal's neglect of his wife and children (he's a guy, so of course he's got better things to do!). As if her commitments aren't important, while his naturally are.A Touch of Class seemed overrated at the time (this movie got multiple Oscar nominations in the same year as Mean Streets?!?), and it hasn't aged brilliantly. Nonetheless, it's an excellent example of a romantic comedy reflecting a very different moral complexity than movies allow nowadays. "},{"Title":"A film of two halves","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This could have been a  great movie, but someone screwed up, or copped out,  somewhere along the way. If  only Glenda Jackson's character, Vicki Allessio, and George Segal's Steve Blackburn had retained throughout the movie the personas they project brilliantly in the first half &#150; she, cool-headed, clear-sighted, acid-tongued, and so clearly leading the way;  he, opportunistic, not as sharp as he thinks he is, and desperately trying to seize control of the relationship &#150; this might have been a noteworthy feminist statement.  But in the second half, he becomes just another cheating husband, she just the other woman; and the film becomes ever more formulaic, with simply the charisma of the principals and a few good gags to enliven proceedings, before the inevitable down-beat ending. Indeed, all the way through, apart from Jackson's and Segal's characters, the film relies on stock steretypes - eg camp fashion trade gays, bungling Spanish hotel porters, golden-hearted tarts - for its humour. But there is at least one great line, when Vicki during some clumsy love-making says to Steve in her cut-glass voice, Why don't you just roll on top and hope for the best!   "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this years ago, but when I sat down to watch it, I honestly couldn't remember a thing about it. After sitting through it again, I see why. It isn't all that memorable. Glenda Jackson excels in her one-note feminist character, but George Segal seems to be running, literally, all through the movie. And his schtick gets tiresome rather quickly. "},{"Title":"My god, my one chance to be raped, and you can't get your bloody trousers off!","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Glenda Jackson's second Oscar-winning picture, A TOUCH OF CLASS is a UK production, but directed by American writer-director Melvin Frank (fairly to say, it has to be his most accomplished work), an urban relationship caricature precisely broaches a modernised (feminist) view on an extramarital affair between an American married man Steve Blackburn (Segal) and a British divorcée Vickie Allessio (Jackson).Steve is a successful business man, living in London with his wife Gloria (Neil) and two children, he is handsome, virile, a jock of baseball and golf, so after several chance meetings with the alluring but independent Vickie, all he wants is to woo her for a quickie during his lunch break. But Vickie is not a bimbo, although she jovially accepts Steve's invitation and doesn't mind a depressurising rumpy pumpy with a man she finds attractive, she demands to do it under better surroundings, with a touch of class. Intrigued, Steve arranges a trip to Málaga with her, to consummate their affair.A chain of mishaps will occur even before their tryst, from Steve's desperate attempt to persuade his wife from joining him for the so-called business trip, to the encounter with his friend Walter (Sorvino) in the airport, it is sheer magic how Frank and his co-writer Jack Rose can extract humour and laughter out of other people's misfortunes without ever over-stuffing the gags (a negative example can be observed from Arthur Hiller's Neil Simon-penned THE OUT-Of- TOWNERS, 1970) and run them smoothly with conviction and élan.It is so true, a short trip is the best way to know about each other, Steve and Vickie clash vigorously, a tug-of-war of bedroom quarrel-fest chiding each other's stereotyped characters, a.k.a. the libido-driven American man against the uppity British woman, Segal and Jackson spark off engagingly in their two-handers, eventually a woman's abrasive sagacity prevails over a man's immature grumble (that's why Jackson is the mature one, since most of her points are right on the nose), which plausibly abides by the corny but enigmatic allure of the antithesis and creates an amazing aura of sexual magnetism, thus paves the way for the next step - their consensual arrangement of renting a flat together.Back to London, the affair continues, Steve squeezes time from dog-walking, or sneaks out in the middle of a Beethoven concert and return, to conduct the carnal knowledge in their secret flat. Soon or later, as we expect, a casual relationship is slowly but inevitably consumed by the weary day-to-day dissatisfaction and in a cerebral move, after admitting that she is behaving like a wife, Vickie has the boldness to end it (although the movie considerably let Steve initiate the motive), after all her emotional baggage is the lighter one, whereas Steve is bogged down in his dither, and finds the courage to let it go, thanks to her, eventually.Ingenious, brisk and without a whiff of patronising either sex, A TOUCH OF CLASS is a top-shelf comedy where Segal and Jackson are at the top of their games. Also, as a footnote it reminds us to why David Lean's BRIEF ENCOUNTER (1945) is a must-see for everyone! "},{"Title":"Why I think this is second only to The Exorcist for 1973","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My first review ever, if memory serves - I've been on this site for many years now, so I may have forgotten...I saw A Touch of Class for the first time yesterday and it was definitely a very pleasant surprise for me, even though I suspected I was going to like it - otherwise I wouldn't have watched it at all. Anyway, it was even better than expected. It was really, really funny and the characters were very likable. How do you NOT fall in love with Glenda Jackson?! ) And he's pretty cool too, but I'm straight so I can't really speak for that side. Anyway, I think the way their affair plays out is completely natural and believable and that's the reason I don't get why one IMDb reviewer (one that I can recall - perhaps there are more) AND Roger Ebert both have a problem with the movie turning into a romance in its second half (and with the ending, which I address below). OK, so it's not as funny as it is in the first half, but so what? Does it HAVE to be a laugh-out-loud comedy all the way? I have no problem with the genre-mixing here, none whatsoever - I rarely do, actually. To me, the narrative structure is pretty much impeccable and makes sense throughout, with the ending being, of course, pretty much inevitable given the situation. Would the movie really have been better had they implausibly stayed together, despite his kids and all of the other obstacles? I don't know. Maybe! It was certainly hard to take, but it made perfect sense to me. Ebert on the ending it doesn't seem right and for two people, both still in love, to reach a sad but rational decision to end it That's not only unfair, it's unlikely. Um... why? Isn't that how life is? Some good moments, some bad moments, a lot of fun (at least in my case - I'm sure there are others who are less fortunate) and then the occasional, inevitable really tough decision that most of us (or at least many of us) ultimately make with our brains instead of our hearts? Especially if we also happen to love our wife and kids - which is actually shown in the movie, if you pay attention, at least as far as the kids are concerned... And you can't even say it was rushed - they both got there gradually, as is shown in the movie's second half. I don't really get the logical basis for this opinion. Not yet, at least. So, then, I ask what's not to like about this movie?!...Like the title says - to me, this is the best movie of 1973, save for (but very, very close to) The Exorcist. Have no idea why this isn't considered a classic... "},{"Title":"Hey Sorvino! You're talking to the wrong person!","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when I was twenty-three years old. Paul Sorvino's line or question never really made any sense to me. He asked Steve (George Segal) if he loved her (Vicky, Glenda Jackson) enough to give her up. What kind of a nonsensical question is that? Vicky had nothing to lose with Steve choosing her. She would only lose if he DIDN'T choose her. So what does she get when Steve blows her off? Exactly what she already had. Suppose however that Sorvino had asked Vicky that question. THEN it would have made sense. Because Vicky would have been making a choice between having NOTHING or having Steve at the price of destroying a happy marriage. Vicky would have actually SACRIFICED something, her own happiness for Steve. But Steve wouldn't have the same sacrifice presented to him. His choice was simply, THIS woman, whom you love, or THAT woman, whom you also love. BFD! 2 years later, I found myself in such a situation (from the Vicky perspective), in circumstances so unique, I might as well have been in another galaxy. And I made the wrong choice. I destroyed a relationship and as for myself, I wound up with nothing anyway. "}{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Glenda Jackson won the Academy Award for her performance here, and whilst not brilliant, she plays her character very well and she has good chemistry with George Segal. The dialogue is at times sharp and witty, yet the film's screenplay is not all that great because the content is stretched a little thin to bear the stretch of feature length. Also, the supporting characters are mostly silly stereotypes that hang around the set but add little to the story. Some of the jokes are also repetitive and predictable. However, it is an interesting enough film to watch, despite the premise being unoriginal, because of the two lead characters being well-mannered, refined types - quite different to the average couple in this type of film. "},{"Title":"Really lousy","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A rather unfunny romantic comedy that amazingly got nominated for Best Picture along with four other Oscar nominations, winning Best Actress for Glenda Jackson. I can't for the life of me see what people were thinking at the time. Free love is one thing - I have no problem with that whatsoever - but the male protagonist in this movie, George Segal, is straight up just cheating on his wife. He's the hero of the movie! We're not exactly meant to sympathize with him, but he's supposed to be funny. I don't know how you could see him anything more than a total jerk. And Jackson, though she's thankfully divorced, isn't much better. She's a browbeating little shrew who isn't even remotely attractive, either physically or intellectually. I should have hated this even more than I did, but, though the characters are awful, the performances aren't half bad. And I loved the music. There are a few amusing moments, but this is mostly awful. "},{"Title":"A sexy and sad romantic comedy","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A Touch of Class was a charming romantic comedy about a married American businessman (George Segal) who lives in London and drifts into an affair with an English fashion designer (Glenda Jackson). Though the script borders on the cliché, Segal and Jackson manage to rise above rather ordinary story thanks to their surprisingly effective on screen chemistry. Jackson actually snagged a second Best Actress Oscar for this film (something that still baffles me to this day)but Segal is just as good as she is. Personally, I think this is one of Segal's best performances...Segal's Steven Blackburn is urbane, sophisticated, witty, and sexy and his attraction to Jackson's Vicki Ellesio is a bit of a puzzle since her character is sort of a bitch, but the film is still worth a rental if you've never seen it. "},{"Title":"The prime example of a 70's romantic B movie.","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A Touch of Class is one of those 70's B movies that have some enjoyable times and times that make you want to pull your hair out. It's a film that shows that people who cheat on their current lovers aren't just doing it for pleasure but that there are some who actually end up falling in love and have some class with the affair. George Segal plays Steve Blackburn, a wealthy business and family man who meets a mysterious and provocative divorced woman name Vickie Allessio (Glenda Jackson) at a park. Steve visits Vickie at work and convinces her to depart with him to Spain for a romantic love affair. Many things go wrong in the process, such as incidents at the resort, Steve's best friend following him and coming close to finding out the big secret and continuous arguing between the two New Yorkers. The idea of this film is very clever and fun, it's just it gets a little carried away with the whole 'keep it a secret' idea. The lengths and measures Steve and Vickie go through are absolutely ridiculous and the two don't share a strong enough chemistry for us to feel for their relationship. The relationship just drags and drags and becomes repetitive and feels like the same scene you just saw 15 minutes ago. And for those who somehow enjoyed their relationship, you'll be disappointed in the mislead ending the film concludes. There was just too much of the same thing between Vickie and Steve! The two lovebirds fight and argue and try and keep their affair a secret for two long. Glenda Jackson is very irritating and has an accent that sounds like fingernails on a chalkboard. George Segal is actually very funny and Paul Sorvino is a fun friend of his. The film has a decent plot and some very funny moments at times even though Glenda Jackson ruins them and the third or fifth tie the same thing happens it becomes unfunny. The final third of this film is very poor but I must admit the middle of this film was very fun to watch due to the plot being new at the time and the characters still being developed. The opening is weak and the end section is artless, poorly written and a repeat of what we have seen earlier just out of Spain. Melvin Frank the writer and director wanted to make a romantic comedy about a love affair that turned into love and how the two went through extraordinary times to fulfill their love. Instead he got a rom-com that ended on a bad twist and a continuous disaster between a poorly-matched couple who shared some humor at times. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as I thought it was","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this film in London in the seventies and loved it. I remember it as a hysterically funny film and as far as I am concerned George Segal can do no wrong. However, having hired it from Love Film I was surprised to find that it wasn't as funny as I thought it was. Also the morality of the man juggling a lover whilst he loved his wife didn't fit with the mores of today. There were obvious holes in it which now struck home for instance, they didn't need to reserve aeroplane tickets, the fat friend could get in the way by sitting with George in the plane and Glenda's children seemed to have vanished when she was cooking dinners in the flat they used for their trysts. Additionally, dialogue such as ' Great! My only chance to get raped and you can't get your trousers off' struck an odd note in the 21st Century. Glenda received an Oscar for her performance which I found odd. She was typically Glenda and I saw some of the tart facial expressions and comments used in Women In Love another of my favourite films( I think she got an Oscar for that too). As I once stayed at the Churchill hotel where they were at the beginning and had an American boyfriend in the seventies who didn't understand English sarcasm I suppose time has moved on. It all related to my life in the seventies - not now though and my husband disapproved totally that it was thought perfectly acceptable for the George Segal character to have a so called 'bit on the side'. Shame! "},{"Title":"60p!!!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not as good as I remember it - but then, what is? - A Touch of Class has dated pretty well, though there is no way this film would be made today; the moral ambiguity and the downbeat ending would give the money men a fit of the vapours.What does date the film more than anything is the music, which is for the most part archetypal, early seventies, easy-listening pap which slushes up loudly during 'romantic' moments. Having said that though, there are two really nice music cues towards the end of the film in the scene where Segal's character leaves a Beethoven concert to meet with his lover intent on ending their relationship, the music he had been listening to in the concert hall continues under him leaving, and then their meeting. It's nicely done. The other moment is in the the final shot of the movie. As Segals's character clears out his stuff from the flat a song plays on the soundtrack. The last thing he does as he leaves is lift the arm off the record playing in the gramophone. The song stops. The movie ends. It's neat.Another dating moments occur when Jackson's character attempts to pay for the taxi and, later, buys a packet of oregano. In the taxi she offers 60p as her fare. By today's standards this is a laughably small amount for a taxi fare and the line stopped my credibility dead in its tracks till I remembered the film was 30 years old. So, future script writers of the world, if you intend your script to stand the test of time, inflation proof it. Don't put specific amounts in the mouths of your characters. Have them hand over cash and say That's the right amount, or not say anything. Just show them the money, let the viewer fill in the amount in their head. "},{"Title":"Pass the Doritoes and Get Me a Beer, Woman!","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had waited a very long time to see this movie and when I got the DVD I wasn't disappointed.Seeing the chemistry between Segal (who I never realized was such a useful actor) and Jackson (who I furrowed my brow at in Women In Love) was magic to me. And I felt sorry when they were going through hard times and I felt amused when Jackson did her best to keep up appearances.I liked the way the movie ended as well. Everything neatly in order unless you count the shattered remains of broken hearts.I would definitely wish to see this movie again. "},{"Title":"Neil Simon wannabe","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A Touch of Class strikes me as a poor Neil Simon wannabe, partially redeemed by the acting and chemistry of stars Glenda Jackson and George Segal and by a tolerably realistic ending. Most of the plot is as unrealistic and predictable as a lame TV sitcom and no funnier. Neither Steve nor Vicki is shown with any of their children, other than a few moments in the initial meet-cute scene basically the kids are used entirely as excuses for unfunny babysitter complications. Nor is Steve shown as having any relationship with his wife that might make him hesitate to leave her for someone he adored. Their dogs get far more screen time than their families, presumably on the theory that canines are funnier than people. This is unforgivably lazy screen writing. See it for the performances, or skip it altogether. How this got nominated for Best Picture I'll never understand. "},{"Title":"Tedious dated comedy about infidelity","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember liking this when it first came out - I just saw it again and don't know why.Segal's character is a sort of professional philanderer (I've never made love to a woman in the same city as my wife). Jackson's character is superior and rather humorless. The two do not produce magic together. I find myself strongly resenting the repeated insults by Jackson, her arrogance, her haughty scorn.The movie is also very much of its time. Like Pardon Mon Affaire, Cousin, Cousine, Pardon Mon Affaire Two, I Do I Do, I Love My Wife, its point is to share the great fun of seeing a man has in his attempts to deceive his unsuspecting wife and children (of course in Cousin, Cousine, they loudly make love when the children and spouses are present).In a period in which we see movies such as A Walk on the Moon, Unfaithful, A Perfect Murder - in all of which infidelity is taken deadly seriously - its consequences wrecking lives, the day in which this kind of fluff was entertaining is long over. This is not a good movie - I actually like George Segal as an actor (and the Viennese reviewer should know that Americans have seen George Segal each week for years in a very popular television series). Both he and Glenda Jackson do their best - but their lines aren't very funny, the situation is terribly contrived (yes, coincidental meetings abound), and one has great difficulty sympathizing with either the mother who abandons her daughters or the husband who must work so hard to deceive his whole family. "},{"Title":"Witty without being special","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The main interest of the film is the presence of two wonderful actors, Glenda Jackson and George Segal. They support the movie from the beginning with very good acted dialogues and a lot of humor. A touch of class works very well for the first part -the way the two meet in London and their funny holiday in Spain-. After that the film becomes less interesting, many scenes become quite boring. It seems that director Melvin Frank put all his energy in showing how this two people learn to accept and to love each other... Even if the movie doesn't end in a conventional way, it begins to lack speed in the second half.It's a pity, because it could have been a classic.  "}{"Title":"Close, but no cigar","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A Touch of Class could have been a contender. Its first half reminds me of the great screwball comedies of the 30's. Segal's performance more than hints at Cary Grant's maniacal exasperation and attraction for a sharp tongued, sophisticated woman ala Russell or Hepburn. The writing comes close to what Sturges might have done if the Hays Office hadn't been looking over his shoulder. As other reviewers have noted, the film falls apart in the second half. The characters become standard star-crossed lovers; the writing loses its bite. Jackson and Segal try hard to keep up the energy, but there's not much left for them to work with. In short, what was snappy turns sappy. It's a shame because Class could have been a classic sex farce. Two and half stars "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's hard to imagine how this film got such a strong reception on its first release. Viewed several decades later, it's trite, formulaic, frustrating, and downright dumb.The strongest redeeming factor is Glenda Jackson sharp as always, and fun to watch even in this mess. (Unfortunately, her talents are offset by the smirking anti-charismatic presence of George Segal.) Another plus the lovely locations, especially in London, which make the film at first seem like one of those effervescent European sex comedies... rather than the cliché-ridden Hollywood farce that it is. On top of everything else, the plot is basically a needless reworking of Melvin Frank's far better 1960 film, The Facts of Life. The older film must have been far more adventuresome in its time. It's also blessed with the wonderful pairing of Bob Hope and Lucille Ball. And it actually manages to be about something.A Touch of Class is pretty much the bottom of the barrel for Melvin Frank fans. My advice check out The Facts of Life, or The Court Jester, and give this creaky curio a miss. "},{"Title":"Mild, dated comedy with two likable stars","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" George Segal and Glenda Jackson make A Touch of Class enjoyable to watch. While they are no Tracy and Hepburn, they still have a mild amount of chemistry, that's at least interesting enough to enable you to last thru the end of the picture.This is a rather ordinary film that was made during a year in which on two great films were made ( The Sting and The Exorcist). There weren't really that many good film performances either (If I remember correctly Marsha Mason and Ellen Burstyn were the other strong candidates for the Oscar that year, for Cinderella Liberty and The Exorcist, respectively). Seen today, it is badly dated, and not very funny.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good for the first half, but then...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had been eager to see this movie for a while because i read some great reviews for it.  I enjoyed the first hour or so of it.  Glenda Jackson and George Segal had great chemistry and were both funny, in their own conditions, especially Jackson.  They both deserved the Golden Globes they won.  I was very disappointed with the last half of the film.  George Segal's character became too much to handle.  The plot became boring because it became a repeat of the same thing  Segal finds a way to escape from his wife to see Jackson for a while, and then runs off, totally ignoring her feelings.  Though Jackson was charming with her wit and sarcasm in the first half, it can't save the last half of the movie, and it's worn out.  The movie also lacks its comedic style and mood in the second half.  I hardly think this movie deserved a Best Picture Oscar Nomination.  When I see a movie nominated for that category, I like to think that there is some possibility of it winning, but not this one.  I hope the makers of it didn't either, being up against competition like THE EXORCIST and THE STING.  Though Jackson was very good in her role, I don't think she should have won the Oscar for Best Actress.  I still would have gone with Ellen Burstyn for her groundbreaking performance in THE EXORCIST.  But still, not a bad film, if you quit halfway through.5/10.   "},{"Title":"pretty dated","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" They probably made A Touch of Class thinking that it was an old-style romantic comedy, reworked for the '70s. Well, it is one DATED movie, containing a lot of pre-feminist material. There are some funny scenes (especially the whole sequence in Spain), but otherwise the movie comes across as old school. Glenda Jackson - who has been a member of Parliament since 1992 - is particularly good as the liberated businesswoman. Even so, don't make this your first choice. Melvin Frank did much better with Buona Sera, Mrs. Campbell.PS Nadim Sawalha, who plays the Spanish hotel manager, is the father of Julia Sawalha, who voiced Ginger in Chicken Run. He also played the emir in Syriana. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but very minor.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes funny, sometimes forced comedy. Segal's hugely entertaining performance helps this very minor film, and it is the real reason for you to see it. He seems to be having a great time, even after the script has run out of ideas. "}]