[{"Title":"A classic even after 30 years","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"148 out of 174 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was Eddie Robinson's 101st film and his last, and he died of cancer nine days after shooting was complete. All of which makes his key scene in the movie all the more poignant.Although some of the hair and clothing styles are a bit dated (also note the video game shown in the film), but the subject of the film is pretty much timeless.  Heston said he had wanted to make the film for some time because he really believed in the dangers of overpopulation.Several things make this film a classic. The story is solid.The acting is top-notch, especially the interplay between Heston and Robinson, with nice performances also by Cotten and Peters.The music is absolutely perfect. The medley of Beethoven, Grieg, and Tchaikovsky combined with the pastoral visual elements make for some truly moving scenes. This was the icing on the cake for the film.And the theme (or the point) of the film is a significant one. Yes, it's a film about overpopulation, but on a more important note it's a cautionary tale about what can go wrong with Man's stewardship of Earth. It's in the subtext that you find the real message of the film. Pay attention to what Sol says about the old days of the past (which is our present), and note how Thorn is incapable of comprehending what Sol is saying.This film is one of my top sci-fi films of all time.  "},{"Title":"a true classic","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"104 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie shortly after it first came out - when I was a kid. The scene that sticks with me to this day is when the scoops come to break up the riot. The cop says, The supply of Soylent Green has been exhausted. The scoops are on the way. Then the front-end loader trucks come and scoop the people up like so much garbage. The fact that 2022 looks like 1973 is entirely plausible because society has gone retrograde. Charlton Heston's performance is beautifully nuanced and believable. Edward G. Robinson is unforgettable as Sol. References to this movie pop up in shows like The Simpsons and Millennium for the simple reason that it is a visionary look at the future with real heart - a true classic.  "},{"Title":"remember, before Star Wars, when sci-fi was smart?","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"140 out of 209 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green IS...a really good movie, actually.I never would've thought it. I don't really like Heston in his sci-fi efforts. He's one of those actors who, like Superman, manages to come across all sneery and invincible most of the time. I prefer more vulnerable heroes. And indeed, he sneers his way through much of Soylent Green, too, but as he's supposed to be playing an overconfident bully I don't really mind.I can understand why some people would turn their noses up at this movie. Soylent Green makes no effort whatsoever to create futuristic visuals (what do you know - it looks just like 1973), and it's lacking in action. But I admired the film's vision of a complex, corrupt, and highly stratified society, and I was so pleased to see that Edward G. Robinson had such a moving, funny final role. Nice little character moments - like when he shares some precious food with Heston - really make the movie.The message of Soylent Green is pretty relevant these days, when nobody seems to know what the hell the government or corporations are up to. Funny, isn't it, to see Heston in a prototype Michael Moore movie... "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"92 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Soylent Green back in 1973 when it was first released and maybe another eight times over the years on T.V. or video. It was always one of my favorite sci-fi and/or Charlton Heston films.Recently, the Egyptian theater in L.A. had a twelve film Charlton Heston retrospective. I flew in from out of state to see six of the films over a two day period. Soylent Green looked great on the large Egyptian screen with a perfect new print. From its opening montage to the going home scene to the great ending the film was fantastic.Charlton Heston as a cop who lives in a dog eat dog world with few natural resources left and no understanding as to how the world used to be and Eddie Robinson as a man who remembers the past are both great.Their chemistry together is wonderful. The film also looks so much better in a great 35mm print. Fleisher really knows how to fill the screen,and the cinematoraphy, writing, music used, and everything about it works. The film is also very powerful in its bleak and very possible view of the future. Just think how the world population grew, the rain forest that disappeared, resources used up, green house effect getting worse since 1973. I just wonder why this film has not played in theaters all these years. Its reputation should be better.Speaking of reputations, often people speak as if Charlton Heston is not a great actor. Seeing him in El-Cid, Soylent Green, The Warlord, The Omega Man, Will Penny, and Major Dundee back to back I am convinced he is one of our best actors. Of course he made about a dozen other great films and for those that care you know what they are. "},{"Title":"Far deeper and intelligent than what first meets the eye","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"69 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a brilliant sci-fi movie that is very strange in how men and women both view the same film. I have talked to many people about the film and almost every guy loved it and said it was brilliant--while most women thought it was just disgusting and stupid! This is the only movie I know of that has such polarized views based on gender. Perhaps many women just have a lower tolerance for disgusting or depressing plots--but whatever the cause, I have always found this difference fascinating.The film begins with a murder and a subsequent investigation headed by Charlton Heston. This is set in the near future and the head of the huge international Soylent Corporation has been assassinated. As the film unfolds, you quickly realize this is a terrible and highly inequitable future American society. The rich live in gorgeous apartments with security and all the pleasures money can buy(including furniture--a euphemism for paid mistresses that come along with the apartment). At the same time, the masses are dirt poor, unemployed and in many cases living in abandoned cars or apartment hallways. Overpopulation and smog have taken a severe toll and the future looks awful indeed! Why the rich man died and the awful truth he could not live with I really should NOT discuss--it could ruin the film for you. However, the film has a great plot and acting and is super-exciting to watch. Plus, it features Edward G. Robinson in his final screen performance as the crusty sidekick to Heston. Though not for the easily depressed or squeamish, this is a great sci-fi film that is allegorical and profound. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly thought-provoking movie","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"56 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very interesting. The big twist wasn't as big a shock as maybe they had hoped for and it was very dated but it did get my mind working. It really got me thinking about a world without vegetation or livestock and made me appreciate the world I live in a lot more. Charlton Heston does a good job, as do all the supporting characters, and it was a very realistic film which was surprising. It lacked direction at times and a lot of the settings and background needed more explanation but it was still a surprisingly good and intelligent movie. The main fault that I could find was that I didn't want the film to end when it did, I would have liked to see what happened next.7/10  "},{"Title":"A smart sci-fi with an engaging vision of the future","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"42 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It is the year 2022 and nothing has changed even if things have gotten worse. New York City has become even more overpopulated and is just yet another city heaving in its own filth with countless have-nots fighting over sparse resources. Energy supplies are low, water is strictly controlled, living spaces are small and cramped and real food is a luxury reserved for the very rich. The masses do not have such luxuries and eat rationed supplies of high-nutrient processed foods from the Soylent Corporation. Detective Thorn is a have-not and just like everyone else is out to get what he can for himself and friend Sol Roth. Called to a burglary that became a murder, Thorn learns that the victim is a director at Soylent and suspects that all the curious thing about the crimes may be coming together to be far more than the work of some random thug.Famous for its shock ending (which everyone must know and most people will guess) this film is actually more than just one scene and is actually an intelligent sci-fi detective story that has an engaging central story and a generally interesting vision of the future that is much more convincing than the one of Hollywood blockbusters and such. The investigation is solid but it is the world it happens within that is most interesting as we see a world where, surprise surprise, the poor people are left to make do while those better off can still enjoy the finer things while they remain. It is not an earth shattering view of the future but it is a convincing one and I enjoyed being in this story and seeing this world played out. Personally I bought it but it may help that I mistrust corporations anyway and believe that the poor will be the first to get shafted when anything bad happens, simply because they have less to work with.The narrative is not the strongest though and in terms of it being a detective story it could have been better. Some viewers have complained about the lack of action, which I think is a pretty unfair accusation since it wasn't trying to be that type of film. The main characters are interesting. Thorn is a man of authority but he is just like everyone else, out to get what he can and takes advantage of others the first chance he gets. His relationship with Roth is not fully explained but it worked anyway and provided a touch of humanity. It helps that both actors did good jobs of it as well. Heston normally plays the gruff hero but here at least he allows the corruption within man's heart to come out. Robinson has less of a character but his performance is assured and is touching for reasons internal and external to the film. Support is not so good but it is less important in the smaller roles; Cotton is a nice find though.Overall this is a famous film that is good but not without its faults. The narrative is reasonably interesting and carries the film all the way to a nice (but too well-known) conclusion but it is in the general vision of the future of a world where the people are struggling to get by with resources running low. A smart sci-fi that is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"a great surprise - highly enjoyable.","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"61 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film sort of by accident, having bought it as the B side on The Omega Man DVD.  The Omega Man was a bit of a disappointment - except for the beginning, which was clearly the inspiration for 28 Days Later, the rest of it is just the stuff of TV movies.  But Soylent Green is in a whole other league.  I bet this is one of Tarantino's favourites.  There are at least 3 scenes in the film that I've never seen anything like before.  Heston casually getting into bed with the furniture while discussing something else completely unrelated!  A whole crowd of people being scooped up by a fleet of mechanical diggers!  A priest taking confession and being shot by the confessor.  Ok maybe that's been done since - but there aren't many films that are so consistently original like this.  And what the heck is going on between Heston and Edward G. Robinson?  Is this the most unlikely gay couple ever, or what?  Luckily, I saw this film without knowing the ending - which apparently is rare.  Then I watched it again, and enjoyed all the little clues that make the long early scenes worthwhile.  A very nice script - and some great sets too.  Just when you thought you'd seen everything . . . "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi Film that Has not Aged","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In 2022, Earth is overpopulated and totally polluted; the natural resources have exhaust and the nourishment of the population is supplied by the Soylent Industries, a food made by plankton from the oceans. In New York, when the Soylent's member of the board William R. Simonson (Joseph Cotton) is murdered apparently by a burglar at the Chelsea Towers West where he lives, the efficient Detective Thorn (Charlton Heston) is assigned to investigate the case with his partner Solomon Sol Roth (Edward G. Robinson). Thorn comes to the fancy apartment and meets Simonson's bodyguard Tab Fielding (Chuck Connors) and the furniture (woman that is rented together with the flat) Shirl (Leigh Taylor-Young) and the detective concludes that the executive was not victim of burglary but executed. Further, he finds that the Governor Santini (Whit Bissell) and other powerful men want to disrupt and end his investigation. But Thorn continues his work and discovers that the oceans have exhausted and the bizarre and disturbing secret of the ingredient used to manufacture Soylent Green.Soylent Green is one of the best sci-fi ever made and a film that has not aged. On the contrary, when I saw it in the movie theater in 1973, it was another good film with catastrophic view of the future. Along the years, I have seen this film on VHS at least four more times and every time that I see it, I find it better and better. In Brazil, this film has not been released on DVD or Blu-ray, only in the movie-theater in 1973 and on a rare VHS with the title No Mundo de 2020 (translation In the World of 2020, despite the story takes place in 2022) and I have just bought the imported Blu-Ray and saw it again.It is impressive how the writer Harry Harrison was capable to foresee the future in 1966 with pollution, overpopulation and menace of exhaustion of the natural resources and write his novel Make Room! Make Room!. In those years, the concept of ecology did not exist, at least the same way in the present days. The grim view of the cannibalism to fee the population introduced by Stanley R. Greenberg in the screenplay fortunately has not been achieved yet.Soylent Green is also the film number 101 in the career of the unforgettable actor Edward G. Robinson that was with cancer and almost deaf during the shooting and died two weeks after the conclusion of this film. The Blu-Ray has in the extras a tribute to this great actor. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) No Mundo de 2020 (In the World of 2020) "},{"Title":"A Hopeless World","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The only other film besides Soylent Green that has such an air of hopelessness is On the Beach. Both films deal with the consequences for the species and the planet from man made cataclysms. On the Beach with nuclear war and Soylent Green with the environmental poisoning of the planet.Maybe there's cause for some optimism because as of 2007 we haven't reached either of the worlds described in those films and we were supposed to by now. New York City still has about 8 million people not the 22 million by the turn of the millenia as described in Soylent Green. Environmentalists always hail this film as showing the consequence of global warming. For myself it also shows the Right to Life ethic run amuck. Obviously there's no family planning in this world either.Charlton Heston is an NYPD detective who lives with room mate Edward G. Robinson who's old enough to remember the Earth before catastrophe struck. There's been a murder committed, Joseph Cotten an executive with the Soylent Corporation, a multi-national concern that has come up with a food product, some kind of wafer in many colors to feed the world's population. It's latest product is Soylent Green.The investigation finds Charlton Heston getting his man, but also it leads to some horrifying truths about the Soylent Corporation and the future of mankind. As Heston shouts in the end that Soylent Green is made of people, that we've become a race of cannibals, the horrifying thing is that there is no alternative. We've exhausted the planet and we have to eat our dead to survive.This was the farewell performance of Edward G. Robinson and in his memoirs Heston spoke movingly of Robinson even though they had differing political views. A few weeks after Robinson wrapped that final scene of his screen demise by consented euthanasia, he passed away in real life. Not many did, but Heston knew that Robinson was terminally ill and there was no acting involved in that final death scene between the two of them.Though the timetable was off, it doesn't mean that the world envisioned by Soylent Green may not come to pass. Hopefully we'll have not just the intelligence, but the sense of shared responsibility to keep that from happening. "}{"Title":"Very believable.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"47 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie paints a very bleak future for planet Earth.  What makes this movie so good is that the future seen may very well be a reality someday. A poisoned environment, an overpopulated planet and total disregard for human life all seem to be in there early stages today. Soylent Green is a very good and very believable film.    "},{"Title":"Disturbing Flick","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a very thought provoking film, especially for 1973. At the time it was actually a huge box office success. After the 1970s it appeared to be forgotten, but its central messages were too important to disappear completely.It was actually at least fifteen years ahead of its time...no one had ever heard of the 'greenhouse effect'before 1985, and the controversial subject of euthanasia was rarely brought up.The sets and special effects might look a little outdated, but big money for sci fi films was a gamble in that period. If you look closely you will see everything usually makes sense. This is a message movie, not for zonked out star wars fans that cant sit through one minute of thought stimulation unless it contains a million bucks worth of explosions.This was also Hestons last good film, the end of his famous dystopian sci fi trilogy. After that it was all overblown disaster epics and big budget crowd pleasing trash. THis might not be the most amusing two hour movie ever made, and the ending might be creepy and depressing, but its hard to find any film producer with guts anymore who would tackle a subject like this. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Remember, before Star Wars, when sci-fi was smart? wrote one IMDb reviewer, apparently astounded at the intellectual merits of this film, the 1973 adaptation of Harry Harrison's novel, Soylent Green.I know, I'm supposed to be reviewing the film here too, but let me start off pointing out everything that's wrong with the above statement - sure, there were plenty of intelligent sci-fi films before Star Wars, like the original Solaris (1972), Jean-Luc Godard's Alphaville (1965) and Chris Marker's La Jetee (1962) amongst others, but it's not as if Star Wars set in motion an out-of-control train wreck of brainlessness.In fact, in the time since Star Wars, we've had Terry Gilliam's superb Jetee-inspired Twelve Monkeys (1995), The Matrix (1999 - the first one had plenty of brains) and Dark City (1998), to name only a few. Perhaps the argument might only be made that the genre took some time to recover from the action-oriented Star Wars, but the fact remains.The main flaw here is the idea that Soylent Green is a great example of an intelligent film. It's not. A dystopian look into the future and a bunch of unhappy humans does not necessarily turn a mediocre story into a great one, and nothing the film puts in place does anything to change that. Heston is his usual wooden, masculine posturing self, and the only bright sparks amongst the actors come from Edward G Robinson's last role as Sol, and the police inspector.The story is so well-trodden by now that it's essentially common knowledge, and it's not a horrible one. But the circumstances are obvious predictions to make if you have a pessimistic enough mind, and the surprise twist has nothing on that of the other famous Heston vehicle, Planet of the Apes.But the film soldiers on. There are good things about it - the moments of calm between Sol and Thorn are occasionally poignant - like when Thorn brings home rare foods - vegetables and even meat. Robinson's face tells a story that Heston couldn't approach in a million years. Affecting also is Sol's departure, staring up with wonder into an enormous television screen of fields and waterfalls.Unfortunately, things that could easily have been strengths are not acted upon. The film's sets are cheap and badly made - but where Godard, in the aforementioned Alphaville - used his limited sets and location shooting to enact a commentary on his modern day society, in Soylent it is a mere distraction from the story.For all its faults though, Soylent Green trots along at a fairly even kilter, and though its story provides little new (even, when one considers the amount of science-fiction literature around, in its time), it is occasionally thought provoking, and certainly still relevant - perhaps even more so - in these days of political unrest and global warming. Just don't get sucked into thinking Soylent Green is the bastion of science-fiction cinema, because it isn't even close. "},{"Title":"Closer to reality now we are 38 years beyond 1973 & only 11 years from 2022","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First of all I must say I was amazed to to see so many reviews on Soylent Green. I have discussed this movie with many people over the years and never found anyone who had seen it.I saw this movie in a U.K. theater in 1974, while in my twenties, and believed then in the possibility of the script becoming a reality. Now in my sixties we are descending closer to the reality.I thought Charlton Heston and Edward G. Robinson were excellent role choices. Edward G's. performance on his final trip; beautiful scenery, greatly touched me and has always been the first thing that came to mind when I thought about this movie.It may be an appropriate time to bring this movie to television again. I do agree with another review the movie should be viewed on wide/wrap around screen.Margaret "},{"Title":"An Interesting Concept","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a fairly interesting film when it first came out.  I showed what the world could look like in the near future if population growth went unchecked and the awful consequences we would pay.  The story itself was fairly engrossing especially the climax of the film as Thorn finds out the real source of the miracle food.  But, perhaps the most memorable aspect of this film was that this was the final film of the late great Edward G. Robinson.  He gave a fine performance as Saul, and his death scene was very touching, even for a movie like this. "},{"Title":"The Best Environmental Film Of Its Era","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As with all environmentally aware films from the 1970s SOYLENT GREEN has a rather cheesy view of what ecological meltdown is . Overpopulation means there`s too many people to feed ? I was under the impression that famines were caused by either war or failed economic policies . Stalin`s policy in the Soviet Union in the 1930s left millions dead because of famine and to this day the greatest man made tragedy was Mao`s rural policy in China which led over 30 million starvation deaths in the 1950s . And let`s not forget the great famines in the horn of Africa in the 1980s and 90s which were to do with conflicts not overpopulation . You might like to also consider that two of the most heavily populated areas on Earth , Hong Kong and Macau , have never suffered a famine in modern times . Likewise  the expansion of shanty towns around cities as seen here isn`t strictly down to overpopulation - it`s down to economic factors where people flock to cities to find better paid work than in the countryside ( It`s a symptom of industrial progress - not of too many births ) so the image of the streets of New York city being too congested to walk through and of having people sleep in stairwells is somewhat laughableBut don`t be fooled into thinking SOYLENT GREEN is a pile of corny tree hugging crap because I consider this to be the best ecological film of the70s . It plays on the contempary audience`s knowledge of the world where Sol and Thorn are beside themselves with joy at finding fruit , brandy and fresh meat . Thorn gasps in amazement at having ice in his whisky , puffs on a cigarette and delivers the classic line  If I could afford it I`d smoke two , maybe three of these a day  . But it`s the visage of the euthanasia chamber that`s memorable as Thorn gazes at the images of wild animals , flowers , running water and snow covered mountains , a world Thorn`s generation has never known . This is a very haunting scene which makes SOYLENT GREEN a very memorable film , combined with the fact it features the final screen appearance of Edward G Robinson as the wise old Jew Sol Roth  "},{"Title":"Fleischer films a superb science fiction film without special effects.","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In 2022, the population of New York has some forty million inhabitants live in miserable conditions. To combat hunger creates a synthetic food, the soylent green , but the police Thorn (Charlton Heston), and the old Roth (Edward G. Robinson), a survivor from another era, they suspect that behind the new food is a little unsettling.This is a superb sci-fi film. A pessimistic trilogy, along with The Planet of the Apes and The Omega Man, all great films and starring Charlton Heston. The whole film almost has a great originality from the point of view narrative detective novel happening of futuristic melodrama in seconds. Have a great argument for a very bitter end, which is accompanied by a musical score.The director Fleischer, shows that we do not need special effects to film the horror of the prophecies of Malthus. The last fifteen years the Richard Fleischer's films were not exactly very bright, but in his twenty-five years had been his own right one of the most interesting direct American commercial cinema.The best moments are in the privacy starring Charlton Heston and especially by the presence of Edward G. Robinson in his last film, a kind of testament of his own where Robinson says us goodbye. "},{"Title":"Despite famous twist, STILL amazing movie","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I actually find this movie to be very believable. Fleischer really wows me with his eye for details, small things that illicit quite good responses in the narrative. In Tora, Tora, Tora , he successfully details the minutia of the thinking that went on behind this unknown-to-the-characters attack, in a way that helps the already-knowing audience how the historical people really felt. I think it's great that Soylent Green works the same way, where you can know all about how it's made of people and yet the reveal still illicits surprise and dismay.In this case, also, there's a sort of working backward effect to it. Charlton Heston has something great going for him in post-Apocalypse narratives (whereas his historical epics&#x85; not) but this is more reserved, and the scene where he is enjoying a feast with Sal makes you really feel the absence of the food in their regular lives. The riot police wearing football helmets actually makes sense&#x97;all this sports equipment lying around, no more interest in sports, no more money for riot gear. The simplest smallest details really stand out, both in the detail of the world and how to achieve good results without a big budget for special effects.Meanwhile, I am impressed how daring the gender politics are in this&#x85; because actually, this vision is believable, and it is horrible, and it would have been (and probably was) easy for the movie to be misconstrued. In an arena of exhausted resources and overpopulation I can totally believe in the rich using women for life as furniture. It really works great that the whole humanitarian principle behind the Oh noes, we're eating ourselves! is so shocking to a character completely comfortable with using women as furniture. The movie walks a thin line between empathy and concern for its characters (successful) and realization that even what they are comfortable with is horrifying to our current perspective (also successful).Then there's the introductory titles, Sal's retirement chamber, and the closing sequence. Fleischer extends a bit into the experimental and the effect is riveting. For instance, in the retirement chamber, the almost commercial over-indulgence in nature cinematography becomes less a commercial for Pfizer and more an aching remembrance of times past&#x97;but it's created by a company that might well be the future of Pfizer. It's a past that is gone and also never existed anyway. It's the past they want to believe in AND have nostalgia for AND never experienced, not knowing that it didn't really look quite like that. However, it also informs to the audience what we're losing. It's still a commercial of good meaning, pointing out cinematographically what we don't look at now.The bookending titles work in roughly the same way with opposite values. The opening sequence is a masterful montage of human development paced to human development. Slow steps become leaps become exponential growths as the cuts get faster and faster and more overwhelming. The closing sequence is repeated imagery from Sal's chamber, now shown as something not achieved&#x97;something out of reach. With these two statements, Fleischer points out it's already too late.This is a movie that also operates scene-by-scene. The overarching investigation narrative certainly helps to draw the movie together but it's amazing how distinct little vignettes appear throughout the movie. The introductory sequence of Sal and Thorn and how it's lit to look like their space is lit only by a single bulb, and the careful detail of how these two men live so close together and don't get on their nerves&#x97;and then are later revealed to basically be living a decent middle class life amongst the masses literally massed on stairways&#x85; the furniture party&#x85; the strawberries. These things lead to the idea that there are stories going on beyond our vision that we just don't have the time or power to be able to perceive. It's almost possible to imagine actually a separate reveal where the world ISN'T so overcrowded and only the people of New York have been trapped in a rat cage&#x85; if only we could look further.Anyway, this far beats Omega Man and Planet of the Apes, and I qualify those three in that order, Soylent Green first.--PoalrisDiB "},{"Title":"One of the Great Heston Science Fiction Films","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In an overpopulated futuristic Earth, a New York police detective (Charlton Heston) finds himself marked for murder by government agents when he gets too close to a bizarre state secret involving the origins of a revolutionary and needed new foodstuff.I have checked the spoiler box because I may accidentally say too much about the end. I think just about everyone knows what the twist is in this movie, but I will try to be careful just the same. The twist is, in fact, the worst part of this film. Rather than being the big shocker that it should be, audiences have enough hints throughout the picture that it should be anticlimactic by the time everything is revealed. And that is just too bad.Unfortunately, that build up tends to be the bulk of the film (because of how it ties in to the primary plot -- a murder investigation). The murder case and eventual reveal could have actually been done in just about any world. Yet, here we have a world of overpopulation, poverty, women being used as furniture... and these concepts are never really explored. Why do people sleep on the stairs rather than in the street? If the world is overheated, I would much rather be in an alley than a staircase! Charlton Heston is great, of course, but the heart and soul of this movie are in Edward G. Robinson. Making this film while almost completely deaf and dying of cancer, he is the most human character in the film. He may be the only one who remembers the world the way it used to be, the way we (the audience) expect the world to be. Robinson nails it, giving the performance of his career. I love his noir and gangster work, but this was tops. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green Is...","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The world of the 1973 sci-fi drama SOYLENT GREEN is what we could be seeing if we aren't careful. It is a world in which New York City's population has topped the 40 million mark in the year 2022. Overpopulation, air pollution, year-long heat waves, and food shortages are the rule. The only hope comes from a food product called Soylent Green. But what is this particular food stuff really made of? That question is at the heart of this admittedly somewhat dated but still intriguing film, based on Harry Harrison's 1966 novel Make Room! Make Room! Charlton Heston stars as Thorne, an NYPD detective who comes across the murder of a top corporate executive (Joseph Cotten). As it turns out, Cotten was on the board of directors of the Soylent Corporation, the people responsible for all those food stuffs that the people have to consume in lieu of the real thing. Heston believes that this wasn't just a garden-variety murder, that Cotten was bumped off for a reason. He gets a lot of help from his slightly cantankerous but very astute book (Edward G. Robinson, in his 101st and final cinematic appearance), and a few timely reminders of what the world used to be like. What Robinson finds out about Soylent Green shocks him beyond all imagination; but before he can tell Heston all of what he knows, he has himself euthanized. And when Heston does indeed find out the secret of Soylent Green...well, that part has become immortalized into cinematic history.Under the very professional guiding hand of director Richard Fleischer (THE BOSTON STRANGLER; FANTASTIC VOYAGE), SOYLENT GREEN is a fairly grim but thought-provoking look at a Dystopian future that humanity might be living if we don't curb our tendency to strip our planet of its natural resources. Indeed, this was a project that Heston himself had had in mind for filming as far back as 1968, after he had struck gold in the sci-fi genre with PLANET OF THE APES--a fact that probably gets lost whenever his ultra-conservative political philosophy comes up in conversation (after all, SOYLENT GREEN is hardly a tract for unrestrained capitalism). Robinson, as always, is the consummate professional in his last role; the sequence where he is euthanized (as he looks at video of the world from a better era, set to the music of Tchaikovsky, Beethoven, and Grieg) is quite simply heartbreaking. The film also benefits from solid supporting help from Chuck Connors (as a very convincing heavy), Brock Peters (as Heston's superior), and Leigh Taylor-Young as the woman who tries to help Heston in his inquiries.It must seem easy these days to dismiss SOYLENT GREEN for being dated. But those who do it ought to think twice; for this film's world may end up becoming ours in actuality if we don't watch what we do with what we have today. "}{"Title":"Timeless classic with many highlights","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There aren't many recent movies that really stick with me. I'm 30 years old (and by means of the average IMDb user presumably a dinosaur ) ) and I often wondered why that is. Yes I've seen a load of movies in my life, and it's no surprise that it gets more and more difficult to get impressed by a flick, the more of them you have seen. Is it the sheer mass of already consumed movies that blunted my senses? The answer is No (and I am very relieved about that). As often in real life, I was reminded by a counterexample what It was I am missing. The 40 year old Soylent green is technically (by that I mean 'visually') out of date. We know so, because many technical advancements of today are missing in the movie that plays in a reality 10 years ahead of us (I won't talk about the haircuts, cars, telephones etc., that's secondary stuff). Does this harm the movie? No, it doesn't, because it doesn't depend on technology. In a world where you have to cycle mechanically to charge your batteries, you do not care very much about iPhones or whether you should buy a XBOX or a Playstation. Under such circumstances, the problems of the little man are of a much more existential nature. Depicting this aspect is one of Soylent green's big strenghts. In times of poverty and need the value of human life sinks to 0 and survival is the primary goal. The means of doing so are not relevant. The young and pretty ones sell themselves, others get corrupt or thievish and the ideologically pure ones get crazy. Everybody has a price and you have to watch your back all the time. Out on the streets it's the worst jungle you can imagine.The intimate and warm moments between friends (Heston and Robinson) and lovers (Heston and Taylor-Young) preserve humanity in the confined little space that has left for the individual. The contrast to the dangerous out-world works well. The acting is very convincing, the dialogs are good and the world of Soylent green truly feels as a realistic one, one that seems possible to occur. Soylent green is an excellent example of a great movie. The cast is small and convincing, and the plot is simple and intriguing with enough time and room for genuine feelings. Further it gives the audience two important topics to think about ethically and ecologically responsible harvesting of nature's resources and the raising of one's voice for the right thing. These are timeless issues every generation has to rethink for itself and within this context it's easy to recommend Soylent green for practically everyone. "},{"Title":"A definitive film","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent Green was I believe the last of the sci-fi films Charlton Heston made in the late sixties and early seventies, and is arguably second best to Planet of the Apes.What got my attention most about this film was how it would compare to movies today.  A modern version of Soylent Green would have the usual sex and violence, along with an evil bad guy in his palatial estate and all that.  Soylent Green reflected the concerns of the day of overpopulation and the energy crisis, (still present today but off the scope of the public consciousness.)  and showed a world where everything was in short supply.  Even the top bad guy lives in a mediocre apartment, and Heston finds it amazing because it has running water. This effect of not enough for anyone comes home again and again, despite the modest production values and sometimes hokey costumes.**********Spoiler Warning*************By far the most powerful scene is the centerpiece, Edward G. Robinson's death.  The fact he was terminally ill at the time makes it all the more poignant.  Still, going into a place to die because life has become too futile, and willing to end it early for a few moments of seeing what the earth *had* been like, was very powerful.  The future is so spartan people are moved to tears by footage that looks like it came off the nature channel, which makes one wonder how much we can (or should) value what we have.  Another aspect of the film was that despite the bleakness people still try to be good.  Robinson and Heston have a father/son relationship, and the death center gives people a peaceful end, even if they are going to be sent off to a factory to be processed afterwards.  I wondered sometimes if the government in this future was using the only option it had left to try and feed the populace, as opposed to simply making a profit or a buck.  Overall a very thought provoking (and scary) movie.    "},{"Title":"A startling and all-too-realistic look at the future (even if it's very '70s-ish)","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Many people complain that SOYLENT GREEN is poorly directed and far too '70s-ish for enjoyment. Unless I'm mistaken Stanley Kubrick's 2001 a space odyssey (I love the small caps in the title) showed us a very '60s-ish future, with people wearing clothing and such attire that looked quite corny, especially by today's standards. That didn't mean the movie wasn't any good! It was just made in a time when people thought the future might look like that. In fifty years I'm sure many people will look back on films such as TOTAL RECALL or BLADE RUNNER or so on and laugh at the concepts, which will no doubt look very primitive.SOYLENT GREEN is a shocking sci-fi chiller with Heston in one of his best roles as a cop hunting down the true ingredients of a new sort of drug called Soylent Green. What he finds is ultimately shocking and far too close to reality - seems like it could indeed happen, if not exactly.It's also a very enjoyable movie, which never hurts. Sure, it's flawed, and the editing is sometimes poor, and the direction isn't wonderful, but it IS a quite amazing insight into the future - and the end credits are impressive, if that means anything at all. "},{"Title":"Classic Film Noir With A Sci-Fi Setting","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the third jewel in Charlton Heston's legendary triple crown of three science fiction classics in a row. PLANET OF THE APES (1968) THE OMEGA MAN (1970) and SOYLENT GREEN (1973) One of these classics is not like the other two, however.PLANET OF THE APES and THE OMEGA MAN are both post-apocalyptic films. In both stories, Heston plays the last hope of mankind. He plays a bigger than life hero with a strong military background who is forced to fight when outnumbered hundreds to one. In both cases he forges a victory that is moral rather than practical, leaving behind an unforgettable legacy. In both films he is not only fearless and brutal but articulate and philosophical, squaring off against a single religious leader who sees the defiant Heston as an almost Satanic menace to be wiped out.SOYLENT GREEN is science fiction, and set in the future, but the mood is very different. Here Heston plays an anti-hero, a crooked cop in a rundown futuristic city named Thorn. While Thorn is hard and bad and dangerous to cross, he is also shifty, venal and cynical in ways that even Neville and Taylor would have found disturbing, to say the least. Just watching him loot the apartment of a hapless murder victim while leering at the dead man's furniture (lovely Leigh Taylor-Young as Shirl, Heston's love interest and a full-time helpless victim, much like NOVA in Planet of the Apes) lets us know that this is not the same old science fiction epic.In SOYLENT GREEN, Heston plays a man who is not the last man on earth, nor is he a defiant defender of the human race. He's a dirty cop who gets off on his own total lack of standards, filching bourbon and beefsteak and consuming the stolen goods with almost obscene delight. His only real real human loyalty is to his elderly room mate Sol, (a superb Edward G. Robinson in his last screen performance) and he solves the big mystery almost by accident. Nevertheless, the film's final revelation is a terrifying twist with no equal in film history.Except of course, for the legendary last scene in PLANET OF THE APES. "},{"Title":"Never forget the world as it once was","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Richard Fleischer's Soylent Green (1973) is one of my favorite film. One of the truly unforgettable moments in cinema film history is here in all its brilliance and glory it is the scene in the death chamber, when Thorn (Charlton Heston) shares Sol Roth's (Edward G. Robinson) dying moment and his last remembering of the world as it once was. It overwhelms me each time I watch it, because it's a magnificent hymn to what cinema really is and can force out; a film projected on a large screen reveals the majestic natural beauty of our earth, a film exposes the unbelievable atrocities and devastation around us, a film unveils the beauty in a human being... In his dying breath Roth says to Thor &#x96; Can you see it? and Isn't it beautiful? It's only from this moment on that Thor can realize what he and the rest of the world have lost, it's only from this moment on that Thor can fight for a better tomorrow and truly understand his friend... it is only from this moment on that we (the audience) can rightfully disclose the subtleties and power of the film we're just watching! "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is... preposterously implausible","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Not a bad film, not a great one. Kind of memorable, kind of thought-provoking, but, once you are provoked to thought and actually think about it... it doesn't make any sense.The problem is, that, in coming up with a vision of this future dystopia, little of any actual thought was put into considering the actual ramifications of the plight the world was supposed to be suffering. They just threw in anything that seemed 'bad'-- crowding, pollution, shortages, corruption... without considering how the factors would intertwine with each other. So, we end up with some pretty nonsensical contradictions1) We see that cars are no longer used for transportation, there's very little in terms of any kind of production of anything, you can't get parts for things... in short, Industrialization has pretty much ground to a halt. So where's all that *pollution* coming from?2) The situation is *extremely* volatile (understandably), with riots aplenty, and the only thing that seems capable of maintaining order is a heavy-handed police force. And certainly, the Powers-That-Be *want* to maintain order (and thus, power). So logically, they should be hiring LOTS of police force. Especially since, with *vast armies* of broke, jobless people living in cars and stairways, the price of labor has to be *dirt cheap*. They should have no problem at all hiring all the cops they want. Especially given that they're already not too fastidious about the character of the cops, given the rampant corruption. So why is the police force repeatedly shown to be thin on manpower?3) If the earth is so polluted and messed up that you can't even raise food anymore, if farms aren't functioning, and people are reduced to eating synthesized dead people or sea algae, then why on earth is everybody shoehorned into cities like that? Why don't they at least spread out into the unused unproductive former farmland?4) Given how dire things are, why aren't more people simply starving to death? Or dying of disease? If things are really as bad as they are claimed to be, it seems impossible that society could be as stable as it is portrayed.5) How is it that the same species that had all the brains to come up with all the scientific/technological/industrial magic that *led* to this situation, was unable to think of *any* kinds of solutions to any of the problems? I mean, really, eating people was the best that human-kind could come up with?6) What is that nonsense idea at the end about how soon they'll be raising people for food? What are they going to feed those people? That's a highly inefficient way to make food, you'd do better just directly feeding the people with what you would have fed your people-crop.The truth is, the whole threat of industrial overpopulation flies in the face of the observed fact that rising industrialization produces rising standard of living which produces *lowered* birth rates. So this was NEVER going to be a profound look at a possible future. But even so, they could've taken more trouble to introduce a little more logic and economics into the story.I'm looking forward to watching this movie again in the year 2022 and having a good laugh at its myopic vision of a future that will never come close to being. "},{"Title":"A classic!...","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" All the performances are great, but I particularly liked Edward G. Robinson who, in his last role, pulls out all the stops and really shines in this one. His death scene is one of the best I've ever witnessed on screen and he really gets to show his talents here. Also worthy of note were Charlton Heston (of course) playing the hero role with his usual aplomb and Leigh Taylor-Young who I thought did a very good job as the female lead. The film has quite a slow pace and I like the way it doesn't stop every few minutes to explain everything. The filmmakers did give the audience some credit for intelligence (for a change) and I appreciated that! Beautifully shot with a nice score but my favourite scene will always be Sol's death; it's one that will stay with you for a long time! I did enjoy this one over all, although I thought the fight scenes did look like they'd been taken right out of a western. Still, well worth a look!SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 7.2/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"A bit simplistic but the imagery stays with you","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'Soylent Green' portrays a dystopic future for mankind where overpopulation has created shortages of food and other commodities and women are viewed as decorating 'furniture'. In this bleak future we follow the lives of two unlikely roommates of the young and ambitious Detective Thorn (Charlton Heston) who wants to solve a homicide and of the aged and intellectual Sol Roth (Edward G. Robinson) who is spending time in the libraries trying to decipher long-gone knowledge and practices that have become obsolete in the new conditions.It turns out that both men discover the same truth, truth that nobody suspects and is well concealed under a totalitarian-like regime where people's protests are violently suppressed and the 'rich' or the 'people of power' live in the upper-floor luxurious high-rise apartments.Despite being a bit simplistic in its depiction of the society, 'Soylent Green' possesses a powerful imagery that stays with you. It also works well as a conventional adventure film. A 7/10 from me. "},{"Title":"A cop investigates a strange murder in  an overcrowded New York City  and discovers terrible  consequences","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a superb sci-fi movie upon a classic novel by Harry Harrison titled  Make room ! Make room ! . In 2022, the population of New York has about forty million inhabitants living in miserable conditions and grossly overcrowded , a real hellhole , and Manhattan has become a big rubbish . In the overpopulated futuristic city , a New York police detective named Thorn (Charlton Heston) , finds himself marked for murder by government agents when he gets too close to a bizarre state secret involving the origins of a revolutionary and needed new foodstuff . Food is so scarce and to combat hunger the government creates a strange product , a synthetic food made of soybeans and lentils , the Soylent Green (title refers to a precious stuff) for people to eat , but the cop and his old partner named Roth (Edward G. Robinson), a survivor from another era , are investigating killing of bigwig , and they suspect the tracks behind the new food result to be a little unsettling . In the process , Thorn stumbles onto explosive secret . Richard Fleischer creates a magnificent science fiction film without special effects and full of intrigue , melodrama , thrills , suspense , fights and interesting issues . Charlton Heston starred a pessimistic but well-intentioned trilogy about Distopian Earth  Soylent Green along with The Planet of the Apes and The Omega Man, all great films . The whole film has a great originality from the point of view narrative , dealing with a cop who investigates and discovers an incredible government secret . It has a great argument for a very bitter ending , which is accompanied by a sensible musical score . The best moments are in the privacy of starring Charlton Heston and especially by the presence of Edward G. Robinson in his last film , a kind of testament of his own life where Robinson says us goodbye . In very poor health with cancer, Edward G. Robinson was almost totally deaf when he made this movie, and only able to hear anyone if they spoke directly into his ear. Because of this, scenes with him talking to other people had to be shot several times before he got the rhythm of the dialogue and was able to respond to people as if he could really hear them. And because he was unable to hear director Richard Fleischer yell cut when a scene went wrong, Robinson would often continue acting out the scene, unaware that shooting had stopped seconds earlier .The music which played when Edward G. Robinson was going home is the following  The overture was the principal theme from the first movement of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 6, the Pathetique. When the visual presentation starts, the music is the first movement of Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony n6 ,The Pastoral. When the flock of sheep appear, the music is Morning from Edvard Grieg's Peer Gynt Suite . The director Fleischer , shows that we do not need special effects to carry out the horror of the prophecies of Malthus . The last fifteen years the Richard Fleischer's films were not exactly very bright , filming Charles Bronson or Chuck Norris vehicles , but in his first twenty-five years had proved his own right as one of the most interesting directors of American commercial cinema . He was an expert director , including adventure classics (Vikings, 20.000 leagues under sea) and noir cinema (Narrow margin , Clay pigeons , Trapped) . The film will appeal to Sci-Fi buffs with enough though-provoking themes to make it worth looking in on . In other words, it seem likely Charlton Heston enthusiasts and juvenile viewers will be delighted because thrills, action and intrigue are brilliantly presented and edited to offer the maximum impact . Rating  Better than average , watchable movie and well worth seeing . "},{"Title":"Important Film, A Warning; and a Sequel On the Way","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Goyer, writer (Batman Begins) and director (Blade Trinity) told SCI FI Wire, that the remake/sequel of the Sci-Fi-movie Soylent Green will pick up where the original film (directed by Richard Fleischer in 1973) left off. I will say that the reveal at the end of the first movie happened at the end of our first act. So the first movie is kind of the first act of our film, and then it's about what happens afterwards. The first movie was settled in the year 2022, where the rich live in luxury apartments and natural food, while the starving masses depend upon the government manufactured food Soylent Green. During his murder investigations, Detective Robert Thorn (Charlton Heston) stumbles across the real source of Soylent Green. Soylent Green is people! Of course, which is why you can't have that be the punch line anymore., Goyer said. David Goyer also said, that he won't write or direct the remake, but will instead act as producer under his just-signed one-year first-look deal with Warner Brothers.From Variety Aug. 30, 2004 After teaming with Warner Bros. on the upcoming revitalization of its Batman franchise, David Goyer has inked a one-year first-look writing, producing and directing deal with the studio. Goyer, who penned the Batman pic for helmer Christopher Nolan, has not identified any projects under the deal and will stay in his current production offices at the Jim Henson Co.'s headquarters in Hollywood. One possibility is a remake of futuristic thriller Soylent Green, though no deal is in place. Goyer is expected to develop two comicbook-related properties with DC Comics. "}{"Title":"Amazing and Thought Provoking","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just finished 1973's Soylent Green and am blown away by how awesome it was and how I have heard so little about it. I feel that it is a unfairly overlooked classic that it still very terrifying and real to this very day. I found similarities in this movie to A Boy and His Dog, A Clockwork Orange, and Mad Max. And while I love and cherish all of those films, I really think this is the best of them. I can't tell you enough how great it really is.Charlton Heston, Leigh Taylor-Young Edward G. Robinson are all amazing in their roles and especially Robinson who was almost completely deaf and dying of cancer. The story is brilliant. It's one of those stories that inspired me to go out and write something and see what I come up with. I loved everything else too, the action, the effects, the dialog. It's all wonderful.I think this film is a necessity for film lovers everywhere. It will make you think and even creep you out at the same time. See it! "},{"Title":"Never more timely","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green remains one of my favorite cult classics, and is another one of those movies whose message has become more timely as the years have passed. Back in the 70s, how many people knew about global warming and the greenhouse effect, much less took it seriously? Looking at our world now, with climate change already ruining lives in poorer countries and corporate corruption a constant topic with political activists, the rain forests disappearing and not enough fish left in the sea to last us another 40 years, the near-future Soylent Green portrays doesn't seem quite as far off as it did when it was made.We probably all know the classic line by now so the ending is no surprise, but it's the journey that's the point. Heston's character isn't one of those shiny action heroes we've gotten so used to, but is a man with deep flaws - a man we may not even particularly like. This makes the effect of his horror at the discovery of what humanity has sunk to far more moving than it might otherwise have been.Just thinking about Edward G Robinson's beautiful final scene gives me the chills, and watching it never fails to reduce me to tears.And then I want to get outside and enjoy the wilderness, while it's still there. "},{"Title":"Prophetic","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" No one in 1973 knew how prophetic this movie was to become in regards to how man has polluted his home and then asking what lies ahead. While certain aspects are certainly dated, the story still holds up as a cautionary tale of where we are already are and I agree that this movie is either due for a remake or even better ... a sequel! Perhaps following the life of the son of Shirl and Thorn as he investigates the death of his father or mother or ...(Remember, you read it here first!) But shame on Warner Bros for releasing such a poor version of this classic, at least the one I bought at a major retail outlet; while the title menu is in at least stereo as far as I could tell, the entire movie is in mono, as in only ONE audio channel. At first I thought that they hadn't mastered the movie at all but then I noticed that the title page wasn't in mono. In this day, re-mastering the entire movie is almost a bare minimum for any DVD release. Shame! Shame! Shame!Still a great movie. "},{"Title":" Strawberries!, . . . Hundred and Fifty Bucks a jar, . . strawberries","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The time is the future and for many not aware of it, that day is now. In this final movie for legendary actor, Edward G. Robinson, Solent Green becomes a landmark classic. Many a film buff and environmentalist believe this is our eventual history. The movie is taken from the novel entitled, 'Make room, make room' but who's working title was changed to Solent Green. The story concerns the Earth as it evolves into the future with the world's environmental problems becoming nothing short of Catastrophic. The planet's natural resources have been exhausted and basic food has been reduced to simple staples. They come in a variety of colors, such as Solent Yellow, Solent Red, and now 'Solent Green.' However there are those who know the 'real' ingredient in Solent Green and cringe at their own culpability and fear divine retribution. The first is a food executive named William R. Simonson (Joseph Cotton). Upon his death, a dedicated police detective called Robert Thorn (Charleston Heston) seeks the truth behind his apparent suicide. Although corruption goes all the way to the top, it begins with Simonsons' Bodyguard, Tad Fielding (Chuck Connors) and Security chief Donnovan (Roy Jenson) who target Thorn for a Waste Desposal Factory. Thorn's boss, Lt. Hatcher (Brock Peters) believes his suspicions but warns him of those 'Higher and Hot' who want the case closed, but Thorn will not risk his Job for an easy way out. What Thorn discovers marks him for death, but like the film, awaits a final warning. **** "},{"Title":"Dangerously close to schlock... but brilliant nonetheless","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent Green (Richard Fleischer, 1973)So what's the difference between schlock and one of the 100 best films ever made? Sometimes, I'll admit, it's a pretty blurry line. That's the case with this gem from the Richard Fleischer stable, a tale of a New York City with a population of forty million and a food supply that comes in little squares of red, yellow, and green.Thorn (Heston) chews scenery. Roth (Edward G. Robinson) spends his life moaning about how things were better in the seventies. (If only they knew.) The two of them try to get through their lives scavenging from the rich, like everyone else in New York. They have an edge, with Thorn being a cop who treats corruption like a comfortable pair of undershorts. A high society murder tips Thorn off that all may not be well with Soylent, the company that makes the majority of the world's food supply, and Thorn and Roth start digging deeper despite warnings from the victim's old bodyguard (Stephen Young) and Thorn's lieutanant (Brock Peters). The production values are strictly seventies, and it's great to poke fun at various things in the film (my god, it's 2022 and they're still listening to bad lounge music?). And yet there's something undefinable about this film that propels it from the realm of bad seventies science-fiction exploitation into the realm of true genius. What that thing is, I don't know; when I figure it out, I'll tell you. But something clicked. Heston's patented god-guns-and-guts character is perfect for the role. Robinson actually looks convincing salivating over a stick of celery. And somehow the movie's last lines are delivered convincingly. It's incredible. Whatever magic they managed to make with this one, Hollywood needs to make more of it. **** 1/2  "},{"Title":"You are what you eat...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A really depressing but really good movie.  Chuck Heston can act dammit ! The characters are likable and the finale is kinda open-ended, which I guess means you can decide if it will be happy or sad.  I just have to say that the ending was indeed chilling and I'll always hope the good guys win.  The best scene would have to be the part where Sol dies and Thorn gets to see the beauties the world once held.  The opening credits were well done too, to give you the sense of an over-whelming population.  I just hope they release this film on DVD. "},{"Title":"Classic Science Fiction Drama that is Starting to Sound Prophetic.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was ten years old when this film was released. I am now approaching fifty so I don't know how reliable my memory is, but I recall a rash of dreadful reviews and if my memory is accurate the film was a major flop, at least in New York where I lived. With that in mind and science fiction films not really my cup of tea (with some notable exceptions), it was not until I was an adult, on my own, that the film came on one of my cable channels, so, not having anything better to do, I decided to check it out.Wow. Just WOW.Futuristic dystopias are difficult things to pull off; they require a construction of an entire new world (excuse the pun). There are really only a handful of titles in this particular subgenre that have met with success, and they usually work better as novels than as films.I have not yet read Harry Harrison's novel MAKE ROOM! MAKE ROOM! upon which this film is based, but I just ordered it; the comparison should be interesting.But back to SOYLENT GREEN. When I finally saw this film I was blown away by it. And to this day I cannot understand all the negative reviews it got in its initial release or the lack of box-office. Perhaps I am remembering things incorrectly. Because this is a classic example of its genre that draws you into its dark and sinister view of the future and which I found quite terrifying.The year 2022. The place New York, a city that has become so overcrowded that in every apartment building there are people sleeping two deep in the stairwells; the air is brown with pollution and the heat is oppressive. The world's natural resources have been all but exhausted and the bulk of the population lives on a product called Soylent, which look rather like sugar wafers and come in a variety of colors (flavors?); the name is a combination of soybeans and lentils.Not everyone lives this way though a small handful of super-rich corporate executives live in luxury, with well-appointed apartments that have air conditioning and running water, and their diet consists of the fresh food that the bulk of the population can only dream of, if they even remember it.One night, Soylent board member (great cameo by the wonderful Joseph Cotten) is brutally murdered, something that the scene between him and his killer reveals that he not only saw coming but accepted as some form of atonement.Enter Detective Thorn (Charlton Heston), a sharp police detective and one of the few people in New York fortunate enough to have a job. His assignment to investigate the murder. He is helped in his efforts by Sol Roth (the great Edward G Robinson in his final film), an historian with a prodigious memory that has earned him the title of book. I am not going to reveal much more; like most science fiction, this story is plot-heavy and too many spoilers would kill the flavor. Suffice it to say that Thorn soon picks up on the fact that someone does not want him to solve this case; even his chief (Brock Peters in a performance that makes you wish he had more screen time) starts to try to persuade him to drop it.Charlton Heston has never been one of my favorite actors while he often made a great hero, he was usually rather stiff and his acting superficial. But not always; there were exceptions, and SOYLENT GREEN is one of them. In fact there is one scene where Heston actually cries real tears, something I don't think I ever saw the man do in any other film. And it is also refreshing to see him shed his hero persona; he is still the ostensible hero of the piece, but there is nothing noble about the man when he investigates the murdered man's apartment, he takes all the food in the fridge as well as all the liquor, showers, and even avails himself of the sexual favors of the young woman (Leigh Taylor-Young) who goes with the apartment for just that purpose and who is referred to several times as furniture.But if Heston is the action man, the brains, heart, and soul of this story belong to Sol. Edward G Robinson, a great actor who unfortunately got typecast as a gangster in Hollywood, is amazing here; suffering from cancer, he no doubt knew that this would be his last film and he took that knowledge and used it to inform his characterization of Sol. It is a marvelous performance that not only ended Robinson's career on a high note but which had a definite positive effect on Heston; he is light years better in this than he is in a lot of his movies.The real kicker about SOYLENT GREEN is not so much the ending anymore, though it was considered a shocker in 1973. Watching the film now, nearly forty years later, it is surprising how predictive it was, and there is an unexpected global warming message that I am sure was merely fancy on the part of the authors but which has proved to be alarmingly prescient.Why it was not a big success in 1973 I don't know, because this is a great movie intended not only to entertain but to send a warning. And the warning comes through the drama loud and clear and we ignore it at our own peril. "},{"Title":"A sci-fi classic","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Why is there so much hate for Soylent Green? It's truly the definition of an underrated film, a sci-fi classic and one of the few true cinematic examples of real speculative fiction. Many reviewers said that it was badly dated and not futuristic enough - that's just why it works, and why it's aged better than most sci-fi films of the 80's and 90's; it's not built on special effects and glittery spaceships, instead the picture of the near-future that it illustrates is frighteningly realistic, and eerily enough, unlike most sci-fi movies of its time, it's even more relevant now than it was back then. Knowing the twist in advance (and you do know it, right?) may spoil the surprise of the last few minutes but it allows the viewer to enjoy the rest even more. A landmark in speculative and futuristic storytelling that's worth revisiting and rewatching now more than ever. "},{"Title":"A terrifying look at a possible future&#x85;","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was always aware of this movie back when I was a kid when they used to play it on TV, but for some reason it didn't interest me. Recently, I was surfing through the channels one late Saturday night, and I came across Soylent Green. Although I just got to see the second half of the movie, there was something about it that attracted me to see it. It was so good that later I purchase it on DVD and I was totally blown away by it. Now, today's demanding audience, are used to elaborate CGI, big explosions, and mindless violence. In Soylent Green you won't find that. Instead, you will find an intelligent movie with a deep environmental commentary, especially for its time. The StoryThis movie is scary, but not in the way you might think. It's scary in its near accuracy and depiction of overpopulation. The story takes place in N.Y.C in the year 2022, where pollution, poverty and overpopulation have reached a frightening point. Soylent is a multinational corporation that provides wafer like rations for the hungry masses. Detective Thorn, played by Charlton Heston, is set to investigate the murder of William R. Simonson, a VIP from the Soylent Corporation. The murder was meant to look like a common burglary, but while conducting the investigation, Thorn notices that there was no force entry and the supposed burglar didn't take anything from the victim's apartment, concluding that it was an execution. He informs his superiors about it, but they seem to be part of a cover up. Thorn, request his friend and roommate, Sol, played by Edward G. Robinson, to help him investigate some books he retrieved from the crime scene. Thorn gets deeper in the case and he also becomes a target. Eventually, Sol discovers the disturbing secret of Soylent Green. The CharactersThe highlight of the movie, other than the story which is great, has to be the acting and dialog of the characters. Detective Thorn is cynical, sarcastic and indifferent with others, but through the course of the movie, he becomes self aware of the pain of others and we get to see him change. Sol is the soul of the movie. He is an elderly cop who reminds Thorn of a different world in another time. There's a quote Sol said that really stuck with me, People were always rotten, but the world was beautiful. Shirl or the furniture is a young and nave girl that has opted to become an accessory for those who can afford her. She is often treated as an object by Thorn, but eventually, a relationship between them grows. The ConceptThis is a future where mankind has totally messed up. People literally live on top of each other and basically live in every inch of space they can find. Natural food is a luxury, and even synthetic food is hard to acquire. The rich pays $150 for a jar of strawberry jam and vegetables and meat are a rarity. Society has become a police state, where only the privileged have access to curfew passes. The masses are treated as garbage, this is shown in a scene when Thorn is at a riot because Soylent rations finished at an exchange station and people are literally are being dumped into garbage trucks. But most disturbing is how the film shows how hopeless, aimless and godless people are in this world. Overpopulation is pretty real and it is expected to double in the next 40 years.The ActingI think the chemistry between Heston a Robinson is phenomenal. I truly enjoyed the dialog between them, and their relationship. There is a scene where Thorn and Sol are having a diner with the goods Thorn was able to collect from Simonson's apartment. You can see the how they enjoy their meal, giving you a sense of appreciation for what you have.Final WordsThis movie was made in 1973 and it does look like a 70s movie. It looks bleak, dark, and grainy. There is no advance technology and no alien monsters, but instead, the movie carries a heavy message of awareness of things to come. The ending revelation of what is Soylent Green is no secret by now, but I am not going to say it just in case you haven't seen it. The beauty of sci-fi is that it challenges you to think and rationalize on present issues that are happening around the world today. "},{"Title":"A realistically depicted dystopia","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Truly amazing film, the concept as a possible prophetic vision of the future is frightening. A world vastly overpopulated, unbearable heat due to the damaged ozone layer, and all our natural resources spent. In this nightmarish degenerate society we have the great Charlton Heston as a likable film noirish style detective trying to fathom the truth behind a murder, opposite the film noir legend Edward G Robinson turning in a fine last performance.One of the images that will always stay with me from this film, is the masses of people that populate the stairwells and the way in which Thorne (Heston) has to hop through them every time he uses them.The movie's use of music is note worthy too, although it contains no score in the usual sense, The opening theme is good, and the subsequent snatches of music we here in Simonson's apartment, and especially the Beethoven pieces in the euthanasia clinic are outstandingly atmospheric. "}{"Title":"Rachel Carson would be proud","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"       First real envirionmental crisis film. A must for anyone concerned about what mankind is doing to planet Earth. Not preachy and condescending like some others this is the real Mccoy. Especially moving are the opening segment and the Vivaldi room scene...watch it You'll know. One cannot view this film without passionate feelings one way or another. It's definitely a love it or hate it film.You be the judge... "},{"Title":"A Timeless Film, Disturbing but also Highly Possible","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Despite the industrial factories shown in rapid succession in the intro of this film, Soylent Green is not a preachy hippie propaganda film overloaded with environmental messages. The pollution is just part of the scenery. No, industrialization is not the theme, nor is cannibalism, contrary to popular belief. Soylent Green's timeless theme is the increasing disregard for human life. A lot of people have forgotten Soylent Green under bad successors like the Hunger Games and Divergent, which is incredibly disappointing and sad. Soylent Green is a film that will never get old. It does have elements of 1970's music but this music goes along perfectly with the entire film. And let's take a glance at the very possible world depicted in Soylent Green; this world is overpopulated heavily and food is no longer 'real', just bizarre dried-up rations made by the controlling Soylent Corporation. In this world feminism is a thing of the past, women are readily available to men as live-in prostitutes referred to commonly as 'furniture', and despite some kind men only keeping these women around for companionship in this depressing place, many men are allowed to severely beat their furniture and treat them as objects and sex toys. There is an assisted suicide clinic, mainly since in this bleak world nobody has worth anymore. Thousands of forlorn and miserable people can be put down like an animal in a time frame of twenty minutes. There are no funerals, no cremation either, all bodies are carried off to garbage dumps outside the city.Within this strange and hollow world a detective, Thorne, resides in a small apartment with his elderly friend, Sol. Thorne was born without ever seeing a tree or an animal, born eating freeze-dried cubes of foodstuff and born without books, so he often scoffs at Sol's longing for the past, when food was grown in gardens or butcher shops and not in a laboratory, and when books were mass-produced rather than fake food. Both are very good friends and despite their differences make a great team.One night, during Thorne's night shift, he is assigned to solve a case in a rich suburb area of the city, where a wealthy businessman was whacked to death in the head by a supposed punk burglar wielding a meat-hook as a weapon. This businessman, Simonson, has a bodyguard (Mr. Fielding), and furniture (Shirl). Shirl claims she was very happy with him and that she misses him a great deal, but has very little time to grieve the loss of her companion. His body is shipped off to a waste disposal plant on the secluded outskirts of the city. Thorne questions her and learns that Simonson was extremely depressed before his murder, and that he cried a lot. Thorne comes to believe that the murder was an assassination and that Fielding is involved. While investigating the case, he is able to enjoy the luxuries never available to him in life, such as running water, fresh food, paper, soap and pencils. Sol is overjoyed by the items Thorne sneaks back to the apartment for him, including two large hardcover volumes of the Soylent Corporation Demographic Reports. Thorne gets Sol to read them and learn if what upset Simonson is within the books.While investigating the case, Thorne becomes pursued by an assassin, the same man who murdered Simonson. Sol reads the two books and discovers a very disturbing secret, then pays to 'go home', which is the friendly codename for the assisted suicide clinic. Thorne rushes to be with his dying friend, and while there witnesses the scenic nature from the past that he never believed really existed, all in video clips on a large projector Sol is watching. Sol starts getting delirious but convinces Thorne to follow the waste disposal trucks to the secluded factory where the bodies of the dead are sent. It is there where Thorne learns of what is in the Soylent Green that everybody has been eating&#x85; people. Disgusted and horrified, he narrowly escapes and calls Shirl, who he has developed a relationship with. He tells her to stay with her new 'owner' forever, then calls his boss and pleads for help, right before he is assassinated himself in an overcrowded church. Bleeding to death, he does the last thing he can do, and that is to shout out, Soylent Green is people! We have to stop them&#x85; somehow&#x85;I think the saddest part of this film was that the actor who played Sol was dying of cancer during filming. When Thorne (Charlton Heston), was crying in the assisted suicide clinic, it wasn't a staged performance, he was sad that this man was never going to see the amazing performance on-screen. 12 days afterwords, Sol's actor died of cancer. He never got so see Soylent Green. The acting was excellent, emotional but still not too dramatic, except when it was really needed. The soundtrack was amazing, the entire plot was disturbing yet original and eye-opening. When people ask me what the scariest film I ever saw was, they expect me to list a slasher film, but I always say Soylent Green. In real-life, the quick disregard for human life is becoming less of a fantasy and more of a reality, as overpopulated Third-World countries are exploited by more developed nations, as many obese people in America become regarded as just McDonald's-eating nothings, as people with autism or mental health issues are just prescribed a pill to make them less of a burden to society, it's horrible. And we have fast food companies quickly pushing out cheap food&#x85; humans are no longer even valuing themselves as much&#x85; how has this type of thing been happening? Soylent Green has sounded the alarm, hopefully the world hears it in time.I also recommend The Omega Man, Logan's Run, Dawn of the Dead (the original 1977 one not the remake), and The Great Global Warming Swindle, if you're a fan of Soylent Green. "},{"Title":"Humanity on the road to extinction","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green was originally released May 9th 1973 two weeks after April 22nds' Earth Day celebration. For years afterward, Soylent Green would air on Earth Day. Last April 22nd I was unable to find it on TV  (Whatever your views on 'Global Warming'; whether you believe the 'facts', or whether you believe the scientists who fear pollution is reflecting the Suns rays away from Earth, or whether you believe the only thing we know about Global Warming, is what the powers that be want us to know, and probably for reasons having nothing to do with Global Warming. . . whatever you believe. . . this movie presents a disturbing possibility. Pollution and ecological 'devastation' on a massive scale. And the future's not here yet, who's to say things won't be worse in 2022 than they are portrayed in the movie Soylent Green? In 2022 Robert Thorne (Charlton Heston) is a detective in NYC where unemployment is at 50% and 40 million people cram into the city rioting over 'Soylent' food wafers. Soylent Red, Soylent Yellow and now Soylent Green. Thorne lives in a small apartment he shares with Sol 'the book' Roth (Edward G Robinison). Sol, an older man, has a hard time dealing with the new reality. Each night Thorne has trouble getting home from work. Bodies of the homeless cover his stairwell!Thorne is sent to investigate the murder of 'Simonson' a man on Soylent Corporations' board of directors. Thorne interrogates Simonsons' girlfriend or 'furniture' as she is called, Shirl (Leigh Taylor). He cried a lot, she says. They discuss old people. Shirl looks barely 16, but, growing up in this world, it's clear she is the one Simonson leaned on as he tried to adjust to the new reality.As the mystery deepens friend Sol brings Thorne before 'the Exchange' a group of older scholars. Celia Lovsky, as the Exchange leader, gives the pivotal performance of the movie. The Exchange has uncovered scientific reports from Soylent Corporation. The Plankton Farms are failing. Even Earths' Plankton are dying. You can see it in her eyes. The facts played with his sanity, she says of Simonson. The Corporation feared he had become unstable. Are their kind doomed to extinction? The tasty Soylent Green wafers needed may become in short supply.Thorne discovers Simonson had confessed to a priest Father Paul (Lincoln Kilpatrick). It becomes a race to find him before the corporation does. Thorne finds the priest confused and in a daze, Father Paul has definitely taken Simonsons' confession, just then the assassin strikes again killing the priest.Thorne returns home to find a note left for him by Sol saying he's gone home. The truth is too much for Sol. Thorne rushes to a nearby 'sleep (Euthanasia) center', but it's too late. Sols not dead yet but he's already taken the fatal dose. This was Edward G Robinsons' (Sol) last movie, he was suffering from terminal cancer. It's said the tears Robinson and Heston cry are real.Sols' body gets dumped in a dump truck along with the others and Thorne jumps up on the truck to follow. Dump trucks from all over converge on a Soylent plant, the company that manufactures the tasty Soylent Green treats so much in demand. Sol and the others bodies' are loaded onto an assembly line at the plant. Thorne follows. The bodies are being processed, and at the end of the assembly line emerges, Soylent Green!Thorne is spotted by security. He manages to escape but is shot. Back in the city Thorne is carried off on a stretcher, yelling, They're breeding us like cattle!, You've got to tell people, Soylent Green is people.In one scene in Shirls' apartment, a video game is shown, it's said the first time such a game was shown on TV. Personally, I didn't take this to be condemning a world of haves & have-nots but as a sign, even in this crappy future there would be advances. Maybe I just wanted to play the video game. Perhaps this was just a prop to give the movie a futuristic look. Some reviewers have said there's a homosexual element to this movie, in that, duh, there are 20 million homeless people outside his house yet Thorne is living with another dude. I've never noticed the love affair myself watching the movie. "},{"Title":"plankton rules ... or does it?","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ... and then it turned out that they were just as much concerned with the environment and euthanasia back in 1973 as we are now.  Nevertheless this is one of the last convulsions of the era of critical sci-fi movies that came to an abrupt end with the arrival of action-sci-fi Star Wars, Alien and Mad Max etc.  Correct me if I'm wrong here as I didn't do any research. Typically for the action era one of the first video-games (I believe it is Space Invaders) is featured in Soylent Green as a decadent toy.Thought provoking sci-fi is slowly returning nowadays (Gattaca, Truman Show, A.I.) as I see it.  E.g. the same global warming problem as in Soylent Green is a topic in A.I. that also pervasively depicts the consequences of that problem clearly in that same old futuristic NYC.  I haven't found any recent movie that features genetically engineered food though (retrodirect to '2001', Dark Star, Silent Running and Willy Wonka -).  I recommend Fahrenheit 451 and Gattaca for the thinking audience.The bleak messages have difficulties boiling to the surface.  The point of the film is less apparent than it's entertaining value indeed this calls for a remake as someone stated.  If only for the awkwardly mischosen music to be corrected.  The movie concentrated too much on Heston's mission that isn't very thrilling, and should've done more with the corruptions of future dystopian society incl corporations and authorities.  Most of it worked alright though and the intentions of the authors are unmistakenly present. Watching it widescreen next time and reading the novel may help.Fleischer in a sense wasted the magnificent cast (Heston, Cotten, Robinson), but then again he never was one of my favourite directors.  Harrison's novel must be more poignant and cynical.  The screenplay is ok, but with this sort of movies the atmosphere is more important to convince, like in The Omega Man and Westworld, and that certainly works here.  Credit to cinematographer Richard Kline (Andromeda strain, Terminal man) and what's left of the acting talent.  Heston  (Omega man, Touch of evil) seems to enjoy his authoritative and violent role in society as a detective.  Edward G. Robinson (Little Caesar, Double Indemnity, the Stranger) is most convincing though, as the (unexpectedly) nostalghic and sentimental roommate who ensures the audience that the time of democracy and free nature is long over.  Survival of the fittest is now.  The government doesn't seem to be withholding in scooping people off the streets and hasn't any ethical problems with euthanasia too. This movie made me feel extremely happy to be able to open a window and simply look at a tree+bird.  Same feeling I had with 'THX 1138'.  See what it does for you...  8/10 "},{"Title":"Big Ideas rather than production values in this 70s dystopia","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" NYC, 2022 The Greenhouse effect, vanished oceans, grinding unemployment and scarcity of water, power and food.. and New York's population has topped 40 million. This is a little gem of a picture, not least because a resource-depleted future is a reality for us 21st Century citizens. The low-budget opening titles of this movie are great set to music, a low-tech 'tape-slide' sequence composed entirely of archive stills from the dawn of photography right up to 1973, depicts an unspoiled American pastoral developing into a polluted and crowded Hell in less than 2 minutes. Succinct and unambiguous, it's truly memorable. Budget limitations are also behind rather unimaginative cinematography and other constraints, at odds with the story's brilliant premise. The police station sequences are like an episode of some 70's TV detective show, and the other interior sets look basic at best. The budget probably all went on trying to 'futurise' the Soylent Executive's 'Chelsea West' apartment with state-of-the art goodies, meaning the other costumes are perfunctory, some establishing shots are bizarrely underpopulated and the daytime exteriors seemingly all shot through a smoke filter.The memorable scene where Sol and Thorn (Charlton Heston) share a meal of expensive and rare food neatly summarises their society They enjoy real bourbon, lettuce, celery, tomato, apple, and beef, and we really sense their lip-smacking appreciation of someone else's wealthy privileges.Robinson's pivotal death scene, in which his character is willingly euthenased at a place called 'Home', depicts him immersed in images of the world's once-beautiful flora and fauna as he remembered them, beautifully contrasted with the jaundiced Thorn's dawning realization that the future has been bankrupted, among other horrors.This is one smart film, and its core message is as pertinent today as it was in the early 70s. Yes, I know we're not eating the dead yet, but with our resource-sapping longevity, spiraling poverty gap, corporate global capitalism and unchecked habitat destruction leading to climate change, the lasting prediction of 'Soylent Green' may come to pass. "},{"Title":"An extremely engrossing and thought-provoking film which effectively paints a picture of a bleak, hopeless world","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Loosely based on the 1966 novel Make Room! Make Room! by Harry Harrison, this is an extremely engrossing and thought-provoking film. Set in 2022, it depicts a world which is suffering from chronic overpopulation - New York alone has a population of 40 million - and a perpetual heatwave caused by the greenhouse effect. As a result, resources have been severely depleted and things such as meat, eggs, soap, clean water and even new paper are luxuries enjoyed by the idle rich. Food, if you can call it that, is derived from high energy plankton by the Soylent company. Real food may be expensive but life is cheap as the world has become a dark, unfeeling, depressing and cold (figuratively if not literally!) place. The terrible state of the world has brought out the worst in human nature and I have to say that it is very realistic in that respect. The highest position that any young woman can aspire to is to be the concubine - or furniture - of a wealthy man. This provides some very good social commentary on sexism and the objectification of women. As with another Charlton Heston film Planet of the Apes (1968) and another Joseph Cotten film Citizen Kane, I was aware of the final revelation long before I saw the film due to pop culture osmosis but that did not effect my enjoyment of it in any way. The film has an excellent script by Stanley R. Greenberg and the direction of Richard Fleischer, a master in the art of maintaining tension, is superb.Charlton Heston gives an extremely good performance as the protagonist Detective Thorn. He is an extremely bitter and cynical man but this is hardly unusual given the society in which he has grown up. However, he shows a softer side when it comes to his relationship with his elderly and increasingly infirm researcher / book Sol Roth, whom he cares for and is hinted to love like a father. This is also seen in his relationship with the furniture Shirl. At first, he treats her with the same mild contempt that he treats most things. He demands sex from her during his investigation but this is seemingly standard practice for a furniture so she is in no way offended or even surprised. However, over the course of the film, Thorn becomes genuinely fond of her and protective of her. She is played well by a young Leigh Taylor-Young, the film's last surviving star who will hopefully live to see the real 2022.The best performance in the film, however, comes from Edward G. Robinson. After a hugely impressive career of more than five decades, this was Robinson's final film. At the time that it was made, he was in the final stages of bladder cancer and he knew that he was going to die very soon. This knowledge likely influenced his performance as the world weary Sol Roth, the oldest character who regularly hearkens back to a time when food was plentiful and there were seasons. The best and most moving scene in the film involves Sol going to a euthanasia clinic - or going home - as he is unable to live with the terrible secret of Soylent Green. There is a beautiful moment in which Thorn is reduced to tears by footage of wild animals (hinted to be extinct), rivers and mountains, all of which he is too young to remember. This was the last scene that Robinson ever filmed and he died less than two weeks later.It was an excellent idea to cast Joseph Cotten as the former Soylent executive William R. Simonson, whose murder Thorn investigates throughout the film. He only has two scenes but he was a wonderful actor and brings a great deal of pathos to his performance as the guilt-stricken Simonson, one of the wealthiest men in New York. Not only that but the casting of an old Hollywood star in the role meant that Fleischer successfully subverted the audience's expectations as they would assume than an actor of his standing and calibre would have much a bigger role. The film also features great performances from Brock Peters as Thorn's superior Lt. Hatcher (depicting a black man in a position of authority over a white man was still quite unusual in 1973 so I appreciated that), Chuck Connors as Simonson's suitably intimidating bodyguard Tab Fielding, Whit Bissell as Governor Santini, Leonard Stone as Charles and, in her final film, Celia Lovsky as the Exchange Leader.Overall, this is an excellent film which is extremely effective in painting a picture of a bleak, hopeless world on the brink. I can't imagine it having much of a future. "},{"Title":"We've got to stop them somehow . . . ","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" . . . a gravely wounded Detective Thorn mumbles as the final line of SOYLENT GREEN. There's a lot of moral ambiguity here about WHO needs to be stopped, and why. SOYLENT GREEN states explicitly that 40 million folks live in New York City in the year 2022, and many more than half of them are on some sort of welfare. Obviously, the reproduction rate there is several times greater than the most prolific refugee camp of today, despite that fact that the movie shows most people sleep on top of each other in stairwells. (They must mate by osmosis, as no one seems to shed their clothes for ANY reason in 2022--not even the food stock!). Even the richest people lead undesirable lives then. For them, a tomato is a rare treat, electricity is an occasional luxury, and their video games are simply variations on Pong! (If you don't recall Pong, it's listed between marbles and yo-yo's in the Guide to Ancient Games of Yesteryear.) When you crunch the numbers mentioned by Thorn's supervisor of roughly 200 murders daily in their Precinct 14 and multiply by at least that number of city neighborhoods, the Big Apple's annual murder rate has risen to one million plus in SOYLENT GREEN days. Thousands more citizens are scooped into oblivion via garbage trucks during daily food riots. Obitoriums scattered throughout the city allow depressed geezers to drink poisoned Kool-Aid and enjoy 20-minute musical send-offs. Since cops and human body recyclers seem to be the only people with jobs, it's amazing that it takes Charlton Heston's Thorn character an entire movie to realize that Soylent Green is people! This whole premise is a cheap rip-off from an Anthony Burgess novel, THE WANTING SEED. Only there Soylent Green is called bully (which sounds more nourishing). SOYLENT GREEN's Furniture Girls also are stolen from the inverted end table gals in the milk bars of Burgess' masterwork, CLOCKWORK ORANGE, a five times more accurate and entertaining flick about our future than SOYLENT GREEN. "},{"Title":"People were always rotten, but the Earth was beautiful.","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is One of Those Films that has Entered the Popular Culture and Even People who have Not Seen it are Aware of it and Even the Twist Ending. Charlton Heston Made Three Sci-Fi Films in the Period, Planet of the Apes (1968), The Omega Man (1971) and This One.While Not as Rich and Rewarding as Apes, it is Better than Omega. Soylent Green is a Dark and Somewhat Disturbing Dystopian Tale with a Crime Story at its Core. But, Make No Mistake it is a Message Movie and the Message of Overpopulation and Other Human Misdeeds Concerning Planet Earth and its Environment Resonate Readily.Edward G. Robinson (in His last role) Also Makes an Impression and His Scene Going Home is One of the Films Highlights. While Not a Very Visual Film, What Little Money Spent on the Exteriors Shows a Lack of Imagination and is Quite Flimsy. In Fact the Whole Look of the Movie is Unimpressive. The Scenes in the Upper Class Apartment Drag and the Film does Tend to be Clunky in Spots.But Overall, it is Basically a Powerful Picture Despite its Shortcomings and Should Definitely be Seen at Least Once. Repeating Viewings May Not Hold Up so Well, but the Film Cannot be Denied its Cultural Impact and is Certainly a Product and an Icon of its Era. "},{"Title":"Yep, it's THAT movie","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is a movie with a famous ending. If you don't know what I am talking about, there is a good chance that after watching it you will say, Oh, it's THAT movie. That is, unless you are one of the many whose viewing pleasure has already been spoiled by popular culture. Watching this movie today would be akin to watching a documentary on the O.J. Simpson trial and wondering how it came out. I feel fortunate in that I was able to watch from an uninformed viewpoint. I vaguely recalled there was something significant about the movie (which was why I checked it out from my local library) but couldn't remember what it was. Then when it was over I said, Oh, it's THAT movie. With no expectations, the end was mildly shocking. Probably very much so in 1973, but less so 40 years later. I don't really think we are capable of being shocked any more.Unfortunately, it felt like someone thought up a great ending for a movie and then tried to put in enough filler to get there. Maybe that is why, with 10 minutes left, I actually said to myself How could this possibly wrap itself up in 10 minutes? Then it ended and I said, Oh, it's THAT movie. Granted, working backwards from an ending is not a bad recipe for success, and even authors will tell you not to start a book unless you know where you are going. But it was a somewhat disjointed journey. The movie paints an overall bleak picture of the future, illustrating its premise with a few insights on how we've digressed. Some are somewhat original, but many could have been generated in a 6th grade creative writing class. As with all movies of this type, the aberrations keep us thinking and analyzing and there is a lot of could that really happen? going on amongst Soylent Green viewers. Most seem to think no, and I tend to agree with them. One puzzling and bothersome aspect is that there is very little exploration on how we've progressed. All the gressing is negative. I can not imagine a future 50 years hence in which our world looks exactly like our present-day world, only less advanced.Soylent Green is fairly typical of most 60s-era B movies. The acting is marginal and the plot is somewhat sketchy, but the premise is mildly cutting-edge. It is a vehicle designed to set you up for a 5-second knock on the head. There are glimmers of originality, and if you just sit back and allow the movie to move you forward, it will do so, albeit at a fairly slow pace. There are enough thought-pondering nuances that it is better than cleaning your bathroom. On the other hand, if your bathroom really needs cleaning, you could probably break away in the middle and come back for the last 10 minutes to get your daily dose of pop culture. "},{"Title":"Classical conspiracy theory done Hollywood style","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I have first seen this movie was 10 or 12. It was a bit disturbing. But nothing special. I was impressed.The second, or third time I have seen it I was ready to start a journey into the *they* are killing us.Reading some reviews I searched for this movie. And I have watched it fascinated. And there you have it a World in which God does not function anymore. In which people have turned so bad they eat people, the only thing they seem to produce. It is not clear how they multiply. There is no sex in the crowded streets, but having a small room with a generator and no food is luxury. Women are either poor and live in the streets in herds or they can afford food and have a home and they are all childless prostitutes. There are no hospitals. And even if they exist, they are useless for people who don't have enough to eat. Actually the people are rather well dressed and plump when the wealthy middle class of the cops doesn't have running water or enough food even when stealing everything in sight. Just like in any Jesus movie, the beggars are decent so the merciful won't be offended.Finally, everybody knows something that everybody else doesn't know. I couldn't figure out how things would change in that future if the green tablets would come in a bag with a written list of ingredients. The same way a refugee camp can be decimated by the lack of sanitation, yet a dirty city of 40 million poor runs rather well if it weren't for the riots. Probably it is a miracle. "}{"Title":"No More Room, No More Hope","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Despite how much progress we make throughout the years, unfortunately we seem to also create just as many more new problems than the ones solved. This is a sci-fi classic that I really like that I still feel is relevant to this day.The film I don't feel is perfect. The pacing is really slow and not much really happens which makes the film not the most exciting to watch. And the post apocalyptic world isn't fully explored probably due to budget limitations. Though these are things I can get past.I'll admit this is a really disturbing post apocalyptic story because by today's standards I feel it's frighteningly plausible, because we're getting dangerously close. We see a world where humans have really fraked up bad, the earth is now one big crap hole, it is dirty, grimy, and there is so much smog and heat. Theweather literally really changes, there's hardly any sun since the smog has blocked it out of sight, nor does the climate change much.Resouces are at a all time low, you can still buy food but it's not always of great quality. Even books, paper, and writing materials are rare and almost depleted; a world without books and writing that's truly is a scary thought. But the worst part we see left and right the world is just filled with people everywhere you look and walk that is if there's any space to walk.It's true despite the fact this film takes place in the far future, they do really have much high tech. But when you think about it more it makes sense, since the world is devoid of natural resources you would have to resort to simply whatever works or what you currently got, in this world it's practically jack squat.I like the characters Thorn (Chaleton Heston) and Sol played brilliantly by Edward G Robertson, on a side note this was his last film, which made the final scene with him all the more sadder. Anyway I really like the back and forth, between them which I feel really helps drive the film. The dynamic between them is almost like a father and son as we see Sol is the one filled with wisdom of the past and trying to fill Thorn's curiosity with it. I really like how we see each of them react toward certain everyday things we take for granted. Like seeing Thorn turn on a facet of water or smelling soap. Or even one moment when Thorn shows Sol a slab of meat, Sol cries and says How did we come to this. Those little scenes I'll admit just made me grateful that I still have grocery stores with plenty to buy and eat, I have bathrooms, I can still play video games, read books and anything else. It just goes to show how truly awful the fraked up world really is because it takes those luxuries and privileges from us away forever.The suspense is solid and the mystery of the Soylant Green resources is intriguing. There are some solid suspenseful sequences, my favorite and I'll admit disturbing at the same time was Thorn chasing down an assassin during a food riot, which I felt was intense in a way. Not just from the problem at hand, Thorn had to deal with but just the amount of chaos around him. And seeing the dump trucks scoop up people and dump them, we see that there is a loss of respect for human life that human values have been thrown into the garbage.What really disturbs me the most about the film is just the sense of hopelessness the world has. There are two scenes that parallel the theme, as we see a worn out priest that is suppose to be a deliver of hop but has lost hope himself with his Church overcrowded. As well as a scene where Sol interacts with the book keepers and one of them says, What God, where is he. I'll admit hear that gave me a cold feeling, it shows once again how much this apocalyptic world has taken the most precious resource of all hope.And once we discover the secret of the Soylant food source, we see another precious thing it's taken away which is humanity. Sure in a way it can be seen as a solution but you are still committing a crime against humanity.The message of the film is to simply take action now. We have to take better care of ourselves and the Earth, because once the Earth goes down the tube, we go with it.Overall, this is a solid sci-fi classic that I feel is worth a watch. Appreaciate what you have on this Earth right now and protect it with all of your might, tomorrows are in short supply in a world with no room and no hope.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Terrific movie that is even more relevant today.","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time at a drive-in theatre, where my friend and I had taken our two little boys (in PJs) to a dusk-to-dawn movie marathon. Soylent Green was shown at midnight, after the family friendly main features.This story was brand new to me and I found it quite disturbing, but not for its major twist near the end. What really upset me was the general theme of unconscious overuse which led up to the conclusion. Homelessness was only then starting to spread to medium sized metropolitan areas but it was obvious that the future quality of living portrayed in this story is not a fantasy but almost a forgone conclusion, unless people as individuals really start thinking about the future as a consequence of their actions today.Edward G Robinson's last scene was so well done, in part due to his knowledge of his own terminal illness which took his life quite shortly after this production ended. Celia Lovsky and Joseph Cotten delivered their performances equally well, as their own long careers came to an end not long after as well, and there was a poignancy and profound sadness to their roles that one rarely sees on the big screen.I loved every single production element in Soylent Green. The casting was excellent, especially the addition of the elderly actors from the 1940s who provided an air of authenticity to those who were in their prime in 1973. The opening credits were a perfect introduction to the story, showing the ultimate cost of progress without a doubt. The production values were realistic and not afraid to show the gritty side of life and the scattered centers that may truly become our reality. If we do not soon halt the relentless population growth and continue to haphazardly birth baby after baby, regardless of the strain on resources and finances, then we will reap what we have truly sown.This story is prophetic, realistic, heartbreaking, and inspirational, despite its overall theme of hopelessness for the future. The apathy of today's society could use a real wake up call, and this story could serve that purpose. I recommend watching it as a family, even with the little ones (who probably will not catch onto the ultimate message). Let it form the basis of a discussion of the environment and the need for all people see the future based on our actions of today, so a drastic scenario such as this might be escaped. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi with noble environmentalist concerns","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is a science-fiction film from 1973, staring Charlton Heston and a brief appearance of one of my favorite actors Joseph Cotton (sadly, like most of cameos, not credited). The plot takes place in New York City in the year 2022. The world is completely changed warmer, drier, overcrowded, miserable and feeding on the only source available &#x96; the so-called soylent green. However, the audience is not given a hint of what kind of environmental tragedy took place and brought the world to its knees.The city hosts an impoverished population of 40 million people&#x96;something astonishing even for today standards&#x96;, living in ghettos, separated by fence and trench from the luxurious buildings where the high society have managed to uphold a hedonistic lifestyle. They have wide access to clean running water &#x96; both for bathroom and kitchen &#x96;, whereas the poor are forced into rationing the precious liquid. The government and its elite are provided with every kind of food &#x96;from tomatoes and lettuce, to beef and chicken. By contrast, the poor must solely rely on the soylent green.It is important to notice that soylent green may possibly have some harmful effect on people, for they are always portrayed as lethargic, apathetic and even sick. Therefore, one cannot be certain if they die of malnutrition or poisoned by soylent green. This puzzle is partly unraveled at the end of the movie. That notwithstanding, since access to staple food in controlled by the government, people have no choice but to accept the unappetizing meal.The plot is set in motion by the mysterious murder of a high ranked executive of the Soylent Green Enterprises (Mr. Cotton). The crime is to be investigated by a police detective (Mr. Heston), who starts to be constantly chased around and many times nearly escapes from attempted murder. After being involved in a love affair with the ex-girlfriend of the slaughtered executive - who happens to be a slave, bought with the house, like a piece of furniture&#x96;, the policemen follows a clue that eventually leads to the local plant of soylent green. After secretly breaking in the compound, he finally learns that soylent green, like animal feed, is made of dead bodies. The film conveys a gloomy message about the widespread unconsciousness regarding ecological issues in the second half of the last century. Yet, it proves itself impressively updated. However, the screenplay is overtly influenced by new-Malthusian theories that pervaded the environmental debate in the 1970's, which are now considered outdated by many scientists. An example of that reasoning is the book The Limits to Growth, released in 1972 by the Club of Rome &#x96; an association founded at the end of the 1960's by world class tycoons. Similarly, many issues listed on the agenda of the first UN Conference on Environment (Stockholm, 1972) derive from that same perspective.The main thrust behind these theories is the idea that the size of population&#x96;not its behavior and attitude&#x96;is singularly capable of posing ecological threats. From this stance, the world's population is growing out of control and life provisions shall soon become even scarcer. Such ideas have prompted foreign governments into funding birth control programs in poor countries &#x96; an unquestionably discriminating foreign policy. No wonder in this sense why the film depicts a New York City with similar problems like any other large city of the underdeveloped world.That is not to say that consuming patterns around the globe are not a source of concern. Nevertheless, the problem is much more related with adopting liberal regulations and carefree mentality, than singularly with the size of a population. Many surveys have pointed out that bringing the American lifestyle to a global level would be impractical. Putting aside this debate, the message of the film remains unsound for future generations. Like cattle, pigs and other domesticated animals, we watch human beings feeding on their own specie, in a sort of death circle. "},{"Title":"Once ahead of its time...","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Charlton Heston was on the front lines of the Civil rights movement in this country, so it came as no surprise that the four science fiction films he starred in in the late 60s and early 70s (PLANET OF THE APES, BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES, THE OMEGA MAN, and SOYLENT GREEN) all dealt with Real World problems- everything from Nuclear Armageddon and Biological Warfare to Overpopulation and Man's inhumanity to Man. With the greatest man-made catastrophe in history (the Gulf oil spill) now giving us mutated shrimp born without eyes and crabs and lobsters whose limbs literally fall off when they're picked up, and with Japan's nuclear meltdown(s) spreading detectable radiation to the East Coast of the United $tates (not to mention all those nuclear tests that may well have had something to do with the onset of Global Warming), SOYLENT GREEN is (unfortunately) more timely than ever. While many of the other movies he starred in may not have boasted such up-front humanitarian concerns, the SF movies he made certainly did- and that's one hell of a testament to the man himself. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green (1973)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A dark and disturbing look at a future that may surface, though hopefully not in the next 11 years as the film suggests. Heston is a police officer in an overcrowded world. Food is but a luxury as people are fed Soylent products. There's a wonderful scene in which Heston steals a number of items from the home of a murder victim. They are common everyday things, but the film creates such an emotional intensity about them, Robinson breaks down into tears at the thought of meat. Taylor-Young plays one of the most tragic love interests in cinematic history. She's referred to as furniture as she comes with the apartment, a choice of living for many attractive women, as they get to live with the wealthy and experience rare items. Looking through time, this is something that rings true on a terrifying scale. Like many of Heston's pieces, it mixes B-Movie charm with social commentary. Many will know the twist, as did I, but when the final line of dialog rings out it really shocks. "},{"Title":"Pseudo science of global warming","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A touching film about errors, duty and colors of fear.Interesting poem about the nooks of reality, the shadows of dreams, the dust of old hours and the ghosts of some gestures.Exploration of history and its chimeras with the Hollywood manner to see, describe and show the essence of a sick world at twilight of emotions.The talks between Detective Thorn and the Sol Roth of a terrified past are not only a subtle catharsis form or an exploration of truth but exercise to discover the roots of last form of original sin, the taste of truth, the rules of past, the marks of victim's respiration. Not a reflection in old windows but escape of spirit beyond the games of destiny or malicious accident. The characters are reflections of a strange new era, specters of ambiguous desires and actors of a mad god. And only propriety, only way to be yourself is memories collection as shadow of a lost soul.Show of memories, ladder of past, puzzle of facts and illusions, Soylent Green is a very profound and subtle exercise to define the time and its shadows without shadows, masks or regrets. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green-Not just for Tuesdays!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just got around to seeing Soylent Green for the first time. Somehow I got it into my head that it was a trashy movie. Maybe all the spoofs and parodies of it colored my judgement. I started watching the DVD expecting some trashy fun.My expectations changed very quickly. The film starts on a very strong footing with a musical photo-montage that deftly conveys the effects if the industrial revolution, overcrowding, and pollution. There is another montage near the end of the movie, as well. These portions of the film are incredibly striking and powerful. It's some of the most evocative film-making I've seen. They are the high points of the film, and are so bold, that they would be reason, enough to see this film.The rest of the film is uneven, but is still watchable and compelling. There is a great deal of provocative material here, and it will have you pondering it for days. The film is set in the future, but most of the sets look very much like the 1970s when it was filmed. One exception is an apartment where the very rich dwell. It has an interesting white- hued futuristic look. The apartment comes complete with what, at the time, was a great futuristic advance-one of the first arcade style video games, created by Nolan Bushnell who went on to found Atari. It probably looked pretty cool at the time, but now it looks like a primitive version of Asteroids. It doesn't help that the actress playing with it does not seem to have a clue how to operate it. Her ships keep dying every second or two, yet she is oblivious to this and acts like she's having a grand time. Couldn't someone on the set have spent a few minutes teaching her how to play it? Despite all that, I thought it was a neat scene, and I was pleased to see that vintage game. I think i remember playing it!You have to make allowances. We are a bit spoiled now. Movies such as Blade Runner and the 5th Element have a fully realized futuristic world with all the little details shown to perfection. You almost take it that for granted now. Video games have come a long way, for that matter. I hope we don't get so spoiled by the current technology that we are no longer willing or able to supply some of our own sense of wonder. In Soylent Green, you don't see a thing that suggests a futuristic world for much of the picture. This can be forgiven because there is great acting by the principals, Charlton Heston and Edward G. Robinson in his last film appearance. There are also a profusion of thought provoking ideas. You probably know the shock ending of this film. Few people won't know this big reveal going in. It's common knowledge whether or not you've seen the film. That's not the main attraction of the film. Enjoyment of it does not depend on the shock ending.Soylent Green is not a trashy movie. It's a great , thought-provoking near masterpiece with good acting and great scenes. If you are a film buff, or a science fiction fan, you'll definitely want to see this one! "},{"Title":"People were always rotten. But the world was beautiful.","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is highly underrated.Soylent Green is a one-of-a-kind movie. The future depicted in the movie is nothing at all like today, but that's what makes it so much fun.Many complain that it looks too much like the 70's, but that's how it is supposed to look like society hasn't advanced since the 70's.I thought the setting was very moving and unnerving, I will even go so far as to say some scenes in this movie really disturbed me. Along with the music and gritty characters, I was really moved.I thought Charlton Heston did a good job of playing Thorn, a NYC detective assigned to a high-profile murder case. Joseph Cotten did well portraying William Simonson, one of the top executives of the Soylent corporation. Leigh Taylor Young did well as Shirl, Simonson's furniture. Brock Peters did a good job of playing Hatcher, Thorn's snooty boss. The best performance by far was Edward Robinson as Sol Roth, Thorn's elderly roommate/friend/co-worker who was around back when the world was good and hates what it has become.The movie is very very gritty. Mean/heartless characters, rock-bottom settings, and all sorts of fun post-apocalyptic type of things.This is a very smart movie. Sci-fi fans should have this on their list.9/10 "},{"Title":"not quite as campy as one might expect, near classic sci-fi","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green - the words run shivers down your spine, kind of. At first 'Soylent' sounds like something you might put on your white rice at some fancy Chinese food restaurant. But in reality, at least the reality of 2022 New York, it's almost all that life is. In a future that wasn't too far from the truth as of 2008 in comparison to the conglomerization of corporations (i.e. fewer and fewer companies own things, now it's all scrunched together), 50% of the world's food is by the Soylent corporation, and meat or actual vegetables are so rare a commodity they have to be stolen undercover. Books are also hard to come by, so much so that they too need to be hidden from sight. It's in this realm of a dangerous, overcrowded and overcontroled society that Soylent Green, as a film, gains its power. It's a pretty frightening scenario, if filmed nevertheless (for the last time apparently) on 'old-school' MGM sets.Charlton Heston is very cool as a hero cop who just tries to do his job so someone else doesn't take it. He has a roommate/mentor in Edward G. Robinson's Sol (Robinson's last role, he still's got it), and he reminds him of the 'good old days', where it wasn't the people so much as just having things, knowing things actually existed that didn't keep people trapped. Heston is investigating a murder of a high-society chap (Joseph Cotton, barely on-screen for a scene), who turns out to be an ex-board of director's member of Soylent corp. There's more than Heston would've thought, especially as he's tailed, falls for the young girl who used to look after Cotton's apartment, and soon finds the one tailing him is really out to kill him. What is the big deal about this guy, or for that matter Soylent Green? The answer is obvious to anyone who's had the film told to them what it's about (Heston's line towards the end is the sibling-quote to his last lines in Planet of the Apes, to put it that way). But even with that twist in the climax, it all unfolds in a fascinating form. It's mature sci-fi, with only a few jokey parts (i.e. the trucks plowing people away), and a hard edge to it, at least as far as hard-edged Charlton Heston vehicles can get. It's not even so much Fleischer's direction that makes it so compelling- though he is a consummate professional through and through and does, to his credit, make those final minutes with Robinson in the screening room incredible as moving cinema- but the screenplay. There's a lot to think about behind some of the dated action scenes; there's a thought process to go just a step farther, as entertainment and intellectually, as a piece of commercial work. By the time those over-acted lines are belted out, the message has been made quite clear. I liked it a lot. A- "},{"Title":"A film that shows a potential future ahead of us","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While I enjoy films, I tend to think that movie plots could potentially happen in real life. This film is one of those ideas that could happen in the future.The film is basically starts out telling you that the world is overpopulated and real food is very rare. The film focuses on New York City and how life is dealing there. Half the population is out of work and overcrowding is a serious but unfix-able issue.Since food is scarce a company called Soylent was created and they produced a type of food source called Soylent and has different names for each based off the color of it (Soylent Red, Yellow, etc). Most of these are in wide fashion, however a new Soylent has come out called Soylent Green which is made out of plankton, however since the demand for it is greater than the supply Soylent green can only be obtained once a week.Charlton Heston plays a cop who investigates the murder of a rich man. Over the course of the film Charlton's character must find out why he was murdered and what exactly the secret of Soylent Green is. Edward G. Robinson plays Sol Roth an old man who helps Charlton's character in the film. Sol is known for saying why real food is rare, and how beautiful the world used to look before it was heavily damaged by people.Sol serves more or less as the information man side kick for the film. He finds out information and is able to find the real secret of Soylent Green.The script for the most part is really good, which some characters seem a little 2-d but that is mostly overlooked.While the movie itself is fiction, it does ask a very important question. Is this a potential future for the world we live in? It's possible that something similar to what happens in this film could happen in the future.Overall the film is good and is important to watch, regardless is you care about the environment or not. "}{"Title":"The Greenhouse Effect on Chuck","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've always liked this future-shock extrapolation of the way things may be a few decades from now, though, as of this writing, we're only a little over a decade away from the world depicted here (in year 2022). I'm not referring to the shocking revelation towards the end of the picture which, though intriguing and revolting, seems to have been included mostly for shock effect. I really liked all the details of future life depicted here, associated with the theme / problem of overpopulation (N.Y.City has 40 million people - it shouldn't be as bad when the real year comes around). There are many moments, such as the scarcity of food we currently take for granted, and the lack of decent living accommodations, seen mostly via the day-to-day existence of the main characters (Chuck Heston as a cop, Ed Robinson as his 'book,' Taylor-Young as 'furniture' - notice how certain people are referred to as things), that shows someone took time to work out the details through educated guesswork.I also liked the entire atmosphere of the film - the city is continually sweltering under a greenhouse effect out of control so everyone sweats. Though it's the future, there are no flying cars or similar advanced technology; indeed, the have-nots seem to just content themselves with hand-me-downs from past decades - witness the quaint little TV set in Heston's character's apartment. This actually makes sense; there's none of that unrealistic futurism of most other sf films, where it's as if, almost magically, one year all the super-advanced technology came about. So, this picture hasn't dated and probably won't for at least a dozen years; after that, who knows? It's odd how it wasn't well-received back in the seventies, but seems to have a growing appreciation now, much like Rollerball(75). Maybe the best thing about it, however, is the father-son relationship between Heston's and Robinson's characters. Robinson especially, in his final role, contributed an Oscar-worthy performance. To get a full night's marathon of Chuck's sf films, view this after Planet of the Apes, its sequel, and The Omega Man - all made just before his work here. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent green has become the peoples food of choice in a future world fulled with non-stop chaos, poverty, and overcrowed homes and streets. Charlton Heston stars as a police officer who starts investigating Soylent Green's workers and procedures, but the truth is far more frightening then he could ever imagine.Predictable with an ending you will see coming from nearly the very beginning of the film, but this well made, violent action pic offers enough excitement, jokes, and stunning visuals to maintain interest untill the end.Rated PG; Violence, Nudity, Profanity, and Mild Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Do we all really Know What we're eating now?","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do we truly know all the ingredients in our food today? How much has been touched by chemicals we are unaware of? Do we know if the food has been altered or not? With the advances in genetics and synthetic food items....do we really know what we are eating Today?We still pollute this world. The world of Soylent Green could become the reality of tomorrow.Yes, the film is flawed. It does have that 70s Deco feel. Everything isn't fully explained...like why some people are still allocated so much room while others are crumpled in the streets.Despite its flaws, this movie is definitely worth repeated viewing. Its best scenes are the beginning title sequence, the intense going home scene and the scene where Thorn brings home some strawberries to Sol. If you watch this movie, pay close attention to these spectacular and moving scenes.I absolutely love this movie. It shows that a film can have the courage to try and look at a very possible future and not sugarcoat anything.  "},{"Title":"Hard Boiled Detective investigates a murder in a Dark Future.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film is, first and foremost, a murder mystery.  From the moment it begins, Heston's character gathers clues in classic style, investigating the murder of an executive of the Soylent corporation.  Heston eventually concludes the man was killed because he knew something - something terrible - but what?The answer to this mystery reveals the dark secret of the film (one which, by now, everyone knows, but this in no way spoils one's enjoyment of it), and brings the film to it's dramatic, powerful climax. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Film","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Based on the novel Make Room, Make Room by Harry Harrison, but not following it faithfully,  Soylent Green is the story of a man charged with keeping order in a nightmarish world that is slowly suffocating to death.Charlton Heston turns in a wonderful performance as Thorn, a police detective who is investigating the murder of an executive of the Soylent company, the producer of over half of the world's food supply.  As he digs further into the case, the more the true story behind Soylent Green unravels... and the more the world he lives in unravels with it.This is a film that will stick with you... Soylent Green is one of those films that makes you sit and wonder what our world will be like in 20 years, and whether fiction really can become reality.  "},{"Title":"A forgotten classic...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A groundbreaking film in many ways, Soylent Green while not perfect, is a very good, very well told story which much like the book it was based on ('make room! make room!' by Harry Harrison) was quite ahead of it's time in a number of regards, not least of all it's frighteningly realistic portrayal of the future.One of the films prime advantages is the excellent sense of atmosphere that director Richard Fleischer has managed to bring to the screen, superbly capturing the feeling of a world half dead as a result of the greenhouse effect and vastly overpopulated. Poverty and even death lines the streets while the populace is almost completely apathetic to it all, walking around like drones, most of lifes simplest pleasures a thing of the distant past.The cast too are almost good to a t, with Charlton Heston very good in the central role of a cop, who just like everybody else is more concerned with looking after his own hide than anybody elses, drawn into something so sinister that he cant help but investigate it. Edward G. Robinson, in his last role, is nothing short of excellent as Heston's 'book' and friend, old enough to remember life as it used to be, and mourning life as it is now, while the rest of the cast, most notably Leigh Taylor-Young and Brock Peters, all also do well in their respective roles.If the film does have one notable flaw it's that the ending is perhaps a little too abrupt, however the combination of a very good script (by Stanley R. Greenberg), along with strong acting and great direction makes up for any minor shortcomings the film may have, and all in all this is very satisfying sci-fi entertainment that has, unlike many of it's genre counterparts, more than stood the test of time.One man's opinion. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A film to see considering genetically modified organisms...","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With capital concentration and realities like the irresponsible genetical modifications of the living (plants, animals...and man--it's a matter of time--), Soylent Green could be an around the corner reality. Multi-nationals are now acquiring and manipulating life as if it was a merchandise. They are selling seeds that cannot reproduce after the first yield. All this could have an array of consequences that would sound the death knell for our planetary survival. It's not too late...I hope. "},{"Title":"Fine, thought provoking Sci Fi","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With themes such as global warming and over-population, this earthy,classic sci-fi film strikes a remarkably contemporary note. Charlton Heston (Thorn) is a detective in a future New York shrouded in smog and so full of people that half of them seem to sleep in the streets. He and his researcher, or book (a brilliantly touching Robinson),attempt to find the motive behind an assassination that the authorities would prefer to remain a mystery.The victim is a board member of the Soylent Corp. which controls world food supplies at a time of strict rationing and it is Soylent's methods of production which are being covered up.Most will know the plot twist here, suffice to say it isn't a huge shock ,being too well telegraphed, but the concept is so strong that it still leaves a  marked impact. The direction is suitably claustrophobic, gritty and sometimes a touch barbaric.The action scenes are well handled and the use of classical music highlights the most poignant moment perfectly.If the sets have dated,the story remains powerful enough to hold the viewer throughout and the leading characters are well drawn and so well played that the human side often outshines the sci-fi element. Heston has seldom offered a more natural screen presence, dominating each scene aside from those he shares with Robinson(in his final film).The veteran tough-guy reminds us that here was an actor head and shoulders above his contemporaries in Hollywood.His superb handling of the character and his situation produces a fitting final bow from a genuine star of the screen. At the dawn of a new millennium,this nightmare vision from 25 years ago looks disturbingly possible in the next century.  "},{"Title":"A Bad Dystopian Movie","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What makes SOYLENT GREEN a bad movie is that the famous revelation at the end just doesn't seem that big. I mean, there don't seem to be many alternatives to eating SOYLENT GREEN. People might be disgusted for a few hours but then they'll realize that there is little else to eat.Maybe this might have been more interesting to watch if we didn't all know the ending. This is a movie that's been ruined by popular culture. The most famous line in this movie (Charlton Heston's revelation) was listed by AFI as the 77th best movie quote of all-time. Just about everyone who watches this today probably already knows the ending. I know I did.SOYLENT GREEN wouldn't have been bad if it had other stuff to offer than its most famous line but it seems to exist just for its most famous line. Nothing else is very good. Charlton Heston is okay but he was much better in other movies, like BEN-HUR, PLANET OF THE APES and THE TEN COMMANDMENTS. I think he was trying but the script didn't really offer much. Everyone's already pointed out that Edward G. Robinson gave a great final performance and I think he did too. I wish I could say that his performance alone saved the movie but, unfortunately, there are too many things in this movie for it to balance them out.Quite a few things don't make sense. The world isn't believable. Why aren't more people dying because of hunger or illness? How can the government support so many people? I realize the filmmakers might have been trying to point out some problems with the Soviet Union but there weren't that many people in the Soviet Union. I can understand why some people even have to sleep on the stairs in Charlton Heston's apartment but why aren't there more people on the streets (especially at night).Now I really like many cheesy sci-fi movies that don't make sense. LOGAN'S RUN is an example. I like it because it does get quite poignant at times. SOYLENT GREEN is rarely touching (the most touching scene is at the end and I won't spoil it for anyone).Some of the exposition techniques were kind of clumsy. There's a scene where Charlton Heston is talking to someone through a glass with a microphone. There is someone by him (a doctor, I think) who can hear everything that the man Heston is talking to is saying. The story could not work if the doctor(and the audience) knew what the man was telling Heston. So how did the writers solve this problem? By having the speaker through which Heston is listening to the man malfunction. The doctor gives Heston headphones to listen through. This, of course, means that only Heston knows what the other man is saying and not the doctor or the audience. I just thought this was really clumsy. Why not have the doctor not stand by Heston to begin with? Sorry if this explanation of the scene was confusing but you'll understand what I'm saying when you see it.The movie isn't even pleasant to look at. Now I know this is a dystopian movie but there are many dystopian movies that look nice. LOGAN'S RUN, which came out just 3 years later (although it did have a much higher budget, I'll admit) looks great for when it was made. BLADE RUNNER looks excellent; it's visuals hold up very well today. The biggest problem is that the story is quite sparse. Basically, this is a 30- or maybe 45-minute story in a 97-minute movie. "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Classic With A Message!!","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...what hasn't been said about Soylent Green? This Movie ranks in my book as an all time favorite. I first saw this movie at the now closed Rodeo Drive-In in Tucson, AZ. in 1973, and still to this day, It makes me more aware of what's to come if we as habitants of this planet don't take more care of it and ourselves! Released in 1973, this movie takes place in the future and by now, most of country is in ruins . . . more or less. Chuck Heston plays a cop investigating a homicide of William R. Simonsen (Played by Joseph Cotten & like Eddie Robinson, this too was his last movie completed). To make a long story short, the secret of Soylent Green is uncovered and ....well, take it from there! This movie (if you know your actors) included cast members from other Sci-Fi pictures as well as well known character actors. I just discovered that this movie is being re-made. In my opinion (for what it's worth), this movie should be left alone and not re-made!! This Classic ... after more than 30 years since it's release, is more popular than ever!! Also, the motion picture soundtrack has now become available! Before the VHS/DVD and the now released soundtrack become obsolete, GRAB IT!!! By the way, Leigh Taylor-Young is an ABSOLUTE BABE in this movie! "}{"Title":"Great Charlton Heston movie...one of his BEST from the seventies.","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yes, Charlton Heston was a supporter of the Republican Party, but he was also a STRONG supporter of the Civil Rights Act and an environmentalist. This movie is more about the environmentalism that Heston, himself, was concerned - the overpopulation of the planet, which could lead to an environmental holocaust. The rise of global warming, lack of food supply, and an ecosystem breakdown could easily happen in the blink of an eye. You can see the effects of the air pollution on the city and the yellowish horizon has become the atmosphere. People wear masks, have little or no money, and they are eating Soylent Green - a soy product that is rich in vitamins. The film takes place in 2022 A.D., which is not too far from now.Heston plays the part of Detective Thorn along with his partner and friend, Sol (Edward G. Robinson in his final role). Thorn and Sol soon discover what Soylent Green is and they must risk their lives in the process. I liked Heston's character as it reminded me of Harrison Ford's role in Bladerunner - the loner detective who is trying to solve the problems of society.A science fiction classic.GRADE 8/10 "},{"Title":"Grown up Sci-Fi","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Its funny how coming back to a movie that you might not have enjoyed that much as a youth makes far more sense and is far more grounded in reality than you initially realized. That is what Soylent Green is to me. Let's just get the honorable mentions out of the way. Lincoln Kilpatrick(who never has gotten his due) Dick Van Patten(yes, Mr. Eight is Enough in something like this)Paula Kelly(who was the go to actress for these kind of deep, trippy films-see The Andromeda Strain and The Spook Who Sat by the Door)who showed that she was more than a great dancer. Chuck Connors and Leigh-Taylor Young in the best film either of them would appear in.Charlton Heston He's a problematic Hollywood superstar. He was a devoted civil-rights activist back in the day. Yet he turned hard right-wing conservative. This film seems to carry both of those sides of his personality. A cop with a very soft spot. The film isn't for the faint of heart or those looking for a complete and reassuring conclusion. "},{"Title":"Ah, people were always lousy. But there was a world, once.","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This sci-fi classic is still good even if you know the ending, which I will not tell you.Charleton Heston is a NYPD Detective. That's New York in 2022, when there are 40 million people. There is no real food except for the super rich. The rest of the people eat crackers made of soybeans or plankton - when they can get it. People sleep practically on top of each other on stairways, in doorways, anywhere they can.A rich man is murdered and the trail that Heston is following leads him to the truth. The Truth! No, you can't handle the truth, which is why it is a closely guarded secret and the rich man became unreliable.Great support by such stars as Leigh Taylor-Young, Chuck Connors, Joseph Cotten, Brock Peters, Paula Kelly, and Edward G. Robinson.I like director Richard Fleischer, who died last year. He directed my favorite Charles Bronson movie - Mr. Majestyk. "},{"Title":"A brilliant ecological disaster of a movie!!","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is a film that manages to articulate the threat of an environmental problem&#133; a problem parable to an ecological disaster and the notions that surround it from over-crowding to food shortages. The film depicts an undesirable, yet avoidable, future state of society.It is based on Harry Harrison's novel, Make Room Make Room! and is a detective story set in early 21st century Manhattan in which the greenhouse effect and rampant overpopulation have degraded quality of life to what is perceived as a point of no return. It is a world that has its rare luxuries reserved for the corporate class, it is a world that supports the greedy and punishes the poor and in a desperate attempt to ward off mass starvation and civil unrest, the government employs secret processes to tackle the mass hysteria. Soylent Green is ultimately about a dystopian society, a favoured film narrative of mine, and as argued by Orwell and others alike a classical dystopia is one that has flourished in societies besotted by greed, destruction, and death. Greed, destruction and death are themes that are employed throughout Soylent Green.Loosely the film is about a detective, Thorn (Charlton Heston), who is put on a homicide investigation that at first seems to be an opportunistic murder by a burglar. However, the more Thorn learns about the victim, William R. Simonson (Joseph Cotton) the less the case seems routine. Furthermore, when Thorn's boss, Hatcher (Brock Peters) wants to close it less than twenty-four hours after it has been opened, Thorn realises that something is wrong and pursues the case even more relentlessly. As his investigation, and the film, progresses Thorn begins to question the society that he lives in (a common theme in dystopian narratives) thus embarking upon a quest of taking his investigation to the highest levels only to discover an evil secret. Soylent Green creates a world in which we, the viewer, are invited to witness something that can be perceived as being very close to our own world as it personifies the economic, political and cultural dimensions of our own and manages this by showing us a conceivable future society. Soylent Green is an apocalyptic science fiction film and as commonly witnessed in dystopian narratives, it builds upon the fears that there were apparent in American society during that era. One of those fears were that perhaps America could become like its enemy at that time&#133; a Third World Country on the brink of desperation due to its immigration protocols and resource depletion&#133; and in representing these fears the film manages to orchestrate a dystopian vision by utilising the idea of an ecological disaster... which is of course something that is common place in many Third World Countries&#133; even today.Soylent Green is a great addition to this genre and as usual Charlton Heston plays his Character brilliantly. This is his third film in his personal apocalyptic trilogy (Planet of the Apes and The Omega Man), it may not be the best but it is a welcomed instalment. Anybody wishing to see this should not expect anything too exciting, instead they should just sit back and enjoy the message(s) it conveys. "},{"Title":"Offers a chilling (if somewhat dated) portrait of the future.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While not as exciting as Planet of the Apes or as cheesy as The Omega Man, Soylent Green is still a very good science fiction film. And when I say science fiction, I don't mean all the Star Wars crap that pushed the genre back to Buck Rogers. I mean actual scientific speculation and a depiction of the future of Earth. This was before Lucas' extravaganza when the genre was actually intelligent. Soylent Green offers a chilling (if somewhat dated) portrait of the future. The film isn't a masterpiece (the screenplay and pacing are a bit sluggish), but its entertaining in addition to being genuinely smart and clever. The film's twist ending is known by many but it doesn't really affect the enjoyment of the film.What makes the film work so well in addition to the great storyline is the acting. Personal politics aside, Charlton Heston is a great movie star. The man breathes charisma and machismo and is an ideal action star. Hes a pretty good actor to boot also, witness the touching euthanasia sequence. Also, in his last screen role, Edward G. Robinson is fantastic and steals every scene hes in. It was a fitting way to go out for the screen legend. Great support is offered from the beautiful Leigh Taylor-Young, Chuck Connors (the man should have gotten more villain roles), and Joseph Cotten. Soylent Green is a smart and fun science fiction film that works on more than just a kitsch level. (7/10) "},{"Title":"A possible time-line for us","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not often have i had the feeling of a movie it could be visionary. But clearly this movie has the seed of a premonition.We should not tend to be alarmists and see armageddon in something because it seems to fit our emotions of the moment. But, didn't we say this of 1984 ? Had James Orwell known the Internet becoming reality not long after 1984; In fact it was in 1994; he might have reconsidered writing his story the way he did. Hindsight rewarded.It doesn't matter. What DOES matter is that we often regard ourselves as superior to our surroundings but indeed become emotional about a love apple when necessity knocks at our door. A snapshot of ourselves at old age.Whatever the time-line will prove to be for us, I know for a fact we haven't seen the beginning of it yet. "},{"Title":"Great Movie but...","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie but there could be more about Soylent Green. There should be more scenes of what they do to people. How people act in 2022. I think it would be neat to see if all this does happen in the year 2022 and beyond. Even if you still know what the secret is it is a great movie. So go rent or buy this movie right NOW!! "},{"Title":"Soylent green is Today's Fast Food","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first watched Soylent Green way back in 1973. I liked the movie despite the bad advertising and lack of surprise ending. It has stuck my mind ever since (I mean I must think about this movie once every month for the past 30 years). Forget the special effects, clothing, scenery, etc. the story alone will carry the movie through. This is a cult science fiction. Excellent movie starring Charleston Heston. I never liked this guy in any movie except this one.Soylent Green is based on people eating human carcasses without people being aware of it. While we are far from this premises, we are going toward that trend eating junk foods, chicken McNuggets made from parts of a Chicken you will never know which parts you are eating, trans-fatty acid vegetable oils, dangerous sugar substitutes which breaks down into a toxic nerve poison, chlorinated water, mercury tainted tuna, hydrogenated vegetable oil cookies, etc. Soylent Green therefore is a parallel with our society much like what we are witnessing the movie 1984, which concerns big brother. The movie is very thought provoking and the concept of us eating trash today is very similar to what Soylent Green is all about. If you give me a choice between Soylent Green Food and Today's Poisonous Junk food, I think people of Soylent Green got a better deal then we do!!! Look at us now, fat, heart disease prone, childhood diabetes, eating fresh vegetables with very high fluoride content and insecticide, and foods laced with pseudo-estrogen compound, etc., etc. You must see this movie as it draws some parallels our society today - uncaring government, etc.For what that movie did to my thinking in the next 30 years and how I became SO nutritional conscious because we really have to know WHAT WE ARE EATING. And this was way back in the early 70s before everybody got a chance to know about vitamin E, Linus Pauling's vitamin C, or that soda pop causes obesity, etc. You can say I am another Charleston Heston food detective! I give it 10/10. It profoundly changed my life! What more could you say? "},{"Title":"... And Soylent Green's #1 Ingredient Was What!!??","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Set in the future of 2022 (which seemed to be suspiciously deprived of technology's gadgetry) - Soylent Green (from 1973) was such a laughable piece of frivolous, Sci-Fi junk that it really should have been billed as a two-bit comedy.When it came to the likes of genuine suspense and drama, to me, Soylent Green was about on par with that of a typical Care Bear cartoon.With its story taking place in a (supposedly) over-crowded NYC of 40 million, this ridiculous, low-budget movie contained so many empty street scenes that the viewer would have to be a totally clueless, hee-haw hillbilly to believe that this city's population exceeded more than, say, 50 people, tops.Oh, yes. And, speaking about Charlton Heston (and his phony-looking hairpiece), believe me, this total slug-of-an-actor was clearly too old for his part at age 50.Heston unconvincingly played Detective Thorn, a stud-muffin, who (as an apparently trustworthy law-enforcer) regularly stole valuables from crime sites and freely entered people's homes, ruthlessly conducting extensive searches without any warrant.If I'm really expected to believe that the producers of this production actually cared about the world's present state of mass pollution and over-population, then they sure fooled me.I found this so-called Message Movie, and its message, to be such a completely hypocritical contradiction that I'm convinced that the greedy, little production company who produced this picture was only interested in one thing - And that was - Making themselves (and their stars) a whole pile of money - And the rest of the world be damned! "},{"Title":"dated but worthy sci-fi","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A cop investigates the murder of corporate executive in a nightmarish New York of the future.  Low production values, holes in the plot are salvaged by sterling performances and plot concepts (global overpopulation and environmental disaster) that remain relevant today.  Somewhat similar in feel to the superior Bladerunner (1982). (Rating B+) "}{"Title":"Ruined by the Ending","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is more interesting as a futuristic milieu than as a story. From a 1973 perspective, the movie imagines the world in 2022, where the temperature is stifling owing to the greenhouse effect, and where overpopulation has reached critical proportions. Only the very rich and well-connected eat what for us is ordinary food, while the vast majority must eat crackers of different colors indicating their quality, with green being the most desirable because it is the most nutritious. Even water is rationed.There are film noir elements in this movie. Detective Thorn (Charlton Heston) is basically a good cop, but when investigating the crime scenes of rich victims, he does a little looting, mostly taking items of food, like beefsteak, vegetables, and liquor, and he also helps himself to whatever prostitute, referred to as furniture, happens to be attached to the luxury apartment.Whereas today, a science fiction movie must display the latest in special effects, such as CGI and 3D, this movie effectively creates its world without recourse to anything but ordinary photography. We see Thorn having to struggle to walk up the steps to his apartment, because there are so many people sleeping on the stairs. Later, when a riot starts because there is a shortage of Soylent Green wafers, we see dump trucks called scoops being used to remove people from the streets.As for the plot, Thorn investigates the murder of Simonson (Joseph Cotton), which he suspects is an assassination. Thorn's assistant, referred to as a book, on account of his ability to do research on old written material, is Sol (Edward G. Robinson). Sol learns a terrible secret and decides to end it all by going to a euthanasia center, where he gets to look at scenes of nature as it once was and listen to beautiful music for twenty minutes before dying from some concoction he imbibed. Before dying, he tells Thorn that the plankton used to make Soylent Green is disappearing from the oceans. As a substitute for the loss of plankton, people that die are secretly processed and turned into the Soylent Green wafers.The problem with the story described thus far is that it never gets past the ick factor. Rich men are obnoxious, and we resent the way they are so privileged and arrogant. The image of old people walking into euthanasia centers to end their lives is creepy. And the use of human flesh to make edible wafers is disturbing. Setting aside the fact that cannibalism can lead to the transmission of abnormal prions as in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the main objection to using human flesh for consumption is that the idea of it is repulsive. But in a world that is overpopulated and in which there is a food shortage, such a solution may actually be rational. After all, we are not talking about the kind of cannibalism where we have a bunch of savages standing around a pot with a missionary in it. The people being turned into food either died naturally or, in the case of the euthanasia centers, voluntarily. So, the worst you can say about such a world is that it makes us feel a little queasy.Nevertheless, the movie should have simply ended with this revelation about Soylent Green. Instead, in an apparent effort to make the whole business more insidious, Thorn tells his supervisor, They're making our food out of people. Next thing, they'll be breeding us like cattle. Unfortunately, this line, which is supposed to make us even more horrified by what is going on, only makes us groan at its absurdity. In a world where there are too many people, it makes no sense to breed more. You just eat the ones you have. Furthermore, according to my rough, back-of-the-envelope calculations, you would have to feed people at least five times as much protein to raise them as you would get out of them once you brought them to slaughter. Because this idea of breeding people is illogical, it turns what would have been a believable, pessimistic vision of the future into something so silly we can only snort with contempt. "},{"Title":"Creepy.","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'd like to say first that somehow I didn't know what Soylent Green was about before I watched it last night, and I won't spoil it for anyone who doesn't know and is considering watching it. It turns out it's a bit horrible, really. It's not really a horror film, but just a creepy sci-fi film, set in a densely overpopulated New York City of 2022, where supplies, including food such as fruit, vegetables and meat, are scarce, and space is something citizens must fight for.Detective Thorn, who is thrown into a sinister plot involving the Soylent corporation after investigating a murder of a rich man working for the same company, does have some space in a small apartment, which he shares with Sol. Sol and Thorn's relationship is clearly strong, and is built throughout the film, until emotional sequences take place; however, I wasn't close to even welling up a little, as their relationship is not built in anywhere near the successful fashion Spot and Arlo's is in the previously reviewed The Good Dinosaur, for example (bet you didn't see that comparison coming!). Nonetheless, they are likable, and relatively, at least, relatable, in the horrible world they live in; as Charlton Heston does a good job as Thorn, who is the typical sort of cool, relaxed man with a slightly erratic style and an eye for heroism. But however a good job Heston does do as Thorn, he isn't as great a hero as the likes of other classics such as Luke Skywalker and the brilliant Toby Neary (Close Encounters). Nevertheless, he is different, and in a very different film.Soylent Green is dark, sinister and creepy; set in a world where there are too many people, and not enough supplies. Dark themes throughout and a general lack of hygiene shown, or respect of women, or people in general, and light, where all people seem to be slowly dying, develops the dark veil over the film, and the sinister feeling of general wrongness. It's an intriguing film, with an interesting story &#x96; at points providing through simply morbid fascination &#x96; that keeps you watching, though I don't think there is as interesting, or deep, a story as their could be, and it is at points predictable (which is odd, because usually I'm too stupid to predict anything!). Furthermore, though a clever world has been created, and the aforementioned sinister feeling works wonders, the film isn't actually particularly enjoyable. First off, it's too slow moving. It's okay to have a film slow moving if things happen throughout to keep the interest going, and it's also okay if every scene of the film builds to something, and has significance with the story. However, the film doesn't provide much action, much excitement, or much anything like that. Sure, they got the sinister thing going, but not a lot else.Indeed, Thorn is a good main character, and through him is told the strange story he is thrown into; moreover, Sol is likable, and a few side characters provide intrigue. But a lot of the acting is overblown, and some characters simply do not add anything to the film, other than a little to that sinister feeling. There is not enough character development on show with any of the wider cast, and there is also not enough development of the story through these characters, as they are just there to kind of say, Hey, I'm here! Things are looking real weird, aren't they. But there isn't all that much to really enjoy with this film. There's barely even a soundtrack. I see why they used a silent score in some instances, but I think the film could have really benefited from some more looming bass, or some dramatic music, just to spike the senses some more.However much missed potential there is, though, the cinematography is spot on, and the sets are perfect; so the clever world created is portrayed in the best possible way.VerdictAlthough there is a clever world created in Soylent Green and a smart story with a successfully developed sinister, dark and creepy veil, all with spot on cinematography and sets; the film I watched isn't particularly enjoyable or exciting. Yes, Heston does a good job as Detective Thorn, who is an apt vehicle for the narrative, but many other performances are overblown, and some characters simply don't add anything to the film, other than small developments of the sinister feeling, which is one of the few things this film got totally right. It's too slow moving, and there is not enough action, or a good use of music or sounds, which the film would have benefited from. Also, though there is a smart story at the heart of it, it is not used to its full potential and is regrettably a little predictable.It's a decent film, but not one I'll likely watch again.So I give it 70/100. "},{"Title":"needs more action","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's the year 2022. Earth is polluted and overcrowded. NYC has a population of 40M. Nothing really works anymore and natural resources are scarce. Soylent Industries controls the food supply for half the world and soylent green is the newest form. Frank Thorn (Charlton Heston) is a NYPD detective who lives with his elderly friend Sol Roth (Edward G. Robinson). Thorn is given the murder case of the wealthy elite William R. Simonson (Joseph Cotten) presumed to be a burglary. Simonson has a mysterious conversation with the burglar before he's killed. Shirl (Leigh Taylor-Young) is a concubine or furniture that comes with the apartment. Tab Fielding (Chuck Connors) is his bodyguard. Thorn suspects an assassination and then higher ups start interfering with his investigation.There is an interesting concept here but it needs more action. All the ideas are well incorporated into the movie although the green haze is done badly. The movie needs to have faster pacing and some action would help. Heston is a solid lead but he's somewhat alone. Robinson still has great presence but the girl is just a pretty face. This is a movie where eating a simple meal is fascinating. The movie spends too much time immersing in this sci-fi world while the investigation moves at a snail's pace. The riot is big enough but the scoops are too silly. When the action does come, it's not the most exciting. "},{"Title":"a good old one","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green surprises with its depiction of near future, which is on par with a lot of science fiction movies made several decade after it. I guess that the memory of rations during the Second World War might as well resonated with the viewers.The future is bleak according to Soylent Green. The overpopulation and unemployment turned New York into a shanty town. On the other side is guarded housing for the upper classes where the lady of the house comes with the furniture and is referred to as such.The overall atmosphere is good and on par with movies with similar topic filmed decades later. There are wonderful details ranging from riot police to clear the mess at a food market to Charlton Heston's delight with running water in one of the aforementioned apartments.The only thing slightly ruining the viewers' pleasure is the simplicity if not naivety with which the main character solves the mysteries behind the Soylent Corporation. "},{"Title":"There was a world once.","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the year 2022, the world is kind of a mess due to overpopulation and pollution and all of the big panic-button issues of the '70s. In the midst of all this, the president of the Soylent Corporation is murdered. The Soylent Corporation makes processed food from plankton in the oceans. Their newest product is a green wafer called Soylent Green and it's supposed to be more nutritious than their previous products. Police detective Frank Thorn (Charlton Heston) investigates the murder which draws him into the mystery behind Soylent Green. Chances are you know the big secret already even if you haven't seen the film. Heston's famous line went on to become a pop culture catchphrase. Plus, if you're reading IMDb reviews you're almost certainly going to be spoiled as half of the reviews I've read here boldly list the plot twist without any warning at all.Heston is good but the highlight of the film is Edward G. Robinson in his last film role. A brilliant, touching performance from a legendary actor; one of the greats. Richard Fleischer's direction is excellent. Love the music and sets. The story is smart and interesting. This is an exciting, unique sci-fi thriller from a time before dystopian sci-fi stories became so clich-ridden and dull. "},{"Title":"more    than   a  classic","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" a film who explores many common fears of people and who becomes, decade by decade, a kind of alternative reality. so, a visionary . but more important than people as ingredients of industry, the large picture of dictatorship is really impressive. and that is the tool who gives to Charlton Heston possibility to explore each nuance of his role. a complete film who use drama and eroticism, western,thriller and Sci. Fi.,black utopia and force of image. but, more important, an impeccable script and a good cast. it has the flavor of its period. but, strange, that represents a real virtue. a film who impress. again and again. for its cold emotion. for a characters who reminds Don Quixote and the mentor who discovers essence of evil. and, sure, an inspired end. "},{"Title":"Four decades on","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think I watched 'Soylent Green' about 4 times around 1980 on TV when the movie was quite new, in the 1990s on videotape, in the 2000s on DVD and 2013 on Blu-ray disc. Each decade, the world resembles the world 'Soylent Green' described a bit more. The subjects of the movie of global warming, pollution of the environment, overpopulation (world population almost doubled since 1973) and decline of food quality (just watch a chicken meat production line these days) are more topic than ever before. It would be a convenient excuse to say this development was unpredictable, but apparently, if you watch 'Soylent Green', it wasn't. Admittedly, there are also some ingredients which have not aged well; dark streets with gangsters and call-girls are referencing back to the 1940s film noir rather than showing a future society. Nevertheless, take that away and you still have a very important movie. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is tasty","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's the year 2022 and the world has completely gone to hell. Overpopulation has strangled the planet, nature as we know it has ceased to exist. There are 40 million people living in New York City alone and that is where our story is set. To call it a grim setting would be underselling it by quite some distance. Homeless people are crammed into every available space, living in the streets, in abandoned cars, in apartment building stairwells. Food is scarce. Fruits, vegetables? Forget it. And nobody's seen beef for years. Well, maybe a few people have. There are a lucky few who live in wealth and relative splendor. One of the seemingly lucky ones is William R. Simonson, a director of the Soylent Corporation. Soylent manufactures the wafers which are the food rations the general population survives on. These wafers come in various, different-colored varieties. By far the most popular is the tasty and nutritious Soylent Green. People riot in the streets to get some of this stuff. All seems well for the Soylent Corporation. They've got a product the world literally can't live without. But there is something about Soylent's operation which is tormenting Simonson. He knows a secret and his powerful friends are willing to kill to protect that secret. Simonson is assassinated. It's made to look like a robbery but police detective Thorn knows better. Thorn starts digging, trying to get to the bottom of the mystery. What he finds will shock him and shake him to his core.Charlton Heston plays Thorn and turns in a very solid, restrained performance. Maybe Heston goes a little over-the-top at the end but with what his character has discovered it's hard to blame him. While Heston is the film's star the real treat is Edward G. Robinson. He plays Sol Roth, an old scholar who assists Thorn in the investigation. There aren't many scholars around in this dystopian world. Sol is old enough to remember the way the world used to be, the beauty and majesty of it all. Robinson does a terrific job bringing out Sol's sadness at what the world has become. This would prove to be Robinson's final film which makes things all the more poignant. The best scene, by far, in the film comes near the end. It is a terrific scene for the character of Sol Roth and a truly magnificent send-off for the great Edward G. Robinson. It is the one truly great moment in a film which otherwise falls a little shy of greatness. It is a good film with an intriguing premise, a compelling mystery. The film provides a fascinating, and horrifying, look at mankind's possible future. There is the sense though that the film struggles at times for momentum. And the twist which so thoroughly shocks Thorn may not be as shocking for the audience, you can see it coming. But all in all it is a film well worth seeing. The story may have its flaws but it works well enough. Heston is good and Robinson is terrific, it's worth seeing the film for his performance alone. The teeming masses in this film would do anything to get their hands on some tasty Soylent Green. Movie audiences will find Soylent Green to be pretty tasty too. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green Is...","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Charlton Heston stars as New York City Detective Thorn, who, along with his partner Sol Roth(Edward G. Robinson, his last film) investigate the brutal murder of a top executive at Soylent industries, a global company that produces valuable foodstuffs for the overpopulated and undernourished people of the year 2022, in which the Earth is now polluted and running out of resources. Thorn's investigation takes him to the heart of Soylent Green, a popular food that holds a terrible secret, one that must be kept at any cost...Potentially intriguing ecological Sci-Fi tale is instead far too dated and dreary to succeed. Final revelation about Soylent green is obvious, and though director Richard Fleisher tries to make the story topical and stylish, his efforts aren't enough to compensate for the many shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is a people movie! I ate it all up!","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's for the people to wake up and look at all the current issues, we're dealing with today! It's a scary movie that foreshadow a bleak Malthusian future if we don't do anything about it. This movie was made at a time when Paul Ehrlich's The Population Bomb was causing alarm throughout the academic and cultural elites in this country. Directed by Richard Fleischer, the film is a science fiction film noire. The meat of the story is that in 2022, the environment of the world has been nearly wipe out due to over population. Homeless people fill the streets and food is scarce; and most of the population survives on rations of Soylent Green produced by the Soylent Corporation. The food is believe to be high energy plankton, more nutritious and palatable than its predecessors Red and Yellow, but in short supply. The Soylent Company is running as all-time high, as the lack of a productive democratic government allows for a corporate take-over of the government, that become an unbalanced privatization, where increased profits are prioritized over the well-being of individuals and societies. Think of the Nazi regime and how they supplied corporations such as ThyssenKrupp with slave laborers. Here government also supplied the security forces for the Soylent Company with a special brand of fascism called corporatism. Still they have a thorn in their rose garden that trying to prick them. By Thorn, I meant Detective Thorn (Charleston Heston) who is investigating into the murder of a wealthy businessman in the Soylent Company, but what he finds might shock him and the world even more. Charleston Heston was great. There's a scene in an orphanage where Heston talks to a burnt out priest that is especially powerful. Based on Harry Harrison's book, Make Room! Make Room!, the title was changed by the producers, who feared that audiences would confuse it with the Danny Thomas' TV series Make Room for Daddy. The word Soylent is supposed to suggest soybeans and lentils. New York City Police Department detective Robert Thorn lives with his aged friend Solomon Sol Roth (Edward G. Robertson), a former scholar who helps Thorn's investigations. Edward G. Robertson was amazing in this film as the funny and poignant cranky partner who constantly talks about the good old days. He really put it all on the line. See at the time, he was in very poor health with cancer, Edward was almost totally deaf when he made this movie, and only able to hear anyone if they spoke directly into his ear. His best performance was the scene where he was 'going home'. Charlton Heston was really crying because he was so moved by Edward G. Robinson's performance. Robinson knew he was dying from cancer and kept it from the cast and crew. He knew this would be his last film, and only Charlton Heston knew about the Cancer. Edward died just ten days after shooting wrapped. The music overture in that scene alone was beautiful and the beautiful shots of stock footage of nature felt nostalgia for a character that saw those natural landmarks disappears in his own eyes. Great use of classic music like Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 6, the Pathetique. Follow up with Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony #6 The Pastoral and Morning from Edvard Grieg's Peer Gynt Suite #1. This movie is very slow at times, but the big reveal, the payoff of the movie was pushed through pretty fast. I feel like I just wasted an hour and a half in some scenes. The ending scene is a still a big twist to those who haven't saw the movie, but it's never going to be a big enough surprised as it was in 1973. The DVD cover pretty much gives it away anyways. Plus, it's so out there, that most people who knows about the film, knows what Soylent Green before watching the film. Everyone by now knows the plot and the famous catch phrase. So the movie lose a lot of suspense, do to that. Still, Hannibal Lector would love the movie, Soylent Green. Dog eat Dog world just became people eat Soylent Green world. This movie is just amazing with its message. I just wish it had more technology or futuristic sets. The sets look like cardboard and the effects are primitive. In one scene a woman plays a modern video game that looks like first generation Missile Command. The movie can be a bit sexist, as women in the film are wooden characters just there for eye candy and the random sex scene. Perhaps we should just educate the women and make condoms in surplus. Educated women usually have fewer children and the availability of condoms will allow people to control their reproductive cycles. Just an idea. Anyone who has taken the time to research will find out the scenarios portrayed in that book know that something isn't right. Instead of mass starvation, we have a crisis in obesity in much of the world. The famines we have are largely human-engineered, the result of war and population displacement. It is ludicrous to believe New York City or any other place in 2022 will look anything remotely like it does in Soylent Green, but it's still possible. Still, the demographics are a little off as, amongst the hoards of milling masses are nearly all white. Wouldn't the largest amounts of people be Asian or Hispanic? Shouldn't the movie be call El Soylent Verde? The movie is dated, but 'Soylent Green' has always been a favorite of mine. I love it. Pick up a copy of the film and treat yourself. Definitely worth a purchase! Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Life-affirming","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is the ultimate life-affirming film. The opening sequence depicting the evolution of over crowded America is so haunting it has stayed with me my entire life. The entire film is dark, very dark. Edward G. Robinson gives an outstanding performance as an old man wishing he was dead rather than live in ruined world we created where seeing an apple or a new book can bring you to tears. His character conveys that although he misses having apples and books we were never grateful for them anyway. We were always rotten and will continue to be rotten. Then comes the scene where he kills himself. I have seen this scene over 30 times and I am still just as in awe as I was the first few times. Probably one of the most beautiful and affecting scenes in a film I can ever imagine. You realized how dark the movie was up until now where you finally see the film's first flower, a deer running, a sun in the sky, and a world very common to us outside of the storyline. As the younger character Thorn is seeing these images of our old world I usually begin to cry. How could I not? The scene is around 4-5 minutes long. It is going to stay with me until I die. It represents art, beauty, beginning, change, and a reminder to love. The movie ends shortly after and Thorn is killed after revealing the secret of Soylent Green. This is a forever touching and life-affirming film if you allow it to be. I recommend watching it in 35mm if at all possible. "},{"Title":"One Of Our Better Dystopian Films","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'll be blunt&#x97;Soylent Green is an easy film to laugh at. From its low budget, to its vintage Charlton Heston performance, to the shock revelation, to the infamy of the 'Soylent Green is People,' line, to the very dated look of the film, there is a lot to tempt a viewer to laugh rather than work with it for an experience.But laughing the film off fails to recognize one thing---it is a pretty good movie. It is also a rare type of film---one that takes on an interesting moral topic for our society in a manner that is entertaining and lacks pretension. The film falls under the dystopian sci-fi sub genre, which I have a soft spot for. As far as those types of films go, Soylent Green has a creative and vivid concept of the future. It is a bit like A Christmas Carol for planet earth---'This is what will happen if we don't change our ways!' And frankly, even in this day and age we have not changed things enough to avoid a bad era sometime in the future. At every turn Americans seem to have a doom and gloom notion that reveals their knowledge deep down that trouble is ahead if we don't change our ways and solve a great many problems.Soylent Green came about in an era that perfectly exemplifies this sort of activist mindset, the awareness of what people do to the earth and what that could come to mean. As the youth of the 1960's rebelled and became more socially aware, an explosion of small causes and awareness niches took root in the early seventies. One of these was environmental activism, the idea that earth needed protecting, particularity from the trappings of consumer culture. Unfortunately, this idea has more or less been only at the fringe. But Soylent came about when these ideas were new and close to becoming mainstream. The brilliant opening montage is one of my favorites in any film I've seen. It pretty well sets the stage for the film in a number of seconds while creating a mini work of art which sets a mood of agitation under the rest of the film. However, this short montage is the manic build up, and despite intrigue, murder and the stress of living in a world that is shutting down under the burden of overpopulation, the rest of the film has an emptiness and placidity to it. We are disturbed by images a pea soup air, shovel loaders full of people, and staircases full of sleeping people at all hours of the day. But a calm loneliness pervades. Part of this is because a big part of the film is about relationships. This is both unusual for a dystopian film and what is arguably a B- movie. The acting is amazing. Charlton Heston is a hard nosed detective, Thorn who grew up after overpopulation problems took over. His roommate, case researcher and most importantly best and only friend is a smart, tired old man named Sol, who remembers earth before overpopulation. Imagine landscapes, flowing streams, wildlife, fresh and unprocessed food being only memory. It is a very emotional thing for Sol, and the viewers. It only becomes emotional for Thorn after a meal with Sol consisting of fresh food taken from a murdered rich person's apartment.In many ways this film is a police procedural with some sci-fi dressing. But it quickly touches on a variety of issues in a surface way politics, class warfare, isolation, secretive government, gender relations, religion, spirituality, ethics. Most important is the moving relationship between Thorn (Heston) and Sol (Edward G. Robinson). It is a rock in the center of a society and planet that is crumbling. It is also the rock at the center of the film, bringing out career best performances from both actors. During the moving death scene where Sol checks into a sort of voluntary death program which involves a film of nature with music to pass to, all sci-fi evaporates, leaving the viewer only the subject of friendship. As the coda of the film happens, we are left to wonder if Thorn is more tortured by the horrible truth he's uncovered or the loss of his only friend in the world. Both point to how far humankind has sunk, or for us viewers, could sink. "},{"Title":"Watched 38 Years Later.","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I never heard of this movie for 38 years until someone used a phrase from the movie in a joking way, resulting in me researching this movie and finally watching it.I'm glad that i did. You may believe the movie is somewhat outdated but upon careful examination, you see just how much is in common with the movie and our time. It's basically a movie that portrays human nature in those tough conditions and also portrays the dangers of secrecy or deceit.I highly recommend that people watch this movie if their looking for something with a powerful and universal message. "},{"Title":"Still A Worthy Watch","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The 1970's was a curious decade. Movies from that period have a particular 'look' that's hard to define but quite clearly dates them. 'Soylent green' is no exception. Yet despite having aged, there are still plenty of details to admire in this work.Charlton Heston, who risked typecasting so many futureshock movies did he make, plays policeman Thorn. His beat is a world in which the population has grown without let, resources are diminished and the environment ruined. Global warming has set in. It's always hot. Edward G Robinson plays Sol, his ageing assistant. They share a cheap, shabby apartment. Sol works as researcher, records-clerk and general dog's-body. There is great chemistry between these two old Hollywood pros. They're a pleasure to watch and hear.Thorn is as ready to loot a crime-scene as investigate it. He's not bad. Times are hard and every little helps. Some wealthy bigwig is murdered. And as well as a curious case to solve there's choice pickings to be lifted, including soap, booze and real beefsteak. The investigation takes an unusual turn, ultimately throwing up a very grisly discovery.Most of this movie still stands-up to the test of time. Yes; it is blatantly 70's but the starring leads and a host of interesting issues and details still make for a very entertaining watch. If I have a grumble, it is that the investigation was a tad too formulaic. I would have liked to see a few more twists and turns with a sudden shock or two leading up to the final denouement. Like the later and much more lavish 'Blade Runner' a basic story in spread pretty thinly and packed-out with detail instead. 'Soylent Green' still has a lot more believable plot, though. "},{"Title":"The shorter the better the classicker","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This science fiction is typical of a whole period, the very period after 1968. It was the time when the hippies died at the end of Hair, when the flower boys and girls departed at the end of Fritz the cat or Alice's Restaurant, when the Vietnam war became very ugly in Zabriskie Point, when the lying president was going to be re-elected for him to be resigned by Congress just one year later and buried by Jimi Hendrix in Woodstock. This film is just the testament of that dying world. And it invented the mad cow disease just thirty years before use dead human carcasses to feed the living and you will make that humanity degenerate so fast that there will be no crowded cities for long. It is the end of a period and nothing else and there is absolutely not one single ounce of future in that science fiction. But the music is great, especially the classical funeral march.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Old film but story relevant for today","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have just watched Soylent green - never heard of it before just stumbled upon it while channel hopping.I wasn't expecting to stay with the film, but I got taken in by the story line. 1973 movie and people supposedly in 2022. What struck me was Soylent green (Soya lentil) made from people. The film really got me thinking about stuff which is going on in the world today with all this genetically modified foods. I mean, if they can give cows dead animals to eat - cows are meant to be vegetarians!! (which we now get mad cows disease) - what the hell are we eating with all these preservatives and stuff in foods today.Although this film is slow moving, it really gets you thinking what the government maybe hiding from all of us.A great moment in the film is when Charlton Heston steals some food from a rich persons house (Things we take for granted) A bar of soap, am apple, a small bit of beef and some alcohol. When Edward G Robinsons sees and touches these, he breaks down and cries. Another great moment in the film is when Charlton Heston and Edward G Robinson sit round the table to have dinner with the food which they now have. They saviour every moment, and it was funny when Charlton Heston states he has never eaten like this before or even with a fork!!Again, we today take for granted the food, drink and stuff we have in abundance. What will we do if they are no longer there as in this film!!!A worthy film to take note of "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Relevant With A Nice Twist At The End","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you're looking for a modern-type sci-fi movie with futuristic weapons blasting laser beams all around you'll be disappointed with Soylent Green. This isn't what this movie is about at all. On the other hand, it manages to combine a mildly interesting story with a pretty powerful twist at the end, and - although it was made 35 years ago - has a background to the story that makes the movie still relevant in 2008.Charlton Heston offered what I thought was a pretty typical Heston performance as Thorn, a police detective in the New York City of 2022 - a gritty, grimy, overpopulated mess of a city, where women are hired as furniture - essentially maids, cooks and sex partners assigned to apartments to be used by whoever has the money to live there, and where dead bodies are treated as nothing more than waste to be disposed of. The world in this era is suffering from the Greenhouse Effect - a 70's term that we today call global warming. It's hot - all the time - and the world can't grow enough food and most animals have died off. The population is forced to live off mysterious foodstuffs called soylents - soylent red, soylent yellow and the newest rage - soylent green. They're tasteless and altogether unpalatable, but it's all that's available unless you're extremely rich, in which case you can afford $150 strawberries. Thorn becomes involved in investigating the murder of an executive with the soylent company, played by Joseph Cotten. Thorn becomes convinced it was an assassination, but the question is why anyone would want to assassinate him, and so we get drawn into a conspiracy story. Is it the government? The soylent company? Both? What's the big secret that led to this murder? The story admittedly proceeds rather slowly at times, but the mystery holds your attention, and when all is finally revealed at the end it turns out to be (to me at least) completely unexpected and somewhat disturbing. The movie also featured a nice performance from Edward G. Robinson as Thorn's assistant. Overall, it's pretty well done. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Decent flick","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie last night, never heard of before, and although i think it could of been done better, i stilled enjoyed the idea of it.The year is 2022 and the world is over populated, food is scarce, especially for the poor, a jar of strawberries will run you 150 bucks.Hot water? You better be rich is you want hot water, let alone a bar of soap.What i enjoyed most about this movie, is the the concept of furniture, that made me laugh I would like to see this movie redone, with a large budget, it was obvious that the budget used for this movie was small, prolly cuz Heston got paid to much But overall, id give this movie a 6, if you like futuristic sci fi movies with a different twist to it, then you will enjoy this i do believe "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is people!","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember the spirited controversy surrounding Soylent Green when it first came out and oddly, I didn't go to see it back in 1973. I'm sorry I didn't, I was only about ten minutes into the picture today when I thought to myself that it was pretty remarkable. The opening scene was intended to portray what trouble would be in store for Earth and mankind some fifty years into the future, back when there were a couple billion people less on the planet than there are now. However the projection of New York City's population of forty million in 2022 isn't going to happen. Nice try though, and hey, present day environmentalists and global warming enthusiasts will no doubt find solace in the story's grim projections about the greenhouse effect and 'everything burning up'. But only two years later, in 1975, Newsweek Magazine had a cover story about the threat of global COOLING and the anticipated problems of shorter growing seasons and the possibility of worldwide famine due to crop failures. It all goes in cycles you see, and by the time the 'real' 2022 rolls around, there will no doubt be yet another different spin on global climate change, when in fact, the Earth's temperature doesn't really vary much at all.Hey, how about 'Tuesday is Soylent Green Day'; I still remember the ads for 'Wednesday is Prince Spaghetti Day'. You don't see or hear those anymore, in fact my local supermarket doesn't even carry Prince spaghetti anymore. How about Sol Roth's description of soylent - tastleless, odorless, crud'! Speaking of Sol Roth, it was cool seeing Edward G. Robinson in his final film role, even if some of his dialog with Charlton Heston had me doing double takes regarding their masculinity. It reminded me of a Robinson role going all the way back to 1931 opposite James Cagney no less, screen legends who managed to confound this viewer with expressions of 'sweetheart' and 'dearie' in the film Smart Money. And holy cow!, the film also featured the old Rifleman himself, Chuck Connors, as a bodyguard for the assassinated director of The Soylent Corporation. I sort of wished he had his tricked out rifle along but that would have changed the whole tempo of things. The Joseph Cotten appearance had me a little baffled, I think a little more time could have been spent on his 'willingness' to be murdered.You know, the picture reminded me a lot of one of my favorite 'Twilight Zone' episodes from a dozen years earlier, and I wouldn't be surprised if that story might have had a small impact on Soylent Green. In 'Soylent', if you're thinking ahead and don't know the ending (kind of hard I know with the notoriety it's engendered), the first inkling you might have had about the title foodstuff would have come when the 'diggers' were called in for the rioting populace. All those bodies being hauled off to an unknown outcome kind of gives you a hint that 'Soylent Green is people'! In the TZ episode 'To Serve Man', the finale is reached with a lot more subtlety and it hits you a lot more forcefully. For the uninitiated, the title comes from the story of an alien race that solves all of Earth's problems, and in return, appreciative Earthlings travel through space to visit the planet of the Kanamits. The punch line - 'To Serve Man' was the aliens' cookbook! The only other thought I have has to do with the film's status as a sci-fi flick. Even though the concept is definitely in that league, others on this board have mentioned that the filming and effects utilized didn't distinguish it from some of the other memorable films of the era, for example, 1968's 2001 A Space Odyssey, or 1971's A Clockwork Orange. Heck, even as far back as the 1950's, you had pictures like War of the Worlds (1953) and Forbidden Planet (1956) using much more in the way of special effects to tell their story. Even so though, given those apparent budget limitations, the picture is still a unique achievement and holds up pretty well after lo, these three decades. I'm sure a modern day re-make would add a few more twists, but then again, as with so many movies, there's nothing like the original. "},{"Title":"Al Gore should show this movie instead...","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I went to see SOYLENT GREEN at least 3 times in 1973 when I was 17 and a senior in high school. Now I've just watched it uncut with my youngest son, who's now 17 and a senior in high school. The film has held up very well, although the print shown on TCM was fuzzy. Of course, everyone now knows the classic closing line, so there's no real mystery left, but it's still interesting to watch Charlton Heston work his way through the clues until he arrives at the horrible conclusion.There are some wonderful scenes in SOYLENT GREEN, such as the riot with the people scoops, the shootout in the church, the visit to the grocery, and the very touching final scenes with Edward G. Robinson. For me, one of the riveting highlights of the original film was the opening montage, which is often cut when shown on late-night TV. Thank you, TCM, for leaving it in. This combination of powerful visuals and a truly amazing bit of film music by Fred Myrow puts the viewer in the perfect frame of mind for the first shot of NYC in 2022.Of course, there are some dated scenes (the video game!) but all in all SOYLENT GREEN creates a world that it's not hard to believe could happen (without Al Gore's intervention, of course). Bit parts for ubiquitous TV actors Whit Bissell and Dick Van Patten are fun to spot, and Leigh Taylor-Young is vulnerable and pitiable as the forgotten furniture. It's hard to imagine anyone but Charlton Heston holding this picture together as the tough cop with a soft spot for an old friend. Watch him at the window in the euthanasia center as he observes his friend, and pictures of the old earth...and try not to cry. "}{"Title":"Fun, Quaint, and maybe even important","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Of all the alarmist, apocalyptic sic-fi of the 60's and 70's, Soylent Green is one of the best. First of all, people REALLY BELIEVED in the film's message and you can tell. Great stars give great performances, the production values are top notch, and even knowing the film's ending one can still watch it over and over. Watching E. G. Robinson's performance now, knowing he died just ofter the filming, is stirring. Now many of the film's aspects are terribly dated, but that only makes the movie more fun to watch...it's a great document of FutureWasn't. So why is this movie so compelling though it's been completely discredited? And it has been discredited, folks, I'm stunned by how many people still consider the movie a realistic warning in the face of the contrary facts.It is the earnestness of the film, truly moving. It is the great understated special effects (these matte paintings belong in a museum), and it is the often overlooked soundtrack. Soylent green is worth watching repeatedly just to hear the genius score from the amazingly complex opening music to dazzling interpretations of what future pop might sound like. A definite must-see for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"The Orwell's omen Soylent green is made of.... people!!!","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When i was 9,my father told me about this movie,for those years(1974) Vietnam war was ending and a strong world crisis rises up because the petroleum was increasing its price,some kind of horror invaded the human race,because the lack of food and home,a fascist government controlling the people not to be getting out the streets in certain kind of hours,starving,stacking all showed in the first scenes of this amazing movie seemed our dreadful future to be made the worst ever nightmare of all the times.From the first visual displaying in an extraordinary succession of photographs,we see the Quiet Years(the first American pioneers) after the speed of the sequence will lead us to the world for today OVERCROWDED CITIES,A DYING NATURAL Environment AND THE NEW POLLUTION added to the Greenhouse Effect will obligate the new rulers to overwhelm the people,a cop called Robert Thorn(A shining HESTON!!) will discover the gruesome truth about the assassination of an executive of the Soylent Enterprises,when the food is a privilege for the rich men,and a synthetic product in a red and yellow colors will be replaced by a brand new green one,his friend and almost his stepfather Sol Roth(great Edward G.Robinson)will help to find the key about the new product and going against the stream,Thorn will find that sea's natural resources has vanished and the human-less company uses PEOPLE TO FEED PEOPLE!!!,a poor and tired Sol was self-immolated in a process of seeing pacific landscapes and listening to the classical music(What a scene Tchaikowski,Mozart,Wagner,Strauss,Beethoven closing this shivering but unlimited movie!!).Whe i saw the final scene it was to think about nostalgic times,when the world was world not a lot of contamination,if you look for CGI, FX and more artificial hooks to be attracted,please don't watch this movie,better see Matrix or Harry Potter,BUT THE PLOT WILL TRIUMPH OVER THE EXPENSIVE BUT SILLY TRICKS!!!To wait 30 long years to watch this movie did value a forever!!! "},{"Title":"one of three views of the future","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green (1973), The Handmaid's Tale (1990), and Demolition Man (1993) are three movies about roughly the same future time frame, the first third of the twenty-first century. Together they give a rather discouraging view of the future, but each is a good portrayal of what might happen if a current trend is carried to an extreme. In 2022 (Soylent), Charlton Heston is a New York City police detective (Thorn). New York is now populated by 40 million people, food is scarce and so is space. In this society, women are part of the rented furniture. Corruption is rampant. Natasha Richardson (Handmaid) is a young women capable of bearing children. This is very rare in Gilead (the United States of the future). Only 1% of the women of Gilead can bear children. Kate is sentenced to become a Handmaid whose function is to bear a child for the infertile wife of a powerful leader (The Commander). This is based on a Bible story (Genesis 2931&#150;35; 301&#150;24). This is a society controlled by fear and repression. It does not have the overpopulation and resulting scarcity found in Soylent but is not an encouraging view of the future. Sylvestor Stalone (Demolition) is detective Spartan who was cryogenically frozen in 1996 and then thawed in 2032. The world into which he finds himself is discouraging in its lack of freedom and extreme social control. Foul language, meat, smoking, anything stimulating has been outlawed. Sex is accomplished through the exchange of mental sexual energy rather than exchanging messy body fluids. The degradation of women seen in Sylent and Handmaid is not found in this sterile vision of the future. Sandra Bullock's character (Huxley) is no less free than her male co-workers. This society does not have the lawless corruption and scarcity found in Soylent or the fear and repression found in Handmaid. However, it is sterile and stagnant. These three views of what the future might be are each well done and together make an enjoyable movie marathon unless you find these three views of the future too depressing. "},{"Title":"A realistic portrayal of life in the early 70s...","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's true, things were harsh back in the 70s, what with all the overpopulation and the corruption, plus the lousy food, made only bearable by the nice performances of the actors, including a farewell performance from Edward G. Robinson.Charleton Heston of course is incredible. He gets all the best lines in so many movies. Who could forget It's a madhouse! A madhouse! from Planet of the Apes!? (You think I'm kidding but I'm not! I'm completely serious! I LOVE that line! I mean, how many times have YOU ever wanted to just stand up and scream 'It's a madhouse! A madhouse!' in the middle of your everyday life?! And Charleton Heston GOT TO SCREAM IT, my friends, yes he did!) I will of course spare you his oft-quoted line from Soylent Green, given that it will spoil the movie for those who, unbelievably, have never heard it before.All kidding aside, this is a great movie, even if you know the ending already. Aside from a few very obvious technological anachronisms, such as the 'asteroids' video game at the start of the film, the sci-fi is handled quite well, being mostly low-key as it is...Also, if I'm not mistaken, this is where the band Green Day got their name. An early shot zooms in close on a poster which reads Soylent Green Day, with the final two words looming ominously in the camera for long enough that a clever punk rocker might have appropriated the phrase for his anti-establishment purposes... "},{"Title":"Downbeat, but worth seeing...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Most often seen on TV in a grainy, faded print in pan-and-scan format, the original widescreen presentation of this film offers a much more attractive and watchable picture. The plot concerns a smoggy, burned out future in which people struggle for basics like clean water and food. The food isn't even fresh product, but rather wafer-like crackers in three or so colors. Tucked away above the masses is a faction of society which runs the businesses of the world. These people have plush apartments with all the luxuries possible including built-in lovemates (referred to as furniture!) It is the savage murder of one of these haves which propels the story into action. Heston is a quasi-corrupt cop who has to try and solve the case (while sampling some of the dead man's treats.) The look of the future from the 1973 viewpoint is a tad corny in some ways, but jarring and unsettling in others. Only some of the clothes and technology give the film a dated, even campy, look sometimes. (Heston wears an odd little ascot thingy and a really unattractive hat.) The basic underlying message (that eventually mankind will spoil the planet to the point where it's almost a wasteland) is still relevant, as is the other point outlining the disparity of the classes in America. The scenes of homeless in this film are exaggerated, but in some places it could probably get close to this! Heston gives a solid performance with special merit to be found in his reaction to seeing the way things used to be (birds, blue sky, animals, grass, etc...) Most acting praise is given to Robinson and he deserves it. His final scene in the movie is exquisite. Other parts are played more typically by Conners and Taylor-Young (who whispers everything as if she went to the Pamela Bellwood Acting School.) Cotten barely appears as one of the few rich people. Peters does a decent job in a limited role. An interesting tidbit is figuring out all the times that Heston's co-stars worked with him before. He worked with Robinson in The Ten Commandments, Conners in The Big Country, Mike Henry in Skyjacked, Peters in Major Dundee, Kilpatrick in The Omega Man, etc... Even he and Cotten were both in Touch of Evil! The film has some suspenseful scenes and intriguing subject matter. The ending is pretty abrupt, though deliberately open-ended. "},{"Title":"Food for thought.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent Green is not the best example of showing the depletion of the world's resources. This movie made me think how the earth could be in twenty years in the future. Life is valuable. We should not take it for granted. Plant, animal or man it balances life on this earth to live off from each other. Put them out of order, it can damage an earth assets. If remaking this film the special effects, props, and script should be better focus on a future world problems. "},{"Title":"A unique, classic sci-fi","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The year is 2022, New York City has become overpopulated with 40 000 000 starving citizens. Food is becoming very rare, since man has destroyed all natural resources. The government comes up with a new product called soylent green. In the mean while a police officer (Charlton Heston) investigates the murder of a wealthy, important man. Heston finds out he was involved with the cracker-like food and finally discovers the nasty government secret behind soylent green.  "},{"Title":"Heston is the man","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Soylent Green the first time when I was about 14 years old.  At the time I was very disappointed in it.  It did not have non-stop action or a veritable roller coaster ride.  To me it was just boring.  Now that I am adult, I have a much deeper appreciation of the film.  I am blown away every time I see Edward G. Robinson's death scene with Heston looking on from the viewer window.  The emotion in Heston's face is incredible. You truly believe he has NEVER seen anything this beautiful before in his life.Plus this was the last movie Edward G. Robinson ever made (and he knew that was a strong possibility while making the film).  Here he is creating his own death scene for a real death that was soon to be.  Both Heston and Robinson knew this was most likely Robinson's last film because of his health.  The emotion they both have is more than acting, its real and extremely touching.  It has to be the all time best death scene ever made.From Ben Hur to Planet of the Apes to films like Soylent Green, Heston is a national treasure and a man who has never feared putting his career on the line for causes for which he believes.  From marching with Martin Luthor King to protecting our Second Amendment rights, Heston has always put what is right above what will keep him top of the box.  "},{"Title":"Make room, make room...for a remake","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent candidate for a remake. I'd like to see Chuck Heston as Sol if it happens.I saw this in the theatres (1973) as an eight-year-old when Heston was the man, as in Planet of the Apes and Omega Man. I thought it was creepy and cool then.I've since seen it again as an adult. It didn't hold up well over time. Rather than dwell on the production/script details that came unraveled all to quickly in retrospect, I'd rather remember what I learned as a child. The future in Soylent Green is one that might come true, though we all hope it won't. Ah, the essence of science fiction. Of course, it won't come true, at least by 2022. You have to admit that prediction about pimps wearing red blazers just hasn't panned out. Ah, the essence of free will to alter the future.Make room, make room...for a big budget remake!  "},{"Title":"One of THE most under-rated sci-fi movies of all-time!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the early seventies there were a few very good sci-fi film;Silent Running,The Omega Man,WestWorld and this one.To say that Soylent is a future-shock movie is an understatement,the opening of the movie shows the twentieth century in a photo montage,and this sets the film up brilliantly,and by 2020 the world is an over-populated,permanently heat-waved nightmare,all the food we love today either dosn't exist anymore or costs an astronomical price!Fleischer's direction is lively and exciting,with excellent use of Panavision.The ending is a classic,one of best surprises of all time.A DVD release,please MGM! "}{"Title":"Solid movie--good sci fi.","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't think of too many movies about a futuristic dystopia prior to this one, certain elements of Things to Come maybe, or Metropolis.  This flick has got to be on any tree huggers fave list, along with Silent Running and probably a lot of back to the earth movies.  The movie ponders a nightmare world where global warming (very prescient for a mid seventies movie, when environmentalists were warning about the earth growing colder) has ratched up the temperature so they're in perpetual 100% humididity August.  People sleep in the streets and in hallways, and on steps, anywhere there's room.  They have only a variety of Soylent products (red, yellow, green); presumably Soylent comes from Soybean and Lentil put together, though I don't think it's ever explained.  But in the end, what you've got is a very good science fiction movie about an imagined future--one that's not very nice.  In much the same way, the Star Trek franchise imagines a future earth where Earth is a paradise, having conquered hunger, war, poverty, etc.  This movie takes a dimmer view.  And what's interesting about the plot and characters is how it ponders humanities reaction to it all.  The human relationships are the more important part of this movie than some freaky enviro message.  The most important, between Heston and Robinson is really quite well done--far more important than the silly (I'd suggest intentionally so) love story between Heston and Young. A lot of it is dated, and a lot of is of course what the 70's viewed the future as being (what else are we to expect?).  But in the world of Sci Fi, I'd put this as very strong entry--anyone who likes the genre should appreciate what they were attempting to do here, and the fact they largely succeeded. "},{"Title":"Yes Indeedy!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yep, this film was made back when Chuck Heston was in his sci-fi filmmaking phase.  This doesn't come anywhere near being as good as Planet O' The Apes or Omega Man, but it's not bad I guess.  It needed a little more action, more suspense, but it was okay I guess.  This is the finale of Chuck's sci-fi trilogy.  Starting with Planet Of The Apes, The Omega Man, and finally, Soylent Green.  This is the worst of the bunch but still not too bad. "},{"Title":"A disturbing look into the future","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Though not visually magnificent, this film does have its merits.  It is a look at a destroyed world, the effects of overpopulation and neglect having taken their toll.  The plot is not the world's most interesting, but the message is there. "},{"Title":"Mmm, this stuff tastes good!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent Green is one of the creepiest, most eerie sciencefiction flicks I've ever seen, because the premise sounds sofrighteningly real! You might never know if our government isdoing this in real life! Chuck Heston, in top gritty form, stars as Det. Thorn, a cop inthe near future investigating an industrial-based murderinvolving the business behind Soylent Green, a type of foodhumanity is forced to rely on thanks to the problem ofover-population. Along the way, Thorn gets deeper and deeperinto the truth behind the tasty little morsels, discovering inhorror what they are really made of. The last scene might remindsome viewers of the end of the first Planet of the Apes. Areal ironic epilogue to a cr "},{"Title":"a bleak future","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent Green gives us a glimpse into a possible future if problems like overcrowding and starvation continue.  Sure, it's only fiction, but it makes you think.  Will we ever have to resort to eating people to control population?  I didn't really consider this film good until the last 40 minutes or so.  I really enjoyed the part where Charlton Heston was investigating the Soylent Factory.  SPOILER ALERT.  And the last line was awesome Soylent Green is people!  It was so simple, yet so shocking.  I suggest this film to all environmental freaks. "},{"Title":"America 20 years from now.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A chilling view of what America may be like with global warming and overpopulation in the year 2020. A future unlike any ever demonstrated in science fiction motion pictures ever. Charlton Heston really plays his character well in this excellent movie.    This is a not miss movie.   "},{"Title":"Dated but still worth seeing.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is technologically dated, somewhat predictable and not for the special effects seeker, but it is still fine science fiction, and quite relevant to the events happening today.  Recommended.  "},{"Title":"heston conquers all","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Set sometime in the future against a backdrop of need and scarcity, the film is an enjoyable look at what just may happen. Citizens are encouraged to die in return for an ecstatic ending. The staple diet is soylent green...provided by a corporation monopoly. What is it?....I'm not telling, but watch out for an ironic twist in the tale!  "},{"Title":"Knowing the secret doesn't spoil this fine film.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This famous film is one of Heston's better sci-fi/horror films.  By now every one knows the film's secrets but that doesn't take away from the fun of this interesting and highly enjoyable movie.  Be sure to look for the fine performance of Edward G. Robinson, his last, and a fun little cameo by Dick van Patton. "},{"Title":"An iconic gem of the 70s","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OMG, this flick is like SO COOL!Rest assured that you wont be disappointed in the quality of hawt chicks contained in this film.Of particular interest to me is the oh so erotic Paula Kelly, omg she is smoking' hawt, I want her SO BAD! And The Furniture Girls will stand up any guy's wood any day.But hey, what's really cool is how Chuck Heston tells Leigh Taylor Young to Get on the bed, and she does, just like a good Ho is meant to do... damn-it I wish it was 2022 and biatches would be as hawt and obedient as they are in this Soylent Green flick.Another cool aspect of this film, is how Chuck has a black man superior at work, and there's a black priest, too. Keep in mind this freaky flick was filmed in 1972.You're damn straight I'm forever thankful I downloaded this for free from ThePirateBay, and am now putting it in a flash-drive for eternity, so's that I might occasionally watch this gem again and again throughout the years... but mostly just fast-forward to the parts where the hot chicks shine like supernovas of erotic delight.If for no other reason just rent or download this sucker for the thrill of Paula Kelly's scenes. You will become stricken for a passion for chocolate love surely. "}{"Title":"A rare clever and well made '70's science-fiction movie.","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is science-fiction but it's the more realistic type of science-fiction. So it's a movie set on Earth, rather than in space and it's set in the future but not a further of high tech gadgets but a future in which the whole world has basically gone to hell.Soylent Green might very well feature one of the most depressing portrayals of the near future. Earth is being overpopulated and there is a serious food shortage. On top of the the greenhouse effect has kicked in and the worlds temperature has risen some degrees. Electricity and running water are rare, so in other words, there's a shortage in basically everything we are so accustomed to. Life goes on but just not as it used to.Soylent Green is not just a science-fiction movie but perhaps even more a cop movie, in which New York cop Robert Thorn, played by Charlton Heston, starts to investigate a murder on an corporate official of the Soylent company, the company that provides the world with it's mysterious new green food.As for the 'big twist' of the movie, without spoiling anything...The entire movie builds up to it and it becomes apparent from basically the first minute that this movie is going to have a twist in its story. Personally, the wasn't the powerful or shocking twist I had hoped for. Perhaps in a subconscious way it even was a bit predictable. Even though the twist is not weak and is definitely still good enough, it's just not the stuff featured in an early M. Night Shyamalan, to give an example.This movie made me realize that Charlton Heston was actually one of the earliest kings of science-fiction. In the late '60's and '70's science-fiction really wasn't a popular much watched genre. It certainly always wasn't the most respected genre to star in as an actor. Nevertheless Charlton Heston did this, despite getting more than enough movie offers to star in different movies, in more popular and higher respected genres. I guess he must had had some love for the genre, or perhaps it was because of the success and experience of working on Planet of the Apes. He starred in some real great and significant genre movies in the '60's and '70's, of which this movie is also really one of them.Even though this movie is not as well known- it still can be called the Blade Runner of the '70's. It's clever and realistic enough and not afraid to show a depressing near future, with rotten and corrupt characters in it. I's a movie that's great in its details and little things, rather than really with its main plot-line or such.Of course the movie is also made great by it's performances. Charlton Heston got really great cast in his role and he's obviously in his element. It was also really great to see Edward G. Robinson in this. He was one of the greatest actors of the '40's and '30's, mostly playing tough gangster roles. He had to star in lots of crap after that in order to remain active in the business but it was great that he could end his career with a movie such as this one. He died days after he finished shooting on this movie. He was already seriously ill at the time of production and it was apparent that he had not long to life. Having never received even an Academy Award or even nomination for any of his great roles, he received posthumously an honorary award for his entire career in 1973. This movie was a role worthy last role for him and the movie features some great sequences, involving his character.Despite not being a special effects laden science-fiction movie, it's still a great looking one, with its costume design, sets and overall atmosphere. Some of the things still look futuristic, while others look as time hadn't stopped since the '70's. So it's an overall really great and original look that the movie has over it. It's a futuristic movie with an '70's atmosphere over it, what is there not to like?Great '70's science-fiction!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"An imagined future for humanity...with a twist","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first heard about this movie when Roseanne Barr mentioned it (from the great U.S. sitcom Roseanne-she mentioned it on her own talkshow, I think). Even though I don't remember it too well, it did leave an impression on me and that is what I want to convey in this review.A brief and (very) vague synopsis first ostensibly, this is a movie about a murder investigation, set in the future I think. If I'm wrong about that, it doesn't matter. What IS important is that this is a kind of M. Night Shyamalan movie (of The sixth sense fame, amongst other movies). In other words, it is ALL about the twist. It is the twist in this movie that will stay with you forever and I won't spoil that surprise for you.It also seems to me that this movie is punching way above its weight, cultural significance wise. If I hadn't of seen this movie, the references to it on Shaun Micallef's brilliant satirical programme Newstopia would have been totally lost on me. Once you know the twist in this movie, you can't help but notice references to it, especially in comedy, where it is often referenced.Lastly, I just want to say that as someone in the food industry, this movie has its pleasures. I work for Kraft in Australia (no, really. Would I lie to you?). Here at Kraft, we call Vegemite Soylent Brown. Or, if quality control and hygiene is an issue Soilent Brown.I'm giving this movie 6/10, mostly for the fact that it has an intriguing twist to the tale and is memorable. Hmmm, is this movie prophetic? Interesting vision of the future, in any case. "},{"Title":"The Future is Just About Here.","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film again tonight and am currently and coincidentally reading The Omnivore's Dilemma, a book about the industrialization of food by three giant agri-business corporations. I find this third viewing of the film even more chilling than the first two times. We are currently dependent on just about two products, oil and corn, and if these commodities collapse, what are we left with? This film goes there. The after-affects of the environmental poisoning of the planet, both by overpopulation and the rape of finite resources is starkly presented here.One can feel the eternal blistering heat of New York here and never has there been a more frightening delineation of the lives of the rich and the poor. There is no middle class. Women are commodities and referred to as furniture that are rented out along with the expensive apartments that contain them.Charlton Heston, playing Thorn, and as stiff and wooden as he always is, is an NYPD detective who lives with an older man, Edward G. Robinson, in a relationship that is never explained though they tell each other they love one another. This is EGR's last film and it is a poignant performance. Thorn is taxed with solving the murder of Simonson, played by Joseph Cotten. Simonson is the head of the Soylent Corporation, a corporate monopoly which supplies the food for the poor - wafers in assorted colours. The latest product is Soylent Green.The investigation finds the armed and dangerous Charlton Heston on the loose, following all the leads and finding the secret at the heart of the film, the horrific truth about what the Soylent Corporation uses for its wafers.The film is amazingly prescient in the foretelling of how food will be completely industrialized to the point of a completely depleted planet and the overcrowding of every square inch of livable space.Leigh Taylor-Young, playing Shirl, charms in a tricky role as does the brief appearance by Joseph Cotton.I thought Charlton Heston was miscast in the role of the detective and more could have been made of the developing sub-plot between himself and Shirl.7 out of 10 for a film remarkably current.. "},{"Title":"one of the best films i've ever seen!!!!!","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love that movie, the story is superb, Charlton Heston is amazing like ever, the effects are cool and the music is great!!!!the year is 2022!!!No food, no books, no nature, everything is gone!!! The Soylent Company rules the food and brings a new product called Soylent Green on the market, but what is the secret of Soylent Green?Nobody knows where it come from.Just one Man finds out, Cop Thorn played by Charlton ( Ben Hur ) Heston!MUST SEE "},{"Title":"A 70's Sci-Fi Classic!!!","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Is this the future that awaits us? An overpopulated, unforgiving wasteland with a hellish, unwanted existence? This film brings to mind a problem that still plagues us, doubly so since the film was released in back in 1973. Let's hope that the world isn't going to end up like this...Soylent Green is a wild movie that I enjoyed very much. It had likable characters, a semi-apocalyptic setting, a compelling and thought-provoking storyline, and the macho-est macho man out there Charleton Heston. Richard Fleischer gave the movie a very unpleasant, dirty feel. You're almost choked by the stench from the city and its filthy inhabitants.The characters are wonderful. Charleton Heston, who has become one of my favorite actors, IS Thorn. The man created this role of badass, yet likable tough-guy. I could definitely put myself in Thorn's shoes. He sees that something isn't right, but everyone around him either doesn't listen (more like paid not to listen) or wants him dead. Edward G. Robinson (in his last film, R.I.P.) plays the lovable old Sol, who has had enough of this nasty place. Everyone else is great, especially Leigh Taylor-Young as Shirl, a piece of furniture that comes with the apartment in which she resides.The special effects are fantastic, even for 1973. The Soylent Green factory, the futuristic apartments, and especially the scoops (bulldozers that get rid of people) were excellent. The polluted air outside looks disgusting and very nasty. The empty city streets filled with the vile and putrid people are very unsettling.One final note is the ending, which even now still shocked me. It is gruesome, but if you think about it, it's a pretty good idea.The Bottom Line An excellent 70's Science Fiction flick that makes you think and leaves you feeling very uneasy. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green I found to be an excellent movie.If you like Logan's Run you'll like this.Yes the movie is old and there are no special effects and some of the acting can somewhat be best described as cheesy but the story is excellent.The story of how the world can be and its impact on society is very poignant.At the end the mystery wasn't a mystery but the story unfolded in an easy at the right pace.It's nearest modern day equivalent would be Dark Angel in terms of how the US is shown to be third-world country. "},{"Title":"A Master Piece Movie","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My evaluation 8/10I like a lot this movie. Compare to today brainless movie (just action and special effet and nothing new about ideas), Soylent Green ask to something that today doesn't exist anymore To Think.Well it would not a big surprise a day human eat cookies which are create with body of human. With all what happen on this planet, and to see how people are so indifferent to all, this kind of future is possible.Sure this movie take some age but the idea behind the movie is actual again. Rich at Paradise, other in the hell. Well a luck today they are TV and idiocy like Reality Show.TV is a good wash brain. It's pity to see that intelligence of human have not progress like technologies. Since writing all stop.If you like reality show this movie is not for you. If you believe all politician same too. If you don't like ask yourself question about now and future well never look this movie. "},{"Title":"I *ALMOST* had the chance to experience this movie fresh...","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have never watched SNL. I don't watch a lot of television. So when I discovered this title just two nights ago at an American Family Video store, I had never heard of it. Little did I suspect that the whole rest of the world apparently did. I read the back of it, it sounded interesting and the video box promised a surprise ending. Let's check it out, I said to myself, just out of curiosity.So imagine my anger and disgust when as soon as I've paid for it, the young clerk working there--as he was handing it to me after paying for it, no less--in one eight-word-long sentence, suddenly and completely without warning BLURBS OUT THE SECRET ENDING!I was shocked and angry and told him I wanted my money back. I got a refund and still rented it, only this time I rented it elsewhere. But even so, I was very very angry and upset.So as you can imagine I couldn't help feeling like the entire viewing experience of SOYLENT GREEN was tainted for me while watching it. I wish I knew what it was like to experience it for the first time without knowing the ending first. Now I'll never know.But anyway, as I quickly describe the plot, *I* will *NOT* give anything away. I promise. I don't care how well-known this ending is, I'm not taking any chances for anyone. I'm not even going to say SPOILERS AHEAD because I refuse to even discuss the ending. I'm not going to risk accidentally giving away the ending to anyone in my position the way that clerk did.It's the year 2022 and the world is massively overpopulated. Resources are exhausted, food is scare, and New York City alone is swarming with 40 million people--half of them out of work. Enter Thorne (Charlton Heston), a freelance detective hired to investigate the murder of a rich citizen. That's all I'll say, I promise.The crowds scenes were pretty disappointing to me personally, as I had been lured into renting this movie from its striking cover art depicting a city of immense crowds being scooped away. We don't get to see any really huge, epic-looking scenes like that here the way we did is, say, the cheapie TV movie THE DAY AFTER. I found that to be a personal disappointment. Also, the dumptrucks weren't as massive of as threatening-looking as they are in said illustration. But even so, the idea of humans lives being so cheap and useless is still creepy and upsetting.The movie no longer really holds the power to scare, though. Back when I was a child in the 70s, people were fearful of overpopulation. Who could have known that then that something equally as bad would appear--that legalized abortion would come to pass and that this heinous act would put a sharp DROP on the population by being used as a cruel form of birth control, showing a cheapness on human life which in its own way is every bit as creepy as what we are witnessing here in this movie? But even so, the movie still addresses important concepts and the importance of responsibility.One of the things this film reminded me of personally is how well many of us really have it. Even when stressed with bills and debt, running water, canned food, electricity and such are a luxury compared to living conditions of other people in many areas of the world. We should be genuinely grateful and appreciative of what we have.And I loved the friendship portrayed between Throne and his mentor Sol, which is heartbreaking and touching, especially during a grand finale scene set to music by Beethoven (familiar to fans of FANTASIA) that stung my eyes with tears.I'm sure I would have been even more drawn into this story and its climax, IF A CERTAIN AIRHEADED VIDEO STORE CLERK HADN'T GONE AND SPOILED THE ENTIRE ENDING FOR ME. But even so, I'm glad I saw it all the same. "},{"Title":"Classic 70's film looks great on DVD","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An under rated classic from the 70's, Soylent Green has held up exceedingly well 30 years on. The script by Stanley Greenberg manages to take the basic plot of Harry Harrison's Make Room, Make Room and provide an interesting, touching science fiction classic. The criticism of the film as pedestrian is both unfair and inaccurate. Clearly an inspiration for Cyperpunk writers like William Gibson, Soylent Green has the same cyncism, energy and flawed characters seen in that subset of the science fiction genre.The DVD looks terrific. It's clear that Warner Brothers struck a new print and there's little in the way of analog artifacts. The mono sound is strong. Included on the DVD are a vintage promo featurette, a celebration of Edward G. Robinson that was conducted during the filming and the trailer. There's also an odd series of production notes highlighting Heston's involvement in science fiction films. Instead of including that, I'd much rather of heard Heston's thoughts on working with Robinson and the film 30 years on. The commentary track is by director Richard Fleisher and actress Leigh Taylor-Young.I'd have to disagree with a previous post that claimed this to be the weakest in Heston's trilogy of science fiction films. In fact, Soylent Green is every bit as powerful and provocative as when it was first released. It's aged quite well. The Omega Man, on the other hand, is fun chiefly because of its cheesy screenplay (courtesy of John and Joyce Corrington who mishandled Battle for the Planet of the Apes among many others). The Omega Man was the one film that should have been lampooned by Mystery Theater 3000. It's much funnier than some of the other stuff they poked fun at. Omega Man hasn't aged as well as some of Heston's other films but there are some powerful (and unintentionally hilarious) scenes as well. "},{"Title":"Excellent Teaching tool","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I used to show this film to High School Science students when we discussed overpopulation, use of natural resources, pollution, etc.  Except for the dated afros and bell-bottoms, the message is timeless . . . Tuesday is Soylent Green Day! "}{"Title":"Great sci-fi but production values defer a classic status!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So much to like about this film - IF you want to give your perception free rein. Another Big Brotherish future which is drab, dismal and depressing in the extreme. The gulf between the haves and the have nots is now greatly more than just one small step for mankind!Heston is a tired amd basically honest cop who is not averse however to sometimes using his (barely) elevated status to filching a few of life's little delicacies (a wafer thin sliver of steak, a tin of fruit etc) to bring home to his ailing mentor Sol Roth, played so touchingly by Edward G Robinson in his last role. Sol remembers the good times, animals running free,  blue skies, plenty of food. All they have now is Soylent Green - the latest in the corporate food chain. A rather unappetising tablet that the Soylent Corporation has produced for the starving masses. I will divulge nothing further at this point.Yes the highlight of the movie is Sol's decision to accept voluntary euthanasia at the Recall type clinic built for the purpose. Heston is heartbroken and heads off there to stop him. What he sees in the termination chamber shocks him to the core. Edward G, peaceful on his bed having received his fatal injection, watching the scenes on his wall viewer that he has chosen to go out with. Scenes Heston has never imagined...beauty and natural wonders he cannot conceive as existing. As he says, tears running down his face  I never knew!!!  As moving and emotional a moment in cinematic history as has never been topped! The sequence is all the more touching when you realise that Edward G himself was terminally ill during the making of SOYLENT GREEN and one can only wonder what must have gone through both his and Heston's mind as they were shooting this scene? Perhaps his tears were real!The question of Soylent Green is shortly answered. I see no purpose in commenting further. There ARE sub-plots but they are best left for the individual viewer to balance out against the rest of what unfolds.  As someone quite rightly suggested here, perhaps a purpose of this film is that we SHOULD appreciate now, so much more of what we have! It may not always be with us! "},{"Title":"Superior science fiction (dystopia department)","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Especially for a time when  not much science fiction was being filmed (1973), this is a terrific vision of a future where everything has gone wrong.  Too many people, and nothing works.  The only people who can live in comfort are the rich.  It's set in New York in 2022 (I think), and it reminds you of your worst vision of Calcutta.I got to appreciate Charlton Heston's acting after seeing him in Orson Welles' Touch of Evil.  He was (maybe is) capable of portraying a range of heroic or semi-heroic people.  Here, he is torn between being a cop who is just a little bit corrupt (taking rare food treats from the rich), and being totally corrupt (actively condoning evil).  The movie all seems to take place at night, and sweat is dripping off everyone, except in one of the rare air-conditioned apartments.  Even though I hadn't seen it before, I knew the famous ending (which will not here be revealed), but the ending is certainly foreshadowed.Great scenes with Edward G. Robinson going to the council (made up of elderly Jews with heavy accents, so it seems), where the truth is revealed.  And then going off to the Thanatopsis to check out.Gritty, pre-Star Wars dystopian science fiction.  "},{"Title":"World at the End of Its Ecological Tether!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's very easy to dismiss this film as just another one of those cornyscience fiction films made by Charlton Heston in the late sixties through early seventies.  But that would be missing the point completely!When I first saw this film as a child, the idea itself was what I focusedin on.  How weird, I thought, that this kind of world could exist, thatpeople would do the kinds of things they do in this movie. Seeing it again as an adult the full impact that the creators of this movie intended it to have finally hit me.  What they're giving us is a world thatis dying, and not only dying, but actually killing itself.  What they wantus to understand is the pathetic spectacle this all presents.  Everything that most humans take for granted in life--food, comfort, shelter,intimacy--is dying.  In fact, the human organism itself is dying.  What we're shown is a dying planet Earth.  What makes it all the morepathetic is that outside of the enlightened few (who can do nothingto stop the process anyhow) none of the characters is aware of whatis really happening to them.  They are poor dumb beasts.  Lambsled to slaughter, moths to the flame.  Out, brief candle!  The sentiment is the same, as each character leads her or his pitiable andinsignificant existence.  On this level, then, this film is brilliant.  It is a panoramic view of adecaying planet throughout.  If you feel anything at all for MotherEarth, then something inside you dies when you realize that sheis indeed dying.  At that point, you the viewer identify with Sol Roth My God, what have we come to?!  You can feel the tears well upin your eyes. "},{"Title":"A memorable swan song ...","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to critique the movie, which admittedly has a number of weaknesses, but will compliment the performances of the cast, especially that of Edward G. Robinson.  The relationship between Sol and Thorn is touching and believable.  I never hear The Morning from the Peer Gynt Suite without thinking about Sol's final scene.  See it for that alone - it's worth it.  Joseph Cotten handled his brief appearance well, also, and brought dignity and sadness to a character that could have been completely forgettable, since he gets killed early on.  "},{"Title":"Intriguingly Dark Premise","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"          Soylent Green has to be one of the most disturbing films I have ever seen even though it is 26 years old.  The film tells the story of Earth in complete ruin.  The human race has completely outgrown the food supply of the Earth and the Greenhouse Effect has taken effect rending Earth a virtual hellhole.  Foods like meat, vegetables, dairy foods, and others are now an extinct food.  Jars of strawberries are sold on the black market for $150 a jar and women are furniture for wealthy men.  To be considered wealthy, you live in a private apartment and have running water.  The only continuous food supply is a mysterious food called Soylent Green, thin wafers that come in various colors that the human race depends upon.  No one knows what it's made of but they'll fight over it because it's food.  The plot starts with Thorn, a grizzled detective investigating the murder of the Soylent Green Corp. President.  His loyal friend Sol is his eyes and ears.  Thorn soon discovers the truth behind the murder and it is far more disturbing than the Earth's despair.           Soylent Green can be described as very dark.  It sends a message out to people that we have to treat the environment extremely good because one day it may or may not be gone depending on what we do.  It's a message that our environment is the one thing that keeps the human race alive and the human race only neglects it.  Charlton Heston is very good in this apocalyptic view of Earth in the future.  Edward G. Robinson is excellent in his role as the sensitive philiosopher/assistant to Thorn and he fully emphasizes what Earth used to be like in his final role.  The late Chuck Connors does a perfect job of portraying the treacherous Fielding.   "},{"Title":"Interesting, but poorly made film","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"       This movie was made in the early 1970's when American's were having many concerns about the energy crisis and world overpopulation. I thought the film looked great from what the cover of the videocassette had shown, but turned out to be more of a teaser. The movie is set in New York in 2022, where over 40 million people live, half are unemployed, and less than 1% are able to afford the luxuries of real food, decent housing, air conditioning, etc. Charlton Heston is a plainclothes detective who works 16 hour days or more and is assigned to investigate the murder case of the President of the Soylent Corporation that consists of almost all the foodstuffs consumed. The idea behind this film is great, but the production values and photography are horrible. The outdoor scenes are green because of air pollution, but it's obvious they're tinted and the entire film seems to be confined in only a few areas. The place Heston visits to find what the corpses are processed for looks more like a sewage treatment plant and New York is supposedly overcrowded, but the streets are deserted in many nightime scenes. The only interesting sets were the murdered executives luxury apartment and the death parlor, which more resembled a bus station. However, Heston and Robinson do a very good job with the roles they're given, especially Robinson who died before the film was released. "},{"Title":"This is what 70s moviemaking was all about.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen tons of science fiction from the 70s; some horrendously bad, and others thought provoking and truly frightening. Soylent Green fits into the latter category. Yes, at times it's a little campy, and yes, the furniture is good for a giggle or two, but some of the film seems awfully prescient. Here we have a film, 9 years before Blade Runner, that dares to imagine the future as somthing dark, scary, and nihilistic. Both Charlton Heston and Edward G. Robinson fare far better in this than The Ten Commandments, and Robinson's assisted-suicide scene is creepily prescient of Kevorkian and his ilk. Some of the attitudes are dated (can you imagine a filmmaker getting away with the women as furniture concept in our oh-so-politically-correct-90s?), but it's rare to find a film from the Me Decade that actually can make you think. This is one I'd love to see on the big screen, because even in a widescreen presentation, I don't think the overall scope of this film would receive its due. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Music & Images","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The most moving use of music and visual effects I have ever seen in a film occurs when Sol visits the euthanasia centre.  Given the state of the world in the film, to play Awakening of Feelings Upon Visiting The Countryside from Beethoven's Pastoral symphony coupled with the visual imagery of an idyllic countryside is a masterstroke.  I'm very glad I first saw this film on a big screen with a good stereo sound system.My one criticism - why oh why didn't they keep the original title of the novel (Make Room! Make Room!) ? "},{"Title":"Scariest than Scream","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the most scary I've ever seen about the future. The way direcor Fletcher sees our future is one of the most pessimistic I've ever seen. We feel that hot, warmy atmosphere, with this kind of fog during all the movie. The story is not as important as the general atmosphere. Charlton Heston is better than in his average roles, better than in Ben Hur, but the real star of the movie is Edward G. Robinson, he's perfect in his role, he has a strong character and there is emotion when he cooks real food to detective Thorn, there is something we can't define at this moment. this movie is made to warn us about the danger of industry and pollution and even if you don't see the end, it is worth it for that. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable story but the film is too short","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The concept and story for SG are unforgettable and groundbreaking for a Hollywood studio production it's very bleak in its presentation of the world in the near future, sorta ahead of its time regarding the environment (green-house effects) and one of a kind, as there wasn't any other film like this made by a major since then. Seeing the MGM logo at the beginning made me wonder what the studio who brought us musicals were thinking. Yes, MGM did release 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY 5 years before SG but this story is so bleak and depressing compared to 2001, which was already pretty bleak in its own way that I really wonder who greenlighted this. Producers were probably trying to find the next big sci-fi vehicle for Charlton Heston, who had a massive hit with PLANET OF THE APES. But as harsh as PLANET OF THE APES was, it doesn't even come close to SG. And even it's obvious producers were looking for a science fiction story with a surprise ending that would top the one in POTA, which they achieved with SG but they sorta went to a certain extreme, certainly for a mainstream film. When you consider that SNL were still making fun of the ending of SOYLENT GREEN back in the 1990s, you know the film made an impact.After looking at the recent DVD, I have to say that the treatment of the groundbreaking story is hopelessly outdated. Who knew the 2022 would look so much like the 1970s. Aside from the obvious anachronisms, there are many other problems with the film if the population is feed only soylent food, why were there so many different sized people? If an entire population lives on the same diet, everyone, and I mean everyone would have the same body type. Edward G. Robinson, god bless his soul, didn't look like someone who lived only off of soylent green. Details like this is were the film falters. It offers a great story but conceptually, it hardly tries to flesh it out. The other big problem is the length. At 97 minutes, SOYLENT GREEN is one of those films when I wish it was actually longer, actually a bit more time spent going over the many layers of socio/political/environmental consequences of the story. The film needed an extra 20 minutes to cover all the fascinating concepts it came up with but hardly elaborated upon. Instead , the film spent too much time on the crime storyline, which is pretty weak and the resolution is not even the result of the murder Heston discovers the secret of soylent green not because of the case he was working on but because of Sol going home.But even with all these faults, SOYLENT GREEN is a must see science fiction film. Like I already said, it's a one of kind story considering it came from Hollywood and the story is still relevant today, probably even more so today. I enjoyed watching it even though I wish there was more. More details about the chaotic world. More environmental moments. More scoop moments. More bleakness. "}{"Title":"Dated but pertinent","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's always fun watching old science fiction films with their curiously antiquated visions of the future in the case of 'Soylent Green', who would have thought that the 21st century would look so like the 1970s? But put that aside, and its concerns of global warming, ocean depletion and processed foodstuffs seem very modern. What lets the film down are some more serious faults the acting and special effects also appear dated (the false blood is some of the worst I've ever seen in the movies), the portrayal of women seems rooted in the misogyny of its own period, and the future world is not completely coherently realised, although I liked some details (the use of dumper trucks in riot control, for example). Ultimately, the truth behind the mystery turns out to be merely pragmatic and not that shocking, while the idea of a secret conspiracy is always less engaging than the alternative vision of a world where everybody knows what's really going on, but no-one speaks of it. The best treatment of similar material is of course 'Delicatessan', with its retro-aesthetic, offbeat humour, and subtle humanity. 'Soylent Green' is not in the same class; but it's still a serviceable, and watchable, thriller. "},{"Title":"the wearing of the green...","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the '70s, Charlton Heston starred in sci-fi flicks of varying quality. Soylent Green is one of the better ones. He plays Robert Thorn, a detective in 2022 New York. In this future, most food is so expensive that everyone needs a product called Soylent Green. But when Thorn finds out the unsavory truth about this product, he finds himself on the run.I guess that it's only natural that this movie should seem dated to us nowadays. But even so, it still brings up interesting questions about what will become of our agriculture. Also starring Leigh Taylor-Young, Chuck Connors, Brock Peters, Joseph Cotten and Edward G. Robinson (in his final role). "},{"Title":"Great mystery but everyone knows the answer before Heston does!","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a wonderful movie despite all its ham acting and the cardboard essence it oozes. Strictly a yawn maker if you come with great expectations. But I digress what I really want to write about is the magnificent sequence where Solomon dies, euphemistically known as Going Home. It's the kind of scene that won't make you cry if your cables are wired wrong inside your head. Its like the end reel of Disney's Snowhite; you are deftly manipulated through your emotions. This is the place the makers of this movie achieved what I usually call touching the mind of God. It's so masterfully crafted and then the rest of the movie is sort of a let down. (Does anyone outside there who doesn't actually know what Soylent Green is made of?) "},{"Title":"remake this movie and you will make big bucks","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" but you should include some of my ideas to enhance the concept of the myth in this film. It looks backwards in time to show us what governance has done in crisis and predicts the future. People love revelation. You could make a film that really gives it to them on this platform.The earth is currently redistributing water weight. Planetary governance will respond as it has in the past we must imagine. A new film on the back Charlton Heston is what this world needs.Aside from that, it would be great to find like minds out there. Being judgmental about film makes for lively conversation. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In many regards not much different and no better than the average science fiction film with a dire dystopian warning, ideas of overpopulation and lack of food that it brings up are not at all original, and when the source of the artificial title food finally is revealed, it is done in a far too literal fashion, with the answer obvious at least fifteen minutes before the film announces it. There are a number of messily filmed scenes too, done in a dreary, frantic style and the characters are acting barely rise above the ordinary. To its credit however, the film manages to be rather intriguing, other than in the final few minutes, and it effectively uses close-ups to provide an overcrowded feeling. Taylor-Young looks appropriately sumptuous too, but this is not really much better than average of its type, and the solution to the origins of the food do hardly matter, as the people are so desperate that they would eat pretty much anything, so would anyone care? It has some good moments and is relatively engaging, so I do not really want to keep pinpointing the film's negative bits, but there is a substantial amount of bad stuff surrounding what is good here. "},{"Title":"remake Soylent Green","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is a classic. I have been waiting for someone to re-do it.They seem to be remaking sci-fi classics these days (i.e. War of the Worlds)and I am hoping some director/producer will re-do Soylent Green. With todays computer animation and technology, it would have the potential to be a great picture. Anti-Utopian films may not be that far-fetched. The human race breeds like roaches with no outside influence to curtail it. We, as humans, have the option of putting the kibosh on the procreation of lesser species if they get out of hand, but there's nothing to control human breeding except for ourselves. Despite all the diseases, wars, abortions, birth control, etc. the human race still multiplies like bacteria in a petri dish. Classic Malthusian economics states that any species, including humans, will multiply beyond their means of subsistence. 6 billion and growing....that's obscene. "},{"Title":"A classic cult of Sci-Fi!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green (1973 - 96 minutes), was directed by Richard Fleischer. We are in 2022. The city of New York has more than 40 million inhabitants. All the world suffers with the overpopulation and the main problem is the food scarcity. A pot of strawberries jelly can cost a human life and the voluntary death is stimulated by government clinics. In this picture of no life, synthetic food is produced in industries and the alimentary choices of the people are among the products Soylent Blue, Soylent Yellow and Soylent Green. When William Simonson, a high executive of the powerful Soylent Company, is mysteriously murdered, the detective Thorn the actor Charlton Heston starts to investigate the case. He counts with the aid of his old and wise partner, Sun Roth the actor Edward G. Robinson, in his last work in the cinema. Sun is the only one that still remembers how Earth was, with trees, fruits and democracy. Thorn solves the crime and the hideous truth about the secret ingredient of the Soylent Green. A classic cult of Science Fiction! "},{"Title":"Even with its faults, I'm addicted to this movie","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has very good acting by virtually all the cast, a gripping story with a chilling ending, great music, and excellent visuals without significant special effects. It is interesting to note though that, like so much science fiction, its predictions for the future don't appear likely to come to pass as early as depicted.  That's not to say we're out of the woods yet, but 2022 is now obviously too soon to be in this condition.  It shares this failing with a fairly illustrious list of science fiction classics 1984, 2001 A Space Odyssey (compare its space station with our International Space Station) and Isaac Asimov's I Robot (positronic brains were to have been invented in the 1990's). "},{"Title":"Interesting, bleak sci-fi vision","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  `Soylent Green' tells the story of Detective Robert Thorn (Charlton Heston) investigating the murder of an influential businessman. The film takes place in a bleak near-future environment, where the earth's resources have been drained and people stay in cramped, poor living conditions.The acting in this movie is generally just okay, except when Heston's Thorn character is interacting with his old-mentor friend Sol Roth (Edward G. Robinson), when we witness some great dynamics as Roth recalls the `good old days' when people were happy and means plentiful &#150; this culminating in a great scene where he enjoys eating (very) rare steak which Thorn purloined. This plot line is somewhat more interesting than the main plot-line of Thorn's investigation which tends to meander around, until the final, quite bleak, revelatory moment of the nature of soylent green (which those familiar with sci-fi, will already know, as many a homage has been paid to it).The film has a great `feel' to it. This is due to director Richard Fleischer's employment of soft, downbeat visuals &#150; the sun, for example, is constantly filtered into a murky light. The only brightness in the movie is purely from artificial sources. Aside from the lightning there is the harsh background scenery - bodies littering the ground are virtually ignored by the character, as they are such a part of everyday life. The most beautiful moments &#150; a lone deer, birds singing &#150; are memories stored only on film. This mood greatly enhances the movie and lends credibility to the story's somewhat incredulous plot.`Soylent Green' isn't the world's greatest science fiction movie, but it is fairly unique and has some nice moments. That's a 6.1/10 then. "},{"Title":"Interesting and thought provoking, but just a bit stale on arrival","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the year 2022 the Global Warming has risen to an almost unbearable level and the world population is an at all time high with 40 million people living in New York alone. Most of these people live basically on the street and sleep wherever they can and the world is at the brink of total anarchy. The rich, however, live in luxurious apartments, which come with things that we take for granted - soap, warm water, a selection of food - and other more more unusual things like your own personal woman to take care of your place and cook you food, a woman (considered a piece of furniture) with whom you may do as you please. There is also huge corporation that produces a miracle food stuff called Soylent Green and that is used to feed the masses of poor people and essentially prevents mass rioting. However, when one of the company heads is killed in a bizarre murder - his body guards happened to be away for the moment, the security system was off, and he showed no resistance to the assassin - NYC Detective Thorne investigates. He discovers unsettling secrets about the corporation and its product.From opening frame to closing shot this film, even on DVD, has a very dated look. Virtually nothing that a contemporary science fiction audience is used to and it is not a surprise as this film came out before Star Wars and the medium of sci-fi is used in the much more traditional sense of telling a story much more so then impressive visuals and sets. While I did feel that certain shots were missing, like a cityscape of New York 2022, and the whole film keeps the camera remarkable away from any sort of eye candy, save for a few women, but the mystery is nonetheless fairly engaging. To me this film played as more of a murder mystery for that matter. The science fiction element is there and it is essential, but it's merely a back drop.Another couple of things were the pacing, which seemed snailishly slow at times and the ending. While I dare not give away the end, it seems that Detective Thorne barely has a catharsis to all the crazy things that he just discovered. That gives his character a remarkably flat image. Though the story, while not as good as it could have been in its delivery, does bring up several interesting ideas and that makes it worth a watch. 7/10Generously Rated PG for some, but graphic, violence. Definitely a PG-13 by today's standards. "}{"Title":"Great, except the action scenes.","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In this movie the year 2022 looks much like the seventies. This is amusing at first, but soon the viewer perceives how very different that decadent futuristic world is despite the appearances, how many things that we take for granted could become unavailable.Characters often interact in a peculiar way, with no tact or manners or respect. I believe this is intentional, not bad acting. After all, who witnessed the social changes in the 60s and 70s may well assume that by 2022 an overpopulated city's inhabitants behave like that.I didn't like most of the action scenes, apart the death of the priest too cheap even for the seventies. The plot isn't too polished. But the great scenes and ideas - like the death of Sol, the way rioters and dead bodies are dealt with, the furniture - outweigh the shortcomings of this film.8 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Was i the only person bored to death by this movie???","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit i had quite high expectations of this movie, i had heard it was very good & regarded as a classic's! Boy was i dissapointed, i was also confused by what was meant to be going on some of the time, the film just didn't grab me until the last 15 minutes, when Mr Heston is sneaking around the factory & discovers there making people biscuits!!! The people they used to make these biscuits where wrapped in white sheets, personally i wouldn't fancy buying a packet of these biscuits, yuk!If only the rest of the movie had of been this interesting! It would appear that the Movie Coma stole some ideas from this & in my opinion Coma was a much more entertaining movie, not boring like this one!Most of this movie consisted of Charlton Heston sitting around talking for ages & not much story happening!I wanted to like it, but i only really liked the last few scenes, lets hope they make a new version with more story & excitement some day! "},{"Title":"2022 looks identical to 1973","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Like everyone else, I had heard of this film &#150; even Homer Simpson alludes to it in one episode of The Simpsons, so I sat back and watched expecting something TRULY great.However, watching, it became obvious that 2022AD looks exactly the same as 1973AD &#150; same cars, same fashions, same haircuts, same music, same slang words. Still, it's `cool and groovy, man' to see Mr Heston wearing blue jeans, sneakers and a neck scarf !!! (yes, that old favourite of the 1970's camp man), and Chuck Connors in his safari suit, dyed blonde hair, 70's peak cap and attempting a kung fu kick.It was funny to see that 2022's TV's look identical to 1973's TV's too ! And in 2022 it would seem they are still playing mono-colour 2D spacewars video games that they played in 1973 too.But, I can think of no other film where Heston HEADBUTTS someone and kick them in the goolies ! It was worth seeing for that alone, and for the chance to use the word goolies on here (-Heston's politics maybe reprehensible to civilised people, but his films, even the ordinary ones, are always fun to watch, as is he, and as is `Soylent Green'. "},{"Title":"Empty Calories","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember thinking this was vacuous when it was new. Seeing it now, it seems to have lost even more value. Many films work in spite of bad writing, poor acting and casual production values, but not this one because &#x97; I surmise &#x97; that it is simply bad science fiction. This was sent into the world with the supposition that its clever vision of the future plus a 'surprise' ending would carry it. The futures in better science fiction have more than one simple extrapolation. But here we have only the one the world has become overpopulated and hungry. That's it. Greedy corporations figure out the obvious supply and demand equation turn people into food. Many people not in the conspiracy seem to know it; they just need proof. But oddly, Heston's character thinks that because he has seen the factory he has proof?And Robinson in his last role is understandably dull.The 'girl' is troubling. She is 'furniture' a bedmate that comes with the upscale apartment of a character. We see many of these girls, all abused. The best thing that happens to her is Heston's character might rescue her, so that she is merely denigrated, less physically abused. She is played by an appropriately dull busty actress with deferential poise and long red hair. That her future with the cop would be seen as a savior is embarrassing today. As it happens, this is the first of the films I see that I will be modeling for our web projectThough the main detective (our designated on-screen observer) is Heston's character, Thorn, the main action takes place with his partner, a researcher played by Robinson, Sol Roth. He is a second detective, one folded in who discovers things in parallel. He's Jewish, a man of the people of the Book who cherishes books. He is actually called a 'book,' the same way the girl is 'furniture.' (The reason books have become so rare in only a generation is not explained.)Thorn provides a book that indicates something important. Sol takes the book and his insight to an underground group of similar 'books' who support a sort of revolutionary movement to preserve truth and insight. Sol learns more about this important thing (which is not yet revealed to us), and is discouraged enough to end his life. So he goes to a suicide facility.Two folds once in the suicide facility, he is given the drug and the gift of seeing movies in his last moments. Thorn, our primary surrogate observer, gets an unauthorized opportunity to witness this as well. These inner films are designed to be the fulcrum of the movie, because the way the film starts is through an overlong sequence of out-of-narrative films. Ted's law applies these first movies are lifeless, even despondent, then we have the movie proper, then we have these 'reward' movies.(Clearly, this was influenced by 'A Clockwork Orange.')Its is stretch to include the fact that Sol went to this even with real food in his belly, the first real food in decades and that he is consciously starting the process of becoming himself artificial food. But I include it anyway, because that was part of my experience.I see that a remake is on the way. Good. This could be a great structure for a film.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Now, THIS is what we call Science-Fiction!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is one of the best and most disturbing science fiction movies of the 70's and still very persuasive even by today's standards. Although flawed and a little dated, the apocalyptic touch and the environmental premise (typical for that time) still feel very unsettling and thought-provoking. This film's quality-level surpasses the majority of contemporary SF flicks because of its strong cast and some intense sequences that I personally consider classic. The New York of 2022 is a depressing place to be alive, with over-population, unemployment, an unhealthy climate and the total scarcity of every vital food product. The only form of food available is synthetic and distributed by the Soylent company. Charlton Heston (in a great shape) plays a cop investigating the murder of one of Soylent's most eminent executives and he stumbles upon scandals and dark secrets... The script is a little over-sentimental at times and the climax doesn't really come as a big surprise, still the atmosphere is very tense and uncanny. The riot-sequence is truly grueling and easily one of the most macabre moments in 70's cinema. Edward G. Robinson is ultimately impressive in his last role and there's a great (but too modest) supportive role for Joseph Cotton (Baron Blood, The Abominable Dr. Phibes). THIS is Science-Fiction in my book a nightmarish and inevitable fade for humanity! No fancy space-ships with hairy monsters attacking our planet. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Important Sci Fi; Overpopulation and Corruption","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It is easy to see why this middling quality but well-thought-out novel by sci-fi veteran Harry Harrison appealed to Hollywood filmmakers. It has excellent parts for its policeman hero, Thorne, and for his aged human book or information-tracking expert, Sol Roth. Many others in this big-looking film have a rewarding scene or two each. It is visually very different, and I find it very-interesting, and obviously very thought-provoking in its projection of an Earth literally crawling with people and running out of everything; plus these qualities, it has exchanges between characters that lead to strong dialogue, fascinating discovery by the viewer along with the detective on the case, and a mystery whose climax in true Hitchcockian fashion is played against its own content. The film was competently directed by Richard Fleischer in dynamic fashion; and his work with actors in the film is unusually good throughout. The costumes by Pat Barto are varied and well-done; the script by Stanley R. Greenberg improves on some aspects of the novel, in my judgment as a writer. The cinematography by Richard H. Kline and the very unusual futuristic set decorations by Robert Benton shift back and forth from a police station to ultra-luxurious haunts of the government-connected super-wealthy who have everything to the apartment houses where people sleep on the stairs in huge numbers, to the city's streets where mass food distributions take place and rioters are picked up by giant metal scoops and hurled backward into yellow trucks.The storyline begins with the murder of a very rich man, a member of the Soylent Corporation that supplies much of the world's food supply. Detective Thorne is assigned by his Captain to the case, then told to drop it. In the meanwhile, he has discovered the deed was murder ;and he suspects the man's bodyguard, Tad, who was absent at that time. We learn much about the poverty of the time from Thorne's routine looting of the murder scene of a beefsteak, real paper, two books and soap--luxuries in his time which we take for granted...The furniture, the girl who comes with the luxurious dwelling, knows little, except that the dead man, Simonson, had been crying. Halfway through his investigation, when he has made love to the girl, discovering the bodyguard is living beyond his means, he is told to drop the inquiry. The orders come from the Governor. Thorne refuses to sign the release since it could cost him his job if it is ever proved to be murder and he says it was not; all he has is the job. He is nearly killed on assignment to the scoop riot police during a distribution of soylent when soylent green, the favorite handout, is under-supplied, although he finishes off Simonson's assassin in the crowd. He traces Simonson to a priest to whom he had confessed something terrible,something which has unsettled the man's mind. The priest is killed by Tad soon afterward. Thorne then sends his book' with the two books he had looted to the book elders, who confirm from the books what Sil thinks he has discovered while Thorne had been gone. Having had a wonderful last meal, during which Sol tried to tell him how much better the Earth had once been, Sol decides to go home--committing himself to drink a potion of death amidst shining orange color of his choice, lovely cinematic images and light classical music playing to a sunset--the images showing the Earth as it had been before overpopulation practices had destroyed is ecology. He has time to tell Thorne the oceans are dying, the plankton is dying--and that soylent green is people; that corpses are being reprocessed to make the food wafers that are handed out to sustain the teeming millions. Thorne traces the body of his friend by hopping onto a truck to a soylent plant, and sees bodies being dumped into processing vats for himself. He has to shoot his way out of the plant;then he is tracked after making phone calls to the girl and the Captain, by Tad and other killers trying to shoot him before he can tell his story. Shot and bleeding, he barely manages to kill Tad with a knife in the church shelter full of sleepers before the police find him and he tells them to tell the elders, to tell the world, he has the proof--that they'll be breeding us like cattle next, because soylent green is people! The acting in the film is good but occasionally uneven. Charlton Heston is above average as the detective, Edward G. Robinson, in his last film, made an award-level figure of Sol Roth; Brock Peters as the Captain, Whitner Bissell as the Governor and Joseph Cotten as Simonson are standouts. Chuck Connors is acceptable as Tad, Paula Kelly plays his pretty girl friend and Leigh Taylor-Young is low key at best as Simonson's furniture. Celia Lovsky plays the head of the elders beautifully, Stephen Young does well as the assassin, Leonard Stone is strong as the sadistic furniture department head and Lincoln Kilpatrick brings the distraught priest to life. The movie is sci fi at its best, by my standards, bringing to life a what if or potential situation based on pseudo-religious and statist practices that argue irresponsibility in allowing the bringing lives into the then showing by extension what will happen--and-must happen--if these practices and insanities are neither halted nor reversed. the film I find to be powerful, moody, a thoughtful mystery and a strong demonstration of how absolute power has corrupted a society. Its greatness lies in the fact that this was once the America of the individual dream and the individual responsibility--and now Thorne says, All cities are alike. Sobering; always interesting and unusual, Soylent Green is an unforgettable film in many ways. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is ... stupid!","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING  SPOILERS AHEAD Detective Thorn (Charleton Heston) investigates the murder of a wealthy retired industrialist and discovers what could be the end of civilization.  The seas are dieing and the most popular food, Soylent Green, is actually reconstituted people.Big deal.  I wonder what the makers of this movie would WANT a civilization faced with extinction to do.  Starve?  But forget that.  This movie would have you believe New York's population would increase 400% in fifty years, at a time when US population growth was ALREADY leveling off.  This movie would have you believe that all the creative minds of science would find no inspiration to counter the possible consequences of overindustrialization.  Got news for you guys; if things were THAT bad in the future, I doubt we'd be seeing that kind of population growth. This is the movie that first proposed global warming.  Well, maybe give it a point for that.  Give it another point for Edward G. Robinson's excellent performance as Solomon Roth.For those of you whom are not familiar with the pre-NRA, Charleton Heston, he was pretty much a social liberal, and was the first major star to have a pretty hot interracial coupling in THE OMEGA MAN. Maybe he is the one who insisted on casting Paula Kelly opposite Chuck Connors.  But here, Connors is the BAD guy; so, what are you trying to say here, Mr. Heston?There really isn't anybody to root for in this depressing programmer.  Leigh Taylor-Young is certainly decorative. However, virtually ALL the main characters (except perhaps for Sol) are corrupt.  If this is what civilization is going to be (or already is, for that matter), why would we CARE, anyway.Enjoy what you can, but watch at your own risk.  "},{"Title":"A warning about the environment","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie first debuted in 1973. It is set in New York about the year 2020. The environment is being destroyed. The world is overpopulated, starving and crime is rampant. Social chaos is rife. For example prostitution is considered a normal way of life. Women are sold as prostitutes along with apartments. Due to the era of the making of the film they are euphanistically referred to as furniture. Through all of this threads a murder inquiry by the main characters as a reason for the story to progress. When I saw this film upon its release it was quit clear that it was intended mainly as a vessel for making a statement about the environment. This is still the case but perhaps the timing and importance is not so easily recognised. In our times as we are now about the same years as the films setting. The supposed depth of the worlds despair, and the 1970's fashions, depicted in the movie may seem a bit comical. But at least in these days we all understand the importance of protecting the environment. In 1973 powerful messages were required to jolt peoples minds into action. "},{"Title":"This movie did not grab me.","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The plot in this movie was so padded I want to barf. There was not much life to this film, save a few brief moments of Charlton Heston's occasional passionate delivery. I felt embarrassed for Chuck more than a few times while watching, his having signed on to this hunk of canned... ham, I guess? I kept having to forgive its datedness as well. I really dig sci-fi but this was total cheese. I am guessing most of the budget went to paying Chuck instead of things like set, wardrobe, and directing the acting. Also, all the action in this film is pretty much entirely in the trailer, which was actually put together a heck of a lot better than the whole film itself. I kept waiting for interesting turns but they were few and far between. It was mostly dialogue sprinkled with the occasional Newspeak-of-sorts amidst vapid detective work. Add Soylent Green is people!! to the very end of the trailer and you've seen all you need of this movie. "},{"Title":"B-movie that anticipates the Tea Party agenda of the early 21st century","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The dystopia described in Soylant Green is recapitulated in all seriousness by late 20th century neo-liberalism as it rails against 'entitlement programs' in the developed countries and champions extremes of labor exploitation throughout the world. In America, the social security mechanisms enacted earlier in the C20 to ameliorate social cohesion are attacked by neo- liberals as wasteful spending that can be done away with, (so long as the state's military/police functions are well endowed in 'wars against terror'), and younger generations are pitted against older ones in a scramble for shrinking resources. "}{"Title":"Decent but dated sci-fi flick","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you breakdown individual components of this movie, nothing really stands out as being excellent but taken as a whole it is a great little 70's sci-fi flick warning about the dangers of over population and limited food supplies.The Bad The movie is short, has a grainy look to it, dated clothing, horrific views towards women and at times scenes that will make you laugh which isn't what they were going for.The Good Engaging storyline, interesting visuals everywhere, sense that a lot of thought went into the scenes.The overall goal though was the movie entertaining, heck yes, enough said! "},{"Title":"Interesting futuristic sci-fi that's still very 70s","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've heard references to this movie many times, almost all of them to do with the famous tag-line. This might have been a more interesting to watch if I hadn't known the spoiler years before I saw the movie, but nevertheless I enjoyed the film.Mixing police procedural with dystopian science-fiction, the film is the story of Detective Thorn (Charlton Heston)'s investigation of the murder of a rich and apparently important man in a future New York City where overcrowding is rampant after an ecological disaster has dramatically raised the worldwide temperature and caused severe problems with the environment, to the point where the only remaining trees are literally in a museum.Interestingly, the movie is not too concerned with convincing us of its futuristic nature through displays of fantastic technology - flying cars and the like - but we know it's the future because of how drastically different - and worse - life is for all but the elites. Overcrowding is rampant - we watch Thorn climb over stairways and hallways literally covered with sleeping people, we see rioting crowds so thick and regular that the police deal with them through sweepers - essentially garbage trucks that lift up and dump people into bins. The only advanced technology we see is in the apartments of the elite, and even there, the phones are corded and things are not terribly 'futuristic'.The movie strikes me as being as much a period piece about the 1970s as it is a sci-fi about the future. Thorn's sidekick, the wonderfully played researcher Roth, is similar in many ways to the grandparents from the original Willie Wonka, of all things, and laments the people of his generation (the 1970s, it seems) who just didn't try hard, who had too much apathy, and ruined the planet, leading to the world of Soylent Green, which seems to represent a hyper-realized version of the worst suspicions people had about the future in the 1970s.There's a lot to this movie, though, and it's certainly not bad. I wouldn't say it has much on another near-future dystopia movie released around the same time - A Clockwork Orange (which came earlier and also relied heavily on Beethoven music... hmmmm!) - so I can only give it 7 out of 10. Its key weaknesses are how overtly stuck in the 70s it is (which is amusing but ultimately detracts from the movie) and the relatively stereotypical portrayal of all the bad guys as classic evil henchmen types. Very 1970s and very tiring. The pacing is also awkward early in the movie, introducing character after character that are important to the plot but giving us little context or transition from the last scene, and little reason to care about the new characters. "},{"Title":"Man Eaters of New York.","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's New York about thirty years from now, crowded beyond belief, polluted, filled with garbage, uncomfortably hot all year round, and all commodities scarce except for the tasteless crackers called Soylent -- just like the rest of the world.Charlton Heston is a New York City cop cooped up with his crotchety friend and researcher (his book, because books are scarce), Edward G. Robinson. An extremely wealthy businessman, Joseph Cotten, is beaten to death in his luxury apartment and Heston is assigned to the case. He makes his way on foot to Cotten's apartment, stepping over the bodies, living and dead, that are piled on the streets and stairways.Well -- this is some apartment! Heston walks in and gazes stupefied at the tchotchkas and the furniture. The furniture includes the succulent Leigh Taylor-Young. No wonder he gawks. She comes with the apartment, if the resident wants her to, because living space is almost impossible to find.Heston, whom we are used to seeing as an upright man of principle, strides casually around the scene of the crime, chatting with Taylor-Young before he beds her down. Does he steal anything from the well-stocked apartment? Everything I could lay my hands on. There's some wilted lettuce, a half-turgid stalk of celery, and two apples. There's even a cut of beef. Heston takes it all home to Robinson, who is old enough to remember what this stuff is, and Robinson makes a bit of stew out of it and helps drain the confiscated bottle of bourbon. Heston takes an indifferent munch out of the lettuce but Robinson has tears in his eyes and he savors the feast.The trail gets a little twisted. Cotten turns out to have been on the board of Soylent AND a relative of the mayor. People begin to tail Heston and take pot shots at him. His boss, Brock Peters, tells him to lay off the case, as all cops' bosses do. In other words, something is rotten in the state of New York besides the garbage. Actually, there may be no more state of New York. The city of New York now adjoins the city of Philadelphia. (Good-bye, New Jersey.) Looking northward, the boundary may abut the city of Boston, perhaps somewhere around East Windsor, Connecticut.Heston persists in following the few clues that show up, not so much out of morality but because he doesn't want to lose his job. But Robinson discovers the secret behind Soylent first. It depletes whatever resources Robinson had left and he decides to have an institution send him on his eternal journey.In a poignant scene, Robinson is wheeled into a room of his favorite color, given a painless poison, and is free to watch movies of an earth with natural features that are pristine and beautiful and majestic -- all the things we are recklessly discarding as we carry on with our daily lives now -- and Robinson is treated to a melange of light classics that include romantic snatches of Beethoven's Pastoral Symphony, Tchaikovsky, and Grieg. Heston bursts in and is more astonished by the IMAX images of deer, snow-veined Alps, apple blossoms, and rolling ocean than he was at the slab of meat. Meat, Heston recognized for what it was. But he's never seen anything like the film he -- and Robinson in his last moments -- witness. Heston is unable to even speak.Anyway, he follows Robinson's body out of the Extinction Room or whatever it is, and he too discovers the secret behind the mystery of Soylent, which by now every viewer has also figured out. The film doesn't end on a particularly hopeful note.How well does the movie do at predicting what the world will look like in fifty years? Well, yes and no. It makes the usual assumption that the future will have what we have now, only there will be more of it and it will be bigger. (The futuristic movies of the 1930s had propeller-driven airplanes in every garage.) The quantum leaps that introduce revolutionary social and technological change are usually missed. (The jet airplane did more than make cross-country movement faster; it vulgarized travel, homogenized the world, and eliminated the exotic.) The movie (and presumably the original story) also got the chief assumption behind population growth wrong. Right now, there are more than 6 billion people in the world. This number will more than double by 2050, along with all the problems that accompany it -- pollution, urban sprawl, scarce commodities, and the rest of it. But the streets will never be filled with piles of supernumeraries. Population irruptions such as we're undergoing now, have been studied in numerous animal populations. Thomas Malthus, E. O. Wilson, E. T. Hall, and Paul Ehrlich have written about what happens, and so have I, if I can put myself in this exalted company. What happens is that the population crashes from stress-related diseases or opportunistic infections before the hand-to-mouth phase is reached. Ulcers, heart failure, and AIDS are examples. Wars too, if you can think of them as a stress-related disease. To paraphrase Malthus, if we don't stop it, Nature will.Don't get me started on cannibalism either. Anthropologists don't only ask why; they also ask why not? Do I have a few more lines left? If I get too close to the limit, somebody flap a napkin at me. This may sound queer, but it may be Charlton Heston's best performance, including his efforts at Shakespeare. He's not a very expressive actor but his insouciance as he wanders through the dead Cotten's apartment, opening drawers, leaving nonchalant insults in his wake, openly stuffing a pillow case with every valuable in sight (except Leigh Taylor-Young, who is too big), is marvelous. He's played masterful many times before, but never with such irony. "},{"Title":"A good film about the pending overpopulation problem","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Its time to pay tribute to the great Charton Heston after his recent passing but this film is not the one. His other films of a past generation were BEN HUR, THE TEN COMMANDENTS, OMEGA MAN and PLANET OF THE APES were his better works.This film made in 1973 attempts to prophesies a future earth , in 2022, that is so overpopulated that the human race has been manipulated by authorities to eat a universally produced food product called Soylent Green which is manufactured with Human flesh. This bizarre and implausible film was as ridiculous at the time of its release as it is now and assumes India's population which would be about 2 billion by that stage would be then meat eaters without knowing it.Charlton Heston's character this supers secret international conspiracy that world powers have concocted to meet the nutritional demands of overpopulation by using cannibalism.Unfortunately for the producers of this film the Green message they deliver is not the Greens Party of today's ethos thank god. Cannibalism was practiced by the indigenous populations in New Zealand , Fiji and Borneo up until only 40 years before this film was made but has been long abandoned by human civilization.Another silly prediction in the film is that women become quasi sex slaves turning back the tide of radical feminism which was on the rise in 1972 when this film was made.The film was stupid then and is as silly now but does contain a very unmemorable last film performance by the late and great Edward G. Robinson but still no a valid reason to revisit the film other than for academic reasons.This is a dud of a film and I wouldn't even recommend it to baby boomers or Charlton Heston fans. All the other reviews of this film I have read all sound the same referring to a dystopian society in the future of which the centralised theme only seems to involve the USA in which an ecological disaster has occurred.The only merit in the film is that earth does face overpopulation. "},{"Title":"Doesn't At All Live Up To Its Source Novel","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In Harry Harrison's classic 1966 sci-fi novel Make Room! Make Room!, a Chinese street kid named Billy Chung kills a racketeer in the overpopulated NYC of 1999 and is hunted down by cop Andy Rusch, who lives with his senior citizen roommate, Sol Kahn. By the time this story reached the big screen seven years later, it had been retitled Soylent Green and the entire Billy Chung storyline had been scrapped. Instead, the murder victim is one of the execs on the Soylent board (Joseph Cotten, wasted in a teeny role) and the crime is investigated by a cop named Thorn (Charlton Heston), who lives in the overpopulated NYC of 2022 with his aged roommate, Sol Roth. (Why the screenwriters insisted on these name changes is beyond me!) While Harrison's novel's main goal was depicting the problems of an overpopulated Earth of the future, with a crime as the background element, the film reverses that thrust unwisely, dealing only cursorily with the larger issue. Thus, we get nowhere near the sense of the problem that the novel gives us. As in the book, our cop hero gets involved with the slain man's girlfriend, Shirl, here presented as what's known as Furniture; a beautiful, sexually available woman who comes standard with your apartment. (Actually, I kinda go for that idea!) The best part of the film, far and away, is Edward G. Robinson (Sol), here in the 101st and final film of his glorious career. He is the heart and soul of the film, and the picture's best scenes are always the ones showing him reminiscing about the old days or, with Heston, enjoying some superrare booze, beef, strawberries or soap; the two really do make us sense how rare these commodities have become. The ultimate secret of Soylent Green the product is one that everybody by now knows, and is a sensational element not at all present in the book. Bottom line This is a decent, fun-to-watch movie, not terribly impressive, that does not live up to its source. "},{"Title":"Garbage Trucks  Are Important","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a great film which held my interest from beginning to the very end. Charlton Heston, ( Detective Robert Thorn) performs his duties in New York City in the year 2022 which has a population of 44 million people and food is scarce. However, Soylent Green is the main food for all the population with the exception of some high officials like William R. Simonson, (Joseph Cotton) who has all the foods we are use to in the year 2007, Steak, Booze, vegetables, strawberries etc etc. In the Year 2022 women who live in expensive apartments must stay as part of the furniture and accommodate the new tenant and one of these girls is Shirl, ( Leigh Taylor Young) who charms Robert Thorn as he investigates a murder in their expensive apartment. Edward G. Robinson, (Sol Roth) gave his last performance in this film after 90 films to his credit. Robinson was hard of hearing in his film and was given his clues for his lines by prompters on the side lines. He was truly a great actor and a great credit to this film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"It is pretty funny.","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Really, there are spoilers in here, so if you don't want to be spoiled don't read this.I think I shouldn't be laughing, I really do. I mean, I think 'Soylent Green' is meant to be a serious sci-fi film, but I found it hilarious. It's grim and it has black humour in it and every single stereotype you can come up with from the 70's detective film.So 'Soylent Green' tells a story of a cop named Thorn (Charlton Heston), who is investigating a death of a upper class citizen Simmons. On his way Thorn, and actually the whole world of this film, displays by his behaviour, that the world has changed into a exact opposite of utopia.After some questioning of Simmons's furniture Shirl (Leigh Taylor-Young ) and bodyguard Fielding (Chuck Connors) and some petty thievery at the crime scene our courageous detective learns the horrible truth about food product called Soylent Green, which is the best of all the Soylent products, which provide the nutritious food cycle for every living person.I don't know. I pretty much guessed the whole big surprise and I almost fell from the chair when Heston uttered out the whole big thing in the exact same words that popped into my mind about the whole horrific ordeal.Either this film is a brilliant piece of black comedy or then it is just unintentionally funny. Either way I got the laughs out of it and really wouldn't mind of seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Such an interesting topic, but poorly executed","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The secret of Soylent Green is, of course, that the food that sustains life in 2022 Earth is made out of people. The entire topic of this movie is fascinating, but one finishes watching it feeling disappointed. It could have been so much more.This movie should be remade. The whole process of encouraging suicide to generate food should have been explored in far more detail. The concept of the Exchange doesn't really make sense. And Heston in this film is just odd.Anyhow, if you've heard the term Soylent Green used in some way, you should see the movie and understand exactly what they're talking about. "},{"Title":"Exciting, Scary, Thought-Provoking Environmental Collapse Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the year 2022 the Earth is in environmental decline and overpopulation and food shortages are rife. A New York cop investigating the murder of one of the directors of the powerful Soylent soya-manufacturing corporation smells a rat when unknown political elements attempt to have the case closed. Digging deeper, he uncovers a terrible secret about Soylent's food products ...Based on Harry Harrison's brilliant novel Make Room! Make Room!, this is one of several great seventies dystopian science-fiction nightmares, and possibly the most grim and unrelenting in its portrayal of a world gone mad. Whilst the murder investigation and the shock finale are handled well, the film is much more interested in its depiction of the effects of overpopulation and the rape of the environment. Manhattan has a population of forty million and poverty, filth and rubbish are everywhere. Marriage seems to be redundant and women are largely decorative objects to be bought and sold like furniture. There is massive inflation and unemployment. Fresh food is unheard of, as are books and papers. Voluntary euthanasia is encouraged. The main job of the police is to quell riots when supplies run out, by scooping up the crowds with rubbish trucks. The film is beautifully directed, with superb photography by Richard H. Kline, for maximum jarring impact; the exterior daytime scenes were shot with filters to give the air a dusty, poisoned look. There are several brilliant set-pieces, such as the opening photo-montage and the stunning sequence where Robinson goes home. The cast are all good - Heston walks a razor-line between moral hero and greedy opportunist, and Robinson (in his last role) steals the show as the only character who remembers the beauty of the world - but not people - before the insanity. A great film by a criminally underrated filmmaker. "},{"Title":"One of the greats - should it be remade?","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was 9 years old when saw this movie at the drive-in with my parents. I have been in love with it ever since. I remember staying up late when it came on television the first time. I have seen it maybe 6 or 7 times since, and even though the 70's brought some campy movie making, I still think it is a great movie - even with the 70's style hair and facial hair. Charleton Heston will always be one of the standards in Hollywood, and people can debate whether or not he was/is a great actor. Nonetheless, his screen presence is second to none.I would love to see a true-to-the-original but contemporary remake of this movie. Not like Tim Burton's complete re-write of Planet of the Apes; but something more up-to-date visually. Spielberg's War of the Worlds comes out this summer, and I am excited to see his rendition of this sci fi classic, even though I don't consider myself a huge sci fi fan. "}{"Title":"Excellent atmosphere film with a suspenseful plot.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent Green has two flaws one, the future looks like an exaggerated version of the 1970s; and two, most people know the ending before seeing it.However, it overcomes both of these problems. While fashion was apparently supposed to get stuck in 70s mode, and video games transcended Soylent Green's 2022 by the time the 1980s ended, the film conveys its main theme, overpopulation, very well. Food is scarce, and global warming has taken hold, giving most of the settings a dry, dusty look. What really works is how nostalgia for the way it used to be is portrayed. The film takes its time to get this right, and you can almost feel the intense anticipation and wonder when characters get to try real food instead of the dry food chips (Soylent green, red, and yellow) that make up their daily diet.The plot remains suspenseful even though the plot twist is well known. Charlton Heston does an acceptable job as Detective Thorn, who is investigating the murder of a rich man. As he digs deeper, the feeling that some people want him to stop snooping becomes more and more palpable, and by the end of the film I found my heart racing, without all that much action. Still, the main draw is the great way the bleak atmosphere is contrasted with fleeting moments of bliss. "},{"Title":"Chilling & Provacative","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A novel by Harry Harrison; it's 2022 and people are still the same but doing anything to get what they need to stay alive; the earth is overpopulated and there is a new horrific foodstuff called 'Soylent Green'.  Charlton Heston plays a copy named Thorn who uncovers the chilling source.  Edward G. Robinson plays a magnificent role.  Great cast includes Chuck Connor, Joseph Cotten and Dick Van Patten.   I always remember this together with Logan's Run 1976 as they are similar but Soylent Green is much better for acting and production values; rated it higher 8/10. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi at its purest mode","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This Soylent Green is one of those movies i liked that there would be more. This is closely classic sci-fi and unbeatable by most more modern sci-fi movies wich rely too many times only on mechanic and computer aided special effects. In this case the main thing is the story of this movie that is , very realistic. That makes this movie scheme little more uncomfortable and can be also thing that puts people away and not to watch this kind of story, its more Science fiction/fact more and it makes it more powerfull presentation8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greats","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Finally available on DVD, this is undeniably one of the great science fiction classics of the &#145;70s. From the disturbingly convincing depiction of the film's grimly overpopulated world, to the equally amazing performances (wonderful Eddie Robinson as Heston's grizzled and disillusioned partner), to a killer twist ending, it is hard to find any real faults with this film. "},{"Title":"DON'T FORGET TO REMEMBER THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hello to all the loving of SOYLENT GREEN. Now they are just 30 years that I saw this movie,in the cinema of my little town. I was only a boy,but this movie kicked much my fantasy,and has impressed inside me the importance to keep safe the environment! Someone tells,it has failed the forecast of a dry and without resources world,in the year 2022. Luckily it is so! But remember,till the late 60's,the world was fully indifferent to the environmental protection.The industries polluted without any limit(just for example,the Thames in England was a dead,dirty river,without fishes). Only in the early 70's,the world has begun to develop a green soul. And I would like to think that SOYLENT GREEN has given a little contribution to this development.  When I see it,I always remember the tales of my grandparents,about the shortage of food during the II world war in South of Italy. I mean about the scenes,Sol and Thorn give a so great importance to some meat and some fruit,because they don't eat these things any more.Obviously this movie has values and defects like all the movies,and I don't want get in this topic. But there are two phrases in this movie that we have to let always in our head.The first is when Thorn sees the wonderful images of the lost nature and tells to Sol Who has let to destroy it? And Sol answersWe did it!And the second is the final phrase of Thorn to all the people You must stop them first it's too late!! We haven't to forget. "},{"Title":" Excellent picture of a crowded future-world....","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"      There is a scene towards the end of 'Soylent Green' where a dieing man is allowed to wallow in film of chocolate-box scenery .So convincing has the film been in portraying an ultra-crowded and polluted world that we too gasp with the dieing man as he enjoys a beauty he has long been denied. This is an impressive piece of work, its set design and cinemaphotography of the highest order, and it is great to see Edward G. Robinson as persuasive as ever. If it falls down a bit in its central plotting  this is small beer in a quite excellent film. "},{"Title":"A defense of a great B flick","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Let's not kid ourselves; you already know the disturbing secret of soylent green.  Everyone does, at least in the U.S., and probably in the U.K., Ireland, Australia and most of the English speaking world.  The films central concept was just too good not to spread by word-of-mouth, and, even at the time of release Charleton Heston's last four lines were well-known enough to serve as a spoiler to anyone liable to see it. That fact does make it hard to enjoy this movie currently, but, oddly, it also serves as proof of this film's effect on American culture, and its very worth.  This film's central premise has become an icon in popular thought, like James Whales' version of the Frankenstein monster, and its very renown proves it still to be one darn scary idea.  People aren't remembering and discussing it as some kind of Ed Wood flick on hunger, after all. The horror in this film is especially interesting, by the way, because it is at once both so blatant, and also yet so subtle.  The blatancy is in the real source of soylent green of course, but the subtlety is in the films restrained approach to that idea. Contrary to the opinions of so many reviewers, the plot for Soylent Green does not include a government program to exterminate the elderly, the rebelious, or anyone else.  Some scenes may suggest this--the use of the front-loaders for both the transportation of corpses and riot control--but this is never stated.  Detective Thorne, Sol and Shirl', could all avoid the threat of death then, at least for a time, but to do so, they would have to face the possibility of living an utterly worthless life.  This concievably loss, however, is the real terror of the film. To qualify my own comments just a little, Soylent Green was scarier during the time of its first release.  America was facing the first real economic crisis since the thirties, and was watching its skies and waters get grayer.  As a child in Cleveland, Ohio, on the shores of the dying lake Erie and astride the flammable Cuyahoga River, this film seemed to capture the awful quality of city life entirely too well, "},{"Title":"Who cares about special effects?","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Lots of comments about the poor effects, the green haze, the bad editing, and so on. Does anybody care about the plot? The dialogue may be not the best, and Heston's macho man talk sound simply ridiculous, but still the basic idea is really attractive and makes this film worth watching. Few other movies dared to play with the idea of a starved USA (if any). Especially attractive is the lack of cheap Hollywoodian magic solutions there is no hero to kill the bad guys and release the world's food reserves, if only because there are no such reserves. And for all his tough talk, Heston is as hungry as anybody else and looks in awe at an ordinary (for our standards) soap bar. I gladly accept the cheap, B-class craftmanship of this movie in exchange for the sharp basic concept, something completely missing from today's multimillion special effect movies. "},{"Title":"Just saw a new print of movie","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I commented a few years back on this movie having lousy camera work and the use of green tinting to make the daytime scenes look polluted. Well, I rented a new copy that is a vast improvement. The photography is a lot sharper and clearer and doesn't always have that dark and gloomy look and the outdoor daytime scenes tinted green are now just presented with a hazy look; far better and more realistic than before. Also, there's a futuristic cityscape in background in the scenes where the penthouse is broken into and when Edward G. Robinson is walking to the death parlor. It looks neat, but it's irrelevant to the movie since according to Soylent Green, mankind had not progressed since the 1970's and everything is old and decayed. Also, with the new and improved photography, it appears the movie was shot on outdoor sets that look like they were out of some old cheesy 60's show. Anyway, it's much more enjoyable viewing now and I rate the movie a little higher than before. "},{"Title":"Excellent concept, but some soap opera spoils it. Grade C","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found the premise of this film to be truly fascinating. I liked the Charlton Heston character, but I would have liked Harrison Ford to play him. Edward G. Robinson is great as Sol - his last film role. The soap opera between Heston and Leigh Taylor-Young is boring. Will there be a remake??? If there is, Heston should play the Joseph Cotten character and Harrison Ford play the role of Detective Thorn. Gregory Peck might be good as Sol if he can remember the lines.  Overall grade C  "}{"Title":"So ready for a remake","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is SOOOO ready for a remake!  Imagine the food factory with new special effects!!  And hey, CHeston is now the right age to play EGRobinson's part (hopefully not with the same results!)  They've remade most other classic sci-fi, why not this. I guess I'll just have to be patient and keep my ears open. "},{"Title":"good film, but not brilliant","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Best thing about this film is its story. Having in mind that it was made in 1973, it is amazing how today's problems are addressed, like the greenhouse effect and overpopulation. I could think of a few persons who should watch this film carefully. Unfortunately, the director chose quite unconvincing sets for what he tried to show. Neither overpopulation nor pollution seemed real. I also realized a few inconsistencies in the behaviour of the characters (e.g. Why did the crowd not grab the Soylent food on the market when the uproar about the food shortage commenced?). But just as Omega Man, The (1971) this movie has a style which is unmatched by today's Hollywood productions and truly worth watching. "},{"Title":"a true science fiction classic","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" out of all the science fiction films of the 70s this one is one of my favorites because of the films wonderful cast like Charlton Heston' and Edward G Robinson in his his last and final role as sol which I think is one of is best acting performances of his career. the film has wonderfully artistic cinematography and astounding set pieces that not many films have anymore. when it comes to truly great cinema Soylent Green is in my opinion one of the very best in its genre. One of my other favorite things about this film is its great pacing and its suspense that keeps the film interesting and memorable because of the films energy and intensity. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is... oh, never mind.","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well, this is the future and I'm sorry to report it does not look good for women. Just about every female in this film is either a hag or a whore. Some are even called furniture because they are included with apartments, like shag carpeting or toilets.The year is 2022 and the world is a hot, sweaty, overcrowded mess. We've run out of everything, including food and apparently room. People are packed in like sardines and a baby is always crying somewhere, just off camera. Everyone dresses in gray. The men wear pillbox hats and the women all wear those little triangular shaped kerchiefs that were popular in the 60's. (I had a corduroy one.) As for the riot police, the fact that they put little visors on them does not disguise one whit the fact that they are wearing football helmets. Do I seem obsessed with this movie's head wear? Then I should mention that Edward G. Robinson wears a beret.Charlton Heston (who wears a cap and little scarf tied around his neck to soak up the sweat) plays a cop who looks like he's been basted in Mazzola Oil. He struts around making sure that the masses don't kill one another when the delivery trucks run out of the vibrantly colored food chips which are all the government has to offer in the way of sustenance.Charlton really doesn't do much other than stumble upon the fact that Soylent Green is really&#x85;. I won't tell you what Soylent Green is really made of because that would be a spoiler, but since this movie is 40 years old, you probably already know.There is only one reason to watch this movie and his name is Edward G. Robinson. Other than that, don't miss the scene where the woman screams like a banshee AFTER being shot in the head. "},{"Title":"Good idea, decent execution","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is a sort of sci-fi noir that takes place in an overpopulated New York in 2022. Building on fears that were prevalent at the time concerning the environment and greenhouse effects, Soylent Green depicts a world devoid of natural life, but overflowing with humans and urban decay.Charlton Heston plays a hardened detective much in line with the type pioneered by Raymond Chandler in his crime novels rough, tough, and grounded in an undesirable reality. His investigation into a murder case is going to reveal a hidden conspiracy that will put his life in jeopardy.The premise the film seems to be a clever synthesis of crime drama and old-school science fiction. But where the ideas are exciting and full of potential, none of them are fully developed, explained, or utilized. There is very little character development from anybody, and the acting itself seems mediocre at best. The ending culminates from very little evolution or explanation, and then concludes abruptly leaving this particular viewer dissatisfied. "},{"Title":"Dated as dated can be","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A heart-warming tale of soya, lentils and global warming, but so far wide of the mark if gives the audience indigestion. This began life as a rather poor science fiction novel, and that's what it should have stayed. To see this film now that two-thirds of the fifty years down the line setting has elapsed really adds another dimension. Hokum like this was never taken seriously in the first place, but at this remove we're forced to admit just how badly wrong most attempts to portray the future tend to go. The most notable features now are the appalling sexism, the bad 70's taste and the video game that appears in one scene. Charlton Heston, playing his usual Man of Wood, does little to enliven the proceedings. "},{"Title":"SNL Ruined 'Soylent Green'!","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How do I explain this without giving away the ending of the movie (which is EXACTLY what Saturday Night Live did many years ago)? Let's just say that the late Phil Hartman's funny impression of Chuck Heston shouting out his big revelation in 'Soylent Green' made watching the movie anti-climactic. I knew what the final few lines of dialogue would be before I even picked up the DVD from the shelf of the local video store. Damn you, SNL! Damn you all to hell! ... Oh, wait, that's a quote from ANOTHER film in Heston's sci-fi period.Actually, the movie is quiet and foreboding, building a sense of doom. Heston does what he's supposed to do, which is keep his over-acting to a dull roar. His best buddy (played by Edward G. Robinson, in his last performance) gets a touching farewell sequence that leads Heston's detective character called Robert Thorn to the shocking climax. I wonder if Jonathan Swift would be proud of the Soylent company's solution to the crisis of overpopulation...There are some memorable scenes to be found here, but this is not very exciting stuff as sci-fi/thrillers go. Of course, if you don't know what I'm talking about in that first paragraph, perhaps your heart will be pounding out of your ears at the end of the flick. A cameo by Orson Welles' alumnus, Joseph Cotton, is actually what starts the story in motion. He's on-screen for about 2 minutes, but what happens to him sets it all up. So if you enjoy watching Moses go into hyperdrive, teeth-clenching mode once again and want to see what a deteriorating Eddie G looks like in his swan song, take a peek at 'Soylent Green'. Then go enjoy some fresh food while you still can. "},{"Title":"Uneven but entertaining 1970s sci fi. Chuck rules!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  'Soylent Green' is the least successful of Charlton Heston's 60s/70s sci fi movies (the others being the classic 'Planet Of The Apes' and the silly but fun 'The Omega Man'), but despite its flaws it's still an interesting dystopia with a lot of entertainment value, and not just on a kitsch level. Like 'Planet Of The Apes' even people who have never seen 'Soylent Green' know the twist ending, but it doesn't really matter one way or the other, there's still more than enought to keep you watching.  Director Richard Fleischer ('Fantastic Voyage', 'The Boston Strangler', 'Mandingo') is let down a bit by Stanley Greenberg's uninspired script, but Heston's performance and the great supporting cast make this a very enjoyable experience. Screen legend Edward G. Robinson is particularly excellent and very touching in his last role, and the rest of the cast includes Joseph Cotton ('Shadow Of A Doubt'), Chuck Connors ('The Rifleman'), Whit Bissel ('Invasion Of The Body Snatchers), Leigh Taylor-Young ('Looker'), Brock Peters ('To Kill A Mockingbird') and Roy Jenson ('The Getaway'). Pretty impressive! Fans of downbeat 1970s SF like 'Westworld', 'A Boy And His Dog', 'The Ultimate Warrior', 'Silent Running' etc.etc. will probably enjoy this more than the Star Wars crowd, but I liked it a lot. "},{"Title":"My Misinterpretation","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SOYLENT GREEN is a good story executed without the impact it may deserve. There is plenty to appreciate in this dark portrayal of earth in the future, but there are too many elements that just scream out Messy B-movie. A vision of a world where overpopulation causes people to literally spill out of windows, animal and plant life is virtually non existent, fresh food and water is only available to the truly rich, voluntary suicide is encouraged, the government hands out rations of odd food supplements (Soylent Red, Soylent Yellow, and the new Soylent Green), a jar of strawberries costs $150, and women are called furniture (they can be reused or thrown out when new rich tenants move into apartments), certainly has potential. The acting is strong from the two people that matter the most, Charlton Heston (Thorn) and Edward G. Robinson (Sol). Sol's suicide scene followed by Thorn's discovery of the recipe for Soylent Green represent the best parts of the movie. There is something very creepy about the way Sol is lead to his chamber. As he lies there and watches a film of all the beautiful things that earth once had to offer (still does to us), the footage makes its impact. The themes in SOYLENT GREEN are obvious right from the very beginning. An excellent montage, which shows the earth as it becomes more polluted over the years, opens the film.SOYLENT GREEN is similar to Heston's more famous PLANET OF THE APES as it shows us a bleak look at the future of humanity that is a direct result of our ignorance. It asks us to appreciate what we take for granted. However, it does not have the same impact. I'm not going to complain about film quality because that is more due to the fact that I had a poor videotape copy. Unfortunately, the film does have choppy editing and a weak execution. The story suffers from some really banal sub-plots such as Thorn's relationship with a furniture. The movie lacks the focus to develop into something really intriguing and instead contains some bizarre, out-of-place scenes. It's best when it focuses on Thorn's investigation and on his relationship with Sol. The production quality is low and the idea that people have not advanced much beyond the seventies seems like a lazy way of not having to deal with wardrobe, design, music, etc. So while the story may be good, the movie feels weak and dated and Thorn's final lines, while delivered nicely by Heston, do not have the impact they should.There is a curious scene that I want to mention. It occurs when Sol visits the Exchange. I got the impression that Sol is Jewish, especially since I heard him utter Hebrew phrases throughout the movie (I don't know a single word in Hebrew, but I've heard it before and that's what it sounded like). From their accents, it appears that the old women he talks to at the Exchange are European (possibly also Jewish). In my opinion, the conversation they have about the Soylent Green cover-ups seems to resemble conversations about Nazi war crime cover-ups. Don't get me wrong. I'm not trying to make light of the Holocaust by comparing it to the story in SOYLENT GREEN. I may be completely misreading it. However, the old women have such strange looks on their faces as they talk about the hideous nature of the crimes and the need for proof. There is something about that scene that just made me uncomfortable. I don't know if it was the director's intention to show that the story paralleled the Holocaust in some ways, but I got that impression from that little scene. Other moments in the film, such as the crowd control scene or Sol's death scene, appear to fit in with that idea. The film is clearly against such actions so a comparison to the Holocaust may not be totally inappropriate, but it may be a trivialization, especially if the director really did intend for the parallels to be seen. Since I may just be imagining this, I'm not sure what to make of it. Please understand that I have never stretched my interpretation of a movie this far before (Well, I did have a strange theory on FREDDY GOT FINGERED). I may be completely wrong and I don't mean to misinterpret anything.The bottom line is that SOYLENT GREEN is a poorly executed, but interesting story about embracing and respecting our environment before it deteriorates and forces us into some extreme behavior. Here is a movie in desperate need of remaking. A thought provoking (not action driven) and technically superior remake could have a much stronger impact. For now, if you have time, SOYLENT GREEN is just decent enough to check out, if only for the famous ending. However, don't expect anything too amazing as this feels only like a second rate PLANET OF THE APES, from beginning to twist ending. Overall, a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Frighteningly accurate","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie paints a terrifyingly descriptive portrayal of exactly what I expect the future Earth to look like. Overcrowded, unappreciated, malnourished and downright lousy. Some people say Bladerunner is the most accurate description of Earth's future, and I say no. I say there will be flying cars. I say there will be no androids. I say the world is going to be Soylent Green.I like Charlton Heston as an actor. I once had the privilege of meeting him at a Republican convention. Many people from the NRA were there and my high school's JROTC colorguard was presenting the flags that evening. Needless to say, he saw our rifles, and kind of took a liking to us for the evening. So I got his autograph, and he signed another one for our rifle team. Anyways, I think he did a fine job at acting in this movie, but I believe any moderate actor could have played the role just as well. It was Sol who stole the stage. He did such a fantastic job throughout the entire movie at complaining about how life used to be good, and how there used to be food and water, and how foliage was abundant. And it wasn't until Sol was on the bed, watching the images of swaying tulips and grazing elk when I realized how incredible a job he did. That scene where Sol was lying on the bed and Heston was looking through the window as the images passed across the screen was the most powerful scene of the movie. The movie builds itself up for an hour or so, showing how pathetic life is, and idealizing how the world used to be, and then it hits us with large screens of bright and colorful nature images, so contrary to the nature outside at that time. All I can say to that is Wow.Overall, this movie lacked a gripping story, but made up for it in all the portrayal of the future through the mass crowd scenes where everybody was waiting to get their Soylent Green, and the riot scenes where the scoops regulated the crowd. This depiction of our future is not something we should strive for. We need to heed this movie, and work to improve our living conditions and our populations throughout the world. We need to take warning people and better our ways before it is too late. Good day gentlemen.-Scott- "}{"Title":"What is the secret of Soylent Green?","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A futurist drama, -SOYLENT GREEN- is not -CASABLANCA- on steroids but neither did they know about the future Can you predict it? -INTERPOL-, International Crime Police, is an organization parallel to the United Nations, or U.N, N.U, N.U. Have you seen your bathroom puke in your nose? In this future, academic men of the ancient Catacombs expunge knowledge from ancient books, so they can fuel their minds and live happily. The secret of the movie is the following At a shortage of food, a craze man, illiterate punk, decides to take his herd to Guyana and make them swallow -TANG-, orange juice, in agreement with the -Tang- dynasty They eat cookies to pass by their hunger made of compressed human bodies. Guacamole, anyone? This film is at the origins of the -PLASTIC- engineering industry, from -Cornell University-, the most advanced and reputed academic company in the world. My great grandfather founded it with some extra money of his inheritance (he was known in the circle as -NOSTRADAMUS- the French, soap company, and he quoted himself and Ezra Pound (qu'est-ce qu'on pense on don't pense, go ask McGorvish bank in Canto XVIII)in stating-I will found an institution where any body can find instruction in any study. Cornell University have grown to include an array of over a million communities worldwide, including the Futuristic city of Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and Buenos Aires, Argentina, featured in the private film -GATTACA- and bubbles such as Jade, Johanessburg, Casablanca, Maroc, New Dehli, India, Paris, France, London, Great Britain, one of the Saint John, the islands of the Pacific, Bora, Bora. Its alumni include the ranks of Marlon Brando, Elizabeth Taylor (she got a GED though), Huckeberry Finn from satellite stations in Rome, Italy, and ex-Hong-Kong, The Peoples Republic of China. Cornell Uniersity also distinguishes itself by having the most extensive list of special intelligences applicants to military intelligence units, including those of Malmo, Sweeden. Adolph Hitler is said to be a former alumni, who switched to an adjacent Junior College because he did not get tenured by the other faculty (he still receives his check though). The Cornell University is also home to the -speciaL encoding ENIGMA division of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (N.A.T.O.)of Turkish communication- and of the C.I.A. elite unit for dispensing intelligence concretion to Geneva, Switzerland. The Cornell University also hold lots of aspirants to posts in the C.I.A., I.B.M., F.B.I., INTERPOL and the like my granny would have loved it, nuts she unfortunately swallowed the wrong cookies! When the -United Nations- declared the Cornell University a zone of special international interest, Ezra and his seven dwarfs began to draw a new universe, to the surprise of head Carl Sagan, part of Cornell's -brain collection-. "},{"Title":"Soylent Cheese!","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green is made of people. It's made of PEOPLE! Charlton Heston is one of my favorite all-time over-actors. Another good movie to watch is PLanet of the Apes. Get your hands off me you DAMN DIRTY APE! If this isn't entertainment is all about, I don't know what is. You know, watching this as a kid, I was captivated. The movie had a whole different feel. It was raw and serious and it pushed your imagination and fear of big government. Boy, those were different times. Yes, this movie is dated. Now as an adult, I can't stop laughing. Do yourself a favor and watch this stuff. It's so good that SNL did a skit dedicated to this flick. I Love the cheese. Pour it on! -bigplans12 "},{"Title":"Highly watchable","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie came to me highly recommended by Matt Groening. Well actually I watched both The Simpsons and Futurama and it gets a mention in both so I figured what the heck. The film brings home a few what if's that make you realise how lucky we are in this day and age where we take simple things like soap and water for granted. Interesting though that in the year 2022 men are still shaving with a single blade safety razor! Nice that Those responsible didn't over load the film with unnecessary special effects, ray guns, etc. Some nice looking 'furniture' once you figure out what that means. Remember, Tuesday is Soylent Green Day "},{"Title":"True Masterpiece","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent green is a very remarkable film in more than one way. First of all, I consider Richard Fleischer one of the more underrated directors in Hollywood. Films like Barabbas, Fantastic Voyage, The Boston Strangler, or Soylent Green are not only perfect entertainment, but also proof of excellent film-making (of course, his filmography includes some rubbish as well - well, nobody's perfect as Joe E. Brown said). The acting (the very fact that this is the great Edward G. Robinson's last film role would single out Soylent Green) is very good, cinematography is absolutely flawless in my opinion, and the scarce use of classical music is touching as well - it provides a deliberately warm contrast to the hopeless situation (think e.g. of Mozart's Kegelstatt trio in the supper scene, or think of the magnificently shot death scene). Moreover, having read Harry Harrison's novel as well, I must say that the screenplay is an improvement on the book - the Soylent Green is people-motif turns a merely depressing tale of an overpopulated, polluted and dying earth into a real horror story of a civilization having lost all its virtues. Finally, I can't fully understand why other users criticize the film's rather dated look (by today's standards). Of course, production design might have come up with some kind of future look of 1973 (cf. Woody Allens Sleeper). In my opinion, however, this exactly is one of the charms of Soylent Green, considering its topic Think of the year 1973, think of the Club of Rome, think of the doomsday mood of the 70s - environmental issues were (overly) dramatized at that time, and many, if not all, of the nightmares brought up then have now turned out to be slightly exaggerated (of course, the positive effect not to be sneezed at was that the broad public finally became aware of urgent matters such as pollution, famines, over-population etc.). Also, the use of shabby gadgets and settings, old car wrecks and dilapidated housing etc., added to the overall impression of a world passing away. So - to cut it short, the definite 70s look of the picture is a very appropriate touch of zeitgeist of the time the film was made a time whose major fears are reflected in the picture. (And what would a remake reflect? Matrix-like special effects? Star Trek-like pseudo-philosophy? Alien-like beastliness? Would THAT truly add to the story in any way?) "},{"Title":"enjoyable 1973 sci-fi drama","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Like other sci-fi films from that early era, Soylent Green is an imaginative (well not quite, it's based on a book, but nevertheless) and intriguing film which aims at your mind, not only eyes & ears, like Hollywood mainstream (oh! not again!) science fiction.This will not be any means appeal to those who think sci-fi is all about action and machinery and robots and cool optical effects. This is science fiction in the futuristic social fiction vein, or how would the world be, if.... ? and so on. It's primitive but its quite OK. For Sci-fi fans, you got to watch this, it's history! "},{"Title":"Skip the movie; read the book.","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is based on Harry Harrison's Make Room! Make Room! and inhabits the  same story universe, but the plot has been altered substantially. More importantly, the  characters from the book have been changed substantially, and for the worse. Simply  put, there's nobody in the movie to like very much. Heston's character is sleazy and  dumb and it's very hard to identify with him as a protagonist. I can see why Harry  Harrison was so disappointed. If you liked this movie even a little and would have preferred that it have more depth,  better characters, a more gripping plot, and less footage of Charlton Heston swaggering  around in that stOOOOOOpid hat, read Make Room! Make Room! by Harry Harrison.  "},{"Title":"Not all that meaty","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a great atmosphere, convincingly portraying a world gone awry and interesting social customs of the future.  However, there is more atmosphere than true tension and character development.  It's worth watching once for sci-fi fans.  "},{"Title":"Giving New Meaning to the Expression Eat Me.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Laughable mess that officially made Charlton Heston's career fall below sea level in the 1970s. A science-fiction dud as Heston is a cop in 2022 America who unwittingly learns that a new governmental food source (the titled product) is not at all what it seems to be. The direction is nowhere to be found, the script is jumbled trite that feels like it was written by a Star Trekkie in their grandmother's basement and the production values are just cheap-looking to put it mildly. Still somehow has a cult following with some (it is amazing to me that no matter how utterly terrible a film is, there is always a clique of people out there that look at certain productions as misunderstood masterpieces). A sad end to Edward G. Robinson's career as he passed away just after the film was completed. No comment on that. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).   "},{"Title":"Interesting premise, but awful, cheap execution","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I spent the last 30 minutes browsing through comments made about this movie. I simply can't understand how people can speak of this movie having a convincing atmosphere. Granted, the basic premise is intriguing, but Fleischer and his crew fail in nearly every aspect to effectively convey the bleak world they want to portray. I will mainly focus on aspects of why I think this movie is a very good example of sci-fi settings gone wrong.First and foremost SOYLENT GREEN looks like it suffered from some severe budget constraints. To give an example, the DP tries to show the polluted air by using a green camera filter for each and every daytime outdoor shot, while a handful of poorly costumed extras should create the illusion of overcrowded NYC streets. The effect is plain silly and unbelievable.The film does nearly nothing in the way of technology projection. It is set in the year 2022, yet the housing conditions of the members of the lower social strata do not seem to have evolved beyond the 1950's, while the high society dwells in apartments of 1970's luxury standard. The most advanced technological gadget we get to see is an early 1970's computer space arcade machine. The same goes for the costume style. Charlton Heston's scarf and baseball cap resemble the attire of a steamboat captain much like Humphrey Bogart's character in African QUEEN. Haircuts, dresses, props, everything just oozes seventies atmosphere. Judging from the visuals not a single moment was I compelled to believe this could be a possible future time line.Neither is there a convincing demographic projection involved in this film. Nine years later BLADE RUNNER created a future L.A. society that remains believable to the present day A multi-ethnic conglomerate comprised of all races, languages and nationalities. You would think that in an overpopulated 40 million NYC the occasional Asian or Hispanic roamed through the streets. BLADE RUNNER did a lot of things right which SOYLENT definitely did wrong.During nighttime we see Heston's character wander empty rundown streets, not the slightest sound is to be heard apart from his foot steps. Is this what a 40 million moloch looks and sounds like at night? No police sirens, no bums gathered around burning trashcans, no nothing? Pure and perfect silence?The script has its share of problems too. The dialogue throughout the film puts way too much emphasis on the fact that food resources are sparse, a glass of strawberry jam costs 150$, a piece of meat is an invaluable treasure etc. A rather clumsy, laughable way to set the stage.Conversations between the weathered Sol and Charlton Heston's character focus on the fact that Sol experienced NYC before it deteriorated into what it is in 2022, while Heston did not. Heston was nearly 50 at the time of shooting and doesn't actually look much younger than that. If you do the math his character was therefore born around 1970, which (if Thorn doesn't remember the least bit of his childhood)in turn would mean that the change came about very rapidly between 1970 and 75. A nonsensical premise given the fact that the U.S. already had a negative population growth at the time of shooting. Not even massive, uncontrolled immigration from third world countries could quadruple the population of NYC and consequently bring a whole system upside down in a matter of years.I could go on rambling, but the matter of the fact is that Richard Fleischer's career peaked with TORA!TORA!TORA! in 1970. Take the time to check out his filmography after that one. Not a single movie reaches an IMDb rating of 7.0 or above, most are below 5.0. SOYLENT GREEN is not an exception. It is inherently flawed. It's no excuse to say that this movie was shot in the 70's and effects and production design therefore look dated, Kubrick shot 2001 in 1969 and it creates a more believable setting. When BLADE RUNNER was shot in 1982, there wasn't any CGI mumbo jumbo, yet it succeeds gloriously in creating a style that still looks futuristic even more than 20 years after it hit the silver screen. "},{"Title":"The Population Bomb Scare","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What I do not like about this movie is the usual over-zealous environmentalist scare of overpopulation that was the result of the book, The Population Bomb, written in 1968. The movie starts out with the idea of New York City having a population of 40 Million people in 2022. The population of New York City increased from 6 million in the early 1920's to 7 million in 1980. The whole concept of the idea that the population of New York City would increase 5 times in just 50 years from 1973 when the movie was made shows the brain dead mentality of these environmental wackos. I had not seen the move before. The movie is so not futuristic! It really lacks vision of other great classic Science Fiction films, like, Forbidden Planet, The Time Machine, War of the Worlds, The Day the Earth Stood Still, and 2001 etc., etc. I mean the video game...oh brother. No, I think that the best acting job was by Dagon, (Robinson), dying watching this beautiful movie scenes while. Sure a waste of talent by an actor that played Ben Hur, and Moses...or even by The Rifleman actor! "}{"Title":"35 years can change your impression","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was fantastic when I first saw it at the age of 15. My how time affects you; either you get wiser (most people become conservative, politically speaking, as they get older), or angrier (like Bill Maher)(and then there are angry conservatives like me). This movie is a classic case of A-list actors (Heston and Robinson) in a C-list movie. There appeared to be absolutely no effort to make anything look like it was in the future! If it weren't for the excellent acting of the two greats, it would have been pretty painful to watch again. The slow pace of the movie really becomes apparent in comparison to similar movies made today (it's a good, or bad thing, depending on your point of view; or how bad a movie is). If you have never seen this before, it's not a horrible movie, and wouldn't be a complete waste of time (and you would at least gain an understanding of the catchphrase of the movie; Soylent Green is _________ (you have to watch to complete the phrase; I don't want to be banned for a spoiler) I rated it a 7, but it would have been a 3 or 4 if not for Heston and Robinson. The one scene with them eating a meal together was worth it. "},{"Title":"From 2009 backwards...","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...this holds up as science-faction 36 years later.The world is overheated--a prospect that seems more like today, yet is still denied by many. The world is overpopulated--that hasn't turned out as badly. The world is controlled by corporations--aha, bingo. The authorities work for those corporations and not the people--another bingo. People are expendable.One of the interesting aspects of the society in Soylent Green is the subservient role of women, who seem to either be aging homeless, nuns at a church, intellectual librarians or furniture that passes from apartment lease-holder to lease-holder.Heston was never a favorite actor of mine, but the story carries this film. The sets may not have been constructed elaborately, but it was just as easy to use sparse, gleaming manufacturing facilities than build some vision that wouldn't come true anyway. Been to a bottling plant lately? You probably won't finish the film saying wow but you might very well think about some things, and that's a pretty good result. "},{"Title":"A hippy's/greenie's wet dream","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Charlton Heston must surely be the oddest choice for such a pro-environment, pro-green movie. It's true he does action quite well, see the Omega Man or The Wreck of the Mary Deare. Although in the Wreck.. he seemed like he was having some trouble restraining his natural acting exuberance.In Soylent, he's good. The design was interesting with very strong overtones of a communist/socialist regime in the costumes worn. Very Mao! Now, the problems. Starting with a minor one Why were the stair wells always jammed with dislocated people? The big problem. This movie's is so sexist it's hard to believe. Women are reduced to furniture, literally, they come with your apartment (if you like them, if you don't just order up another). Second, Heston's use of such a women is disgusting. Stealing food and drink is one thing, just assuming you can order a women into bed and then then do what you want is bizarre and morally reprehensible.That's why it's a hippy's wet dream. Big Companies are corrupt, the environment is rooted due to Global Warming, and the women are furniture. "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In terms of the arts, the 1970s were a very turbulent era. In literature and the visual arts, it was the closing of a great fifty or sixty year period of creativity that has yet to be restarted. In music it was a decade that many see as a low point, due to corporate rock and disco. On television it was a Golden Age for situation comedies, from The Odd Couple to the Mary Tyler Moore Show to M*A*S*H to All In The Family, but in film it was even a greater period of creativity, in all genres, that saw the rise of the American auteur- directors like Robert Altman, Francis Ford Coppola, and Martin Scorsese- from the ashes of the old studio systems that had dominated Hollywood for over half a century. These directors wanted to craft literate, arts films for the masses, of the sort that had been staples in Europe since the end of the Second World War. Yet, the studios were trying to keep pace, with socially aware films of the sort not seen since the 1930s.But, unlike the films of the 1930s, starring actors like Jimmy Cagney and John Garfield (usually co-starring the Dead End Kids), that dealt with social issues in a gritty realistic way, or as realistic as one could get on a sound stage, the social consciousness of the late 1960s and early 1970s manifested itself most in science fiction films, which allowed the Left Wing of Hollywood to preach to the masses under the guise of what most considered little above comic strip entertainment. There was precedent for this approach, for several of the flying saucer films of the 1950s dealt with the political zeitgeist of the McCarthy era- most notably The Day The Earth Stood Still and Invasion Of The Body Snatchers. And the early 1960s saw Rod Serling constantly subverting the political conservatism of the time by casting social issues into science fiction settings on his classic sci fi television anthology show The Twilight Zone. Among the studio offerings of this time were the ecologically sensitive Silent Running; George Lucas's first film THX 1138, which dealt with consumerism, group think, and existentialism; and Logan's Run, which hammered away at Communism and state control versus the rights of an individual. Some of the film's references are quite heavyhanded- and reek of the then current Arab oil crisis and rampant inflation. A few jarred strawberries cost $150, and Soylent rations its assorted colored foods- Soylent Yellow, Soylent Red, and the new Soylent Green, reputedly made from 'the finest undersea growth,' in a manner not unlike the gas rationing of the time. Scenes of food riots are eerie echoes of the oil riots at many gas stations during the year of the film's release, and the scenes of crowding, and bodies, live and dead, lying all about are still chilling, as well as influential. A later film like Escape From New York is an obvious progeny. The rest of the script, by Stanley R. Greenberg, however, is rather pedestrian, and fairly standard for a dystopian flick, but Fleischer and cinematographer Richard H. Kline do a great job of filling the screen with interesting images and sounds, to spice things up. The use of soft, dimly lit visuals, murkily filtered, add a Stygian feel to the New York of the film, almost like a colorized version of Carl Theodor Dreyer's Vampyr. The only light in the film comes from artificial sources, and were it not for the fashion faux pas the film could truly seem timeless.The end of the film, where Thorn sneaks into the processing plant where human corpses are made into Soylent Green wafers, is both chilling, and oddly drama-less. In the end, the Soylent minions hunt Thorn down, but he survives long enough to utter the film's catchphrase to Chief Hatcher. Yet, one does not know if it is enough, for Hatcher has already been co-opted, and has a track record of taking the easy way out. Yet, that fact, and its ambiguity, shows that the film does not recapitulate its characters' dilemmas, and has a depth many later, better made films, sci fi or not, do not have. It is also why Soylent Green is still a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Heard About It During Lunch One Day","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My sister saw Soylent Green. She was about 13 and I was about 7 at the time. She talked about the movie during lunch one Saturday afternoon with our entire family (me, my sister, my other sister, and my parents) present at the table. I got upset. I really regret being so impressionable and sensitive. The movie seems quaint and idealistic now. The mistaken assumption that the story (both the book and the movie) seems to make is that an industrialized nation such as ours would be overpopulated by high birthrates. Industrialized nations, as we know now, have relatively low birthrates and would not be the cause of an industrialized nation's overpopulation. If our nation would indeed eventually become overcrowded with depleted resources, the cause would be increased immigration. To this day, I've only seen a few scenes of the film (just the scene where Chuck Connors assaults Charleton Heston in Heston's apartment and, of course, the final scene). There are certainly better sci-fi films, Silent Running being one. I, however, salute the film for its message. "},{"Title":"Remake...Please","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is perfect for a remake. The themes are even more relevant today than they were in 1973 with overpopulation, environmental degradation, oceans being over fished and dying, plus the greenhouse effect as mentioned in the movie or global warming if you prefer. Plus you have the added element of HIV and Avian flu that could be thrown into the mix.Someone like Ridley Scott or James Cameron could make an absolutely stunning film with this material although I doubt they would be interested in doing a remake. I don't know who has the rights to do another version of this film, if anyone does, but the time is now for a smart adult science fiction film and this would be the one. "},{"Title":"Animal feed exported from India contained human remains","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" http//uk.news.yahoo.com/health/index.htm I've just read the news item at the above URL. Doctors writing in The Lancet say there is evidence that animal feed exported to Europe contained human remains and that may have been the case of BSE (Mad Cow Disease) and the human variant CJD (Creutzfeld-Jakob Disease). I enjoyed Soylent Green and have been reminded of the conditions depicted in the movie by the news article whose URL is given above and by the horrific conditions suffered by the people of New Orleans, huddled together in a stadium where children have been raped, they have no food or water and faecal waste is knee-deep. Also troops from Iraq have been deployed with shoot-to-kill orders to restrain looters. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is people! And so is Chuck","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here you are, the spoiler cop Charlton Heston lives in a future where food is coming up short and the food substance soylent green is the most popular snack on the block. Chuck investigates a murder, falls in love and has sex with the victim's girlfriend (Leigh Taylor-Young) and discovers the horrible truth behind Soylent Green it's made out of dead human beings.This was the other 1970s science fiction thriller that starred a post biblical epic Chuck, the other being The Omega Man. Somehow, this one is more entertaining, even though both films pose interesting questions about humanity that are never fully realized. Leigh Taylor-Young is very attractive as the soft spoken eye candy who falls for Chuck. Plenty of dark atmosphere to go around.But if you really want to see Chuck at his best, see him in Ben-Hur and The 10 Commandments. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green has an Expiration Date","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green may have played more powerfully when released in '73, but it doesn't stand up to other classic sci-fi films now days. Blade Runner (1982), the first Star Wars Trilogy and Metropolis (1927), to name a few, have aged far better than Soylent Green.This movie is in the same class with Fahrenheit 451 (1966), in which the film too closely resembles the year it was produced and doesn't try hard enough to imagine what may change in everyday society in the coming years. Soylent Green also suffers from having too little story to fill out a 90 minute running time, which causes it to occasionally drag as slowly as 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968).Heston is his normal, tough-as-nail self as he intimidates, fights and loves his way to the mystery's conclusion. Over all, the relationships and personalities of the characters are not deeply explored and that hurts the film further. How can you care about the characters' troubles if you don't care about them at people in the first place?Soylent Green is famous for its ending, which is still quoted and spoofed in today's entertainment. But that chilling reveal is what has kept the movie in the public mind and the rest of the film just doesn't do the dark concept justice. I recommend reading a one page synopsis or finding a clip of the famous ending scene. To sit through this movie, unless you're a film student, isn't really a good use of time. "},{"Title":"Sorry excuse for a movie","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Understandably, this movie was made in 1973, when special effects were quite limited. The makers, however, made no attempt to even depict a futuristic world. Amazingly, Soylent Green's world still has TVs, video games, cars, clothes, etc., from the 1970s ... dated is an understatement.The story itself is reasonably decent, but the twist ending is absolute trash. There is not enough sense of suspense and horror when Heston makes the supposedly horrific discovery, and the movie just keeps rolling on for another 10 minutes or so. Moreover, the story is far from plausible, and would excite any doom-saying environmentalist, but not any reasonable human being. But, hey, it's a sci-fi, and we're supposed to disregard any such anomalies! Finally, this is Eddie Robinson's 101st film ... what's the big deal? Why should we care? Soylent Green is a sorry excuse for a disaster movie that was simply made to monetize on the sci-fi craze in the 1970s. Far from a classic, the only thing that somewhat redeems SG is the good acting. Not worth the $4.79 rental price ... 99 cents maybe but not a cent more. "}{"Title":"Futuristic drama depicts a grave future","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A bleak depiction of the future, with overpopulation, starvation, a dying planet, and all the other goodies to make you feel warm inside. Heston plays a cop at a time when cops are so important to order that simply striking one gets you a life sentence. A brooding and dark film meant to inspire change in modern society, this simply looks dreary to the eyes. Chuck Connors is the baddie, and a foodstuff called Soylent Green makes everybody's Tuesday something to look forward to. This things are enough to make you want to run from the TV room screaming. Edward G. Robinson makes his final screen appearance as Heston's friend who still remembers and longs for the good old days, when Bambi roamed the wild and tomatoes were something to cherish. A said finale for a wonderful star of his proportions. Still, he is the only bright spot in the film. The only eye candy is the furniture. A soap opera love story saps even more life from this stinker. Heston needed to be more selective with the roles offered him. "},{"Title":"one of the view films in need of a remake","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Loosely based on Harry Harrison's under-appreciated sci-fi classic Make Room! Make Room!, this film sent a powerful message of the dangers of over-pollution, over population, and over plundering of natural resources.This film which i believe was made in 1973 and stars Chareton Heston (not the greatest of actors) and Edward G Robinson (who plays one of his best roles in this film and was dying of cancer while filming this movie) takes place in an over-populated NYC in the year 2022. NYC has a population of over 22 million, people crowd into any available space and people wait in line for hours for basic necessities..even water is rationed (not too far from reality in many third world cities). Heston plays a cop who is investigating the murder of a high ranking official of the the Soylent corporation, which provides the basic foodstuff, tasteless wafers called soylent red, soylent yellow or the most popular soylent green. These wafers are what the majority of mankind rely on as their only source of food since any regular food even an apple cost for more than what the average person can afford. Eddie G. plays the most sympathetic character as Sol, the wise old man, who comments that people were always rotten, but the world was beautiful once.Although it is considered a sci fi classic, the film has not held up well over time and looks extremely dated by todays standards. Casting Heston in this film was def a mistake since he looks older than the character he is suppose to play. With the exception of Eddie G, most of the acting is substandard and a lot of the scenes seem forced and unrealistic. I would definitely like to see a remake of this film provided that it followed the original book more and had a bigger budget. The original film was filmed on a very low budget and it shows. A director like Ridley Scott could probably make a fantastic remake. "},{"Title":"Good but could have been great","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Soylent Green could have been great but it settles for just being good and at times merely disturbing, but given the year it was made (1973) it does have its visionary moments. The dust bowl effect and the unrelenting heat (90 digress all day, everyday of the year) contrast badly with the term 'greenhouse effect' used during the firm to describe what has happened. A true greenhouse effect would produce constant cycles of rain and humid heat, not the never ending dry heat as portrayed in the firm. So in that respect Blade Runner is a much more realistic account of the greenhouse effect.One part above all perhaps makes the story not so much fall apart but disconnect is the realisation by Sol that Soylent Green is actually made of people. You have to twist this back around on yourself as the movie ends to understand how he came to this conclusion.After visiting a group of his peers (ex university professors) with several books that Thorn has given him to study on the case, they tell him the truth about Soylent Green, only that part is cut from the film. You have to work back to figure out that what is left of working farms, the scarcity of resources and the total population do not form a workable model for food production. Sol realising that man has descended to his lowest level, cannibalism, decides to commit suicide through the government sponsored enthunasia program. Thorn finds him just before his blissful death and listens to Sol explain the truth about Soylent only we can't here it. Thorn the embarks on a quest to the Soylent factory to find out for himself and the culmination of the film 'Soylent Green is People' Again a good film but not great, missing in the apocolyptical landscape would have been the constant disease or a massive plague that would have culled the overpopulated cities, no rats and very little in the way of actual garbage. Most of the dispirited citizens merely spend there time queuing for food and water when in fact at this level social anarchy would have reigned and a desent into tribalism most likely would have occurred much more akin to the themes in Escape from New York.A passing film, fun to watch, done again today it could be a masterpiece of Climate Change post apocolyptical hell. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Urs said it's just disgusting and awful. That's why I love it! Charlton Heston is one of my favorite actor. Hannes doesn't know a thing. After the movie I was suddenly very hungry and then I asked a famous fastfood-chain for soylent-green type red. Mmmmh. "},{"Title":"What Were They Thinking.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This Movie Is one of the worst movies  of all time, set in the year 2022(made in 1974). There's not one thing futuristic about this movie, the TVs , Cars, Trucks  even the helmets are from the year the movie was made. Nothing futuristic in this movie. Good acting by Heston but lousy movie over all.  "},{"Title":"Interesting premise...","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...unfortunately it's about the only idea there is in this film.The basic idea of the film is a likely dystopian vision In the year 2022, Earth is overcrowded and ecologically impoverished (not quite) beyond our worst nightmares. Apart from a few still-existing and heavily guarded farms, people have to live in dirty, disease-ridden cities, getting by of the mysterious food called Soylent which comes in a few different colours and which is distributed by food stamps.The film begins without any explanation of the background of the film, leading the viewer to expect the plot to reveal it. Unfortunately, it does very little to explain this. While dystopian classics like 1984 or The Handmaid's Tale seem to have been written with an almost eerie tendency to predict details about the future (for example, in The Handmaid's Tale - written in the 1980s - the US goes through a radical shift to more authoritarian politics after a major attack on the country that is blamed on Islamic fundamentalists) that hint at the author's ability to analyze societal trends, Soylent Green pretty much restrains itself to the basic premise.There are almost no telling details to enrich the story, instead we get to watch a sweaty macho policeman who looks and acts like every other hero from a cheap film from that era swagger across the screen for 90 minutes. One of the other commenters talked about how this film seems to divide the genders - men love it, women hate it. I don't think women have less of a liking for tragic plots the reason is more likely that the female characters in this film are very, very weak. I know it's the 70s and all, but even then films could do a lot better. The only two women in this film who appear more than once are inconsequential whining victims entirely defined by the men they belong to and those who appear only once are only there to scream and/or get beat up. To be fair, the male characters are just as shallow.So if this movie had been a 20 minute long short film, I would have loved it but for 90 minutes it's just too thin and lovelessly laid out a plot. "},{"Title":"Where's the remake?","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It boggles my mind why we don't hear more about this movie these days, considering what a powerful statement it made when it was released---and, since then, how much closer we've come to the point where it will be too late to save our environment.If we're going to wake people up, they need to actually see what future life will be like if we don't turn around some of our destructive, instant-gratification technology.In other words, we need a good remake of this film. That is, if some corporation hasn't bought the rights to it and dropped them down a deep hole somewhere. (A tapped-out oil well, perhaps?) "},{"Title":"What The Blue States Of America Look Like in 50 Years.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is about people who crave green crackers over the more common orange crackers and riot when the government runs out of green crackers. It's also about what the Blue States Of America look like in about 50 years. Yes, in this parallel universe the USA splits into several regions. This region is obviously the north east coast region (or maybe Detroit region). The message implied here is that big corporations are bad, and also the masses will support a regime as long as they can get a free supply of green crackers. No really its that big corporations are bad, that the human race is overpopulating, that the human race is over-polluting the environment, and that the future of the human race is not good, unless we vote Democtrat's to power every 2 years (well, maybe not that far maybe its promoting communism, oh who the hell knows in reflection?). When first shown in the 70's it had a large impact on me. Add movies like Silent Running, Rollerball among others (thank God I'm not remembering them all), throw in a weeping Native American over a land fill anti pollution ad campaign, the rain forest loosing an acre of rain forest every minute statements, and the green house effect caused by man (not by nature), and you were creating a culture of depressed Americans that has receded but remains strong in the Blue States. BTW did you know that up until the 90's the blue states were always the Republican won states on TV but that changed because the left and the pro left TV coverage didn't want to associate the left with being red (ie commie red). Like that true life event, Soylent Green, tries to influence the publics opinion to hate large corporations. Where it fails though is the whole society it portrays is basically that formed by a leftist society. The masses do not work, free sex everywhere, the government supplies the masses with food (ala Soviet Union), euthanasia is encouraged (oh gee which political side is fighting so hard for that?), the elite ruling class pull the strings of the masses (whatever else, make sure you give them the green crackers and as long as we don't run out we'll be in power), I mean this is a leftist Blue States of America future reality. I like to see futurist human race movies but this one is so blatantly leftist propaganda that it's lost all it's punch that it first had. Robinson is great though, and I like Heston so 7 of 10, its funny to laugh at now with those evil rich people and their strawberry jam. I don't get all worked up on the premise like you lefties that worship this stuff do because its telling YOUR future not mine. Oh one last thing, if I was in this future; I'd be in the tower with the furniture not in the streets with you stupid lefties smoking your dope and eating your green crackers, lol. If the environmental left was sincere about their beliefs they would focus on the rest of the world where pollution is 50 times as bad as the western world. It really comes down to the environmental left is, for one reason or another, either very naive or have ulterior motivations to see the west and especially America becoming weaker. Peace Man. "},{"Title":"Wow that was a fast resolve!","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My first full Heston movie. The movie that everyone already knows the ending to. A Sci Fi Thriller. The campy factor. Everything that goes with this movie was injected in my head when I rented it, and on the morning that I watched it, it was the perfect movie to watch in the mood that I was in (Not wanting to move. Put in player, hide in blankets). And though I tried to understand what was happening to lead to the ending that will be eternally ruined by pop culture, it just really didn't make it. Everything was all over the place, relationships had no backbone, the ending had no lead in. Everything was just kind of there in some freakish way and the watcher has no choice but to leave partially dumbfounded at the ending that it gets to, because even though we all know that it's people, it's quick answers as to WHY it's people makes any serious attempt at enjoying the movie for anything other than the silliness thrown out the window. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, idiotic, dumb, sometimes fun.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has a remote interest in science fiction should start at the basics. Everyone says STAR WARS and STAR TREK are the best science fiction films to begin at, which is fine but the truth is THE TERMINATOR and this movie, SOYLENT GREEN, are far better choices than those series. SOYLENT is probably science fiction 's best kept secret. It remains one of the biggest, yet most forgotten films but the impact of its setting is becoming more a reality with each passing day. Charlton Heston overdramatizes his role, yet it works. Edward G. Robinson, in his final role, makes the most out of it in SOYLENT GREEN more than anyone else and his final scenes are touching.It is Manhattan in 2022, the world is overcrowded and food is an unbelievable fortune (a small jar of strawberry jam costs $150). A big executive for the Soylent company is murdered and police detective Thorn is on the case.The secret of soylent green is not a mystery if you do research on the movie. SOYLENT is enjoyable to watch, but the whole screenplay is a joke. It is just as cheap as the entire production. The screenplay and the over dramatics of the actors made the movie, yet were completely hilarious. Everyone seems to be a moron and no one knows the rules, specifically cop Thorn who likes to just waltz into people 's apartments, peruse around shamelessly and steal anything he wants. The character 's interactions keeps your attention on the movie, but still you realize that SOYLENT GREEN sucks. An enjoyable piece if you have the time, but do not expect anything more. "}{"Title":"Is it 2022 already?","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Disturbing tale of Earth in despair and the depravity of man in 2022. Natural food like fruits, vegetables, and meat are not available or to expensive for most people. Food supplements are being produced by large corps. and rationed or sold. A detective investigates the murder of the president of the Soylent Green company. The truth he uncovers is more disturbing than the Earth in turmoil when he learns the secret ingredient of Soylent Green. I remember seeing this movie at a young age. The scene that i remember most is the last one. Where large corps/govt. has embraced Euthanasia as an answer to the earths overpopulation. Peacefilly and Humainly killing people so others may live and eat. Sounds so familiar to what is going on in Florida. "},{"Title":"Corny Corny Corny","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ah Mr. Heston, where would I be without your exploits in movies that are well beyond reality? Probably less entertained. In any case, this movie is one the stranger ones he did. And certainly, it deserves that title beyond all doubt in mind.Heston plays a man in a time 50 years beyond when this movie was made, which is only about years from now. Food is gone, so is oil, manufacturing, and all sense of humanity. Trucks come through and 'harvest' when people protest. Somehow, 40 million live in NYC and all is asinine.The ending is expected, but the action right before is not. It kind of ruins everything when I figure out the ending in the first 5 minutes.Its a cult movie, but not a great one. C- "},{"Title":"Campy b-grade sci-fi","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Campy, b-grade sci-fi could have become a cult classic had it been done a little better - perhaps more like Bladerunner, a film that has become a perennial classic.What lets Soylent Green down is the lack of imagination from the set designers and art crew. All we see here is a 2022 that resembles a poor man's 1970's. No special effort has been made to make this look even remotely futuristic. There are no special effects evident.Charlton Heston surprises us with his appearance in a film such as this, as does the enjoyable Edward G. Robinson (scene-chewer extraordinaire from such films as Double Indemnity - 1944).Monday, January 10, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as it could have been","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Maybe I'd just set my expectations too high, but I don't think it was unfounded to do so given all I'd heard about this film, and the fact that it's often regarded as a masterpiece of B-movie cinema. However, all I can rate Soylent Green as is a shame. I don't tend to rate seventies Sci-Fi very highly, and much of the reason for that is because the films often take place in a time that is now in the past. This one doesn't; and luckily, director Richard Fleischer also avoids the pitfall of showing too many out of date computers and technical equipment. However, while he was avoiding all these bad elements; he must have forgot to concentrate on the plot, and the result is a film that is really rather boring; despite the implications of the story and the huge chasm of substance that could have been made from it. The film is set in the year 2022, and New York has become grossly overpopulated. As you would expect, this is good for corporations; especially Soylent, a company making many foodstuffs - including the nutritious Soylent Green. However, a police officer ends up stumbling on the origin of the food while investigating a murder.I had an idea of what the 'sinister secret' behind Soylent Green might be before watching the film; and unfortunately, I was right. The central idea that the film revolves around is rather good, and the climax of the film is fast and exciting and works in spite of the obviousness of the final twist. However, while the build up to the ending is good; it never justifies the rest of the film, and a good final ten minutes doesn't account for a rather dull eighty that came before it. I've never been a fan of Charlton Heston and try my best to avoid his films. In fairness to the classic actor, he's actually not bad here, but his lack of charisma doesn't help. There are supporting roles for both Edward G. Robinson and Joseph Cotten, but neither one is particularly good. The style of the movie is undoubtedly its best element, and director Richard Fleischer does a very good job of ensuring that the film always feels bleak in the way that the future is presented. The cinematography benefits the style of the film also, as Fleischer implements several shots through a very dirty lens. Overall, this film has its positive elements; but there aren't enough of them and unfortunately I'll have to rate it as a failure. "},{"Title":"Film Viewers Should Analyze More The Politics More........","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I give this end of civilization as we know it film a 7/10. One of my favorites for a couple of decades, now it's a curiosity with tons of flaws. Let's see it's the future, it's America, lets look at some points of the film. People are living in overcrowded urban centers. Crime and drug use are rampant, prostitution is a given, euthanasia is encouraged, all signs of a society run by right wingers right? Nooooo, a sign of stupid lefties who elect elites that promise them their Soylent Green! And whats with the Soylent Green and why was that so much better than the Soylent Orange to cause people to have a fatal riot because all that was left was Soylent Orange? A lefties delight I guess, I know I always hated corporations after watching this movie along with Rollerball (thats where the bad corporations became a big world government), and who can forget a great finale of a liberal delight triple feature Silent Running, boy now that is some fun times to have with your favorite hippie chick man! And whats with that time frame of 1971-75 man was Hollywood cranking out some leftist propaganda there just with those three! Anyway, if you really want to look at Soylent Green objectionably you could easily make a case that a leftist dominated culture would lead to a time when no one really worked, they slept in stairways or in the street all day till it was time they got in line for whatever food the government gave out to them, and that the people who were'nt lazy or misguided but thought for themselves would become the elite ruling class who lived away from the inner city, gee a lot like now! The featurette of the making of this flick is just too unwatchable unless your doing some bong hits maybe. Peace man, down with Haliburton! Ha Ha! 7/10 to show why I don't want the government running my life. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is...BORING","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soylent Green is a film that I can see being a popular and dismal film in its day, but it has not survived the years. I do not know how I was able to stay awake during this movie the first time, but somehow i managed to convince myself that maybe I had missed something. And indeed I had. I thought it was bad the first time, but on viewing it again, I found it to be the most boring, poorly executed, poorly directed and acted film I have seen in recent memory. I do believe it could be remade into a decent or even good movie, but until that day avoid this film as though it were an evil life-sucking creature. Because it is. "},{"Title":"Soylent Green is...! an unbearable downer","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Charlton Heston plays a cop in overpopulated, undernourished 2022 New York City who stumbles upon government secret involving the foodstuff everyone is eating. Another pessimistic vision of a grim, grimy future with memorable scenes of angry crowds pushing and shoving, but unmemorable Heston just going through the motions. Even in his quieter moments with roommate Edward G. Robinson (in his final bow), Heston is about as lively as a brick. Even as straight, colorless thrillers go, Soylent Green is less a movie and more of an idea that isn't quite realized. Robinson has a bravura dying scene, surrounded by comforting lights and a widescreen nature film, but the film is decidedly square, melodramatic instead of menacing. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film frustrated me enormously. Heston's acting was ridiculous and I felt no identification with Thorn at all. The science fiction was stupid and the plot revolved around a grand conspiracy that was completely unnecessary - the whole time I was wondering why the Soylent corporation didn't just tell the truth. Try new Soylent Green it's technically cannibalism, but due to global warming the agriculture industry can't provide enough food for everyone, so this is the only food you can afford. If you would rather die, that's fine too may we have your body? There are a lot of hungry people out there. Really, why not say that?Watching this film for the first time in 2008 meant that I spent the whole film waiting for Charlton Heston to scream the line Soylent Green is PEOPLE! When the revelation finally came, my reaction was simply ...yes, it is. Is that all?On the other hand, I liked Edward Robinson's character and thought his going home scene was interesting, but that wasn't enough to redeem what was ultimately a boring and pointless film. "},{"Title":"Most Prescient Dystopian Film","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"9 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe movie is a great viewing just as a detective movie. There is a mystery that starts with one of the big shots at the Soylent Corporation being bludgeoned to death in his swanky, air conditioned penthouse behind fences, cameras and bodyguards. In this world, the poor are practically stacked on each other in run down crappy apartments. The world temperature is much hotter than our world. Food consists of little cubes of Soylent in different colors Green, Yellow and Orange. Only the rich eat the food we take for granted today. Heston is called on to investigate the murder; he is astonished to find women that come with the apartments referred to as furniture, hot water, air conditioning and the food we eat every day which he steals plenty of to take back to Sol, his aged detective assistant who does all the research for him. They sit and eat one of our typical meals; each bite is savored which is realistic given the cube junk the government feeds them. Thorne begins to unravel a vast conspiracy about what Soylent is and Sol's research at the library leads him to a terrifying truth. The truth destroys Sol as it did the Soylent big wig, neither one can tolerate living in a world with this truth.As Heston gets closer and closer, he is taken off the case, shadowed and finally stalked. He escapes, barely, from many attempts on his life mainly by Chuck Connors who was the Soylent corpse's bodyguard conveniently shopping when he was killed. The law is portrayed as completely corrupt; police can come into your apartment and pretty much do whatever they want. Sol goes to one of the death centers and there to beautiful classical music and images of the world man destroyed he is killed. The images are sealed off, the viewing is not available to the family; Heston puts a gun to one of the workers and makes him show him Sol on the gurney dying from the poison. The beautiful images to Beethoven's Pastoral Symphony stun Heston. He follows Sol's corpse to the Soylent factory and discovers the truth that wiped out those who learn it Soylent Green is made out of people. The movie features Edward G. Robinson's last performance and he does a fantastic job here. The elevating climate, fascist police, total media control and the stealing of all the resources by the rich which were ridiculed in 1973, they stopped laughing today. Used an Energy Star product lately? Washed your clothes in three inches of water which we are told works just as well as two feet? The dishwasher that takes three hours to do a load of dishes? The movie is intense and fast moving with excellent acting. You will get the best prescient look into the future. As the resources are already being siphoned off to the very rich, in the name of the environment, I do not find it far fetched at all. The film shows the double standard which is even visible today the rich live well at the expense of the poor. Heston gives one of his most intense acting performances; he is not portrayed as invincible. He gets shot, beat up and almost killed many times. Sol's death scene is one of the most moving scenes on film because it is so understated. The two actors say very little other than I love you but their skill makes it such a powerful scene. I enjoyed Heston he was a great actor; this is one of his best performances in one of his best movies. This Is One You Want To Buy.The Natural Enemy Of Any Government Is Its Own People. George Orwell From 1984 "},{"Title":"Boy, did this suck.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"11 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bluntly  I saw this not long after reading *1984* and was expecting a similar quality of storytelling.  The conspiracy was poorly represented, badly acted by Charlton Heston and just...bad.  I was BORED.  Read *1984* or *A Handmaid's Tale* if you're looking for futuristic distopia. "}{"Title":"..I was not entertained, didn't get the message..","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The very best I've read of the comments posted here is from virek213 (San Garbiel, CA - just over the hill from where I live). Of the several Sci-fi films mentioned in these comments, I kinda remember Planet of the Apes - and its millions of sequels - admit I didn't enjoy THAT film too much, either.Let's see it's 13 years till Soylent - hmmmmmmmm. I often wonder, if you're dead and your soul has gone home, how does it matter what happens to the body? If there are centers for consensual euthanasia, someone send me the address; if that super-powerful bomb recently tested by Russia, where everything is just vaporized, let me know where they are going to test the next one. WHO would want to live in conditions such as Green projects, although kinda seems like it just MAY be 2022? Ever notice how expensive items in markets are from one visit to the next???Although I recognized the title of this movie, I had no idea what it's about. I assume I would have watched it out of curiosity; I don't think I'd have been more impressed watching it when it was released, as I did from TCM's presentation. Only Edward G Robinson (Sol) impressed me with any kind of acting skill - Chuck Conners and all those others who played their roles with a total lack of genius, were as you saw them in other movies. I completely missed any scene where the CEO gave a confession to Father Paul (Lincoln Kilpatrick) and could not figure-out why he was assassinated. Dumb me ! I DID perceive homosexuality in all those overly protective furnitures. Director Fleisher certainly got all the right things together for his job, but to what avail? Stanley Green's script, who can judge unless you're read the novel? I'd last about two pages into that.....Some of the cinematography was gorgeous - I'm not all that skeptical our planet could evolve to this point when you get two hurricanes attacking one country at the same time (Mexico 2007), and you can see more storms developing in every TV weather-report.If this is your cup of tea, enjoy - I'll stick to the classics. I'm happy to have lived to witness all those beautiful things projected at the center. I'm still confused at what happened to the folk scooped-up into the trucks was there something in there to kill them? Once you get to the factories where Green is made, not much is left to the imagination. Would rather not, anyway - "},{"Title":"People are too dumb to plant food","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I do admit this movie is consider a classic. They often made jokes about it in the simpsons or futurama for example. After seeing this movie, you cannot help but to make fun of it. This movie is so ridiculous in so many ways, I cannot help but laugh out loud. Like yes the earth is over crowded, but in the background you often see grass, wood or whatnot. And if there isn't forests anymore, why is paper so cheaply available. Plus think about all the Cotton clothing people is wearing. If your able to build a plant to turn dead people into filthy green biscuits, you have the technologies to build plant to grow food. Just think about the ways pork or chickens are raise now-a-days.... Thoses are factories, no? Anyhow, that movie is pretty funny, nut way too long. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My buddy Wilfred likes this movie, and explains the concept.  I like the concept, which is too close too reality.  An over crowded earth, which puts strain on the economy, resources, living conditions, and most of all food, creates a hellish society.  Maybe the social planners in North America could learn from this! With their need for population growth.  Anyway, our buddy Chuck goes on a mystery he has too solve which involves the new food Soylent Green.  The movie is just not directed well, sloppy editing, a grainy film quality.  This films lags in spots, and the obvious conclusion is dragged out. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Rent Logan's Run or Gattaca instead","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you want exciting science fiction that makes you think, don't bother with this bomb.Take a look at another 1970's film Logan's Run, or the newer Gattaca instead.Soylent Green plays like a tired '70's movie of the week.  I was hoping for an inspiring story line that gave you some ideas to think about.  Instead, it combines poor sets, nonexistent special effects and bad lighting with a message that can be summed up as overpopulation is bad.don't bother with this uninspired film "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was horrible! I mean how about a 90 minute movie with a 75 min. intro and 15 min of action. Oh wait that was soylent green. this just asseverates my view that Heston was only good in Ben-Hur However, it was so bad i liked it. I just want to know why there was not a sequel. "}]