[{"Title":"Real Sailors, Warts and All","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"97 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ever since 9/11, you hear a lot of fluff in the press about our heroes in the armed services. Typically they are portrayed as wide-eyed, short hair enthusiasm and commitment machines. It's a nice image, but the real version is much more human, much more interesting and much more likable.I was a naval officer for seven years. The best part of my service was the wonderful opportunity to get to know the many men and women who make up the enlisted ranks of our armed services. They tend to be from the rural towns of the south and Midwest or the inner city ghettos. Most of them were average students with limited financial prospects. The ones who succeed in the ranks enough to stay for 20 years do so because the Navy is the first place where they belong. And because they enjoy the job. They get good at it and they believe that what they are doing is much more rewarding and challenging than their friends back home.They also love to party. To drink and to chase skirts and raise hell. They feel entitled to and they are almost always out for a good time without hurting anyone. They also love to mentor the younger sailors to show them how to survive and how to enjoy the time in.The details of this movie are wonderful. The dreary time in transit, ironing uniforms and staring at the walls. Wanting to be at sea, something that few people can imagine until they've done it. The thrill of a few days per diem to blow in bars. The resignation of being a lifer and above all the nature of Navy friendships.Jack Nicholson's character and Otis Young's are not natural friends. They probably wouldn't have time for one another in any other line of work, but having the shared experience of being First Class Petty Officers at the same base is enough for them to be comfortable with one another and to enjoy each other's company. They also both take to the young kid and they both know how to treat him because they've been doing it for so long.I can't tell you how real these characters were to me. I can's say Oh Jack reminds me of GSM1 So-and-so and Otis reminds me of QM1 Whatshisname. IT's too real for that. They both remind me of many, many people I had the good fortune to work with.And they are flawed. They lack the guts to spare Randy Quad from this injustice. They don't even stick together on the way back to Norfolk, probably because they know they did something less than wonderful to the young man. They are indoctrinated but not inhuman.I also enjoyed seeing shades of Jack's work in One Flew Over the Cukoo's Nest. Bad-ass is kind of a rough draft of his McMuphy. This is Jack at his finest.Randy Quaid's performance made me feel a little bit sad. Not just for the character, but for the actor. He had so much talent back then and somehow he got pigeon holed playing big dopes. He certainly has as much talent as his younger brother but not the leading man looks. I don't think I'll ever see him in the Vaction movies without cringing. He should have become so much more. (Of course his other work is entertaining but it's never touching or through provoking as it is here.) And Otis Young was terrific too. I'm not sure why he never got more good roles, but this is something to be proud of.In short, this is the most realistic navy movie I've ever seen. If you're thinking about enlisting, or if a loved one is, this is not a bad way to see what the navy does to a man-good and bad. And it's funny that they do this without ever setting foot on a vessel.I want to find the poster and hang it on my walls next to my commission. "},{"Title":"The Navy the Navy still doesn't want us to see","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"76 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jack Nicholson is a performer with the rare ability to completely immerse himself in a chosen role and convince the audience of the stark reality of his performance. Playing Navy Signalman First Class Billy Badass Buddusky in Hal Ashby's 1973 film rendition of Darryl Ponicsan's novel, The Last Detail is a sterling example of that uncommon talent. Rough-edged but understanding, crude but compassionate, Buddusky and fellow lifer Gunner's Mate First Class Mule Mulhall (skillfully portrayed by Otis Young) are detailed as armed Shore Patrol guards to escort a young sailor, Larry Meadows (Randy Quaid) from Norfolk, Va. to a naval prison in Portsmouth, NH in order to serve an eight-year sentence after being convicted at a court-martial of petty theft.The five-day journey northward is an adventure for all three. Sympathizing with Meadows's plight, apprised of his utter naivete and realizing his sentence far exceeds the severity of the offense, Buddusky and Mulhall conduct their version of a cram course in traditional male rights of passage--ranging from a drunken spree in Washington, D.C. to duking it out with Marines in New York City and getting their charge sexually initiated with a Boston prostitute--if for no other reason than to give him some taste of what he will not be experiencing for a long time and to teach him in some small way to assert himself as an individual.Darryl Ponicsan's novel (which hit the racks at practically the same time the film had been released--the book's ending is quite different and, to me, is much less believable than the film's) was initially hailed as a polemic against what many believed was the cold indifference of the military establishment. However, since that time, it has been judged more a compelling slice of life drama about the complexities of everyday human behavior and how it is shaped by our own decisions and by entities beyond our immediate purview. And, more importantly, it forces us to think about how our ever-more-complicated society is increasingly unable to find ways to help its young people constructively mark transition into adulthood.The Last Detail is a sadly overlooked but superb blend of pathos, ribald bittersweet humor, hard-edged '70s realism and insightful and subtle human drama, one that brashly and subtly brought back many personal memories of my Navy hitch and a work that says something to all of us by merely focusing upon a small detail of a sadly overlooked and unappreciated decade that was alternately (and simultaneously) bleak yet hopeful.  "},{"Title":"They don't seem to make movies like this anymore, do they?","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"62 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While the question is a bit rhetorical, I do mean it- you don't see that many movies made anymore like this, The Last Detail by Hal Ashby (Being There) and Robert Towne (later to write another Nicholson gem, Chinatown), where the story is just a baseline to the characters studied in subtle and not so subtle ways. It even grows on the viewer if seen multiple times, where what seems to be dragging on is loaded with nuance. There's a level of existentialism to it how free are Buddusky and Mulhall, or their choices? Probably not much at all, at least not any more or less than the doomed Meadows. But this is not the only method of Ashby on the material, there are also superlative performances from Jack Nicholson, Otis Young, and a newcomer at the time, Randy Quaid. Nicholson and Young play Buddusky (Bad-ass), and Mulhouse (Mule), who are assigned chicken-s*** detail, to transport petty thief Quaid, sent up for eight years in a naval brig. On the way up the Eastern seaboard, the three stop in Washington, New York, and Boston, and the two try to show the youngster a good time before imprisonment. Probably one of the most under-looked pictures of the 1970's, though one of the more note-worthy, especially for it's attitude delivered ten-fold by Nicholson's Cannes winning Buddusky, and Towne script. A scene in a bar in Washington and a scene at a Nichiren Shosu meeting steal the lot, though there's plenty to look for. It's one of my favorite tragic-comic sleepers, and one of Ashby's best. "},{"Title":"A masterfully written and directed film","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read somebody's comment that this film isn't deep.  I think that viewer missed a whole layer of the story.  you have to keep in mind that this was written and produced during the vietnam war and released during the early months of Watergate.The story is about these two working class sailors, who are completely disenfranchised, just doing their job.  They're good guys but in the end, don't lift a finger to stop a massive injustice. They don't even take the time to think about it, because they feel there's nothing they can do about it.  They pay lip services to how wrong things are about the situation, but in the end they do what the man says and they're just as much to blame for the problem as the commanding officers above them.Through the course of the film, the sailors meet a lot of chatting class folks who are mad at Nixon and discussing politics, and they meet Hari Krishnas who are chanting to change things, but nobody is really taking any ACTION.  Everyone is pissed off at the injustice of the world but nobody does anything about it.  It's about inaction.  And that inaction slowly boils up in the main characters and turns into anger that brings the film to a sad end.  (It's one of those great stories that gets you pissed off at the injustice in the world...)Having said all that, on a more tangible level, the performances and scripting are full of emotion and Nicholson's and Quaid's performance are amazing and hilarious to watch.  But this isn't really a comedy in the end...more tragic really (with some good laughs along the way).Check it out! "},{"Title":"3 Little Fish","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it was released and just watched it again, in its entirety, for the first time since. This means that I'm completely discounting the horribly butchered version I saw on Bravo (for shame!) a year or so ago. They didn't just bleep out the expletives as you would expect, whole scenes were cut, leaving the work so diluted I almost forgot why I had loved it. It was like Jaws without teeth!Revisiting books, films or any work of art first experienced in youth can be very interesting, and I found that watching The Last Detail through my now (# unspecified!) year-old eyes was one of the many times something turned out to be even better the second time around. I guess that makes it a classic. For those that don't know, this is the story of two career enlisted Navy men who are assigned the dreary detail of delivering a young seaman to prison in Portsmouth, NH, where he will serve an eight year sentence for attempting to swipe $40 from their commanding officer's wife's favorite charity box. It's obvious that poor Meadows, played by Randy Quaid, has been thrown to the dogs for his offense, receiving a dishonorable discharge from the service in addition to the excessive prison term, but this is the Navy and our boys must do as ordered. It's a sh*t detail, but it will take them out of their insulated and listless existence on base in transition - that is, waiting for assignment to sea duty - and they quickly formulate a plan to relieve themselves of their charge as fast as possible and spend the bulk of the allotted time and money remaining to party the way good sailors do, namely drinking and whoring. Enter young Meadows, and the master plan takes on a life of its own as the seemingly hardened Bad Ass Buddusky (Jack Nicholson) and Mule Mulhall (Otis Young) find themselves caught up in Naval-infused fraternity with the childlike Meadows. Resigned to his fate, the hapless swabbie's frustrating passivity is fuel to Baddusky's pugnacious nature, and Mulhall and Meadows are swept along with Chief Signalman Bad Ass on a journey of discovery. From teaching him how to get his hamburger served the way he likes it (with the cheese MELTED, thank you very much), to facilitating the loss of his virginity (Carol Kane is perfect as the young prostitute), this is really a buddy movie at its finest. In the final frames, we watch the two lifers stroll out of the shot in lock-step, Anchors Aweigh piping, as they're off to reestablish themselves as individuals for a brief moment before returning to the shelter of their sacred family that is the US Navy.There's nothing sappy about this film, don't get me wrong. There's a definite hard edge to it and life as a Naval enlisted man is not romanticized in any way. Visually, it's quite somber from our side of the screen, and the military music in the score is to music, as the military justice in the story is to justice. There are some fabulously funny moments, and of course, Nicholson kills in this part that no one could have played better. Otis Young is really good as the cooler head who doesn't want to get himself jammed up in any way but who is none the less down with showing Meadows a good time. It's Randy Quaid though, who impressed me most on this viewing. He played the ingenuous, candy bar-filching boy just right, and I'm afraid in retrospect that he got typecast as the big, goofy dumb guy as a result of his work in this picture.I loved everything about this movie, wouldn't change a thing.Oh, and just for the heck of it... here's a little movie/Navy trivia tidbit I found online when I looked up Portsmouth Naval Prison. I have no idea whether there's any truth to it or not, but when I came across it three different times, I decided to add it here. This is from Humphrey Bogart To Have and Have Not, by Daniel Bubbeo....Bogart's long time friend, author Nathaniel Benchley, claims it is true that Bogart was injured while on assignment to take a naval prisoner to Portsmouth Naval Prison in New Hampshire. Supposedly, while changing trains in Boston, the handcuffed prisoner asked Bogart for a cigarette and while Bogart looked for a match, the prisoner raised his hands, smashed Bogart across the mouth with his cuffs, cutting Bogart's lip, and fled. Bogart used his .45 to drop the prisoner, who was eventually taken to Portsmouth. By the time Bogie was treated by a doctor, the scar that caused him to lisp had already formed.Wow, huh? SO much better than say, getting hit in the mouth with a tennis racket or something. "},{"Title":"A Week In The Life Of Two Lifers","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My absolutely favorite Jack Nicholson film has always and forever will be The Last Detail. I don't think he was ever better on the screen as William Baddusky of the United States Navy. I enjoyed his performance and the film itself on so many levels. Probably not surprising since the script was done by Robert Towne who would soon be teaming with Nicholson again for the critical and popular success Chinatown.It's a simple story, not really any plot to the film. Two sailors, Jack Nicholson and Otis Young, both of them lifers in the Navy are stationed in Norfolk and get themselves an assignment to escort a prisoner to the Naval Stockade at Portsmouth. Of course with the per diem allowance for the two men and the prisoner and five days to travel in, Nicholson and Young are thinking of a mini-spree at government expense. It comes to that and a lot more. the prisoner is newcomer Randy Quaid whose big crime is that he attempted to steal $40.00 from a charity collection box. For that he's getting eight years in military prison and a dishonorable discharge. A dishonorable discharge even today is not a good thing for one's resume. As Nicholson and Young both remark, someone really stuck it to him. Let's face it what Quaid did in civilian life would probably be considered petty larceny and his jail time might be measured in days. Turned out it was the base commander's wife's favorite charity so it got stuck to him good. Sad because the indications we get is that Quaid was a troubled kid in civilian life and probably military service offered him a chance to straighten up and fly right.It's done that for many others including Nicholson and Young who make it very clear even on this disagreeable detail they do like the Navy and like serving in it. They've got five days to deliver Quaid to Portsmouth so the journey becomes quite the odyssey for the three of them up the Atlantic coast. The three men have a great chemistry between them, you get involved with their lives and really feel for young Quaid and his plight. Quaid gets shown a good time and maybe that's not such a good thing considering what he is facing.The Last Detail is a nice realistic look at the military both its flaws and good points. A lot of similarity here in the issues raised to From Here to Eternity and if I mention The Last Detail in the same sentence favorably as From Here to Eternity, you know how good it must be. "},{"Title":"Hal Ashby's classic","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you respond to this film, you will probably go all the way and love  it as much as I do. It is probably the high point of the drama of social realism started back by the like of Marty. It is Nicholson's film, yet Quaid and Otis Young(in his only good movie) really shine as well. It is the most heartbreaking of material played without sap or sentiment. Obscenity like this was still pretty new to movies back in 73, be sure to avoid edited T.V. versions. Reading the comments, it is sad that todays movie fans, spoonfed sledgehammer crappola, really can't respond to a drama played with the kind of subtle grace of The Last Detail. Give it a shot. Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"I asked for my eggs over easy.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Last Detail by Hal Ashby is much like John Schlesinger's Midnight Cowboy in that they are both road trip movies as well as buddy movies. They are about friendships that forged in extreme circumstances and the effect that these experiences have on each character's lives.In the last detail, an unfortunate seaman by the name of Meadows (Randy Quaid) is condemned to jail for eight years for a misdemeanor crime he was unable to even complete. Being caught with his hand in the cookie jar after a mere forty dollars, he is consequently transported from a naval base in the south to the naval prison in Portsmouth, Maine. The last detail of a few veteran naval officers, namely Billy Bad Ass Buddusky (Jack Nicholson) and Mule Mulhall (Otis Young) is to transport this eighteen year old, soon to be prisoner up the east coast.The three gentlemen have never met before and all seem to have different interests. Billy and Mule are after some welcomed time off from the suffocating life on the naval base, while Meadows is drowning in his own depression. Billy is more of a lenient presence, while Mule seems to want to do his duty first and then relax. Soon the men form a bond. This bond and their relationship is what carry the movie. Meadows is an innocent and modest teenager who found his way into the navy because of a shop lifting problem. However, after hearing his story and spending time with the boy, the two officers realize the ludicrous charges that have been brought against such an undeserving soldier.They take pity on him and decide to make his last days of freedom ones in which he will cross every right of passage yet to be undiscovered and make them days that he will never forget. As they gradually open up to each other, they grant the prisoner a certain degree of freedom beginning with the removal of the cuffs in the beginning of the movie. They get him drunk in Washington, D.C., involve him in his first fist fight in New York City and help him lose his virginity in Boston. Beyond these rights of passage, the officers also relate to the emotional side of Meadows. They allow him to visit his mother. What the two officers did not realize is that the journey they would take would be reciprocal. They all end up taking their guard down.One of the more poignant lines in the film is when Meadows refers to the officers as his beast friends. Although he has only known them for less than a week, the sad fact is that these men are probably the closest friends that he has ever had. Mule and Billy have had much more life experience and are well versed in the details and idiosyncrasies that life involves. They connect with meadows because before this trip, he had been yet untouched by the worse side of life. His general doe eyed demeanor drives home the fact that he really does not deserve the treatment that he's receiving. Upon leaving the prison, I don't believe that Mule and Billy are so much angry with the way the ascending officer treated them as they are with the situation that Meadows is now faced with. We could have prevented this. "},{"Title":"The Real Deal, Ship-Over Music and All","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though the film's storyline diverges from the more existential theme of the Darryl Ponicsan novel from which it was adapted, 'The Last Detail' was, is, and remains the only real deal film about navy enlisted men. Hollywood never did sailors so well as it does them here.If you don't care for testosterone-impelled behavior, parochial esprit de corps, scatology, and profanity - well, never mind the dialogue here is true-to-life sailorese, and the hi- and low-jinks antics are too. If you can't take the heat, get the hell out of the galley.Gritty cinematography of the earthy, low-rent world of enlisted sailors (for example, watching the decent peoples' world pass by the filth-streaked windows of a worn, smelly railway car) communicates much of the characters' experience of life in the margins and their ethos and how they came by them. The Johnny Mandel score is often oddly, and too-cheerfully irrelevant, though one suspects its breezy take on nautical marches and ditties was meant to be satirical; but it's often discordant with the serious themes - 'the individual versus society', existential choice and haplessness - of 'The Last Detail'.In a role that could have been tailor-made for him Jack Nicholson's acting is perhaps the best of his career - a superior foreshadowing of his later turn in 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest'. But without Otis Young as his fellow seasoned petty officer and Randy Quaid as the naive young, brig-bound seaman, Nicholson's tour de force would have fallen as flat as a flathat (for all you landlubbers the navy blue Donald Duck US NAVY-ribbon bound winter sailors' hats, which sailors hated intensely, that were abolished in the early 60's).Politically correct left-leaning folks should discover in Gunners Mate 1st Class Mule Mulhall a perfect example of an African American professional sailor serious yet fun-loving; jocular but no-nonsense; competent and quietly self-assured in short, a sailor among sailors, a man among men. I know because I served, and when the chips were up or down no sailor cared about color, and each of us cared only that he or she could rely, or not, on our shipmates. Though it has its arcane rules, written and unwritten, the naval service is remarkably egalitarian in opportunity - and it is so without all the hue and cry of civilian social consciousness.Though it's a marvel of a film, 'The Last Detail' could not cram into its running time all the humor and pathos of the eponymous, tough-tender Ponicsan novel (in which petty officer Mulhall's character looms quite a bit larger than he does in the movie, and Billy Buddusky's reflexive resorting to signalling with his Signalman's semaphoring hands spells out apt clues to his worldview); and the novel (which, incidentally, I read while on active duty, before the film had been made) turns out with a dramatically different ending - with a true denouement absent from the screenplay's conclusion that left me wanting, and which is the film's only grave, if quibbling, flaw. But the screenplay incorporates characters, scenes (Carol Kane as the careworn young whore providing Quaid's Seaman Meadows his first experience of coupling), and dialogue that might also have helped the novel to better flesh out and plumb the characters and their experience. Small matter, really the book and the film contrast and complement each other perfectly.Anyone considering enlistment should see 'The Last Detail' because it tells enlisted sailors' life like it is. If you can take life like it is, with or without the occasional fix ('An Officer and a Gentleman' anyone?) of kitschy, unrealizable romantic fantasy, then 'The Last Detail' is your meat.The Real Deal. Chow Call, Chow Call - All hands lay to the messdeck! Take all you want - Eat all you take. Down to 'The Last Detail'. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Crafted Piece of Character","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nicholson's Bad Ass is a beautifully crafted piece of character. He cusses. He fights. He drinks. He's loud. No one else speaks Robert Towne's words better than Nicholson. In this film he overwhelms at every turn. In the bar scene, he shows brute anger and a desire for dominance. The scenes with a young Nancy Allen are delightfully witty because of Nicholson's schoolboy antics of getting a woman into bed.It is the scenes with Randy Quaid (also wonderful) where Nicholson shines brightest. Bad Ass represents a paternal figure lacking in Meadows' life. He makes him a man by demanding he send back a hamburger if it's not cooked the way he likes it. He demands Meadows to stop crying and be a man. He demands Meadows to stand up for himself and fight when someone pushes his buttons. He demands Meadows to want to have sex, like other men his age. Nicholson's father figure image here is played off perfectly as Meadows sort of imitates things Bad Ass does. If Bad Ass has a beer, Meadows has a beer. If Bad Ass wants a woman, Meadows wants a woman. There's a secret trust between the two. It's unspoken, but it's there. That trust is broken in the end when Meadows tries to escape. It wasn't all a lie, Meadows just felt that it was time to stop learning and start moving. "}{"Title":"Likeable Character Study From the 1970s","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Last Detail is not the strongest movie ever made, but it does succeed for the most part.  Jack Nicholson (Oscar-nominated) and Otis Young are assigned to transport a young sailor (Randy Quaid, in his Oscar-nominated role) to a military prison because of a theft.  Even though the mission is to be cut-and-dry, Nicholson and Young take pity on the young sailor and agree to show him one last good time before he reaches his final destination.  The goodwill idea does have a good chance of back-firing on them though in the end.  Nicholson is great, as usual, but it is the performance of Quaid that makes The Last Detail work as well as it does.  He plays the part for what it is worth and makes the film believable and somewhat tense throughout.  Not excellent, but still very good overall.  4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Shows it like it was.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the only movie I've ever seen that shows Navy enlisted men as other than Laurel and Hardy type buffoons, or singers and dancers with their hats on the back of their heads like Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly.  This movie shows that enlisted men are real, human, and have feelings just like everybody else.  Anyone who has ever been in the Navy has known and been stationed with men like the three characters in this movie.  I can't speak for the current Navy, I left in 1964, but it's refreshing to see a movie about Navy enlisted men. "},{"Title":"That's my Dad!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would like everyone to know that my Dad played the Bartender in this movie and has quite a story to tell. Before he became a classically trained actor on Broadway and a member of the Group Theatre, he actually was in the Navy when he was 18. He did time in the Brig (he can explain that one, the story is too good for me to tell) and was also friends with Jack Nicholson. He was also in Easy Rider and many other great films. Their scene in this movie together was also included in Maxim magazine's Top 100 Movie Scenes. My dad is a bad ass and I think everyone should see this movie. ~This was posted by his loving daughter, Morgain (Who is finally a member of the Screen Actors Guild) "},{"Title":"When transporting a prisoner, every last detail counts.","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson is one of those actors who portrays Jack Nicholson being an actor playing a role. That's not meant to be disparaging at all. I mean that Jack imbues almost every character I've seen him play &#150; from The Shooting (1967) through to The Departed (2007) &#150; with the same zest and zing. The man is simply tireless and timeless, almost, and a joy to watch always.I missed this film when it was first released. And I kept missing it every time I saw it advertised at a local classic cinema or on late night TV. Finally, I got one of my sons to send me a copy he had.As stories go, it's not that engaging, being simply about the transportation of a young prisoner to a military prison. What carries this story however are the characters, the quality of acting of the 'three amigos', shall I say, and the script by Robert Towne. The production is good, the editing a bit choppy I'd say, but the direction from Hal Ashby is always sure. The filming was done on location and, by the looks of it, with very few frills &#150; and, considering the nature of the journey, very few thrills of the type viewers today expect to see. But, that doesn't matter.I first saw Randy Quaid in The Last Picture Show (1971) and had been impressed by his ability even then. In this film, he does an even better job, as Larry Meadows, the quintessential, home-spun, good-natured, rural hick who knows very little about the world beyond hamburgers, milkshakes, apple pie and Mom. So, when he begins his journey to prison escorted by two rough-as-rails naval ratings, Bad Ass Budusky (Nicholson) and Mule Mulhall (Otis Young) &#150; both detailed for the job against their wishes, of course &#150; he's given a chance to experience some of life's pleasures before being incarcerated.So, it's an ordinary story, but enlivened by the antics of the two older men, particularly Buddusky, who think nothing of having some fun beating up some Army personnel in the john at a railway station &#150; with the help of Larry and Mule, of course. Together, they drink lots of booze. They visit a Hari Krishna type sect to witness and listen to the chanting. They drink more booze. They try to get a drink at a bar where Bad Ass threatens to shoot the bartender who refuses to serve them. They buy more cans, and get another hotel room at the next whistle stop. They take Larry to a whore, where he finally does it. They have a picnic in the freezing rain. Then, they finally get Larry to the prison and hand him over to the grunts as Bad Ass calls the Marines. He hates grunts with a passion.Why do the two old-timers do all this for the young guy? Why didn't they just get the job done and get back to base ASAP? Could've done it in two days, but they take five? They do it because the young fella has been shafted, royally he's going down for 8 years for stealing (or trying to steal, actually) forty dollars. Forty lousy bucks! They can't believe it. But, that's the Navy. That's the system they're dealing with, day in, day out. They can't change it, but they can sure as hell help to bring some change into Larry's life before he's ruined &#150; or worse, killed - by prison life.Call it guilt, call it anger, call it frustration &#150; but they both had to do something to make Larry feel better, and more importantly, to make themselves feel better about having to take him to his premature doom, so to speak, which is ably illustrated by an icily cold reception from the Marine O.D. (Michael Moriarty) at the prison. Moriarty always does bad guys so well, especially when they all realize the irony of the overlooked last detail of their mission...So, the final scene of Bad Ass and Mule leaving the prison and walking away is exquisite &#150; their anger and frustration now red-hot, hunkering down against the frigid wind, their images fade as they round a corner, almost running they're walking so quickly, not looking back, but the memory lingers on...Recommended for all except young children. "},{"Title":"A Well Acted, Sober Film About Unpleasant Responsibilities","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don't let the fact that the DVD cover makes this movie look like gay porn keep you from seeing it.Director Hal Ashby made a string of unfussy but very, very good films throughout the 1970s, and The Last Detail is one them. The story doesn't sound like much two Navy officers are assigned to escort a third to the prison where he will be serving time. Along the way, the requisite male bonding ensues, and the older, jaded officer (Jack Nicholson) has a chance to reflect upon his own fortune and misfortune and be a sort of father figure, for better or worse, to his young and troubled charge (played extremely well by Randy Quaid).Like all of Ashby's films, The Last Detail challenges things like duty and institutional authority, which made Ashby one of the most vocal of the anti-establishment directors from a volatile period of American history. But also like all of his films, it poses challenges in a low-key, non-confrontational way, without sacrificing its bite.Well done.Grade A "},{"Title":"A Little Too Realistic For Comfort","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had once heard that the Navy supported the making of the film until they saw the final cut. They quickly distanced themselves. Like my title says..it was a little too realistic for comfort. But my question is, Why Is That A Bad Thing? I served as both an enlisted man and as a commissioned officer in the U.S. Army. I was enlisted in the late 70's. The Army was a mess, then. Still I met some of the best and ...yes..some of the worst people I have ever know there. They drank. They catted around. And my God, could they swear!!! They joined for a wide variety of reasons. But the common thread of the career men I knew, was that they had an important job, and they were good at it. I had to guard two prisoners for their last night before being picked up by the MP escorts to go to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. One was a little punk, who I dearly would have loved to shoot. The other WAS THE U.S. ARMY VERSION OF LARRY MEADOWS! I felt like total s**t, but still I did my job, and he was safely turned over to his escorts the next morning In the 80's I was introduced to the world of the commissioned officer. I saw a wide variety of personalities. The one I came to loath, driven undoubtedly by my prior enlisted service, was the bully. The guy who enjoyed pushing his authority on his subordinates, because he could. Michael Moriarity played him to a T. All he had was the rank and the ability to hassle the two enlisted man. What he didn't have was the sense, to pull a few copies. And like a bully, folded when someone stood up to him, and threatened him with action from a greater authority.This brings me to my point. You don't have to be a Navy veteran to understand this film. Understand that this is a realistic portrayal of the very imperfect, very rough, VERY HUMAN people who swear the oath and don the uniform and have offered to die to preserve the average American's right to bitch about Reality TV and the price of cold cuts at the market. I love the fact that the youngsters in the service today are finally getting the respect they deserve. I sincerely mean that. But please don't put them on too high a pedestal, because the reality will never match the ideal. Just be grateful that these imperfect beings have decided to do what they do. Like Kipling said in his tribute to British soldiers, Tommy...We aren't no thin red 'eros, nor we aren't no blackguards too, But single men in barracks, most remarkable like you; An' if sometimes our conduck isn't all your fancy paints, Why single men in barracks don't grow into plaster saints. So see this film. As others have said, see the uncut version for the flavor. See this film and understand that it's virtue is the raw, unvarnished, unpretty world of the armed forces. And then hit your knees and thank your personal God, that there are people willing to live like that, so that you can sleep in freedom. "},{"Title":"Troubled Times","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Introspection and sociological studies were an inevitable Art imitating life (or is it the other way around) development in the mid 60's to mid 70's. There were a number of these gritty, natural, no frills, tell it like it is, show it like it is Films to hold up a mirror to ourselves and those troubled times.This one is a well acted, uncompromising, flatly directed, sharp-tongued story of Military dominance demanding discipline, with unquestioning subservience to authority. An obvious Viet Nam metaphor here with the free thinking, but ultimately following orders, Sailors.It is a fine character study of the time and can be admired by those who like their Cinema unfeathered and their realism real. It is a raw, sometimes funny, sometimes touching, slice of Humanity that may leave some viewers cold and others fawning over the incredible performances and the bitter, and occasionally sweet script. "},{"Title":"Touching, very well acted film","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two older, grizzled sailors, transport a baby faced, vulnerable young sailor to 8 years in prison for stealing $40. The acting is very good, especially Jack Nicholson and Randy Quaid, and the film has lots of wonderful moments and details. That said, I've never loved it quite as much as many others do. It feels a bit sappy at times, 'cute' at others, and the story feels a bit too predicable. We know the two old salts will soften and come to care for their charge, and they will all bond before the journey ends. Without the high level of talents involved, that predictability could have sunk the film, but the brio of Nicholson, the sure hand of director Hal Ashby, and Robert Towne's salty, idiosyncratic script keep it afloat and always worth watching, if not quite rising to 'great film' level for me "},{"Title":"It's alright, kid.  There's plenty more where that came from.","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My favorite prison movie, not least because it takes place outside the actual institution. Also because under the dismal subject matter beats the gay heart of a farce.A grim industrial motif imprisons characters, automobiles, cities, in gray proletariat fog. The editing fades us in and out, too, so time passes slowly, tediously. One event is the same as the next - we can't tell the significant from the mundane. We spend our time with marginally competent cogs who grunt and gripe to assert personality but have no real distinction. The counterculture types merely chant in a more creative unison, mouthing platitudes as empty as the Navy's. There's no escape in joviality a swabby's idea of a blowout is drunken semaphore, or a toilet brawl. And the whorehouse is as depressing as the bus station.Yet the movie is never boring. Somehow Ashby and his A-team ensemble conjure this grit-caked reality but retain the comic timing necessary to serve Towne's brilliant script. It's so tight, so specific, so not-by-committee, that it's hard from today's perspective to look at this as an American film. The Last Detail is what we mean when we talk about a 70s movie -- a personal exploration of theme, design, boundary, culture. King of Marvin Gardens, Brewster McCloud, Two Lane Blacktop, Blue Collar. All that bleak humor, all those subversive politics. So risky, we think in hindsight. What a decade; we'll never see those times again. Well, don't fool yourself. Don't say you couldn't make these movies today. You could make them. The industry makes as many weird little art movies now as it ever did. They're not expensive, and smart stars will always back a good script if Art Linson or Soderbergh have a piece of it. But nobody goes to see them. Movies of social conscience fail at the box office now, even when sugar-coated in candy colors I saw Fight Club in an empty theater when it came out. Confessions of a Dangerous Mind was a hit, on the five screens that showed it. Spun barely got released. I rented Transformers yesterday, and this is what people want to see - product marketing as high art, with jokes and explosions. The Last Detail is a warning against the backward mindset necessary to a life of dull toil. I can't take this sh-t indefinitely, says a sailor, but he's talking about the party, not the work; anyway he's wrong. He's a lifer. And who among us can say that we are not? But in consoling ourselves that it could be worse, we often forget that it also could be better. If it's any comfort, not that many people went to see movies like this in the Nixon era either. Don't forget, we have two 70s pictures to thank for most of the last 30 years -- Jaws and Star Wars. "},{"Title":"Drinking at the Last Chance Saloon.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is another of Jack Nicholson's quiet character studies from the 70's. It must have been about six months since I saw this (I haven't seen it again, worse luck) but on reflection it must have affected me deeper than either Five Easy Pieces or The King of Marvin Gardens. With the passage of time it has become easier to relate to the frustration of settling for a life where comradeship, beer and women are good things, but they begin to seem like the only avenues available to go down. What else is there to do but indulge fleeting pleasures when you don't feel like you have the fight left in you to reach for something bigger? Take my musing and apply it to the plot of the film. You join the Navy to see and experience the world. What's the result of that? You end up with the threat of being thrown in the clink hanging over you.Ashby skilfully knits the episodes together so a trip that at most lasts a couple of days feels like it comprises enough bonding to fill the average lifetime of an ordinary person. Randy Quaid delivers a serious performance that meshes comfortably with that of Jack's, so if you're one of those people who thinks he can only 'do' Cousin Eddie, then let this - along with Brokeback Mountain - be the start of your reappraisal.When all is said and done, what does it weigh up to? I'm not sure I can tell you; that, I have come to absorb, is I guess the whole point of watching these men drift aimlessly through their hours of freedom. All of life is spread out before them for a time, yet all they can think of to do is give it the eye instead of seizing their chance to dive in headfirst. They're dragging their young charge down with their apathy. Maybe he was wise enough to use this detail as an example of what NOT to do - although the future for the gang of three looks bleak enough to make you doubt it... "}{"Title":"Go Navy!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excellent slice of life story about a couple of days in the life of Navy men. Gritty, believable, non sugar-coated treatment, and well acted by all parties involved. Also it's quite good at portraying the ambivalent feelings of U.S. society towards enlisted military personnel - and vice versa. And thirty years later, in spite of recent American military success in the latest war in the Gulf, I don't think attitudes have changed that much.I saw this movie when it first came out. I was still a mere teenager. Little did I realize that just a few years later, while on active duty at a Naval Air Station in Maine, I would be tasked to drive an enlisted guy down to the brig at Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Visions of this movie swirled in my head the entire trip (sorry, but my experience on that trip was far less memorable than in the movie...).Worth noting, that this film is quite low key and clearly lacking in the saccharine, schmaltz and sensationalism that you so often find in other Navy movies (Top Gun, An Officer and a Gentleman and Cinderella Liberty come to mind). So go rent this film, but please don't waste your time with the heavily edited TV version of it, as you won't get the full color of real military-style cussing.And just remember, they really DO do things differently in the Navy. For example, the order over the 1MC on ships for daily cleanup Sweepers, sweepers, man your brooms! Sweep down all ladders, decks and passageways. Muster all trash and garbage on the port quarter. Now sweepers! "},{"Title":"Gritty and realistic early 70's drama","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two Navy lifers Buddusky and Mulhall are given the unwanted detail of escorting a young sailor called Meadows to military prison up the east coast of the United States. The youngster is to serve eight years for trying to steal $40 from a charity donation can. Buddusky decides to show Meadows a good time in the last free week of his formative years. Various male rituals ensue, including drinking, fighting and getting laid, while Meadows also is shown how to stand up for himself. Meadows learns so much from the experience that he ends up even more depressed about going to jail and even attempts to escape, while Buddusky and Mulhall ultimately complete their detail and go back to work, acknowledging that despite their cynicism this is the only life they know.The Last Detail was one of several high quality films directed by Hal Ashby in the 1970's. Like the others, this one is a very good example of a film from the New Hollywood era, with its uncompromising material and decidedly uncommercial approach. In fact, Robert Towne's hyper-realistic script was so full of profanity it led to the studio Columbia putting off releasing the movie for several months and only once Jack Nicholson won best actor at Cannes for it. But even then they did not support it much and it was not much of a success at the time, going on to be a sleeper. Its anti-authoritarian leanings do ensure that it fits right in with the times it was made though and in Nicholson, Otis Young and Randy Quaid it has a trio of actors all putting in very fine work. Nicholson is once again the perfect fit for the rowdy non-conformist, Young does good work as his more even-headed and cynical partner, while Quaid has never been better than as the naive Meadows. It's a film with a real edge and it has an authentic feel on account of the script and acting but also the unglamorous dirty backstreet locations in New York and Boston where the bulk of the action occurs. Because it is about a journey, it's quite an episodic movie too, with a number of small encounters making up the whole, and this works very well as a means of telling this particular story. All-in-all, a very good example of the kind of interesting and unpredictable films that the American studios released for a time in back in the 70's. "},{"Title":"An excellent drama, but far from a comedy","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Often regarded as a comedy-drama, 'The Last Detail' always stood out to me as a pure drama. It tells the story involving a group of Navy officers a young and meek officer (Randy Quaid) steals some money but gets caught; the two others (Jack Nicholson and Otis Young) are to take him to prison. They (especially Nicholson) get somewhat attached to the boy when they see how young (ie. don't know much of the world) and weak he is and decide to show him how to be a man before putting him away.A look at the cast/crew shows how promising the film is. Hal Ashby is a fine director, whose films I always like/love (except maybe for 'Coming Home', which often gets too preachy and melodramatic); the screenplay is done by Robert Towne, the same guy who would later do 'Chinatown'; and the leading actor is Jack Nicholson, one of cinema's greatest actors.Speaking of Jack Nicholson, he is just brilliant here. His character, 'Bad-Ass' Buddusky, is the type of character he is at best with sarcastic and irreverent even when serious, yet very smart and caring in his own way. He acts as a father figure for the young Meadows (Quaid), trying to lift his mood and have him something to remember and be happy before having to face the harsh conditions of prison. Quaid and Young, alongside the supporting characters, end up overshadowed by Nicholson's performance, but they too make a great work with their characters.As typical of a 70's and/or Hal Ashby film, 'The Last Detail' has great photography and is strangely comfortable to look at. The movie is very realistic too, with both situations and characters being very believable and sympathetic. The characters are very fleshed out and developed, making it difficult not to like or remain indifferent towards them. I've also heard that the way Navy/Marine officers are portrayed are also very close to the real thing, without forcing their portrayal as a way of criticism of the armed forces, which many directors would jump at the chance to do (specially considering the time this movie was made). In truth, I didn't feel that the film was a critique of the military like many say. My only complaint on the movie is that it's supposed to be a comedy too. Yes, there are awkward situations and Jack Nicholson's typical rebellious way of dealing with everything; but the movie tends to make them more interesting than actually funny. Not that I'm saying this is bad; 'The Last Detail' is a remarkable movie in every aspect and one of the best pure dramas I've seen. "},{"Title":"Episodic Tale Of Two Navy Lifers.","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson and Otis Young are assigned the task of escorting prisoner Randy Quaid fro Norfolk, Virginia, to the Marine Brig in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Quaid was given eight years for stealing a few dollars from the Commanding Officer's favorite charity box. Along the way, the two stern Shore Patrol sailor loosen up and allow Quaid a few liberties, which include getting drunk, learning to chant, visiting his mother, and spending a little time in a whore house. Quaid is an innocent -- dumb, inexperienced, with the mind of a child. He sees no evil anywhere and is willing to do his time without bitterness.It's not going to be fun for him, though he doesn't realize it. A friend of mine was hustled off to a Marine Brig. He was brought back to collect his gear two days later, a black eye for every day. Michael Moriarty shines in a small part as an Admitting Officer at the brig.The story is by Daryl Ponicsan, who must know what he's doing when it comes to the Navy, and was touched up by Robert (Chinatown) Towne. They may have had a hard time filling a feature-length film with incidents. There are stop overs in various cities along the way. The last scene is particularly astringent. The three men are in Boston, granting Quaid's last wish -- to have a picnic. But it's winter. The picnic site in the public park is frozen and dusted lightly with snow. The men struggle to light a fire with green wood. They drink icy beer with shivering hands. Their puff out their breaths in clouds of steam, and Nicholson has forgotten to buy hot dog buns so they must eat the scorched wieners from sharpened twigs. They turn their broad collars up and stomp their feet. It's a total disaster.But then this is really a disaster movie. Otis Young is a black Gunner's Mate and he's found a home in the Navy. He hates this detail but wants to put in his years without making waves. Nicholson is a Signalman and feels oppressed by regulations and angry at Quaid's fate. In my opinion neither has much to complain about. They're both first-class petty officers. The job of first-class petty officers, especially Boatswain's Mates, is to stand around with a cup of coffee in their hand and make sure the suffering seamen on the deck force stay on their hands and knees and chip paint expertly.In showing Quaid the last good time he's going to have for those eight years, they don't do him any favors. At the beginning, he's resigned. By the end, after he's learned what he's going to be missing between the ages of eighteen and twenty-six, he's not at all resigned and tries to run away, which earns him a beating. The final scene of Quaid's limp form being hustled up the stairs and rushed through a barred door that slams shut behind him is frightening.There are some good scenes in the film, such as an argument in a bar over whether the redneck bar tender is going to serve Quaid, who is under age, and Young, who is African-American. The bar tender threatens to call the Shore Patrol. Nicholson yanks the .45 automatic from his pocket, slams it on the bar, and shouts, I AM the Shore Patrol! to the terrified bar tender.On the other hand, there is one of those gratuitous inter-service fights in the men's room of a train station, with the three sailors decking three or four Marines without themselves receiving a bruise. They run out of the station convulsed with laughter. That was GREAT!, one of them shouts. It's only in the movies that fist fights are great.A mixed bag -- moments in which freedom is celebrated alternate with moments of depression and futility. In the end, none of the trio wins. They wind up stuck in their circumstances. "},{"Title":"Back from the days when comedies still had Oscar worthy performances in them.","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think '70's comedies are being somewhat underrated. The '70's in general were a great era for film-making, mainly due to its atmosphere but also somewhat more realistic approach of film-making. This movie is a realistic comedy with real persons, going through some ordinary ordeals. I mean sure, it's a comedy so it goes for a laugh or two but yet the movie manages to not go over-the-top or to force anything and instead everything that happens in this movie feels like it really could happen on a common average day when a bunch of marines are being set loose on a special detail.It's basically a very simple movie with a simple concept, in which a prisoner needs to be taken from point A to point B. The young marine that is being held prisoner is played by Randy Quaid and his escorts are played by Jack Nicholson and Otis Young. Of course the three start to bond and decide to have some fun before they have to put Quaid into jail. It easily could had turned into a comedy like The Hangover for instance in which the main characters come across some crazy characters and weird situations. The movie is never tempted to do so though and instead it's a more cynical and restrained movie, that works out so really well mostly due to its cast members.What I really like about the movie is that the characters give you a real sense of what it must be like to be a marine in the United States navy. The way they talk and behave feels really realistic and you simply just buy it that these two main characters have been marines for years now and are sort of stuck in their situation and wouldn't know anything else to do with their lives anyways.It's a movie that deliberately is slow at times to build up the characters, as well as the progressing story. There are some great scenes in which we simply observe the character's behavior to some very common everyday things, in order to get to know them and understand what makes them tick.The movie foremost has a great performance from Jack Nicholson in it, who really seems to be doing his own thing and is confident with his acting style, like he had been a big star for years already. Thing is, Nicholson at the time of this production wasn't even that well known yet. Sure he had done Easy Rider already but his role in that movie really wasn't anything big. Yet he had already managed to receive two Oscar nomination prior to this movie, including one for his role in Easy Rider. It tells you something about the great actor that Jack Nicholson is. He just always does his own thing and puts his personal stamp on a movie and always gets full appreciation for it, even when the movie itself isn't that good. For this movie he actually received his third Oscar nomination, which to me seems like he real great accomplishment. I mean it's not that common ever for an actor to receive an Oscar nomination in that category for a role in a comedy. Randy Quaid also got nominated, as well as the script but the movie ended up empty handed eventually on the big evening.Of course not that that matters much though, fore The Last Detail still remains a really great movie to watch, that got made very well and has some outstanding performances by the actors in it.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Very nice observational comedy","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Everyone working on this movie was pretty hot -- Hal Ashby had just done Harold and Maude, Jack Nicholson was in the first real flush of his career, and Robert Towne was about to enter cinema lore with his next Nicholson film, Chinatown. Given all the talent that was assembled maybe the movie is a slight disappointment, but I think that this is a really excellent character piece. It has enough humor and character to keep the thing moving, but it's really about the dramatic nature of choices and our ability to determine the course of our life.Nicholson and Otis Young play a pair of MPs who are assigned to escort an unfortunate kleptomaniac youth (Randy Quaid) across the country where he will serve several years of hard time for robbing an empty collection box. Rather than lead the kid directly to the brig, the two MPs take a liking to the kid and decide to show him a good time. They can't tolerate the idea of him going into jail as a virgin, so they take him to a whorehouse where he convinces himself that he's in love with one of the young girls. They get drunk, they do all sorts of things. But in the end they have a duty to fulfill.Young's performance lacks presence and depth, but Nicholson and Quaid make up for it. I can imagine that Quaid might have been cast in a somewhat similar role in Quick Change several decades later because of how well he did in this film. If anyone out there thinks that Nicholson only discovered how to be funny in the 80s or 90s, they should definitely check this one out (or even earlier, Roger Corman's Little Shop of Horrors).What I really like about this film is Ashby's light touch. He doesn't hit us over the head with drama or with sympathy for the young prisoner, but instead sets up the Nicholson character as sort of a crazy and gradually makes us sympathize more and more with him, helping us to understand why he wants to help the Quaid character so much. He feels that he can perhaps escape the cycle by doing so, maybe he can reclaim some of his freedom. He and the Young character come to believe in the reformation and the evolution they've created so much, that they start to believe that Quaid's character does not even want to escape, which nearly proves fatal. The final feeling of the movie is one of tone more than of impact or drama -- it fills us with the same sadness, a melancholy sadness of the inevitability of everything in our world that is wrong and unjust. "},{"Title":"Hugely underrated and very fun little flick","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After his initial success with the offbeat Harold and Maude, cult director Hal Ashby would go on to make this fine film. The story of The Last Detail follows two navy men who must transport a young navy man to a prison on the other side of the United States. The young man is going to prison for eight years due to him committing a ridiculous crime, so on the way down, one of the men, Billy Bad Ass Buddusky, decides to show the kid a good time; and a good time is had by all! Hal Ashby's film offers a lesson in life without ever becoming sentimental and making me cringe, which can only be a good thing. It's very irritating when films try and teach a life lesson with a hugely sappy story; but suffice to say, this one doesn't suffer from that. The Last Detail works principally because it's so much fun - you might feel a lot of things during this flick, but boredom certainly isn't one of them. The script is very well written, and it makes sure that all the characters are different enough from one another to come together as a complete whole.The biggest reason for this film's success is definitely Jack Nicholson. This film was released shortly before the great actor would go on to achieve universal acclaim as one of the best of all time, but during the production of this flick, his rise to stardom must have been obvious to everyone he was working with. It's great to see an early Jack Nicholson performance as they're so full of energy and, personally, I prefer to see the great actor in earlier films like this one to his later releases because you're more guaranteed of a good time. It's always Jack Nicholson that stands out - stealing every scene he's in and basically making the film his own, and so it's really hard for anyone else in the cast to shine brighter. Still, the ensemble comes together nicely and although none of them eclipse the star of the show, they all aid him in making this film a success. The seventies was a great decade for movie-making, but for some reason; certain films haven't been greeted with the acclaim they deserve. The Last Detail is definitely one of those films, and I can say without any fear of a lie that if you happen to catch it, you wont regret that you did. "},{"Title":"Where have all the 'Hal Ashby's gone, goddammit...","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hal Ashby &#x85; whoever remembers this name, probably drown in the flood of directorial talents that survived the New Hollywood era like Scorsese, Coppola, Lucas or Spielberg.Yet, like Friedkin, Bogdanovich or Peckinpah, Ashby is one of the most underrated and emblematic film-makers of his era, not quite underrated because his movies actually outlived by the remembrance of his name  Harold and Maude, Being There, Bound for Glory (the fifth Best Picture nominee of 1976) and of course The Last Detail, a gripping male-bonding comedy-drama that encapsulates the rebellious and fatalistic flavor of its time and served by one of Jack Nicholson's greatest performances as Navy First Class Signalman Bill 'Bad-ass' Buddusky.The film's spirit it perfectly captured in its iconic poster Nicholson with a sailor hat, a defying look and a charismatic pose holding his cigar as to exhilarate the perpetuate thrill of free-spirited and skin-tattooed insubordination, as a man who doesn't get obedience and submission mixed up, his looks clearly express the fact that he doesn't take it from anybody. And the tag-line (Jesus H. Christ, what a tag-line!) says it better than any summary No *#@!!* Navy's going to give some poor **!!@* kid eight years in the #@!* brig without me taking him out for the time of his *#@!!* life (needless to say that profanity is as ubiquitous as God in the Bible).The 'tag-line' kid is Larry Meadows, Randy Quaid as a young sailor who's going to serve 8 years in Portsmouth Naval Prison for having stolen money from a charity box belonging to the wife of a Superior officer, we easily get that the sentence would've been lighter for another 'victim'. Buddusky and Otis Young as Mulhall aka 'Mule' are assigned to escort him. They have one week on their hands and a poor psychologically unstable and (obviously) kleptomaniac 18-year old kid who never had any fun in his life, and is nowhere near having it. So that's The Last Detail in a nutshell, three men and a limited trajectory from Norfolk where the assignment was given to Portsmouth where the delivery would be done. Orders are limited in space and in time one week.One week before jail, like Edward Norton's last day before jail in Spike Lee's 25th Hour and with a lesser sense of urgency, this week might be Meadows's last opportunity to have his share of fun and to get the spirit 'in him'. Of course, this spirit is carried by Nicholson in a tailor-made role, only followed by Meadows because he's handcuffed and Mule because he's 'in the same boat'. Badass is the joker, Mule the straight-man and Meadows in the middle doesn't know how to fit. Randy Quaid delivers a remarkable performance as a poor vulnerable kid victim of circumstances and a perfect counterpart to Badass' exuberance and flamboyant personality. No wonder that Badass would try to teach him how to get mad at things or get them the way he wants. Both actors would be Oscar-nominated for their performances.That's what I love with these 70's films, they reflected the atmosphere of their era with a raw authenticity and gritty realism without distracting the viewers from the many purpose of being entertained or let's just say, spend a good time and learn one thing or two about a guy, a woman or a bunch of people. I can't think of a more humanistic period movie-wise than this 1967-1976 decade with The Last Detail as one of its highlights. You have three men who belong to the military side during probably the most anti-military era ever; they incarnate the very establishment they hate themselves, yet they remain faithful to a sort of moral code. They have fun within their own group, drink beer and bang whores, but rules still exist. And while we're transported by the poignant sight of the young Meadows haplessly skating on the ice rink, we know that sooner or later, we'll be reminded of that goddamn assignment.But one can't deny the impact a bigger-than-life personality like Buddusky would have on a submissive character like Meadows, while not being a character study a la Five Easy Pieces, we expect from Meadows' youthful naivety that the film would depict a coming-of-age, if only for the incredible bar scene that echoes Bobby Dupea's chicken salad moment, when Buddusky asks for a beer to the under-aged sailor. He protests not because it's unfair but because he thinks that a guy who had the hardest time of his life coming is adult enough to get some privileges. We accept this logic and feel for both Buddusky and Meadows. It's not in him says Mule, referring to this spirit Buddusky tries to inculcate, but the intelligence in the script is that whatever sickness stroke Meadows, we feel that the cure would be much worse.The script, written by Robert Towne, who'd win an Oscar for Chinatown one year later reflects the paradoxical approach to rules and authority during the post-Vietnam era, incarnated by the Navy trio, each one being more complex than what he seems at first. The script is also one of the film's strengths in the way it feels absolutely real and genuine, without any clich, and allows each of the character to shine and to make us feel for them or for the kind of persons they were, and the kind of cities they grew in, like the North East to which the film delivers a sober but no less appealing painting. In fact this film made in 1973 makes me wonder in 2042, when people will ask about the 2000-2010's, which movies I would recommend (if I'm still alive).Now that cinema traded its dignity for money, 3D, special effects and un-special stories, where have gone all the true authors eager to express their view of life, on the world? Where have all the 'Hal Ashby's gone goddammit? "},{"Title":"Naval Lifers are bad for recruitment images","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Last Detail (1973, Hal Ashby) depicts a side of the US Navy that the Navy didn't want the public to focus on. The country at the time was in an uproar over the Vietnam Conflict. These were the days of The Weatherman (The Weather Underground Organization) and the SDS. The country was divided severely over the US involvement in Vietnam and the military was falling out of the public favor. The movie carefully skirts talking about the conflict by setting the action on the Eastern Seaboard (from Norfolk, VA to Portsmouth, NH) and having the main characters be Navy Shore Patrol. As the odd pair, played by Jack Nicholson and Otis Young, get their unusual assignment and venture north with their captive, an odd side of Navy life emerges the career lifer. The plot of The Last Detail is a little far-fetched. Billy Buddusky (Nicholson) and Mulhall (Young) are ordered to escort Larry Meadows (Randy Quaid) from Norfolk, VA to the Naval prison in Portsmouth, NH (which closed the year after the film was released). Meadows is sentenced for 8 years in the brig for attempting to steal $40 from a polio donations box. The Old Man's Wife was big into the polio cause and had her husband put the screws on Meadows, thus the harshness of his sentencing. Yet, this is really commentary on the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Nowhere else in the US would someone be sentenced for 8 years for attempting to steal (not actually even stealing) $40. They might be morally shunned and given some jail time, but certainly not time in prison. This sentencing shows the corruption, if you will, of the justice system in the military. Moral judgment was wrought upon Meadows because he had deeply offended The Old Man's Wife. Along the journey from VA to NH, Buddusky and Mulhall try to show Meadows, who is presumably under 18, a good time by fulfilling all of the masculine desires, such as drinking, smoking marijuana, sexual involvement (with a prostitute), fighting (with Marines), etc.During this adventurous trip, the characters of all the sailors emerge and we see what being a lifer in the Navy is like. The only thing these two guys can do is their job in the Navy they've nowhere else to go. We discover that Buddusky's nickname is Bad Ass and he tries to live up to that image in a very conscious way. I am a bad-ass! he exclaims more than once. He provokes a bartender after Meadows is refused a beer, pulling and aiming his (unloaded) gun at the barkeep. He suggests getting drunk, getting laid, getting high, and getting into a fight with some Marines for no reason whatsoever. I have a flair for this sort of thing. There has always been brotherly tension between the Marines and the Navy, but Buddusky provokes a fight for no reason other than to show how manly he is and get Meadows into a brawl. Bad Ass Buddusky clearly depicts one type of naval lifer. He is hyper-masculine and feels the need to assert this at every opportunity, whether that means starting a fight in a train station bathroom or saying he doesn't give a damn about a kid going to prison for an unjust amount of time. Mulhall, or Mule, depicts another type of lifer. He is into doing his job, thus the name Mule. He isn't bright, but he can carry a task to its completion. He helps to balance Buddusky, who'd probably not made it to NH in the allotted 5 days without him. He still likes to do masculine pastimes, but he's more conscious of the task at hand.The Navy doesn't like to discuss lifers, really. They're in the Navy because they had nowhere else to turn to. They need the fraternity, the protection from social norms and conventions, the steady check, and the structure of military life (and consequently the liberties that this also allows for). While the military was struggling to gather new recruits to fight in Vietnam, there were these other guys goofing off on the Eastern Seaboard, having the time of their life. This is not an image that helps to reinforce the sense of duty and commitment that the military tried to instill on new recruits. "},{"Title":"Military Justice Delivered","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the long list of excellent realist films of the 1970's, Jack Nicholson, Otis Young and Randy Quaid are outstanding in this story of a young seaman convicted of petty theft by the military and escorted to prison to serve an eight year sentence. Directed by Hal Ashby, Nicholson and Young are the two navy men duty bound to ensure the young seaman, Randy Quaid, arrives at the prison. The young recruit is unwise to the ways of the world. Raised on the wrong side of the tracks, he developed a habit of stealing but was never in serious trouble. Now, he is faced with a prison sentence after making the mistake of trying to take money from a donation box. Unfortunate for him, the charity was the favourite pastime of the wife of the base commander. Nicholson and Young soon realize that the military authorities have consigned a meek, and obedient puppy dog to time in hell. With the reality of the severe sentence handed out to the youth, his two military colleagues embark on a journey that he will remember. That's what the movie is about but more than that, it shows the two navy petty officers conflicted by the ordeal of having to fulfil the last detail of an unjust sentence. They feel there is nothing they can do and to be honest, the military are paid to carry out orders; not question those orders. The men in charge of this mission are horrified at the task, particularly Nicholson. Young expresses the fear that they could ruin their careers, taken down by the base authorities if they try to right the wrong. What we see are the two men trying to alleviate the young man's pain. But they know it's a short-term fling before a long journey through a dark night of humiliation, loss of freedom and brutality. In the space of a few days, they have fun drinking, eating and whoring and in the process try to teach the youth how to become a man. What they do accomplish is to help the young man with a few lessons as he learns to stand up for himself, to throw a punch when threatened and to send back food that is not to his satisfaction. The last detail is carried out. The petty officers may be given low marks by others of their generation or a later generation for not trying to abort the mission. However sad that might be, it does reflect the reality of life. I was moved by the performance of the three stars. "}{"Title":"Too much of too little","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Last Detail is one of those movies where some good ol' boys take a square out and show him a good time with alcohol, drugs, and sex. Of course he's a virgin, isn't much used to beer and has never touched marijuana.The problem with the movie is the character at its centre. The square is a bit too much of a dullard to keep the likes of Jack Nicholson sidelined. He doesn't really become a character in any tangible sense until the ending, which is quite touching. In the film's second act, however, you get a bit tired of looking at him, so much so that the blink-and-you'll- miss-it first screen appearance of the beautiful Nancy Allen seems like more of a highlight than it should.Nicholson was never a supporting actor. Someone with his unhinged energy - which gets a fine display here - has to be centre stage. We get too much of Randy Quaid, who shows us too little to care until it's almost too late. "},{"Title":"Much more a tragedy than a comedy","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson in his early heyday. Four years after Easy Rider, and two years before One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. He carries the film, as intended. Otis Young was good here, as well as a young Randy Quaid. Interesting casting as Quaid towers over Nicholson and film composition usually frowned on that. Nice turn put in by Carol Kane in a small part. Pretty good photography of the wintry Northeast, and unobtrusive direction. Apparently this movie was packaged as a comedy at one time, but I found nothing funny about it. Seems like every aspect of the tale was basically tragic. Pretty decent film, overall. A lot of profanity, which was sort of the style in the early Seventies. "},{"Title":"Not really a review...","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just love the scene late in this film where the characters are trying to have a barbecue in that cold snowy park...everything about it wreaks of desperation; of bleakness. It is also nostalgia fuel for me...taking me back to teenage days in cold rainy parks drinking cold beers with friends...trying to get the party going when the elements are primed to crush you. No, this isn't a review, no need for that...that's been well covered here. I just need to add my words of love for this film. I probably watch it once a year but only recently got a handle on why it's like (cold) comfort food to me. It's that frozen sausage sizzle and the nostalgic chill it sends through me...go figure. "},{"Title":"Nicholson triumphs yet again!","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson delivers one of his finest performances in the Late/Great Hal Ashby's 'The Last Detail. This tale of three unlikely characters, offers unexpected depth & humor.'The Last Detail' Synopsis Two Navy men are ordered to bring a young offender to prison but decide to show him one last good time along the way.I liked 'The Last Detail', because I wasn't bored in the goings-on. But I didn't loved it either. Reason? The pacing, which shifts between consistent to inconsistent. There are moments when you cheer for the protagonists, but at times, you wish their journey had been smaller & crisper. Robert Towne's Screenplay, which is based on the novel by the same name, offers depth & humor. But, it lags at times. Ashby's Direction is perfect, as ever. Cinematography & Editing are alright. Performance-Wise Words fail to describe how talented Nicholson actually is. In here, he plays his part like a pro & is simply awe-inspiring. Giving him great support throughout are Randy Quaid & the Late/Great Otis Young. They excel in their respective parts, as well.On the whole, 'The Last Detail' isn't a flawless film, but an effective one nonetheless. "},{"Title":"A sort of coming of age story","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's so much I like about this movie. I was in the Navy when I first saw it and loved how it realistically captured the enlisted reality. The dread you felt when an office or Chief came down the hall looking for volunteers. And you were trapped into some stupid detail. As Mule and Badass drag along Larry to prison forever, they stop along the way to make sure he gets some life experiences before being locked up. Larry matures enough that by the end he can speak up about his unmelted cheese and attempt a getaway. The dialog is perfect -- the slang, the intonation, and the attitudes have been captures. The acting is effortless. "},{"Title":"good performance from Jack Nicholson","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Buddusky (Jack Nicholson) and Mule Mulhall (Otis Young) are weary sailors assigned to escort young Meadows (Randy Quaid) from Norfolk to Portsmouth. Meadows tried to steal $40 from the Polio contribution box which is the favorite charity of the admiral's wife. They plan to take the slow route and save the per diem to spend on the way back. However they take pity on the poor sap Meadows who is about to spend 8 years in the brig. They take him to find some good times at the big city stops along the way.It's a bit meandering as a story but Nicholson gives a good performance. He's the undisputed star every time he's on the screen. Randy Quaid is playing a timid character. Sometimes he gets off a good laugh. In general, the movie is a slow moving comedy from director Hal Ashby with a few very good laughs. "},{"Title":"I AM the shore patrol!","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mid-December 1973 was writer Darryl Ponicson's shining moment. Over a period of six days two of his first four novels&#x97;'The Last Detail' (Dial Press, 1970) and 'Cinderella Liberty' (Harper & Row, 1973)&#x97;had their big screen debuts. Adapted by the estimable Robert Towne ('Chinatown') and directed by Hal Ashby ('Harold and Maude'), 'The Last Detail' stars Jack Nicholson as Billy Bad Ass Buddusky, a U.S. Navy petty officer and a lifer, Otis Young as Gunners Mate 1st class Mule Mulhall, another Navy career man, and Randy Quaid as Seaman Larry Meadows. While stationed at Norfolk (Va.) Naval Base awaiting their next cruise, Buddusky and Mulhall are issued .45s and assigned to Navy Shore Patrol. Their mission or detail is to escort 19-year-old sailor Larry Meadows to Portsmouth Naval Prison on the southern Maine coast, where Meadows will serve an eight-year sentence for the attempted theft of $40 from a base charity box. The six hundred-mile train trip from Norfolk to Portsmouth can be done in two days but Buddusky insists that he and Mulhall show Meadows a good time before he begins his draconian prison term for such a petty offense. Overnight stops in Washington, D.C., New York City, and Boston stretch the detail to four days, during which the prisoner and his two guards get drunk together, get into various scrapes, get the virgin Meadows laid, and generally bond with each other&#x97;until Meadows tries to escape in Boston. A gritty, expletive-strewn character study of military life at the tail end of the Vietnam era, 'The Last Detail' has been praised by Navy veterans for its authenticity. More than an entertaining and memorable film about male camaraderie, 'The Last Detail' is also an unflinchingly poignant look at tragically stunted working-class lives. "},{"Title":"memorable performances and Cuban cigars","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed ElMaruecan82's summary (Where have all the 'Hal Ashby's gone, goddammit..., ElMaruecan82 from France, 6 June 2012). Also, kwalsh2-1 points out the connection between Nicholson's Buddusky and the father that Meadows doesn't know (kwalsh2-1, Father Figure, 3 March 2006).The Last Detail, sneaks up on the viewer. It is a fairly realistic, 1973 Hal Ashby, seemingly low-budget film depicting two Navy petty officers (Jack Nicholson and Otis Young as Buddusky and Mulhall respectively) giving a crash course in manhood to the young sailor (Randy Quaid as Meadows) they are escorting to a military brig.Jack Nicholson makes the picture enjoyable by inhabiting the bullying, childish, cocky, profane and ultimately endearing Navy lifer with glee. (Nicholson turned down The Sting for this.) Nicholson obviously has a flair for portraying corrupt, manic characters; he is in fine form here.Randy Quaid and Otis Young are both good as the prisoner and Chief Petty Officer respectively. However, real surprises come later when we meet Carol Kane as the prostitute who rocks Meadows's world. I really like their brief screen time together; it seems authentic (or so I'm told). Michael Moriarty is also quite good as the ball-busting Marine O.D. who appears at the end.Look out for Gilda Radner as a Nichiren Shoshu member. Also, observe how in 1973 a man can fire up a cigar anywhere--there is no place too public for Nicholson's ever-present Cuban.Visually, Hal Ashby is good despite being very detached. Other than the final shot, not many images seem to have even been planned in advance. (Note the plane taking off in the final image--is the plane the last detail?) The only aspect of The Last Detail that I did not like is the ironically patriotic sound track. The sound track is too heavy handed. Otherwise, The Last Detail is a movie about life in the lower rungs of military service that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"The Last Detail","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had seen the iconic poster for this film plenty, the leading actor in the sailor hat with his top and a cigar, and he was praised for one of his best performances, so I had to see if I agreed, from director Hal Ashby (Harold and Maude, Being There). Basically two U.S. Navy petty officers, Signalman 1st Class Billy 'Bad Ass' Buddusky (BAFTA winning, and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Jack Nicholson) and Gunner's Mate 1st Class Richard 'Mule' Mulhall (Otis Young), have been commissioned and assigned shore patrol detail to escort young Seaman Laurence 'Larry' M. Meadows (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Randy Quaid) from Norfolk, Virginia to Portsmouth Naval Prison near Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Meadows is to serve an eight year sentence for a petty crime, trying to steal $40 from a collection box, the officers initially resent the detail, but as they journey on the train through the snow covered states they find the young officer oddly likable, so much so that they start to feel sorry for him, knowing in incarceration the Marine guards will be harsh and conditions will be grim. With several days until the young sailor is to be delivered to the authorities they decide to show him a good time, starting with some drinks in Washington, but they are refused as he is too young, so instead they get a crate of drinks and get drunk in a hotel room, Meadows collapses on the big bed while Bad Ass and Mule rest uncomfortably on fold-away beds. In Philadelphia they go to Meadows's house to meet his mother, but she is away and the house is messy with empty whiskey bottles all over the place, so they head for New York and take him ice skating at the Rockefeller Center, Bad Ass reminds himself and Mule that Meadows being eighteen would be out of prison by twenty six. Bad Ass and Mule find out that Meadows is still a virgin, and they decide to help him lose his virginity by visiting a small brothel in Boston, he selects a Young Whore (Carol Kane) from a group, they make love while the other two Navy officers have a bicker, and the prostitute is sweet toward the young man following their time together, he is happy. Finally the three of them arrive in snow covered Portsmouth, and Meadows has a final request to have a picnic, with hot dogs, but their time is running out, he stretches his legs and shows his mastering of Semaphore Flag signals, but then he suddenly makes a sprint to escape, but the other two catch up and for a moment they are very angry. In the end Bad Ass and Mule take him to the prison, knowing its the right thing to do, they are asked by the duty officer whether Meadows tried to escape at any time, to stop him getting into trouble they say no, and they walk away annoyed with the duty officer's incompetence, and they hope their next orders will be waiting for them back at Norfolk. Also starring Live and Let Die's Clifton James as Chief Master-at-Arms, Luana Anders as Donna, Kathleen Miller as Annette, Nancy Allen as Nancy, Gerry Salsberg as Henry, Don McGovern as Bartender, Pat Hamilton as Madame, Michael Chapman as Taxi Driver and Jim Henshaw as Sweek. Nicholson does indeed give a fantastic performance as the Navy officer wanting to have fun and hows a good time before a young man's impending misery, Quaid is really good fun as the pathetic but likable young officer, and Young should be mentioned as a good sidekick to Nicholson as well. The film is perhaps better known for its high use of bad language than maybe the performances, which are great, but the profanities are in fact what add the needed laughs, and engrossing impact and poignancy, it is a terrific drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it won the BAFTA for Best Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Film. Jack Nicholson was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"One of Jack's Best Movies!!!","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Harold and Maude helmer Hal Ashby's tragi-comedy The Last Detail qualifies as one of Jack Nicholson's best films. The three-time Oscar winning actor delivers a tour-de-force performance as a sympathetic but profane Navy Petty Officer nicknamed Bad Ass who often makes more of an ass of himself than anybody else. He is handed the thankless task of escorting a young, naive sailor, Meadows (Randy Quaid),to to the infamous Portsmouth Naval Prison. African-American Naval Petty Officer Richard 'Mule Mulhall (Otis Young of The Outcasts,)reluctantly accompanies Bad Ass. They slip on a Shore Patrol arm bands and pack .45 caliber automatic pistols. Basically, The Last Detail amounts to a journey of initiation for the timid young sailor. Meadows suffers from a nasty case of slippery fingers; he likes to steal things. He makes the worst mistake of his life when he tries to steal money for the polio fund. As it turns out, the polio fund is a special project supervised by the Navy base commander's wife. The Naval court convicts Meadows and sentences him to eight years. Bad Ass and Mule take pity on the green kid and decide to get him drunk and laid before he enters the slammer. Along the way, they manage to make something out of a man out of him. Bad Ass and Mule serve as surrogate fathers for poor Meadows. Of course, this movie isn't exactly epitomize happiness. At one point, poor Meadows musters the courage to try and escape from his guardians. He doesn't make it far before they bring him down. Bad Ass clubs him with his pistol several times. The Last Detail acquired a reputation during its day for its use of pointed profanity. The scene in the Washington, D.C.,bar where Bad Ass informs a surely bartender that he is the mother-f%#king Shore Patrol is fantastic. Look for Nancy Allen, Carol Kane, and Gilda Radner in small supporting roles. Ashby and future Chinatown scenarist Robert Towne softened up the unsavory ending with a final confrontation between Bad Ass and a stuck-up First Lieutenant Marine Duty Officer (Michael Moriarty)who questions them about Meadows' conduct. There isn't a bad performance in this wonderful film, but you should beware of the rampant profanity. The film emerged as a box office hit for Columbia Pictures. "}{"Title":"Hal Ashby, 1973","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hal Ashby has always remained a polarizing figure, with a catalogue of films that divide audiences, from Harold and Maude, to The Slugger's Wife. At the culmination of his career, he directed The Last Detail, a comedy/drama, starring Jack Nicholson, with a screenplay written by Robert Towne (Bonnie and Clyde, Chinatown). It follows two swabbies, as they escort a young Randy Quaid to Portsmouth naval prison N.H. Any comparison to previous naval movies (Anchors Aweigh, On The Town), have to be dismissed, as the film, with a backdrop against the Vietnam War, features strong existentialist, and almost nihilistic themes, with characters struggling to come to terms with their assigned roles, and ultimately, life in general.Nicholson's Badass Buddusky, surpasses a strong cast, as a charismatic maximalist, whose objective, above and beyond his assignment, is to provide a no holds barred bon-voyage for Quiads character, 'Meadows'. Otis Young supports, as Nicholson's stony-faced shore-patrol partner Mule Mulhall, and remains the voice of reason between the uncontrollable, hurricane Badass, and the vulnerable 'Meadows'. The movie plays out like a coming-of-age/road movie, with Buddusky and Mulhall taking meadows on a crash-course of manhood, exposing him to drinking, fighting and f*cking, and showing him the freedom he's shortly going to lose.There's a definite hard edge to the movie, and it walks a fine line between comedy, and becoming a full-blown drama. Michael Chapman's cinematography expertly drains the life out of each frame, abandoning the contrast of gloss and grittiness that is apparent in his other work (Raging Bull, Invasion of the Body Snatchers), and stripping the movie down to a harsh, grim aesthetic, that more than lends itself to the photography of Arthur Fellig's pseudonym 'Weegee', and the dark lighting techniques of Gordon Willis.The Last Detail is arguably the definitive Jack Nicholson performance, with him throwing as much magnetism and charm into 'badass', as he does 'Randle Patrick McMurphy' or 'J.J. Gittes'. In fact all performances are perfect, and show Nicholson and Quaid in their prime, before they became typecast and subsided into self-caricature.The movie itself could be seen as a left-wing metaphor for the Vietnam War a group of men working for the armed services, being assigned a pointless objective, with no positive outcome. This is unsurprising, considering Hal Ashby's filmography (Coming Home, Harold and Maude) and his outspoken views on the Vietnam conflict. Ultimately this movie remains of it's time, and is a window into the life of desultory blue- collar workers during the cold war, showing the harsh, grim reality of working class life. Ashby was a Hollywood outsider, a rebel against the mainstream, and held a sheer refrain from being pigeonholed into a certain style or genre.' The Last Detail was him at the pinnacle of his career, with his directorial work gradually declining into obscure films and TV work.For more reviews of overlooked movies, please visit http//avoid-at-all-costs.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"You're In The Navy Now","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I rented this flick and inserted it in my DVD Player not even expecting much of a true picture of Navy life. I suppose Jack Nicholson on the bill played a big part in my expectations. Boy was I wrong. Suddenly in the first 15 minutes of the film, I was transported back to the 50's and my 4 years in the Navy.What a treat to experience a movie that adheres to the concept of real so wonderfully. This movie appears to have been filmed entirely on location. Nicholson, Young and Quaid fit the bill of swabbies perfectly. And Carol Kane, who starred in Taxi as Latka's wife brings a sensuality to the role of the prostitute in the film.The Last Detail is a must for all Navy veterans. You won't be disappointed. A boring train ride-the street scenes in NYC. I really expected them to stay overnight at the YMCA when in New York. Kudos to Hal Ashby for this pearl from the past. "},{"Title":"Another damn fine performance from the Jack.","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Featuring an amazing performance from Jack Nicholson, this is a really entertaining story that's probably the ultimate road trip film. The story is a simple one; Navy Officers Buddusky (Nicholson) and Mulhall (Otis Young) are ordered to escort a young seaman (Randy Quaid) to prison. But Buddusky has other plans. Seeing this young virgin boy who's never done anything adventurous in his life inspires him to take the week and the cash they have to bring him to prison and make it the greatest week of his life. They get in fights, get laid and get drunk and have a ridiculous amount of fun while doing it. Nicholson plays Buddusky as a charismatic badass and I've rarely enjoyed a performance more. He is sensational and the highlight of this great film. "},{"Title":"One of the 70s most overlooked classics","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The 70s was a truly special decade for film. Before Star Wars and the summer blockbuster changed Hollywood (for the worse I may add), the studios produced intelligent and complex adult films that managed to entertain the viewer at the same time. The actual moral to the story were often not clear cut and the characters were developed as actual humans instead of standard good guys or bad guys. The Last Detail is one of the most overlooked classics from this decade. It has all those great qualities found in these films I mentioned earlier. There isn't too much action and most of the film is dialog. However, it manages to be extremely entertaining due to the strength of the hilariously profane dialog (I suspect Tarantino was influenced by this style) and a trio of compelling performances.The direction by Hal Ashby is very good. His style is typically sloppy, but it often helps the attitude of the stories he directs. The film moves at a good pace. The screenplay by Robert Towne is a classic - its no wonder he went onto become one of Tinseltown's most acclaimed screenwriters as he truly has a knack for great dialog and characters. The acting is also terrific. While he hasn't been truly great in years (with the exception of The Pledge) and often gets weak roles that call on his established persona instead of actual chops, Jack Nicholson was always great in the 70s. He had the right balance of emotion and charisma with nuance needed for his characters. Badass Buddusky is one of his greatest creations. Otis Young is overshadowed by Nicholson, but does a great job as well, excelling at a more subtle role needed to counterbalance Nicholson. As the naive and slow-witted sailor going away, Randy Quaid was never better. The Last Detail is the special kind of masterpiece that could only be made in the 70s. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Underrated film of the 1970's, that's fun, free spirited and rebellious and it gives a feel good time for the viewer.","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After just watching The Last Detail I must say that this 1973 film is a film of free spirits, fun and just a plain feel good time of life and freedom in a rebellious way. Clearly they don't make films like this anymore. The performances were top notch from all involved a great trio as always Nicholson's is strong, direct and over the top in a wild way and Quaid's performance though low key was notable.Two hard boiled and petty career sailor officers Billy Bad Ass Buddusky(Jack Nicholson) and 'Mule' Mulhall(Otis Young) are given a detail assignment to take a young sailor Larry Meadows(Randy Quaid in one of his earliest roles) from a Virginia naval base all the way up north to a New Hampshire Naval Prison so he can serve an eight year sentence for a petty theft of stealing forty dollars. Both Buddusky and Mulhall consider this crazy and decide to show the big young sensitive and shy kid Meadows a good time. From Washington, D.C. where they have a close call in a bar fight to their drunken hotel room the journey continues to New York where they tangle with some Marines. And very memorable is where Meadows gives up his virginity in a Boston whore house. Finally the journey chops down in the New Hampshire snow before his prison arrival along the way fun, joy, and coming of age and life is enjoyed by Meadows, yet Bad Ass and 'Mule' feel all along they have became prisoners of their own world while the young sensitive Meadows achieved enjoyment. Overall pretty powerful film of the 70's that rebellious it shows that many will enjoy life to the fullest and be rebellious against traditional means and really an overall coming of age picture that proves during life much is to be discovered and explored with people and places. Clearly one of Nicholson's most underrated works. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Nicholson gem","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson has been very good in some recent blockbusters, but I enjoy his performances in lesser-known movies even more, especially in the 1970s. The movies Five Easy Pieces, Carnal Knowledge, and Chinatown -- and Nicholson's performances -- are famous, but fewer people are familiar with The King of Marvin Gardens or this movie, The Last Detail. I remember watching the Oscars in 1974; when they played a clip from the movie after announcing Nicholson's nomination for Best Actor, the network had to beep out half the words. It's definitely salty.The plot of the movie, like many Nicholson flicks of the 1970s (and Hal Ashby films), is just a frame to hang several set pieces on. A young sailor (Randy Quaid) has been sentenced to go to the brig for eight years, a disproportionately harsh punishment for his petty crime. Two sailors are assigned the task -- the detail -- to transport him to Portsmouth where he can report to prison. It's actually soft duty for the sailors (Nicholson and the late Otis Young), since they have a leisurely schedule for their own return to home base.Nicholson's photo on the DVD cover captures his characterization of his role, Bad Ass Buddusky. Watch as he gets the poor prisoner his first beer, his first girl, and so on. We also discover what the Navy thinks of Marines, and vice versa, in a scene where Nicholson's grin almost swallows his ears.If you're a Jack Nicholson fan and haven't seen this movie, give yourself a treat and rent it soon. "},{"Title":"Before springtime","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From the late 1960s to the mid 1970s, Jack Nicholson put in a remarkable series of performances as alienated outsiders, in films such as 'Easy Rider', 'Five Easy Pieces' (my own personal favourite), 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' and this film. Each character he played was wholly distinctive, and portrayed with a subtlety the actor arguably lost as he become increasingly called upon to play roles (in films like 'The Shining') which hinted almost at self-parody. 'The Last Detail' is perhaps the most understated of these movies, a quiet, observational, character-driven piece that follows two sailors (one played by Jack) escorting a petty thief to prison over a few chilly winter days. Not much happens, and in a way, the film resembles Richard Linklater's later 'Before Sunrise' as much as it does any other movie (it even has a sex scene in a roughly similar place in the plot). But whereas that film was middle class, self-important, and sentimental, Hal Ashby's movie is an unassuming and a desperately bleak portrait of the lives of three fundamentally lonely people. Almost no-one makes films as unslick, and rawly honest, as this anymore, and while it's hardly wall-to-wall fun, it deserves its place in Nicholson's canon, even though (or arguably because) he never allows himself to dominate the piece. "},{"Title":"Easy Rider for the enlisted man","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is something about this film that captures what it is like to be an enlisted man in the military even though it was made over 20 years ago. Today's military seems to bear little resemblance to the military in the early 70s but so many of the things that happen in this film ring true to me. From the feeling of limbo when you are between assignments as they are at first to the haphazard way they create diversions on the way to the almost instinctual way the NCOs take the young man under their wing this movie rings true. Even the way that a distinct line between civilian and military or between enlisted and officer is drawn. I loved the scene with Michael Moriarty toward the end where he is a by the book ass but doesn't even know the simple paperwork rules. It makes me wish that there were more films out there that dealt with the unique situation of the enlisted man. There are some great stories to be told. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT, Nicholson at the top of his game","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is probably my all-time favorite Nicholson performance next to Five Easy Pieces and a couple others. I really wish more people had seen it, I find myself recommending The Last Detail and no one has heard of it! Nicholson is absolutely BAD in this film, his character is so so cool. I thought the acting presented here by the main players was top notch and the comedy was perfect. Make sure you see this film, Nicholson doesn't get much better. "},{"Title":"Vintage Jack; one of the best films of the '70s; a true gem","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE LAST DETAIL (1973) **** Jack Nicholson, Randy Quaid, Otis Young, Carol Kane, Michael Moriarty, Clifton James, Nancy Allen, Gilda Radner. Nicholson is nothing short of brilliant in Hal Ashby's film about two career Navy officers assigned to escort prisoner Quaid to the brig on bogus charges, with some off the beaten trail adventures to make the best of the situation. Raw and devilishly good with some insight of anger in males in all of cinema. **Trivia note Quaid beat out a young John Travolta for his role. Best scene Jack trying to get Quaid served in a podunk pub. Best line Heineken? Why it's the finest beer in the world! President Kennedy used to drink it! Electrifying Nicholson! "}{"Title":"Brilliant character portrayal till the last detail","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film works. It works because it has both deep-rooted characters as well as a well-executed character transformation. The deep-rooted characters are those of Jack Nicholson and Otis Young's, and the character that goes through big transformation due to coming it contact with these two guys is of Randy Quaid's.  Without giving out much of the story, the film is about a young innocent boy who isn't sure what life is all about. He has never dreamed of anything. He's about to be shunted off the society for 8 years but he's is totally indifferent to it. Because he never knows how to fight back. That's the 18 year old lad played by superbly by Randy Quaid, in his Oscar nominated role. Jack Nicholson may be the star of this movie, and he certainly brings a lot to the film, but its Quaid's character whom we relate to, with whom we sympathize and want him to grow. Nicholson and  Young play godfathers to Quaid, who are exactly opposite to Quaid. They are mature, street-smart, and seasoned. They take pity on Quaid and take him on a trip to the real world for 5 days. The whole film is about these five days. There's not much action in the film, but that doesn't mean that the film doesn't move. Every event in the film adds to the movement of the story. Quaid's character grows with every day, with every event, to the extent that he finally attempts to break free. Though this comes as a shock and disappointment to Nicholson and Young, the audience is enthralled by the completion of the character transformation of Quaid. Highlights of the film are the acting of all the 3 men. Jack Nicholson is his charismatic self, tough and mean. Quaid is totally believable and that's what draws audience emotionally to this film. Young plays the part of a wise and serious about life navy cop brilliantly. The direction is good, the witty lines and situations keep coming up at their own. Its like a journal full of exciting happenings. I give a 9 out 10 to this film. A must see. "},{"Title":"Sensational Character Study","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jack Nicholson in one of his great early performances. This movie is an overlooked gem. One of those small movies that's big where it counts..acting, writing and taut direction. Randy Quaid is perfect. Our first brief look at Gilda Radner. Don't let this one get by you. Character studies don't come much better than this. And if you like this movie...I suggest you also check out Scarecrow with Gene Hackman and Al Pacino. Two early seventies movies that get better with age.  "},{"Title":"One of the best character-driven movies out of Hollywood","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the most under-rated Nicholson films of all time and it would be a crime if you don't go and check it out soon.A nice little compact story about two experienced Navy grunts (Nicholson & Young), bored with their jobs and all the political s**t that goes with it, who are both ordered to escort a naive young sailor (Quaid) across the country to a naval prison, all because he stole $40 from a Polio contribution box (or as the Master at Arms so eloquently puts it ...goes an' f**ks over charity!)Realizing that they're given a week to do this last detail the two wily old Petty Officers decide to exploit this to the full by taking in booze, women & picking fights on the army along the way.As time goes by they begin to feel more & more sympathetic to the young man's bleak future of spending 8 years behind bars, which is a joke beyond belief. Eventually all three are more like equals as they cruise the cities in search of beer & women.But we also realise that even though Nicholson's character is nothing more than an overbearing & out spoken thug with a vulgar tongue and doesn't have a good word to say about anybody, the young sailor, Quaid, looks up to him like a father figure. For once he is treated like a man rather than as a stupid immature boy; Nicholson shows him a glimpse of the adult world that he won't be able to see again for another 8 years and it's probably after having so much fun during this time that he belatedly realizes the true error of his ways and that it's all too late now since that bit of fun will be taken away from him just as quickly.Nicholson's, Budduskey (Bad Ass), character is an absolute gem and I don't think anyone else could have played it better. Nicholson must have had a lot of fun developing this character because in truth it belies the man himself and allows him to extend his abilities to the fullest.But he is also ably supported by both Quaid & Young, especially Young, because to be honest I was quite surprised that no mention was made towards him being black which would normally preclude lots of the usual racist antagonisms so typical of movies such as this. But instead political issues are put to one side for the sake of human ones.Quaid has probably never had a better role before or since and should be rightly proud of his contribution here. For although Nicholson grabs most of the limelight with his language, words of wisdom & sporadic temper tantrums; the true human emotion comes from Quaid's character as the mixed up kid about to lose 8 years of his young naive life.There's not a lot to fault this film, although the score is a bit out of step with what's going on on the screen. Robert Towne's screenplay was criticised for being too vulgar and crude but hey, this is the f**king navy! I mean, can you really imagine a wound-up character like Budduskey uttering delightful epithets like-I am the rather nasty shore patrol, silly man! I am the very nasty shore patrol! Give this man a beerI don't want a beer!You're gonna have a flipping beer!Nah, doesn't quite ring true does it!?Aside from that, the film is brilliant and its so good to see our Jack enjoy himself so much with a rich & colourful character. If you've only ever seen him post The Shining, I recommend (in fact I insist) you check this movie out, you'll love him all the way to the Brig!Highly recommend*****/***** "},{"Title":"One of Nicholson's best underrated films","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was an overlooked gem of a movie directed by Hal Ashby, who made Harold and Maude, about two career Naval Petty Officers who are assigned to escort a newly enlisted Seaman to the a naval prison in New Hampshire for a minor infraction for attempting to steal $40 from a polio contribution box. One of the most effective things presented in the film is the politics in the military, as I have seen much of that in my 10 years in. Jack Nicholson and Otis Young's characters are mid-ranking (E-6) Petty Officer's who have probably not had illustrious careers in the Navy and may never rise above their current rank. The two lifers decide to show the timid, wide-eyed naif of a sailor a good time with a few days of boozing, raising hell, and whorehousing. All the performances are superb. I had never heard of Otis Young until this film, and it's sad to see he hasn't had much of a career. I was glad to see how his role in the film was not racially oriented and simply portrayed him as a human being. Quaid, who played Meadows, had given the performance of a lifetime, proving he could play much more than his usual roles of dimwits (Vacation, Midnight Express). Also great in their brief roles were Clifton James as the Master at Arms who assigns Nicholson and Young to the escort duty, Carol Kane as a cute prostitute, whom Quaid has his first experience with, and Michael Moriarty as a despicable Marine Officer who runs the naval prison. My favorite Nicholson movie along with One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. "},{"Title":"A gripping cross country odyssey...","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely first class cross country drama detailing two navy lifers forced into chaser duty to escort a prisoner unjustly sentenced to eight years to the brig is both high on drama, comedy and relevance.Very well directed by Hal Ashby and with an absolutely first class, unsentimentalized script by Robert Towne (based on the novel by Darryl Poniscan) which is at turns hilarious, grippingly real and achingly sad, The Last Detail is pretty much faultless for what it is.However despite the credits above where The Last Detail really comes into it's own is the three tremendous lead performances, with Jack Nicholson especially delivering one of his best performances of the seventies (right up there with his turns in Chinatown and One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest), while Otis Young and Randy Quaid are almost his equal, both excellent in their roles. That said it's Nicholson's performance that dominates much of the limelight, and much of the film itself, with Otis and Quaid playing off him to superb results.The supporting players are for the most part quite good in their roles with special note to Carol Kane, Clifton James and especially Michael Moriarty, all of whom are very good indeed, while Luana Anders, Kathleen Miller, Jim Henshaw, Don McGovern and Nancy Allen, in one of her earliest performances, all provide solid support.In fact the only downside of the whole film for me was the music score by Johnny Mandel which did the film few favours. The problem with the score is that it ranges from being too bombastic to being too upbeat and never really fits the mood or character of the film that it inhabits. Instead of fitting and enhancing the atmosphere of the film Mandel's score actually detracts from it, and proves to be more a distraction or even a slight irritant than anything else. Thankfully the power of the film itself and it's three great lead performances isn't really diminished by this, with music not being employed all that often anyway, however even so the score certainly doesn't help the film any, let alone do it's job of underpinning the emotion of the film like a good score should. Overall The Last Detail is Nicholson at his best, and is a film that still holds up remarkably well over a quarter of a century after it was first released, and is just as relevant today as it ever was. The Last Detail is powerful and intelligent film that manages to walk the fine line between delivering a message and just being downright great entertainment and as such is definitely a film worth looking up either again or for the first time.  9/10  One Man's Opinion. "},{"Title":"RENT THE TAPE, DON'T WATCH IT ON TV.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant, perhaps understated, movie with all concerned doing yeoman work. Do NOT, however, watch it on network television because, to get the full flavor of the U.S. Navy, you can not have a Master Chief Boatswain's Mate using words like darn and heck and golly. They don't (or didn't) talk like that. Though he is only in the movie for a couple of minutes at the end, Michael Moriarty is perfect as a by the book Marine Corps Lieutenant. "},{"Title":"A well crafted, well acted dramedy.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nicholson and Quaid shine in this off-beat tale of two lifers in the Navy (Nicholson and Otis Young) who must escort a young seaman (Quaid) to prison. Nicholson and Young start to feel sorry for the young man's plight and take him around for his last stab at freedom until his eight year prison sentence begins. This is a wonderful film that never gets too mushy, but is moving and thoughtful at the same time. "},{"Title":"One of Nicholson's Great Performances","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Truly, truly, one of Nicholson's greatest! (And Randy Quaid wasn't too bad either.) Not especially well known, and that's too darn bad, because this film is very well crafted, very tight. Watch for the scene with the Encounter Group. The series of expressions on seaman Nicholson's face over the course of about four seconds show what a genius he truly is.  "},{"Title":"MP A street odyssey","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In this atypical film (I could call it a tragicomedy) we can see the internal fight of two MP soldiers for the freedom of a young soldier they have to carry to jail. They know they'll never win in this kind of fight, but they never give up, as they maintain a hard battle between their brains and their hearts. As a result, the prisoner learns many things about life in his last 5 freedom days... just to understand what he's going to lose... Wonderful. A mission without medals, just for the soul. If you want to see another type of hero, then watch this film. Jack Nicholson is outstanding. My rating is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Realistic and pure characters","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two Navy officers (Jack Nicholson and Otis Young) are appointed to escort a young sailor (Randy Quaid) to prison after he had stolen 40 dollars from a charity collection box. The boy appears as defenseless, since he is a victim of an unjust sentence and the two officers, moved by his weak personality, decide to take some time to let him discover and appreciate things in life that he would not be able to enjoy during his years in prison. Nor Nicholson nor Young are heroes in this film they instead are failed officers who want to redeem their personal satisfaction on showing and teaching Quaid the pleasures of life. That's all they know. By trying to help the young man growing, they end up ruining his future. He contemplates escape only because he's aware that what's expecting him will destroy his pureness.This film is liberating, because we experience with Quaid the emotions he faces for the first time, and ambiguous, because the efforts of the two officers in leaving in the boy good memories pushes them to question their role and assignment. "}{"Title":"One of Ashby's best","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The road movie has been around for a long time, but it only really blossomed in the late 1960s, the genre developing a concrete form with films like Bonnie and Clyde, Two-Lane Blacktop and Easy Rider.Within this genre, though, one man has cemented his status as king of the road. With films like Five Easy Pieces, Easy Rider, The Last Detail, About Schmidt, As Good As It Gets, Hells Angels on Wheels etc, actor Jack Nicholson demonstrates that he has a bizarre fondness for scripts featuring a man on a literal journey. He'd even write some of them himself.Directed by Hal Ashby, The Last Detail finds Nicholson playing Bad Ass Budduskey, a navy grunt charged with delivering a fresh faced cadet (Meadows, played by Randy Quaid) to prison. But far from following procedure, Budduskey decides to use his seven day pass to show Meadows a good time. Hell, the poor kid is serving 8 years in jail. Why not have some fun before damnation? And so Budduskey and Meadows score some booze, get royally plastered, visit a whorehouse, brawl with a group of Marines and hang out with hippies in Greenwich Village. It's a fun night out on the town, though one which is suffused with a certain melancholy. Audience and cast know how this adventure is going to end, and Ashby makes a point of highlighting the trio's alienation (their self-hating dependence on an alienating job for their security and comfort) and aimlessness.Hal Ashby's, an excellent director who suffered from severe depression, treats the story with a tender hand. Released in 1973, when Vietnam was still fresh in the American psyche, Ashby serves up a palatable sense of disillusion, melancholy and innocence lost. Unfortunately, like most of the zeitgeist-tapping films of the era, the real causes of isolation, frustration, alienation, and meaninglessness in the lives of these men remain unexplored. We remain trapped at the existential or psychological level, the film never broaching what are really social, systemic, economic and so political problems.Nicholson would spend most of the 1970s consolidating his reputation as a deranged sociopath and while he's given more polished performances, few match the manic energy he displays here. He spews invective like a machine gun, and is at once scary, deranged, kind and charming. It's another iconic performance in a career of iconic performances, the world of civilians and officers becoming the butt of his character's rage. His humorous anarchy is illustrated by his battles with any and all centres of power, but of course its wasted energy. Meadows is sentenced to 8 years imprisonment for stealing a meagre 40 dollars from a charity box.8.5/10 - Among Ashby's best, though like most of its ilk, doesn't push far enough. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Who's your daddy?","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just cannot imagine a Jack Nicholson film that is not worth two hours of my life. This was an excellent example of his acting ability. It's not just me that thinks so, as he was nominated for an Academy Award.Randy Quaid and Otis Young were also superb. It even featured a cute Carol Kane as a prostitute.This was a quiet dramedy about Nicholson being a father figure for Quaid and teaching him about beer drinking, cussing, fighting, and getting laid - all those things he never learned. It was a beautiful character study done by a master actor.They do not make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Two sailors transport a convicted sailor to Portsmouth","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As one of the previous comments reported, The Last Detail resonates with ex-sailors. I served in the Navy from '68 through '72, and the movie was shot in either winter '72 or spring '73 judging by the weather in Philadelphia and Boston. The locations were familiar. I served at New London, Washington and Charleston and spent time in Philadelphia, Boston and Norfolk (locations in the movie). Luckily for me I was never at Portsmouth.Jack Nicholson, Otis Young and Randy Quaid nailed their parts. I also know those men. I served with them while in the Navy. The concern Nicholson and Young showed for Quaid's vulnerability and their fear for his inevitable mistreatment is memorable and real. The negative conversation about the marines is on target as typical swabie conversation.The drinking, the talk about whores and getting laid, the studied tough guy attitude, and the resignation to just get by to finish their enlistment are all extraordinarily accurate. Whoever helped Robert Towne write the screenplay was either an ex-sailor or had a great ear for accurate dialog.Less discussed, but just as real, is Otis Young's role. He is naturally a bit overshadowed by a magnificent Jack Nicholson tour de force. But, Otis Young nailed the role of the black guy finding his place in the Navy of the late 60's and early 70's. I served in a department headed by a black Petty Officer First Class (just as Otis Young was in the movie. The quiet caution, the pride in status, the tendency to be formalistic and doctrinaire (to protect a precarious position was so memorable I could almost address him by name.A note about the racism that was touched on in the movie. There was significant separation between the white and the black sailors in off duty situations (all voluntary I might add). But, when they were together off base, no white sailor would allow a shipmate to be mistreated. It was a matter of pride that could not go unchallenged. Jack's anger at the peckerwood bartender was immediately recognizable as the reaction a tough guy in the off base group would give to the source of the racial mistreatment. Then, just as likely, back at base the tough guy and the black guy would barely acknowledge each other's existence.The only false note to me was the station head (bathroom) scene where Jack sets up a fight with Marines in transit. That kind of thing happened, but in my experience, only in the bars and only after plenty of alcohol. (I was once attacked in the Enlisted Men's Club at Charleston while a group of my shipmates and I were partying in preparation for a trip to Folly Beach. We were jumped by a group of intoxicated young Marines looking for trouble. Partying sailors tended to be loud, happy and obnoxious. Drinking marines tended to be quiet, morose and angry.) But, I served with many Marines on ships and in port. While sober we all got along pretty well and even formed friendships. The cold sober attack in the station head was a bit over the top.Now to the movie. I saw it the year I got out of the Navy (and back in college on the GI bill). I was blown away by the acting. I have a son in film and we e-mail about the things I see and want him to watch. He's young and hasn't been able to see all the great old stuff. This movie is a must on my list for small ensemble movies on a limited budget. See what one can do with a great script, some mobile cameras and three great acting jobs? The Last Detail is wonderful movie and the creators can be proud of their work. It is a small window on a time and place and social situation barely remembered and soon to pass from even we ex-Vietnam era vets. "},{"Title":"The Last Detail review","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Last Detail is a very well-developed road film about 3 Navy sailors&#151;Billy Buddusky (Badass), Mule Mulhall, and Larry Meadows. Meadows is on his way to jail for eight years for unsuccessfully trying to steal forty dollars from a charity box for polio. It's a truly tragic story, but Jack Nicholson's acting (as Badass) and the sidetracks on the way to the prison tend to add a bit of relief to the depressing reality of Meadows' eventual imprisonment.Throughout the film the audience feels sorry for Meadows&#151;it seems that he really has a problem with stealing, as is made clear in the beginning of the film. He knows it's wrong, but he doesn't really seem to be able to control it. Badass seems to feel sympathy towards him, knowing what he has to look forward to isn't the kind of punishment that he deserves for such a petty crime. Mule on the other hand, is more by the book. He doesn't want to give into Badass and let Meadows have a good time before he goes to prison, he just wants to get him there and get it over with.The Navy seems to have a different meaning to Badass than it does to Mule. There is one point in the film when Badass is telling Mule about the one time he was married, how his wife had wanted him to be a television repair man and he didn't want to, so he ended up in the Navy. Mule then tells Badass that he's supporting his mother, and that she couldn't be more proud of him. Clearly to Badass, the Navy was a sort of last resort&#151;to Mule, on the other hand, it was the best opportunity that he had at the time. This conversation seems to have the underlying theme of the differences between races that runs subtly throughout the film. There are several scenes which refer to Mule's skin color&#151;even the fact that his nickname is Mule is a reference to it. It seems that without the Navy, there wouldn't be much hope for Mule. Badass sees this same sort of quality in Meadows, stating at one point that perhaps jail is the best place for him, considering his other options (living in a poor town with his drunken mother, or going to Vietnam and dying).Meadows is a depressingly nave kid. There are many scenes in the film that display Meadows as just a young, mixed up kid. When Badass first suggests getting a couple of beers, Meadow says he's not old enough. This line seemed really poignant, considering the fact that he is in the Navy during the Vietnam War&#151;he's old enough to go and get killed for his country or to be put away in a military prison for eight years, but not old enough to have a beer. He's a virgin kid from a poor, nowhere town. He is the epitome of innocence, and it is up to Badass to expose him to life before he has to be put away. It's important to Badass for Meadows to experience things before he ends up wasting his life away over a meaningless act of criminal activity. The relationship between these three men becomes so strong that Meadows tells Diane (a woman he meets in New York City after she hears him chanting and introduces herself because she chants too) that Badass and Mule are his best friends. He really appreciates everything they've done for him which is why they trust him not to run away throughout the film, even though he eventually tries (perhaps his experiences made him wise to the fact that chanting for freedom wasn't going to bring him freedom at all).In the end, it seems that Badass and Mule didn't really help him all that much, but perhaps hurt him. In the beginning, Meadows didn't seem too effected by the fact that he had to go to jail. However, at the end he drags his feet and gets teary when he is finally outside of the jail. He knows about the life that he'd be missing while he is in jail for such a stupid reason, and he doesn't want to go. Had Badass and Mule just followed their orders, perhaps Meadows would have remained nave enough to be able to go to jail without a heavy heart. "},{"Title":"Ah, the 70's.  Cherish these films, you will never see the likes of them again.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not a graduate student in a prestigious film school, but I will offer my own humble opinion why films in the 70's, in particular American major studio releases, exploded as a popular form of entertainment.  I'm not talking about JAWS or STAR WARS.  I'm talking about the films of Hal Ashby, Roman Polanski, Woody Allen, Kubrick, Coppolla.  Audiences responded to personal, character driven stories.  Enough of that.My father was a career Navy man, 35 years enlisted and he reached the pinnacle as a Master Chief Petty Officer.  His salad bar, the small rows of colorful medal attached to his left chest is bigger than most of the Officers he came across.  It's different for officers in the Navy than it is for enlisted.  For officers, it is sort of an unofficial nobility.  For an officer not to have any major medals pinned to his chest speaks of his lack of aptitude as a warrior (John Kerry and his bogus Vietnam war medals, anyone?).  My father will tell you differently.  He got his medals for killing people and being shot at.  He does not see any glory or honor in his medals.  His favorite quote, from his favorite movie PATTON All glory is fleeting.I would like to make a point.  For most enlisted Navy men, they serve not out of patriotic zeal, but because it's a job with excellent benefits.  While only 1 out of every 100 men who attend the Great Lakes Naval Training Center will reach the rank of Master Chief Petty Officer, you pretty much have to be a dumb f*ck to get drummed out of the service, not unlike Randy Quaid's character in this film.The enlisted Man is the backbone of the Navy.  If you are in dire need of a chuckle, you should see a wet behind the ears Ensign try to give a Master Chief Petty Officer an order.  The other side of the coin is, in terms of social status, it seems a lot of people in this country hold enlisted men, not only of the Navy but in all the armed forces, in low regard. Enlisted life in the Navy is chiefly governed by inertia.  Only a special kind of man can stand Navy life the constant routine, overzealous officers, incompetent swabbies, and the incredibly long deployment cruises where they are separated from their families (often 6 months at a time, or longer). This film is admired in certain circles as a 21 gun salute to the enlisted Navy man.  While not a true to life picture, as movies rarely are, however, you will be hard pressed to find a film that does not paint the Navy in such rosy terms, as the sugary sweet OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN does, or the incredibly stupid and unrealistic TOP GUN.  The vast amounts of enlisted men serving in our military are not war junkies out to get a fix.  Its just a job, and our country could stand to go a long way to giving enlisted men a little more due respect. "},{"Title":"Wanna know why Jack Nicholson is held in such high esteem? Watch this underrated 1970s comedy/drama.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jack Nicholson is a household name and a bona fide MOVIE STAR but younger movie fans may not quite understand why he is held in such high esteem by his fellow actors and directors. Nicholson rarely gets the opportunity to act these days (Sean Penn's 'The Pledge' was a brilliant exception), but in his 1970s heyday he was one of the greatest actors in America, if not THE greatest. His famous roles in 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest' and 'Chinatown' are proof of this, but so are his less discussed movies from this period like 'Five Easy Pieces', 'The King Of Marvin Gardens', and this one, 'The Last Detail'. Nicholson is just brilliant throughout, and his performance could be used as a master class for any aspiring young actor. Nicholson's co-stars Otis Young and Randy Quaid are also both brilliant. I haven't seen Clay in any other movie before or since but he really holds his own against Nicholson, and Quaid has never been better in my opinion. The supporting cast includes other great actors like cult fave Michael Moriarty ('Q - The Winged Serpent'), Luana Anders ('Dementia 13'), Clifton James ('Cool Hand Luke'), Carol Kane ('Taxi') and Nancy Allen ('Dressed To Kill'). Director Hal Ashby rarely gets mentioned these days, but at his very best he was an original talent. Ashby and his talented cast were helped enormously by a fantastic script from Robert Towne, who teamed up with Nicholson the following year for Polanski's 'Chinatown'. That was a great movie, but for me 'The Last Detail' is just as good. If you want to see why so many movie buffs, including myself, love American movies of the early to mid-1970s, just watch this superb movie, which juggles comedy and pathos in a way rarely seen today, if ever. In the 1970s performances and scripts were King, not producers and special effects, and this is why the best movies from that era are really something special. Forget Jaaaack, the celebrity and pop culture icon, and try Jack Nicholson ACTOR. You will be amazed!   "},{"Title":"A dark yet realistic side of the Navy.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Navy enlisted man has rarely in film ever been featured as the central figure. Usually cast as a good natured well meaning Aw Shucks uneducated tag along to the more sophisticated CPO or Officer. This film offers a little different view. It tells the tale of two career Petty Officers who may or may never rise above their current rank. They are given the unpleasant task of escorting a young Seaman who IS the typical enlisted man as mentioned earlier to the Brig. He has received eight years confinement and a Dishonorable Discharge for the theft of forty dollars because the charity box he lifted it from was the pet project of the wife of the Commanding Officer. (When was the last time a person in the civilian world got eight years for stealing forty bucks?)The two Senior Petty Officers in charge of his delivery to the jailers end up showing him a good time.  Jack Nicholson, Otis Young and Randy Quaid all give great performances as does Clifton James as the Chief Master At Arms who portrays that character brilliantly. An individual who probably feels that everyone in the Navy below the rank of Chief Petty Officer is a criminal who belongs in the brig. At the beginning of the film Quaids character Seaman Larry Meadows has been reduced to a broken spirited shell of a young person. By the end of the film he is once again reduced to that state. In between however he experiences life perhaps for the first time thanks to his two Chasers.They turn the trip into an adventure for the soon to be incarcerated Meadows. This is the type of movie the Navy does not like the general public to see. Partly because a great deal of it is realistic. It shows the dark and sometimes dirty side never advertised on the recruiting posters or in films like TOPGUN. They drink, swear, fight, chase ladies of the evening and curse the very organization that they belong to.During one memorable scene Nicholsons character Budduskey vents his anger toward Marines ( Meadows keepers during his eight year stretch) who will more than likely apply abusive punishment.    You gotta have a certain sadistic temperament to be a Marine he says with a tone that only Jack Nicholson can convey on the screen. When the stern Marine Duty Officer played to perfection by Michael Moriarty is encountered a short while later the viewer knows what Buddeskey means. This is a powerful film about another side of the military.  "},{"Title":"A hidden gem","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hardly one of Nicholson's most known films, it plods along at a pace too slow for some. The plot is rather weak, but Nicholson and Co. shine. It's worth watching through to the end, although the ending itself is a little disappointing. Watch it and impress everyone with your 'die-hard fan' knowledge of Nicholson's movies. "},{"Title":"My rating 6","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite the worst score that I give the film, more for the directing, this movie is good. It tells the poignant story of a young soldier from the fleet, which is punished with eight years in prison because he tried to steal the box, which was full with forty dollars that he could not take because he was captured at that the moment.From there, the young soldier experience his untimely maturation thanks to his new friends, who are charged with the task to take him to jail. Even when they want to let him escape, it is clear that they will suffer punishment because of him.Movie criticize the bureaucratic system in which people are subjects and after every their action logically follows a specific aftermath. Finally, however, I think that was shown the ability of changing the system, performed by specific individuals who can enter into the situation of someone else, rather being its logical entities. The film is interesting and one of the first appearances of the actor Jack Nicholson.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great film from Ashby","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A great little travel movie, wrongfully labeled as a comedy when it's actually a touching and emotional drama - even though it's also quite funny and filled with classic scenes. It's tempting to compare it to military comedies like MASH and Catch-22, but it's very different - The Last Detail is a lot more realistic, and focuses on wonderful character study rather than social-political commentary; a lot of that is thanks to the fantastic actors.Jack Nicholson is at the top of his game, Otis Young is terrific, and Randy Quaid gives the best performance of his long, dwindling career. Recommended. "}{"Title":"The kid's come a long way","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The American new wave began in the 60s without much promise, making largely inept movies with stylings handed down from the European art house, woolly politics and directorial egotism. Meanwhile the studios kept themselves alive with the last big budget features of old Hollywood. Eventually however as the decade turned the old timers began to die out, while the younger generation of filmmakers began to get their act together and produce movies with maturity and professionalism.The Last Detail was an early directing assignment for one of those young hippies of the previous decade &#x96; Hal Ashby. Ashby shows a smooth competence with the form, being very focused in his introduction of characters. We first see Jack Nicholson filling the foreground with his reclining form (a very typical Ashby composition), while the orderly talking to him is in the background, and for Otis Young's first scene he is held in a long take while the officer has his back to us. What these two contrasting set-ups both do is to really impress these characters on our minds, without distracting us with the face of a minor player (the officer) who will soon be out of the story.There's a shot about ten minutes in when they are all at the back of the bus, and we see a young boy turn in his seat to stare at the three sailors. I don't know whether this little moment was in the script or not, but what is great is the way Ashby gives it just the right level of prominence, so that we are sure to notice it but that it looks entirely coincidental. In other words it doesn't look as if that shot was put in on purpose, although it undoubtedly was. This sort of thing is perhaps what is best about Ashby's style. He doesn't go in for any of those hit-and-miss neo-realist tactics like casting non-professionals or extending scenes of mundane activity, but will ensure that the dramatic storyline is placed in a believable, living environment which interacts with the narrative.The lead star of The Last Detail, Jack Nicholson, got his big break in what is perhaps the archetypal messy, druggy late-60s movie, Easy Rider, in which he was just about the only good thing. His style never changed much; he is never that realistic, and whatever character he inhabits it's still really the same old Jack, but he has such an electrifying presence that he is able to carry a movie. In this way he is a lot like classic-era leading men such as Gary Cooper and Jimmy Stewart &#x96; with one difference. If Nicholson had come along in the 1930s he would have been limited to comedic supporting roles. Randy Quaid is a rather different kind of player to Nicholson, but no less effective here. What is best about Quaid is the way he develops his performance as the movie goes on. There are his flashes of guilt and general awkwardness in the earliest scenes, but then look at the confident swagger he has after the scene where he complains about his eggs. These changes are palpable yet they are also slight enough that he doesn't turn Meadows into a totally different person.The Last Detail is today a bit of an overlooked movie, lost amongst all the Godfathers and Cuckoo's Nests of its era. But while not exactly a masterpiece, it deserves its place amongst the defining pictures of the early 70s &#x96; a performance-driven, thought-provoking and occasionally poignant little drama. A worthy effort from the new Hollywood. "},{"Title":"THE LAST DETAIL (Hal Ashby, 1973) ***","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this film  which I had long wanted to watch, considering its reputation  an original, sharply observed but slightly overrated comedy-drama. Shot in a variety of American cities, the narrative tracks the journey of two sailors ordered to escort a third to a long-term jail sentence for a minor crime and, finding him young and inexperienced, decide to give the boy an education in life prior to incarceration.There are excellent performances all around Jack Nicholson was still a year away from becoming a star, but all his various mannerisms are already in place; Otis Young, in his one important role, is fine as Nicholsons partner/conscience; Randy Quaid is likable and affecting as the gentle giant figure. The supporting cast, then, is peppered with established character actors and newcomers  Clifton James and Luana Anders (in the former category), Carol Kane, Michael Moriarty, Nancy Allen and Gilda Radner (in the latter).Despite its deliberate seediness (and over-abundance of foul language for the time, which kept it from being greenlighted for a couple of years!), the film is filled with memorable detail  as well as being funny and poignant at the right moments. "},{"Title":"Cursin', Beer, Hamburgers, Melted Cheese","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson always has the presence to steal a movie. Hardly any actor he's been featured with has matched him on screen. There is only a handful of his films wherein another actor has held down their side of the screen with him on the other end. Though he once again steals the film quite easily from the rest of the cast here in The Last Detail, his gum-chewing, cigar- chomping, loosey-goosey, cocksure-voiced, iron-grinned swaggerking can grow old. That overly cocky sort of character is a hit-or-miss deal. You either play him and he works or you play him and he becomes irritating. However, there's always one thing, and that is that it is Jack Nicholson. And Jack Nicholson is among the absolute finest actors of his generation. Randy Quaid, in a very early performance, delivers well as a superbly drawn sympathetic character, naive, malleable, scared. Otis Young's laid back but pent up fleshing out of his character makes the three leads very strong.Hal Ashby's earthy, kitchen-sink character drama is not quite among the best of the 1970s film movement, but it's one of the classics we'll always know. It's funny and it reflects upon situations and how real people react in them. It's an interesting film. "},{"Title":"Not your ordinary tour with the Navy","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Chief NAvy Petty Officers Buddusky(JAck Nicholson,a sight as his old selfa brash,young,devil-may-care man not yet hobbled by the rigors of age)and Mulhall(Otis Young,sadly,a 'Where are they now?'figure)are,by self-admission,Lifers. They are at the most comfortable in the NAvy,and they do their jobs as well as anybody could ask.So it becomes somewhat of an insult and a labor when they are charged with moving a prisoner,slated for an eight year stay in the Brig. It's a labor no matter what(i.e. a roughly five day trek through five states),but it becomes an insult when they learn said prisoner,a shy sad-sack named Meadows(RAndy Quaid,capable of so much more,but still painfully effective here) was being sent up for attempting--you heard me,ATTEMPTING--to steal a small amount(I think it was about $40)from the Admiral(?)'s Christmas charity fund. Not sitting well with either MP that this otherwise quiet and perceivably harmless seaman is doing fairly hard time for such a minor offense,the two decide that they'll try to show the charge a good time on the way to Portsmouth,the Naval prison.What ensues is hardly a dream come true for people who think of movies set around the MIlitary as full of action and patriotic fervor a lot of moving in and out of buses,trains and cabs,getting in and out of hotels and motels,hitting the bars and restaurants,and the vague discomfort of waiting for something to do,without really wanting to do it(i.e.prisoner tries to escape or attack). All the while,Buddusky,Mulhall and Meadows run the near gamut of emotions and bickering on their way to their appointed destination. And while Meadows slowly loses his morose reluctance,his two escorts become more and more convinced of how unfair this situation is and how they feel that their love of work and life in the Navy is being tested and abused.Spare and fairly uneventful,this movie may be considered a challenge,but as early seventies,Vietnam era films go,this film is fairly UN-jingoistic or ambitious,choosing(wisely)to examine military life as something that is both honorable and tedious,dependable and yet achingly unfair,mundane and yet unique. Directed by HAl Ashby and scripted by award-winner Robert Towne(off a novel by DArryl Ponicsan,it tells a story that is open-ended and (from what I've gathered from a few people who HAVED served in the Navy) true to the setting they are serving. It even decides to use the MArine Corps/NAvy Marching Band to score much of the movie,giving it an unmistakable identity. I agree whole-heartedly when the late Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert(among others?) list this as one of the best movies of the seventies(they may've even contended that it's one of the better films of the last half-century!). A keeper for any film-library,whether you're a JAck fan or not. "},{"Title":"The greatest performance from one of America's greatest actors","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" How is The Last Detail not in the top 100? In represents one of the heights of 70s film making, a film absolutely impossible to imagine being made today. It is profane, raunchily funny, ragged, ultimately bleak and brilliant. I cannot think if any independent film of recent years that matches it for honesty, devotion to the art of acting and willingness to go where its characters lead.The film represents a brilliant collaboration between the actors, writer (Robert Towne) and the underrated director (Hal Ashby). The actor's rehearsed, improvised and found the core of their characters, all of which was used by Towne in revising the script and by Ashby in finding and filming the emotional core of each scene. To watch The Last Detail again and to see Nicholson's brilliance in it is to be reminded why people once thought that film could important. Any serious student of film and acting needs to watch it. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a road movie with a clearly male cast. This adaptation of Darryl Ponicsan's novel is delivered with good characters, the atmosphere of the happenings and the American 70's fear shown here with an original way. Two officers of the Navy - a wise guy Buddusky (Jack Nicholson) and a disciplined Afro-American Mulhall (Otis Young) - are escorting an 18-year-old recruit from the base in Norfolk (Virginia) to a prison in Portsmouth (New Hampshire). The clearly don't like the given orders. They feel quite uncomfortable being guards because they are flabbergasted by similar sentences, the authorities lying and the justice which is nowhere to be seen.The authorities of the US Navy denied any help to the film's crew. Well, it's not an ideal recruiting movie Jack Nicholson commented with serious mimic expression. "},{"Title":"How is it possible to dislike this movie?","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would just like to say firstly that I absolutely adored this movie. How can you not enjoy a film that's comedy, tragedy and thriller all rolled into one? Not to mention the added bonus of having the fantastic Jack Nicholson in a starring role. (the naval uniform doesn't look bad on him either) Randy Quaid is the young man heading for prison and Jack and Otis Young are the two naval officers responsible for taking him to jail. But they want to give him a good time first-therein lies the fun.In places this film seemed a little bit bleak, but I think that was intended, because here is this boy, not much more than a child, realising he's probably ruined his life by a stupid mistake and you can almost feel his despair in his more darker moments. I thought Quaid did an excellent job of conveying Meadows' emotions and fears, daunted at the prospect of a lengthy stretch in prison.Nicholson is perfect in the role of Buddusky. He's a typical sailor, drinks too much, swears too much and screws around too much. But despite his violent and coarse bravado you can see that he really does feel for Meadows and that's what makes his character so likable. While Mule (Otis Young) takes a lot longer to get accustomed to Meadows, Buddusky seems to take to him right away.There's so much humour mixed in with the slightly harrowing plot line here, and you can't help but laugh at scenes, and parts of dialogue in the movie (most of the things Buddusky says, or his conversations with Mule about Meadows). Carol Kane has an excellent cameo and the overall direction was remarkable. Why is it that so many films from the 70s, particularly with Jack in them, seem to be overlooked, particularly this one? This is a film that I think everybody should watch, not just because it makes you think about life in a different way, and how valuable it is, particularly when you're on the verge of losing years of it, but for the main reason this film is a total gem. It makes you laugh. A lot.See it! "},{"Title":"Makes me want to read the book","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was on television last night, and I said They don't make movies like this anymore. It was exaggerated entertainment, especially Jack Nicholson being Jack Nicholson, but the movie was so much more realistic and deep than most movies nowadays. Two Navy lifers are charged with the task of taking a young prisoner to Boston from Virginia. The charge was attempting to steal forty dollars, and a sentence of eight years! Randy Quaid plays the young, pimply faced prisoner. He is very convincing as a nave, good hearted kid who has a past of petty thefts. Jack Nicholson and Otis Young play the veteran Navy men who are to escort him from Virginia to Boston. Otis Young's character is a cagey man, who just wants to get a job done and get on with life. He is someone who doesn't trust anyone, is mostly quiet, and just wants to serve his term in the Navy out. Jack Nicholson plays himself, the wacky and temperamental one. There are a lot of juvenile, Animal House antics in the movie to make it appealing to the audience, but the cold winter and desolate landscape creates a sense of brutality and toughness. The scene where they take the nave prisoner to see a prostitute is not a cheerful one. The women there are not very attractive and it is just a chore to make money. The bleeding heart liberals that they go party with are hilarious. One woman is just into Hindu chants. Another party goer just keeps talking about Nixon. The bartender who refuses to serve an underage kid beer. Visiting his Mom's house in Camden when there is no one home. All these scenes highlight that this is the last detail, a crummy trip to Portsmouth, Massachusetts to send a young man to prison for eight years for a petty crime. "},{"Title":"Could have used more humanity but is still good thanks to the performances and the cynical edge it has","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Billy Buddusky may be an unresponsive and surly man but he is also in the Navy &#150; not qualities that endear him to his superiors. He is partnered with Mule Mulhall to escort Naval prisoner Larry Meadows to the military prison where he will serve eight years for trying to steal $40 from the charity run by his commanding officer's wife. Meadow's is only a boy really and Buddusky takes sympathy on him &#150; almost encouraging him not to accept his fate or at very least to have fun on the journey.Essentially this is a road movie with an element of coming of age movie all told over a character piece that looks at the bonding of men. As such it treads a simple path but is interesting and enjoyable for it. The script is pretty harsh and cynical throughout, which I quite enjoyed but it means that it rarely digs the surface to find detail and subtlety. This was a disappointment to a degree because it does develop the characters well enough to the point where I got into the film and found them entertaining but not enough to take them as people. The script could have found more humanity within them but instead their characters and relationships are fairly bleak and quite a depressing portrait of man. Of course this is only one part of the film and the majority of it is quite entertaining as it moves along with a certain amount of fun and energy (albeit dark).The cast are a big part of making this work. Nicholson enjoys himself as Buddusky, giving it plenty of energy but having more than enough about him to allow the odd still moment to work for him as well. Young is less showy but is equally as good and works well alongside Jack. Quaid had the more difficult role because it could have brought the film down by being too obvious and annoying. He is a little obvious at times but generally he is convincing and comes along well as the film goes. These three men are the film and they lead it well with roundly good performances but there is a bit of interesting support from James, Moriarty and a young Kane among others.Overall a pretty harsh and dark portrayal of men and male relationships but one that does move along with energy and is entertaining and interesting thanks to three good performances &#150; particularly from a scene-stealing Nicholson. Personally I would have liked more in the way of humanity under the dark surface to make it a more interesting film but regardless it is still worth a look thanks to direction, performances and the cynical edge. "},{"Title":"A classic buddy movie with a classic Nicholson performance","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The plot of The Last Detail is this... two Naval officers have to transport a criminal to prison by taking him across the country. What we have here is the perfect set up for this cracking buddy film where the naval officers in question are two easy going guys who just want to have fun. The whole navy setting seems to be just a set up to get these three characters together on the road. We have two easy going, guys up for a laugh, and their meek criminal prisoner, who throughout the film they attempt to coax out of his shell in a whole manner of different ways, all of them resulting in something funny. This film has the road movie element in full effect, a brilliant metaphor for the Meadows character's own internal journey to come out of himself whilst he is on his way to eight years of prison. Jack Nicholson is the star of the show here, his character Bad Ass Buddusky being one the best I've ever seen him portray. In it's essence, it's just Jack being Jack, similar to his characters in One Flew Over... and Five Easy Pieces, but it is such a great character and the film is a pleasure to watch for the situations that he gets into (and out of). Overall, this film should appeal to anyone, provided they can handle a good dollop of profanity, which, is used here to great comic effect "}{"Title":"Father Figure","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two petty officers, Nicholson and Young, are given the job of transporting Quaid to Portsmouth, NH for 8 years in jail. What was his crime, killing the old man? No, his crime was stealing $40 from the polio box which was the main public charity for the old man. The Last Detail has Nicholson shining through as the epitome of a man while Randy Quaid is lacking the necessary means to qualify him as a true man. Bad Ass Nicholson represents the father figure in Meadows life. He teaches him how to drink, fight, and be loud. He is constantly revising Meadow's actions such as ordering the cheese to be melted, to stand up for himself, to not cry, to want sex, and to get drunk. If Bad Ass wants something, Meadows gradually come to want it as well. There is a connection between the two of them that you do not see between Mule and Meadows. Nicholson's star performances in all of his films show this remarkable talent for acting where he becomes completely absorbed in the role he is playing. He went from a nave lawyer in Easy Rider to a man's man. While he has a hard head, he is also compassionate toward Meadows at the same time.The soundtrack of this movie followed the Navy's theme. Even as Quaid was handcuffed and was being led to jail for 8 years, piping tunes of a marching band tracked their footsteps. Anchors Aweigh trails the two of them as they are about to embark on their own journeys back to the US Navy. Although, this film has a very sad undercurrent as its theme, the music brings the viewer back to the reality that life goes on. As Bad Ass says to Meadows, they take off two years for good behavior, so then it's only 6 years, and 6 years really isn't that bad.The chemistry between Young and Nicholson is not what it is between Nicholson and Quaid. The two of them argue and disagree over what should be done with the boy, but deep down they both know that this is his last chance for fun. While Young labels him as unable to have fun, Nicholson gives him that last chance. Quaid takes the challenge and by the end, has become like a son to him in terms of looking up to him, and following his motions. It gives you more hope for the ending of the movie because they do not get him in trouble for trying to run away. Instead, he could get those two years off, and in 6 years be able to have fun again. "},{"Title":"The Navy Boys","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie last detail was directed and made in 1973 by Hal Ashby. The plot of the story is that two Navy men have been ordered to bring a young naval officer to prison for trying to steal a measly forty dollars. The two Navy officers one whose name is Billy a.k.a Bad Ass who was played by Jack Nicholson and the other officer was nicknamed Mule and was played by Otis Young. The young soldier who is being taken to prison goes by the name of Larry Meadows and is played by famous actor Randy Quaid. As we go through the movie we get to see how each character is different from each other and how they all have their own set of beliefs and morals besides of those from the Navy. Billy decides that while bringing the kid across the country to prison that they were going to show him a good time. We learn that Meadows is addicting to stealing things which is also known as a clepto, which is a disease that makes a person need the urge to steal. Larry is just a boy compared to Bad Ass and Mule and was going to be serving a sentence of eight years for trying to steal money but was caught red handed while in the process of doing so. Bill tries to console the kid saying that for good behavior they knock off at least two years or prison time. Billy's and Mule's orders were to take Meadows to the prison by train and they had to be there in five days. They take Meadows on sort of a last hurrah so to speak. They found out that he had never drank a beer nor had sex with a woman. Billy (Jack Nicholson) tells Mule that any man should be able to drink a beer especially this kid who is going to be in prison for a long time. They also brought him to a whore house, so that he could feel the pleasures of a woman before he brought to jail. They wanted him to experience not only what it felt like to be a man but what it felt like to be a Navy Man. "},{"Title":"Funny and Sad","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first heard about The Last Detail, I really did not know what to think. I thought it was going to be one of those generic military movies; I was wrong. The film really surprised me. Essentially, the film is about three Navy seamen and their journey from Virginia to Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Two of the sailors are transporting the third sailor to a jail in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. The two sailors in charge of transporting the third are Billy Bad Ass Buddusky (Jack Nicholson) and Mule Mulhall (Otis Young). Both men seem to be straightforward and men you would not want to mess with. The third sailor, the prisoner, is Larry Meadows (Randy Quaid). Meadows is being sent to jail for eight years because he stole forty dollars from a charity. He is a shy man who does not seem violent of malicious in any way.Buddusky and Mulhall are told that they have five days to get Meadows to Portsmouth. Buddusky and Mulhall see this assignment as a vacation. They could get Meadows to Portsmouth in two days, leaving the rest of the week for them. This changes after they meet and talk to Meadows. They realize that the kid is going to jail for unjust reasons. Throughout the early part of the movie, Meadows is stealing from the various places they visit until Buddusky and Mulhall catch him. Very early on, I got the feeling that Meadows was actually a kleptomaniac. He seems to steal on instinct without even needing whatever he steals. When Buddusky and Mulhall ask him if he had ever got in trouble with the law, Meadows says that he was caught for shoplifting, but never arrested.The two sailors take pity on the kid (first Buddusky, then, later, Mule) and decide to give him a good time before they take him to jail. They give him his first alcoholic beverage and get to know him better while staying in a hotel in Washington, D.C. Later, they make their way to Boston and buy Meadows a whore to sleep with. They even take him up to see his mother before he goes to jail, even though his mother is out. This is where we find out that Meadows' home life was no that great. He talks about his father living in Seattle and not having much to do with him. It is clear that his mother a little less than stable when they go to her house. On the day they are to take Meadows to jail, he tries to escape. Buddusky and Mulhall catch him and Buddusky, feeling hurt that Meadows would do such a thing knowing that if he escaped Buddusky and Mulhall would face consequences, hits Meadows over the head with his gun repeatedly. Not long after they take Meadows to jail, still bleeding, without saying goodbye. Although, they do not tell the commanding officer at the jail that Meadows tried to escape, which shows character on both their parts.The film was interesting because both of the established sailors seem to be ultra-masculine but both decide to pity the kid and show him a good time before he goes to jail. Even in the end, they still stand up for him when asked whether he tried to escape. You see a change in the characters. Buddusky seems to be a real bad ass, just as his moniker would reveal, but he is the one who first suggests showing Meadows a good time. Mule seems, at first, to be very intent on doing his job and he does not want to get attached to Meadows, but he soon takes a liking to Meadows and decides to go along with Buddusky. Meadows is shy at first, but he soon comes out of his shell. The ironic thing is that if Buddusky and Mulhall had not taught Meadows all of their knowledge, he probably would not have tried to escape in the end. After Buddusky and Mulhall drop Meadows off, they go back to their normal states, just as we saw them at the beginning of the film, which is very interesting. It seems as though those five days had been forgotten and Meadows himself had been forgotten.The film was very funny at times and it was well written, with beautiful acting by Nicholson, Quaid, and Young. The incredible chemistry between the actors worked for the film's benefit. While being funny, the film also was a bit saddening. You know, as you are watching, that Meadows will eventually go to jail for a crime that was, at best, a misdemeanor. Even though the ending is a bit sad, I left the film happy with what I had seen. "},{"Title":"summary","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In The Last Detail, Meadows (Randy Quaid) is sentenced to eight years in military prison for the theft of forty dollars and he didn't even get the money, he was caught red handed. His punishment is quite harsh for such a petty misdemeanor. Meadows is a very shy, soft spoken, and an easily influenced kid. I say kid because he is not old enough to drink and it seems that he is barely able to make his own decisions and stand up for himself. This is where Billy 'Badass' Buddesky and 'Mule' come into play. They are older guys that have been around the block a few times. They are Navy men for life and they know it. Their original plan is to take Meadows to prison as fast as possible so that they will have the rest of the three days to do whatever they want on the Navy's accord. This plan changes when they meet Meadows.Mule and Billy quickly see that Meadows is a lonely guy with not much to look forward to. The whole prime of his life he is going to waste in jail. He will go to jail a kid and come out a man without experiencing anything that he should between the ages of 18 and 26. Billy and Mule feel bad for him and work hard at showing him a good time and trying to man him up a little. They do everything for Meadows, from getting him laid for his first time, to having a picnic with him in the freezing cold.By the end of the movie Billy and Mule have been able to change Meadows a lot. Meadows is now able to stand up for himself. You see this when they go out to eat. In the beginning Meadows food is not how he likes it but he doesn't say anything, by the end of the movie he is returning his food to get it the way he wants it. Meadows is also not as intimidated by people by the end. He tells the story of how he got picked on in boot and didn't do anything about it. Then by the end of the movie he is punching marines in the face in the bathroom. And then right at the end he gets the courage to try and escape from Billy and Mule. That right there shows that Meadows has developed a lot more courage then he had at the beginning of the movie.To Meadows, Billy and Mule and the best things in his life so far. His mom appears to not really care about him and lives and dirty life, and that is the only other person in his life. At one point he tells a lady that Billy and Mule are his best friends. That just shows you that he has had no other friends in his life because they are taking him to prison and that is not someone that should be called a friend. Meadows does owe his thanks to them because they showed him the best possible time he could have had and they gave him the courage to hopefully stand up for himself while in prison. He would have been brutalized like crazy in prison before, but now that Billy and Mule have toughened him up he can stand on his own two feet in prison. So from the beginning to the end of the movie Meadows has changed greatly. He has more or less turned from a boy to man spending only five days with Billy and Mule. They showed him in five days what he will miss in the next eight years. "},{"Title":"Captivity and the mothering mule","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Scott Greenan March 3, 2006 New American Cinema The Last DetailThe Last Detail is an amazing film about two naval officers escorting another, younger officer to a military prison in New Hampshire. However, the hidden symbolism in the film surprised me. The two officers in control were Mule and Badass Buddusky. The third officer was the young eighteen year old Meadows, whose eight years in prison was issued over a mere matter of forty dollars, forty dollars that he never even received. What we see in this film is once again a classic road movie, going from one major city to the next in the northeast. What is different about this movie, however, was that even though they were all on the move, they were also always imprisoned.Buddusky is the exact essence of the masculine stereotype. His thick dark mustache and long, phallic cigar are only two visual symbols of his overly masculine essence. These officers' love for beer, meat, and whores are almost painful in their portrayal. But from these masculine images comes this odd parenting aspect of the film. Buddusky and Mule began to act like parents to the young Meadows. In one scene, Buddusky makes Meadows cry saying be a man, Mule looks at his tears and responds, Look what you made him do. He proceeds to leave the table annoyed. Mule continues with this motherly aspect as the nagging wife in a way. Buddusky is obviously the father, never letting anyone forget that he is a man. Finally, Meadows is the child, often referred to as the kid who, with their guidance, learns to take control of his life. He finds religion, finds his masculinity (even though it was through a hooker), and learns to get angry and order his meal the right way. But the real essence of this film lies in captivity. We never see the main characters out of their military uniform. Their uniforms make them stand out as Meadows' handcuffs once drew attention to him. In comparison to the hippie subculture, we see a huge difference. The hippies are against the man while these men are serving under him. Hippies satisfy their own needs and live freely, these men do as they are ordered. We later hear Buddusky say that the religious hippies made me feel bad. He could mean that their lifestyle reflected his lost chance at freedom, or it could mean his immorality in the face of religion. One of the more interesting terms was Buddusky's phrase you're a lifer like me. Lifer is generally a term for a prisoner meant for life sentence. This term proves their bondage. Buddusky's personality suddenly seems like a faade; Mule seems to be a rather mellow, depressed man, whose main concern was the job over the individual. After the trip to the prison, we are brought back to reality. One man is imprisoned without a 'goodbye,' the others walk out into the cold emptiness of the prison grounds. The American styled music is queued, seeming upbeat and yet truthfully a satirical mocking of the establishment of the American military. What did these two characters have to look forward to now that Meadows was gone? They were to go back to Virginia and a life of servitude, perhaps wishing for a war like Vietnam to make their term go by faster. "},{"Title":"Ashby and Nicholson","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ashby could almost be named one of my favorite directors for Harold and Maude alone. In fact that's the only other movie I've seen of his. Whatever the case, it was fantastic and so of course I was excited when, upon viewing the opening credits to this film, I saw he directed it. Add Jack Nicholson and this was a sure-fire hit for me.Well, not exactly. While it is pretty well done and has an interesting story, and is also really funny (okay, okay, VERY funny), it doesn't really seem to add anything especially significant to either Ashby's or Nicholson's works. Nicholson is basically himself, the humor isn't particularly in the same vein as Harold and Maude, and Ashby doesn't seem to have improved much as a director, but that can be forgiven as it was immediately proceeding Harold and Maude and wasn't made that far after.But enough of the negative stuff. This movie is really, really funny, and the best part about its humor is that it doesn't seem to fall into any particular vein of comedy like dark humor or slapstick or the like, but more of just a straightforward silliness that's willing to go right where it needs to for a laugh. Sometimes the jokes get a little predictable, but during those times it seems the predictability of the humor kind of helps it along.It's about 3 Navymen, one who seems to be a kleptomaniac and is being sent to jail for stealing forty dollars from a Navy charity fund, and the two others that have to take him there. One, played by Nicholson, recognizes both the innocence of the kleptomaniac and the frustration of his partner, so carries them along on a journey to have as much fun as they can while they can.Everyone did pretty well, and it's a real joy to watch. I'm going to have to watch it some more before I comment definitively on the ending, because it seems to a point to be sort of a cop-out way of tying everything together, but I can't quite be sure.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Old School Salty Navy","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a world of politically correct CO's and XO's that admonish bulkhead counseling and pinning on crows this is a great throw back to how the Navy used to and should be. It gives you a look into how and why sailors for hundreds of years have been able to live in shitty conditions and wage war for months on end with little sleep and food you wouldn't always give your dog (grade F beef still served not for human consumption on side). Now we have to watch our P's and Q's so we don't' get an article 13 or a page 4 entry. New isn't always better! And what the F*$k happened to our real Dungarees? Great movie a must watch for anyone who knows someone in the Navy! "},{"Title":"An Unsung Classic","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Hal Ashby, who made such powerful commentaries on life in America as SHAMPOO, COMING HOME, BEING THERE and the cult-favorite HAROLD AND MAUDE, THE LAST DETAIL offers the story of three U.S. Navy sailors on a toot--and at the time of its 1973 release it was chiefly noted as the most profane film to achieve a mainstream release. The passage of time has dimmed that profanity's bite, but nothing can dim the power of its performances, it's darkly funny story, or the director's bitter vision of both life in the Navy and the urban decay of 1970s America.Two Navy-lifers (Jack Nicholson and Otis Young) are ordered to escort a young sailor (Randy Quaid) to a military prison, where he will do eight years followed by dishonorable discharge for attempting to steal a charity jar containing forty dollars. Once the trip gets underway, they realize the young sailor is essentially an innocent--and they set out to show him a good time before he is locked away. And their idea of a good time ranges from a bout of hard drinking in a hotel room to a brawl in a men's restroom to an evening with New York hookers. Along the way, Nicholson and Young gradually realize that they are just as much in prison as Quaid will soon be--victims of their own ennui, serving out their sentences in a military that foists coarseness, frustration, and mindless machismo as a matter of course.The performances are excellent throughout. This was the film that launched Nicholson to stardom--but it is also a film that allows us to see what Nicholson could do before he became immured in the trappings of his own fame and collapsed into self-caricature he is every bit as good here as he would be in ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST and CHINATOWN. Otis Young, an actor whose career never quite took off, is Nicholson's equal here, balancing Nicholson's excesses with his no less firey but considerably more commonsense role. And Randy Quaid scores an equally memorable performance as the young sailor, while Carol Kane gives a memorable turn as one of the hookers they encounter in their travels. Watch closely and you'll also discover a very young Gilda Radner as a member of a religious cult.In spite of the notoriety it received upon release, like many of the best films of the 1970s THE LAST DETAIL has fallen through the cracks to become a largely unsung classic. Fashion changed, and with the advent of Ronald Regan, the stock market boom, and two decades of heavy-handed materialism Americans abandoned their cinematic realism and social statement in favor of big budget, special effects heavy, and largely escapist film. But the pendulum inevitably swings back, and now that we face serious issues both at home and abroad such films as THE LAST DETAIL are at last, perhaps, beginning to come into their own. Strongly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Great comedy-drama","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've always liked it a lot, except for one thing (unfortunately not such a small thing). I don't think Meadows' first time with the prostitute was all that well done. Maybe it's partly that, without disliking her, I don't always go that much for Carol Kane, either in comedies or serious scenes. But it's mainly that, somehow (to me, anyway) it didn't have the right mixture of comedy and drama, unlike the rest of the movie (I keep comparing it to Clyde Barrow's first time in Bonnie and Clyde, which to me worked so much better). I really think that this scene should have been with the other girl in the story, the sort of new age person played by Luana Anders (though I'm kind of prejudiced in favor of that actress and character). Apart from that complaint, I think it could hardly have been better. The chemistry between Nicholson, Young and Quaid was just right. "},{"Title":"This movie is a mirror","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie will show you your ideas about life. Maybe all art reflects the viewer, in the sense that your views about it show who you are. But this movie is not about to hammer you in the head with a message about the meaning of life. I'm sure the writers and the director were trying to convey something, not only making an audio-visual pastime, but it's a subtle job. In short people seem to be human in this movie, and that's fun to watch and relate to. Bitter and sweet flick. "}{"Title":"Should be required viewing for all Navy enlisteds.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though it is visually dated, this is one of the very few movies that accurately portrays the type of everyday sailor in the Navy at the time and today. Buddusky and Mulhall are lifer First Class Petty Officers in the transient personnel unit at Norfolk Naval Station. They are in limbo between duty stations, assigned to escort a young seaman to the brig to serve an unusually harsh prison sentence for a relatively minor offense. Their hearts aren't in it from the start and when they learn the nature of the offense they decide to show the poor guy a good time en route to his sentence.Along the way, they get their young charge drunk for the first time, take him to a prostitute, get in a fight with some Marines, and reluctantly deliver him to his destination.The film slows down in parts and the ending might be dissatisfying for some, but those who have served as enlisteds will immediately recognize the characters. The young scared seaman, the gruff, who gives a sh*t PO1, the snot-nosed Marine O-2 who folds when threatened by an E-6, and so on.These sailors use every bit the profanity currently in use by their real-life counterparts, so be forewarned, though it only serves to add realism to Nicholson's outstanding portrayal of SM1 Buddusky.  "},{"Title":"great Nicholson movie","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nicholson gives a remarkable job as a Navy officer who has to escort a young Randy Quaid to jail. Him and (sorry I forgot the black actors name) travel and instead of giving Quaid hell, they try and give him a last fun time. The dialogue is sharp and all the actors do a great job. There are alot of cool memorable scenes and I think more people should check this movie out. It is rather excellent. ***1/2 "},{"Title":"Nicholson as Father Figure.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nicholson's Bad Ass is a beautifully crafted piece of character. He cusses. He fights. He drinks. He's loud. No one else speaks Robert Towne's words better than Nicholson. In this film he overwhelms at every turn. In the bar scene, he shows brute anger and a desire for dominance. The scenes with a young Nancy Allen are delightfully witty because of Nicholson's schoolboy antics of getting a woman into bed.It is the scenes with Randy Quaid (also wonderful) where Nicholson shines brightest. Bad Ass represents a paternal figure lacking in Meadows' life. He makes him a man by demanding he send back a hamburger if it's not cooked the way he likes it. He demands Meadows to stop crying and be a man. He demands Meadows to stand up for himself and fight when someone pushes his buttons. He demands Meadows to want to have sex, like other men his age. Nicholson's father figure image here is played off perfectly as Meadows sort of imitates things Bad Ass  does. If Bad Ass has a beer, Meadows has a beer. If Bad Ass wants a woman, Meadows wants a woman. There's a secret trust between the two. It's unspoken, but it's there. That trust is broken in the end when Meadows tries to escape. It wasn't all a lie, Meadows just felt that it was time to stop learning and start moving.  "},{"Title":"Worth watching for its online with the right time period.","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack does an OK job, but he has already done better things in his acting career. Mr.Quaid does a very good job,I did not like his performances in a lot of stuff that came out in the 1980's. But, movies that he did after this one helped to make him the actor he is today,very good. Carol Kane as a prostitute in this movie, I wish, I would have paid thousands , maybe millions for a ho like her. The movie is fun but it is dated, it is like what people really were like back then. You have to go into another time slot and let it take you away. /The military was close to the way people acted, but there was some blowup of the way things really were, back then. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie. Otis Young gives a great performance, and so does the white guy(can't remember his name). LOL, sorry, couldn't resist the joke. This really is one of Jack Nicholsons best performances, and Randy Quaid was a stand out, makes you sad that he didn't do more with his career. I can see that if you never served in the military, the Navy specifically, that the movie may not do as much for you. The filmmakers obviously did their homework, Jack Nicholson was just like a lifer first class that will never make chief because of his rowdy past and rebellious attitude. The dialog is sprinkled with Navy slang that apparently hasn't changed in the last 30 years(I wouldn't s**t you, your my favorite turd, let's shag a**). The movie is sad at the end when the two lifers want to help the kid thats just been screwed out of 8 years of his life, even though he obviously has some kind of mental problem, but they realize they can't, because, in the end they are lifers, just following orders, and even though they wish this was their last detail, they know it won't be. The bar scene is a classic, and is worth seeing the movie for that alone. Also, keep your eyes open for Carol Kane and Gilda Radner in a few scenes. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, no, TLD is not about how awful the U.S. military is, about the supposed injustices of Western society, capitalism, etc. Marxists and liberals who are looking to be preached to from their own standpoint, i.e. those who enjoy being involved in pointless preaching-to-the-converted filmic rants, should go back to their Antonionis, Pasolinis, Redfords, and Clooneys. This movie is a comedy-drama with the extremely harsh prison sentence handed down to Quaid serving as a mere pretext for the central plot. Anyone who thinks that 8 years is a lot for stealing 40 bucks should take a look at what was done to the soldiers serving the Soviet Union when THEY got caught breaking rules...Hal Ashby is a very competent director who for some reason made only two good movies, this one and the terrific Being There. He had wasted much of his career on crap like Shampoo (almost anything with Beatty is bound to be crap), Coming Home (everything with Jane Fonda is awful), and The Landlord. Perhaps he wasn't too good at picking out good material; you can't make gold out of p***.TLD has that appealing 70s realism; the photography is typically unglamourized and yet good to look at. The cast is very good, too, no complaints there. The only criticism I'd make is that the film wasn't that funny. It was interesting, but the laughs weren't there for the most part. There are scenes that were somewhat pointless (like some hotel-room segments), i.e. the script could have been a little tighter. An opportunity was perhaps wasted to make something great as opposed to just good.Pay attention to the scene at the very end when Moriarty and Nicholson stand face-to-face the former is well above 190, while Nicholson is probably lucky to have 175 cm to his name. Did someone shove a chair under Nicholson's feet?... "},{"Title":"Sarcasm of the NAVY","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To begin I want to say this is one of the best films we've watched. I had never heard of this film, but I've been looking forward to it since Five Easy Pieces, simply because I am really enjoying Jack Nicholson lately. Nicholson's Bad Ass Budduski is the star of The Last Detail, and there isn't one moment in the film when he is not overshadowing his co-stars. Nicholson is so believable in the role that you forget you are watching him, instead you see only the character. It's a relatable performance to Dustin Hoffman, as Ratso Rizzo, in Midnight Cowboy. Watching these two performances really continue to prove how much of a golden age of cinema it is that we are studying this semester.The Last Detail is once again a male bonding, on-the-road, film. This time we have two friends, Mule and Bad Ass, who are charged with escorting Randy Quaid's Meadows from Norfolk, VA, to a naval prison in Portsmouth, NH. Mule and Bad Ass are confident veteran sailors. Meadows is just a kid caught stealing from a donation jar, and is seemingly on his way to a hellish prison for a fairly minor crime. The main point of the film is for Mule and Bad Ass to show the nave Meadows a good time before he has to go away. They get drunk, eat some good food, beat on some Marines, and finally are able to get the virginal Meadows a little action. A final hot dog, with no buns, picnic in frigid Boston concludes their trip. It's a gut-wrenching story, two navy guys who've been through the ringer trying to give a mainly innocent kid a little fun before his unjustified sentence begins. The characters are so identifiable that you have no choice but to place yourself in any of the situations, and then see the angst and boredom that leads to all the things they do together. It's brilliant.The most striking thing I've taken from this film, though, is the brilliant way that the navy theme song is used. It's played loudly and the beginning and end of the film, and may have been in the background during the rest of the film (I would need to watch it again). I don't think the song was played normally though, it seemed to me to be played, that is physically performed, in a sarcastic way. The notes seemed to be forced, and to be critiquing the very naval life that the movie portrays. These three guys are all active members of the navy yet they act like common bums in most of the scenes. The critique of the military is fairly obvious in this instance, especially given the year it was made, 1973, and the recent withdrawal from Vietnam to go along with the general disapproval of anything military in the culture at the time. The end of the film seems to be shouting that the whole thing is one big joke; the whole military life has deteriorated into bums getting drunk and finding a whorehouse. It really is striking, and a very enjoyable time-capsule of the past. "},{"Title":"Cussing - I AM THE SHORE PATROL!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I didn't realize 1/2 through this masterpiece that Randy Quaid was the one who played MEADOWS. Anyway, I really liked this movie. Jack Nicholson is super full of ENERGY the entire MOVIE. I mean, it reminded me of NMMI (where I went to HS with Owen Wilson). At NMMI, we yelled a lot but not as much as JACK NICHOLSON did in this movie. I am curious why he didn't take off his hat the ENTIRE TIME!? That was a shock. I thought he and his black partner should have relaxed a little bit uniform wise. The movie is a great Monday Night Movie. I am not a huge football fan, so this movie was nice to watch while football was on the other channel. Jake would like this movie cuz they talk about PORTSMITH a lot. Tedd and Lorraine might think there is too much cussing in this movie. "},{"Title":"Cool or uncool to go into the armed forces?","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Nicholson and Otis Young play Navy cadets Billy Badass Buddusky and Mule Mulhall, respectively, who are hired to take cadet Larry Meadows (Randy Quaid) to jail after he stole some money. So, they decide that if he's going to have to spend time behind bars, then he should have a good time before it, so they show him the time of his life.That's this movie's plot, but it has greater implications. When the movie came out, it was very uncool to go into the army. The Last Detail portrays two men whose only access to a better life was by going into the Navy. Obviously, we have to wonder whether or not that would apply today, but it remains an important aspect in this movie. See it at all costs. "},{"Title":"BADASS!","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jaaaack owns this film. I mean for his performance alone this film is a must see, there are moments when you can actually feel his presence ooze out of the screen and sit down next to you and say 'I really am a BADASS aint I!.'Then theres Robert Towne's cracking (F word fueled) script with some cool one liners and scenes ('Its just as easy to have it the way you want it' and the -for want of a better word- badass fight between a couple of Marines and our three Navymen in the the bathroom to name two instances).Top it all off with Hal Ashby's understated, subtle, quiet direction and that makes this film an underated classic!With strong supporting performances (Jack unashamedly steals the show) from Otis Young and an incredibly young Randy Quaid as well as glimpses of Carol Kane and Nancy Allen you must all go check this out!I mean Jaaaaack is playing a character whose nickname is Badass for gods sake! "}{"Title":"Al ? Pal ? No, it's HAL ASHBY !!!!!!!","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Who can explain why this director isn't the biggest icon in American movie-history ?All his films are strong thanks to wit, humor, social feeling and marvelous storytelling.And in this film, all the actors, not only Jack Nicholson or Randy Quaid, give peak performances !!Do I need to say more ? Don't miss this ASHBY masterpiece. "},{"Title":"great jack","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  jack at his prime. hal ashby has not made a better movie than this, other than maybe being there.  randy quaid is fine.  makes me miss the seventies, when great scripts and great directors and great actors would get together and make interesting choices. "},{"Title":"Be a man, sailor!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very colorful comedic drama best rented or watched on commercial-fee uncut cable for best effect. A pair of career petty officers(Jack Nicholson and Otis Young)are given the detail of transferring a young sailor(Randy Quaid)from one Navy brig to another. The hard-ass officers decide to have a little fun along the way by helping their prisoner move into real manhood before being locked away for the next eight years. Nicholson is a riot! Also in the cast is Michael Moriarty and smaller roles for Carol Kane and Nancy Allen who play small time prostitutes. My favorite scene is the roasting of wieners in a snow covered park. No buns, but a jar of mustard. Hilarious fun! "},{"Title":"Gritty looking, heartbreaking 70ies flick","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The last detail is one those movies that only couldve been made in the seventies.So if you are, like me, a 70ies fan, youll love this one. Its a gritty looking, heartbreaking film that gives you worth for your money. Nicholson is awesome, sois Quaid. Its a shame that i dont remember the black guys name (call me mule. Everybody does)cuz hes gerat as well. Worth seeing several times, if its only for Robert Townes great dialogues. I AM the MP, motherf**ker! "},{"Title":"Rated Nickolson's best, but I don't","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw it for the first time yesterday, and I think it is, if anything, a film that has lost its power over time. Having been so disappointed, I took a gander at what other reviewers were saying. Others have read pretty deeply into this film, remarking about a whole hidden back-story. And I agree; it is essential to understand 1973 if you want to appreciate this film. But, one can exaggerate the worth of any film by pointing out the important event during which it was made. As for acting, Jack Nicholson is pretty good in places, but still, I don't think his performance was Oscar-worthy, if only because he wasn't well-supported by the ensemble at large. "},{"Title":"This one left me flat.","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I noticed that The Last Detail has a very respectable overall IMDb score of 7.5. However, despite this, the film left me very, very cold.The film is about two knuckle-headed shore patrolmen (Jack Nicholson and Otis Young) who are ordered to escort a prisoner (Randy Quaid) cross country to prison. As for the prisoner, he's a real enigma and never is particularly easy to understand. However, instead of taking him directly to prison in Portsmouth, they take him on a little holiday--taking him on a sightseeing tour of D.C., getting him drunk as well as to a prostitute. It seems that these two guys kind of like the prisoner and feel sorry for him--though none of this would really explain their actions throughout the movie.If you like films with very little in the way of a traditional plot, then you might like this film a bit more than I did. It's really a modified buddy film--but with some nontraditional elements. Of course, a buddy film with lots of profanity (even by the looser early 1970s standards) and boobs. As for all this cursing, I can understand it--navy guys talk that way I am sure. However, this also makes it a film NOT to watch with your mother, children or minister! Overall, a rather direction-less film with somewhat unlikeable characters. For me, it's among Jack Nicholson's weaker films--though as I said above, apparently I am in the minority on this one.By the way, catch the irony when the Buddhist lady exhorts Randy Quaid to run from the law in Canada. Talk about art imitating life! "},{"Title":"Unlikely collection of characters","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A sailor is being sent to prison for 8 yrs for stealing money from a charity box. (highly unlikely even if the admirals wife did support the charity) Two more sailors who are in transit/transients are told to escort him across country to prison. (again, unlikely. Military police would do this, they would have their own transport and would be allowed access other military transports to take him across country so he would be flown on the 1st available plane to where ever he was going).They are issued sidearms and rounds (again, very unlikely. the prisoner has not been violent, not committed a violent crime. just a misdemeanor).By the time the arrested sailor is on the train it's obvious he's a kleptomaniac. The questions Jack Nicolson asks him also point to that fact (he said he'd been a shop lifter as a civilian). I don't understand why the prisoner wasn't hand-cuffed to their table on the train to stop him running.Both Nicolson and his partner come to the conclusion that their prisoner is crazy. After the incident in the bar, it's clear Nicolson is crazy.The group dynamic changes during the 2nd train journey when Nicolsons partner lays down the law and the rules, becoming the authority figure refusing to take Nicolson's antics.The fight in the train station bathroom seemed a bit of a last minute idea and I couldn't really see the point of it and didn't see why the black sailor didn't go mad at Nicolson for pulling another stunt.The film devolves into the classic road trip/journey of discovery movie. The 2 sailors showing their prisoner one final last good time before 8 years in prison for a crime he hasn't actually committed.By the 3rd train journey the prisoner is becoming more and more like Nicolson's character.During the sequence in the snowy park you know Meadows (the prisoner) is going to try and run from his guards. That scene almost suggested one of the 2 guards was going to tell Meadows to run anyway.Meadows is handed over at the prison and the 2 guards are given a dressing down for his appearance and accused of hitting him and implying the prisoner tried to escape (which he had) but the 2 guards covered for him knowing he would get extra time.The Marine officer also tries to pull some con either to do with their pay or the legal status of the prisoner.There is no actual ending of this film with Nicolson and his partner walking away from the prison and bitching about discipline. the storyline with Meadows is not really resolved, of how long he will spend in prison. "},{"Title":"sad story of an ?@ up system","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read that it was supposed to be half comedy... well its more like 1/10 humor and the rest is drama and .... well just sad....  AND it has no punchline. It's a good movie but I don't recommend it( Its so sad that if I was any more unstable I would commit suicide. "},{"Title":"Nice, but difficult to feel, like most older movies","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not a bad film, but I really didnt feel like I gained anything from watching it.  Nicholson and the cast gave nice performances and all but it just didnt seem to accomplish anything.  The problem I see with older movies is, is that they are not very deep, maybe they were at one time, but now they really dont have much to say.  Its too bad, because all of the hype makes me look forward to seeing them, and when I finally do I am dissapointed.  Anyway, this film is nothing special.  *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"i don't know about this one","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i'm a Nicholas fan... but there's something about this movie that doesn't excite me.  maybe it's the dark tones, the dark FEEL.  and maybe i wasn't looking deep enough. but i feel this movie leaves you with nothing.  i found it hard to sit through. but there were a few good spots....A FEW. i give it a 4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Subject matter is unique","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie though of a unique nature and one that exposes some heart for the prisoner and his plight still left me without any feelings that I would purchase this movie.  I have to come up with emotion of my own when I watch a movie and though the guys were trying to do some good deeds at real risk to themselves, the whole thing left me pretty cold. "},{"Title":"The Last Detail Needs More Specifics **","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While viewing this inane film, did anyone else besides myself think that how could two guys like Nicholson and his partner be assigned to bring a naval prisoner to jail? If anything, these 2 guys were the embodiment of no good. You just know that they are going to go on some adventure with this jerk, played admirably by Randy Quaid, who is off to jail for lifting $40.00 in church.The big riot is when the gruesome threesome come to the house of ill repute. There Quaid chooses Carol Kane, a prostitute, to be his lady of the hour. Carol Kane a prostitute? Even Sister Aloysius in Doubt could have done a better job here.Quaid is quiet, soft spoken and yet you know he is ready to break loose. The ending is absolutely no surprise. Bring me some more details, please. "},{"Title":"A really terrible movie","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story is good enough two sailors are ordered to take a younger sailor from Virginia to New Hampshire to a brig. There he'll serve eight years for a ridiculously minor offence, trying to steal $40 from a charity box. On the way there, they try to show him a good times and have some adventures. But the style of the film seems very amateurish. The sound feels like Ashby really wanted to copy Robert Altman's revolutionary soundtracks, but it just doesn't work. The characters mutter all the time and often I couldn't understand what they were saying. Luckily, I rarely cared. The dialogue seems like it was improvised. Often the characters would stumble through lines, as if they weren't sure what to say next. Some of the dialogue resembles that of the Blair Witch Project when the actors didn't know what else to say, they just swore. Well, I guess they are supposed to be sailors. Jack Nicholson has never been so obnoxious, nor ever as bad. I despised his character more than any other I can think of offhand. Otis Young has almost nothing to do in the film. Randy Quaid is pretty good, but, if indeed it was improvised, he has an easy job as an extremely shy and dumb fellow. I don't know what the hell Hal Ashby was thinking when he did this one. He's no master filmmaker, of course, but, in his own charming, sloppy way, he made two of my favorite films Harold & Maude and Bound for Glory. 3/10. "}]