[{"Title":"Unforgettable, fantastic film, one of my top personal favorites","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"106 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Papillon is one of my all-time favorites films. Steve McQueen is fantastic in the lead role. Dustin Hoffman is at his finest as Louie Dega. Very memorable, unforgettable performances, shocking action scenes and psychological thrills and twists. I cannot write enough good things about this film. After years of looking, I recently found this film on DVD and added it to my collection. This is the kind of movie that you can watch again and again and continue to see things you've never noticed before. This film never gets old and you never grow tired of watching Papillon. Some of the cast includes Vic Tayback also known as Mel from the hit TV series Alice. He is convincing as a mean, surly prison guard. Also, Billy Tumy known for his role in Lost in Space as Will Robinson, plays a young, doomed inmate. There are other character actors included in the cast that you will more than likely recognize throughout the film. I give this film the strongest and highest of recommendations.  "},{"Title":"Terrific! Most underrated film ever.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"108 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I felt so moved after watching this film. Steve McQueen did a terrific job acting as Henry. Although at times, he just acted as McQueen, he did a wonderful job expressing suffering in the solitary confinement scene, and great towards the end of the movie. Hoffman is always an exceptional actor and in this movie he is no different. Unfortunately it neither won for, nor got nominated for an Oscar, and it deserved to win 3 (supporting actor, actor, picture). As much as I loved the Sting, this movie was better for that year.Some critics gave it a bad review, even a 1973 Roger Ebert article criticized this film. I guess you cant blame them too much, movies were better those days. Note that 1973 was sandwiched between 2 Godfather years.Maybe some people figured that McQueen was just redoing his Great Escape role. Either way, nowadays films are so bad I am just thirsting for a movie this deep. But if the best Hollywood can do nowadays is a glittzy trashpiece like Chicago, we cant expect too much from our times. "},{"Title":"May I never have to go to the pen","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"75 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terrifying film dealing with life in prison. Not just any prison, but one way off to itself with few fellow human beings around. I think this was McQueen's finest film ever, and perhaps Hoffman's also. I know it has had a lasting effect on me through the years; I have never forgotten the awesome loneliness the prisoners went through. Great picture, thumbs up. "},{"Title":"The best escape movie ever","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"61 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Forget the Shawshank Redemption this great adventure story based on real events is the best prison movie ever made. As a child this was the first movie that really had a profound impact on me & moved me to tears. Even now the final scenes of Papillon on Devils Island trying to convince his friend Dega to make one last final break for freedom with him swell the emotions within me! Great performances from McQueen & Hoffman and great location work coupled with an arousing musical score. Once you have seen this film it is hard to ever forget it. A true classic of cinema. It may be a little long and slow paced at times ... but then that is the solitude & boredom of a dismal penal colony existence.  "},{"Title":"A must see...","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"45 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the second greatest run after freedom movie i've ever seen. Two great actors Dustin Hoffman and Steve McQueen are able to present you disappointment, happiness, loyalty, patience, hope, insanity, friendship and depression perfectly. Every single scene in the picture has a lot of things to say to you. You might get emotionally confused when watching this movie, you might even sense a little bit of friendship or love between the prison guardians and the prisoners and at the same time you might be able to sense the unreasonable hate. When you are not free, then you have nothing else to lose thus you have to run after your freedom, however do not believe in freedom until you get what you used to have before losing it. "},{"Title":"The amazing true life story of a man of character...","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Papillon' is the forceful portrait of a defiant man, who survives harrowing years of his life in small solitary cells, suffering the worst type of brutality and despair... It is the amazing true life story of a man of character called Henri Charriere, a Frenchman sentenced to life at Devil's island for a murder he did not commit... Henri gains his nick name 'Papillon' for the large butterfly (symbolic of freedom) tattooed on his chest...The film recounts Papillon's tenacity and indomitable spirit, planning and executing a series of failed attempts of escape over many years... We watch his multiple adventures through hundreds of miles of swamp, reaching an encounter with a kind leper colony, a friendly tribe of Indians, and a traitorous nun... Papillon is seen pursued by Indian trustees, and harassed by brutal guards... The power of the movie lies on Papillon's triumph over oppression, his continual perseverance, humanity, honesty, his quiet dignity, and sheer spirit...Guided this time by one of the most creative directors who offered handsomely 'Planet of the Apes' and 'Patton,' Steve McQueen&#151;as Papillon&#151; exhibits a raw vitality, a complete spectrum of emotions, and a sure command of his technical acting-resources that are breathtaking in their impact..Dustin Hoffman&#151;in perfect rapport with his role, perceptively invading its every nuance and implication&#151; portrays a quality of character exhibited in the face of impossible adversity... His last scene with McQueen attempting to convince his friend not to leave the island, represents one of the film's most moving, and effective sequence...Schaffner gives a stirring picture of forsaken men, and takes up the challenge and proceeding to 'beat the system' against incalculable odds... He certainly gives rise to some of the great epics of human courage and fortitude... "},{"Title":"This actually happened","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"46 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve McQueen plays Henri Papillon Charriere who is sentenced to life in a French penal colony for a murder he didn't do.There he befriends with an other convict Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman).Henri's only goal is to escape.Franklin J. Schaffner's Papillon (1973) is based on a true story.Charriere actually went through all this and then wrote a book. The acting work is unique.Steve McQueen (1930-1980) is superb in the lead.Also Dustin Hoffman (1937-) is excellent as always.This movie is filled with incredible scenes.Everything works perfectly in this amazing movie.If you want to see a dramatic adventure masterpiece this is a movie for you to see. "},{"Title":"A Fine Film Which Does The Book Justice","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Usually, after reading a long book filled with many interesting adventures, watching a two-hour film later winds up being a big disappointment. There is no way a film can give you anywhere near the info you glean from a book, especially one over 500 pages as is the case with Papillion. Yet, despite most of Henri Charriere's incredible feats of survival, (Papillion was Charriere's nickname) this movie is above average and basically does the book justice. The movie runs about two-and-a-half hours and gives enough of a flavor to have the viewer appreciate - at least to some degree - the brutal trials and tribulations Papillion went through in real life.If you enjoyed this film, the book is a must-read for you and very highly-recommend You won't believe all the things Charriere experienced good and bad. In real life, the man escaped something like eight times and each time went through hell.Steve McQueen, playing Papillion, was excellent. He was particularly good at showing the physical effects of years of solitary confinement. By the way, in real life, Charriere was much younger went sent to jail than McQueen was at the time this movie was shot. Papillion should have been played by a younger actor, but who's going to complain when you get an actor of McQueen's caliber? Dustin Hoffman also was great as Papillion's friend, Louis Dega, who had a bigger role in the movie than he did in the book. For the most part, Papillion had a number of friends, all helping him over the years. Hoffman also provided some good comic relief to the movie and, heaven knows, it needed it. Take it from someone who has read the book this is a grim story, worse than what you saw on screen here.Nevertheless, thanks to the two leading actors and the wonderful work by Director Franklin Schaffner and Cinematograher Fred Koenekamp, this long film entertained. No, it wasn't the caliber of the book, but it's didn't insult it, either, and is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Excellent film entertainment","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"39 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent movie. Entertaining and realistic.  Although media promotion hinted that this was another version of The Great Escape, the movie, and Steve McQueen, avoided what would have been a fatal pratfall - remaking the 1962 POW war film with different costumes.In fact, this was an excellent film that stood on its own merit(despite the fact that historians claim the story is not true) It was an excellent depiction of the French penal colony in Guana. It would have been great even without McQueen in the title role.Dustin Hoffman was his usual superb actor, making the most out of his role. McQueen wisely avoided playing himself, and as a result, his role was stronger and believable.Location scenes and overall plot were superb. Outstanding film. "},{"Title":"  How did you know I had dry leprosy?  . . . .  I didn't","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henri 'Papillon' Charriere, was a lifetime inmate under the French government's harsh penal system in French Guiana. In his declining years he wrote his memoirs describing his years of incarceration, his cruel mistreatment and daring, multiple escapes. Weather or not he was the actual character of his own book, is disputed to this day. But the fact that he was an inmate is true enough and fits in with the actual site which came to be known as 'Devil's Island.' Court records indicate that Henri Charriere (Steve McQueen) later called  Papillon  which is french for Butterfly, was indeed a minor burglar and safe cracker. His claim he was innocent of murder, may be true enough, due to an unreliable source accusing him in court, yet producing little supporting evidence. Nevertheless, the infamous thief was given a twenty year sentence, which was extended due to his numerous escapes. During his imprisonment, he becomes lifelong friends with an equally famous treasury forger named Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman). Don Gordon (a real life friend of McQueen) plays Julot, an experienced prisoner with his own intentions of escape. Anthony Zerbe is hideously interesting as Toussaint, a ravaged leper, who aids escaping prisoners. The entire film is one remarkable story and becomes an incredible journey, one which transcends the screen and offers audiences, the raw reality of life under the most severe and brutal penal systems in the world. The infamous 'Devil's Island ' today has become synonymous with a hellish place of unspeakable conditions. A fantastic movie for those in search of true-life Classic. **** "}{"Title":"An amazing true story gets a pretty good film treatment.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"29 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"   The true story of Henri Charriere (nicknamed Papillon because of his butterfly tattooed chest), a Frenchman falsely accused of murder and sent to French Guiana's inescapable penal colony. Charriere spent years trying to escape from this mosquito-ridden, malaria-prone hellhole, but every attempt somehow went awry. On many occasions, the recaptured Charriere was sent into solitary confinement and only survived thanks to his incredible mental strength. Ultimately, the authorities lost hope of taming his urge to break out, so they abandoned him on Devil's Island, a tiny land mass where guards were not needed since the constantly ferocious surrounding sea was ample deterent for any would-be escapees. Franklin J. Schaffner directs this film quite well, capturing the appalling prison conditions vividly and getting a wonderful, multi-layered performance from Dustin Hoffman as Charriere's friend, convict Louis Dega. However, McQueen struggles with the demands of the lead role. Yes, he's physically accurate in the part and during the escape sequences he looks convincing. However, during the quieter moments, McQueen looks distinctly uncomfortable, and his natural cool persona doesn't equate with the humiliated, tormented character he is supposed to be playing. The subsidiary characters are great, especially the guy with the tattooed face who attributes his ugly tattoos to an evening of drunkeness, and Anthony Zerbe as a grossly disfigured leper who asks Papillon to share a cigar with him. Best sequence? Probably the one where McQueen and another escapee flee through the rainforest from some soldiers, using natural jungle-based narcotics to preserve their energy levels.  "},{"Title":"Grim and authentic telling of Henri Papillon Charrière's time at Devil's Island.","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Directed by Franklin J. Schaffner (Planet Of The Apes/Patton), Papillon is adapted for the screen by Dalton Trumbo & Lorenzo Semple Jr. from notorious French felon Henri Papillon Charrière's own novel. It stars Steve McQueen (Papillon) & Dustin Hoffman (Louis Dega), is primarily shot in Jamaica & Spain with Fred J. Koenekamp (The Towering Inferno) on photography duties and Jerry Goldsmith provides the score.Henri Papillon Charrière was a crook, a bad egg, he however was sent to the notorious, inescapable, prison fortress of Devil's Island for a murder he didn't commit. The film, as is the book, is a fictionalised account of Charrière's time at the penal colony.The film is probably best described as being a stirring drama of friendship under duress, endurance and opportunism, all neatly blended with an adventure based heart. Schaffner directs it with great technical skill, for in a film with minimal dialogue, he manages to perfectly stifle the viewer with a hot sweaty atmosphere. Something that is crucial for us to feel the confines of this penal colony life. These men are doing hard time, lets not soft soap it Hollywood style, lets get the feel right, something, that much like Don Siegel also did in 79 with his excellent Escape From Alcatraz, Schaffner does exceptionally well. He is helped enormously by two fabulous performances from McQueen & Hoffman.McQueen is in his element as Papillon. Always an actor whose ability for dominating scenes without using histrionic acting was undervalued, Papillon goes some way to readdressing the myth that he was more about iconography than actual talent. His solitary confinement scenes are sublime, without saying barely a word. As Papillon stave's off starvation, madness and disease, McQueen has such a powerful and believable presence, he pulls us into that five by five paces cell with him. Incredible! Once again tho the Academy ignored McQueen's excellent work and the film only received the one Oscar nomination for Goldsmith's pinging tropical score. Hoffman's great work was something of a given, meticulous as usual in his preparation he had studied for weeks about penal colony life, he is the perfect foil for McQueen and the relationship is tender yet never twee. Fine support also comes from Anthony Zerbe as a compassionate leader of a leper colony & Victor Jory as an Indian Chief.The production was an expensive one, with the original budget of $4 million ballooning to $14 million, making it the most expensive film of 1973. A couple of scripts were jettisoned money down the drain before Schaffner enlisted Trumbo to write the screenplay. A good move because Trumbo was able to flesh out character relationships that didn't exist in the source novel. Hoffman himself was adamant that he would only play Dega if the film steered away from a buddy buddy formula and gave Dega intelligent integrity. He got it, which is credit to Trumbo since the Dega character is barely formed in the novel, in fact the film version is an amalgamation of several penal colony characters. Trumbo was rewarded with not only a considerable paycheck, but also a bit part in the movie as the colony commandant early in the piece.Initial critical reaction to the film was harsh, but the public didn't agree since the theatres were packed and the film made almost $50 million Worldwide. Making it Allied Artists most successful film ever. It has since garnered a massive fan base and has been favourably reassessed by a new wave of critics. Those old complaints about it being too sombre and too enduring to get thru just don't add up. One only has to note the thematics and essence of the story to know this fact. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I'm still here - after all these years...","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have enjoyed watching this film several times over the three decades since it was released. Yes, it certainly is a tragic and gruesome story of how brutal mankind can be, but more importantly, it is an inspiring story of resilience and the triumph of the human spirit in the face of overwhelming adversity. I often think of the closing scene where Papillon floats away from the prison island on his raft of coconuts. This was truly my favorite of all of Steve McQueen's films. Dustin Hoffman's performance foretold the depth and richness of his acting abilities. I highly recommend this film. It is a timeless classic.  "},{"Title":"Live Free Or Die","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadWhen this was released it was attacked for its gritty realism. The bug eating scenes in solitary, the impalement of Gregory Sierra during an escape with the cannibals in hot pursuit. I defer to others as to its historical authenticity. In this case, even if the story were totally apocryphal I still treasure the film. The movie is easily explicated Papillon, played well by McQueen simply will continue to escape or die trying. Louis cannot figure Papillon out, at first, when he is being worked to death by a guard, whose family lost their fortune buying Louis' counterfeit bonds, Hoffman, reluctantly, agrees to come with Papillon on the first try. The movie consists of failed attempt after failed attempt with some frightening consequences like years in solitary, in the dark eating bugs for protein; also, running into lepers who you better not offend. Papillon has a quiet, unassuming nobility about him never ratting on Louis, even though he almost dies for it in solitary. The lepers think he has great knowledge of leprosy and that is why he smoked their cigar. No, he is just very brave. The movie shows the cruelty of the French Penal system before it was pulled apart. The three islands that made up their deportation of dangerous criminals.The movie, as the above critics point out, is quite long. Yes, the same template escape after escape all failing can bore you. You get to see two great actors working together McQueen and Hoffman. Admiration for Papillon grows as the movie progresses. His last words, we hear as he is floating away, aged now,I'm still here you B. Even if the movie bores you, the spirit it depicts is so meritorious that I always forgive the film its failings. The love of freedom, the willingness to die rather than be a slave, this was the spirit of the American Revolution. The movie has faded as our country grows more and more progressively decadent. The movie's power is that no matter all the setbacks crooked escape thieves, broken boats, lepers, cannibal hunters, cruel Nuns who sell him out; the man keeps going and going. His love of freedom is inspiring as is his boundless bravery they simply can not break him. This is not Cool Hand Luke's existential nihilistic dropping out of society and then life. Papillon loves life greatly; he simply will not be anyone's slave. Yes, it is long and has some boredom in it. It is a rewarding movie for its acting, writing and great emotional depth. The love of freedom and the courage of a man who refuses to be broken and caged. A Great MovieGive Me Liberty Or Give Me Death. Patrick Henry "},{"Title":"Unflinching look at brutal penal colony...gripping but exhausting...","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"52 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Brutal treatment in a penal colony has been explored on the screen before in such earlier films as I WAS A FUGITIVE FROM A CHAIN GANG, but never has there been a more graphic expose of the sort of conditions prisoners faced under the worst sort of environment.At times the film is extremely harrowing to watch, and at other times the story tends to drag a little. But there can be no doubt that STEVE McQUEEN and DUSTIN Hoffman create believable and sympathetic (yet quirky) characterizations and do some of the finest acting of their careers. Their roles are physically demanding and always played with total conviction.Not for the squeamish, but extremely well acted by the entire cast, great location photography and a nice background score by Jerry Goldsmith. The first half of the story is much more compelling than what happens in the final years and the last half-hour of the film is a bit sluggish in pacing. But overall, a memorable escape film that ranks with the best of other escape stories.My first viewing of the film years ago made an indelible impression on me, but I must confess that later viewings convinced me that it is not exactly flawless in that the pacing is sometimes much too slow and the ending is somewhat unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"Provided you understand the film is NOT based on a true story, it's a very good film","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is supposedly based on the true account of a prisoner who escaped from Devil's Island in French Guiana. However, the book by Henri Charriere about his experiences apparently has a LOT of inconsistencies and outright fabrications (a polite way of saying he was a liar). So, provided you understand that this isn't quite a true story, this is still an exceptional film. Much of this is due to incredible acting, direction, scripting and makeup.Henri Charriere, played by Steve McQueen, is going to Devil's Island for killing a pimp--supposedly in self-defense. On the boat, he meets a swindler played by Dustin Hoffman and they become friends.Most of the film documents how harsh and awful life is in the prison came--either in the work camps or when living in solitary confinement. All take their toll and kill off many of the prisoners, by Charriere is resilient. Despite all these privations, he never loses his resolve to escape, though Hoffman eventually does and accepts his life on the island after one failed escape attempt. In the end, Charriere does escape, though in real-life, this apparently did NOT occur.While there is a lot more to the movie and what I have mentioned (after all it's a very long and involved film), the full impact of the story is not what you read but seeing the awfulness of the prison. So, be prepared for a movie that at times is very difficult to watch but is constructed it's an amazing film. "},{"Title":"Madness and Redemption He fought the law...","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dalton Trumbo's brutal tour of the life of Papillon a man sentenced to life in a French prison colony. This film is easily considered one of the godfathers of prison life movies. Every prison film after in recent memory borrows from this film and definitely not as successfully as this sprawling epic plays out.  Papillon is hell-bent on the concept of live free or die trying. In the same vein as Cool Hand Luke but definitely much, much darker. The film contains an interesting play on friendship, isolation, madness and how the three can mix when put to the ultimate survival test. A tough watch but well worth it if you can find something in the characters to connect with. Just appreciation of the odds they overcame simply living out the sentence was awe inspiring enough to me.Strange, hardcore, pitch dark and graphic tour of the mind (a Trumbo signature) this film constantly pushes you to the edge of your seat. You wonder where the dreams end and the hard reality begins. I definitely want to read the Henri Charrière novel now. This is all the film that the grossly overrated Shawshank Redemption endeavors to be. Shawshank reminds me of Papillon with more talk and less action. In fact, thinking about it further showed me just how devoid of originality (a Steven King signature) Shawshank was. If Papillon and Shawshank were cellmates, Shawshank would be the toothless prison punk getting sold for one cigarette.Never predictable and always original this film has more than enough action to make up for scenes that perhaps run a bit longer than needed. Painful in the bright sunshine this is a gritty voyage. Hoffman's character is sublime and understated allowing McQueen to shine and show you in this film why he was the top draw of the era. It was once said, the only true test of a great film is the test that time gives, Papillon passes with flying colors.The ULTIMATE prison escape movie. 9.5/10  "},{"Title":"Good Story ....","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" ..... But that`s all it is , a story . Having watched several documentries  on Devil`s Island there is some debate on weather Henri Charriere had even been an inmate at the penal colony , or if the claimed incidents happened but they all agree on one thing - none of these incidents actually happened to Charriere , other inmates maybe but not to Charrire .Watching PAPILLON the film ( I`ve never read the novel ...sorry book ) it just doesn`t ring true ****** POSSIBLE SPOILERS ****** on arrival the inmates are warned about madame guillotine but several times in the film Charriere violently attacks guards and Louis Dega is seen to hit a guard over the head possibly killing him , and these two trouble makers survive captivity and recapture without getting their heads cut off ! Also unlikely is the scene where Charriere and Dega`s fellow escapee dies in a very dramatic way - just as Chairrere comes out of a hellhole after spending  five years in solitary confinement. How very very convenient to have such a dramatic moment at that particular time ,  and one of Dega`s victims just happens to work in the reception area of the prison leading to some difficult work detail for him and Charriere , man astronomical bad luck just isn`t the word.  Oh and where`s the depiction of  The terrible promiscuity  that History Channel documentaries refer to on Devil`s Island ?Controversy as to the veracity of Charriere`s book aside PAPILLON is still a rather average film despite its epic qualities , the script is very episodic and disjointed , McQueen gives a brooding performance which isn`t exactly bad but neither is it memorable. Hoffman is good as Dega but I can no longer take him seriously because he looks exactly like Adam Clayton the bass player from U2 ! I`m being serious here , watch PAPILLON and look at a photo of U2 post JOSHUA TREE  to see what I mean     "},{"Title":"Uncredited music for PAPILLON","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The music score of Jerry Golsmith for PAPILLON is great. However, I didn't find a very important part  in the movie, during the 2nd escape of Papillon with Maturette and Clusiot, the prison's orchestra plays a music...I've always wanted to know what was this music, because I found it very appropriate with the action. I supposed it was classical music since it was not on the official score of Jerry Goldsmith. But I didn't find it in the credits either, so I made my own search and I found it ! It was FAUST composed by Charles GOUNOD in 1859.... "},{"Title":"Make the best of what we offer you, and you will suffer less than you deserve.","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Papillon' tells one of those stories that we remember for a long time. It is the tale of one man's life, an unbreakable friendship, and an inability to accept defeat against impossible odds. The film was based on the memoirs of convicted French felon Henri Charrière (though several critics have expressed doubt over the factual accuracy of the described events), who spent many years incarcerated in the brutal penal settlement of mainland French Guiana. The film was adapted by Dalton Trumbo and Lorenzo Semple Jr., and directed by Franklin J. Schaffner, who is most well-known for 'The Planet of the Apes (1968)' and 'Patton (1970).' Steve McQueen delivers a formidable performance as the convict Charriere, nicknamed Papillon because of the butterfly tattoo on his chest. Claiming to have been framed in the murder of a pimp, Papillon seeks immediately to escape from his imprisonment, employing the services &#150; and later the friendship &#150; of the withdrawn and vulnerable, but nonetheless resourceful, Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman).One element that 'Papillon' accomplishes so powerfully is the torture and suffering that takes place in the prison. The bodies of exhausted and wasted men litter the paths, and most inmates have grown so accustomed to the prospect of death that they greet each carcass with a painful indifference. After a failed escape attempt, Papillon is sentenced to two years in solitary confinement, a truly horrific punishment with the sole aim of crushing the prisoner's spirit and sanity. Despite a few inexperienced dream sequences, this segment of the film is handled masterfully, and McQueen excels, deteriorating into the jittery, wide-eyed, physically-drained shell of a human being who has only a paper-thin grasp on both life and reality. A remarkable thing about Dustin Hoffman is that I've never seen him play the same character, and Louis Dega is no exception. Beneath his thick-lensed spectacles and shy countenance lies a true friend; one who, despite their differences, will risk everything to repay a good deed once done.During the last third of 'Papillon', not including the final act, Schaffner veers slightly away from the touching human friendship story and descends into above-average adventure mode, which was interesting but not on par with the rest of the film. Though it appeared in Charrière's original novel, the ill-developed (and dialogue-sparse) sub-plot of the brave white man earning the admiration of the natives was a Hollywood cliché that I could have done without. Additionally, a wonderful ending was tarnished somewhat by an unnecessary few lines of closing narration. It would have been much more effective had Papillon's fate been left open to the audiences. Of course, the fact that the writers were working off a true story perhaps makes that idea completely redundant. Nevertheless, 'Papillon' is a magnificently memorable prison drama, with two outstanding central performances (neither of which, I was shocked to discover, were nominated for an Oscar). The film's themes &#150; of an innocent man finding the courage, hope and friendship to survive the horrific treatment of a cruel prison system &#150; almost certainly served as inspiration for Frank Darabont's 'The Shawshank Redemption (1994).' "}{"Title":"Butterfly Man Of Devil's Island","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching Papillon today it occurred to me that the film it most resembles is Birdman of Alcatraz. Both Steve McQueen and Burt Lancaster were sent to prison for murder convictions although allegedly McQueen was innocent. Both were based on true characters who wrote, in the case of Lancaster ghost wrote, their own memoirs of their time in the joint and the films are based on those books. And certainly both men were rebel spirits.In Lancaster's case it's an internal rebellion against the rules of the penal system. Of course in the work he did developing those bird remedies, he rehabilitated himself in a way that 'the system' did not understand. But in the case of Henri Charriere aka Papillon for the butterfly tattoo on his chest, he just wants out of the penal colony at Devil's Island and makes many attempts to get shed of the place. The film is about his many attempts and his refusal to quit no matter what is done to break him. Devil's Island in the Thirties was not any better than it was when Alfred Dreyfus was doing his time in the tropical prison. Still McQueen is resourceful enough as you will see.McQueen though he's far from French has the rebel persona that really fits this part. Had he been younger and this been a French production I could have seen Jean Gabin in the role. It's one of McQueen's best roles and he holds your interest throughout this nearly three hour film.Leading an impressive supporting cast is Dustin Hoffman who plays what we would now call a white collar criminal. He becomes a devoted acolyte of McQueen seeing he's going to need friends himself if he's to survive Devil's Island. He also wants to escape in the worst possible way.Later on we see Hoffman in a different light as if completing the Birdman of Alcatraz analogy, Hoffman's role is similar to that of Telly Savalas who's a tough character when we first meet him in Birdman, but later becomes acclimated to prison life. Hoffman has worked himself into a nice situation relatively speaking on the Island and has resigned himself that this is his home for better or worse. It's a very good performance by Hoffman as his character changes during the film.I'd really recommend seeing both Birdman of Alcatraz and Papillon back to back. It's a good prison doubleheader for a rainy afternoon. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable   film upon escapes from an impregnable  prison with strong performances","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie centers an unrelenting prisoner( extraordinary Steve MacQueen) who's sent to French Guayana in Devil's Island. He's determined to break out from the gaol placed on a deserted and an impenetrable island. He befriends with an inmate(Dustin Hoffman, a real chameleon actor) who's imprisoned for swindle . They will confront lot of dangers and sufferings until reach freedom . McQueen tries a series of escapes but he's always recaptured . The punishments will be terrible and developed in graphic realism. The history is based on real deeds, it's adapted from an autobiographical best-selling book about a French burglar named Henri Charriere and Dalton Trumbo(previously prohibited for the Black List and he's cast as the Commandant) and Lorenzo Semple Jr are the screenwriters . The pic is overlong about two hours and half , though is neither boring, nor tiring, but entertaining, because develops many adventures and happenings. The motion picture obtained pretty success ,it was a box office winner . Attained hits at every theaters around the world. The film is a magnificent portrayal of tortures and sufferings of the prisoners in far countries .The yarn's title refers to the starring's butterfly tattoo.Interpretation protagonists -McQueen, Hoffman- is top notch, they make a magnificent couple. The support cast though very secondary is very fine  George Coulouris,Don Gordon,Gregory Sierra,Victor Jory, among others. The veteran Jerry Goldsmith creates an exciting and atmospheric musical score and Fred Koenekamp cinematography is excellent with astounding outdoors of the jungle. The picture is rightly directed by Franklin J. Schaffner - Planet of apes, Patton- . The flick will appeal to prison genre buffs and adventures films fans. Rating  good and nice. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A man changes into a beautiful butterfly","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie represents how a person fight for his freedom disregards the consequences.This man sees all the environment in jail, and since he is very smart, he is finally able to regain his liberty. This movie is spectacular.The moral of the story is that to be a butterfly you need to suffer a metamorphosis/change. You might think the change is painful, but the butterfly will be free and beautiful, even if it is for a few hours. Liberty has no price, it is the most important thing for any person. Just one minute of freedom is everything you need in life.In the end, the character needed to suffer change and pain to become a truly free man. He loses his human condition to become a full human, with a new beginning. "},{"Title":"Pretty good all round, but way too long....","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henri 'Papillion' Charriere (Steve McQueen) is given a life sentence for killing a pimp and is to serve his sentence at a penal colony in French Guyana. Whilst he's serving his time, he befriends master forger Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman). At first, the two men merely share a friendship of 'convenience' - Papillon offers to protect Dega from other prisoners who are trying to get his money and in return Dega promises to finance Papillon's escape once he gets to the penal colony. However, as time passes a much stronger bond begins to develop between the two men and they both decide to try to escape together.The first thing I'd like to address with this film is its running time and at close to 150 minutes it's a very long film and the problem is that it actually feels like a long film. The first half of the film is particularly long and drawn out and I couldn't help but feel that the film was badly in need of being edited a bit.Despite the above gripe the film is still engaging and at times it's very moving. As mentioned, Dega and Papillon's friendship was one of convenience at the start, but as the years pass by a strong bond began to exits between the men and each respective stage of this friendship is brought to life beautifully between Hoffman and McQueen.For me, the best part of the film was McQueen's first stint in solitary confinement. Here screenwriters Trumbo & Semple Jr really highlight how 2 years in solitary confinement can cause a gradual deterioration of the mind - the dream sequences and hallucinations really help to get into Papillon's mind-set and see what he's thinking. McQueen's performance really helps as well and when watching him here I really cared for his character and felt his pain... In truth at times I forgot that I was actually watching Steve McQueen as I've always felt that he's a bit of a mediocre actor (he was particularly wooden in Bullitt), but I was genuinely surprised how good he was here. The only slight downside with this aspect of the film is that I got no feeling that Papillon had been on half rations for 6 months; it probably would have been more convincing if McQueen had gone 'method' and lost some weight during production, but I realise that this is an actor's choice and it's possible that they may have had a tight scheduling limit. It's only a minor criticism and as I said McQueen was excellent here and throughout the film. Hoffman was good as well, but I already knew that he was a good actor, but McQueen was the real revelation here.Although this is a serious portrayal of man's desire to escape from prison the film does have some light hearted moments such as the scene where Papillon and Dega are trying to capture the crocodile - that bit was very funny. The film is also emotionally involving particularly towards the end - I got the impression that Dega didn't go with Papillon because he'd become somewhat institutionalised and perhaps saw Devil's island as his home. The fact that his wife left him as well may have also made him feel that he had no real reason to leave. That's just my assumption.Papillon is a good film, but it does drag at times and is far too long. As far as Prison escape films go then this is inferior to the likes of Shawshank Redemption, Escape from Alcatraz & The Great Escape. However, if you're a fan of those films then you should find plenty to enjoy here too. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's first non-stereotypical gay character?","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Does anyone remember the name of the medic who escapes over the wall with Papillon and Dega - is it Maturette? In any case, he may mark the first time Hollywood created a gay character - at least in a big-budget film - who is sympathetic, not stereotypical or ridiculous or treacherous, and is given his fair share of personal dignity. First, Papillon wants to prostitute him to distract a guard so that he can escape He lets Papillon know in no uncertain terms that he's not a whore and that Between the two of us, I'm the one who's killed a man. Later, he shows bravery, solidarity, and resourcefulness equal to the two leads'.It's a fairly large role, the actor makes a strong impression, yet (almost as important) the filmmakers don't showcase him in a self-congratulatory way (Look how progressive we are!). He's not offset by any more typical gay characters to lessen his impact, nor, thankfully, by one of those ritual gang-rape-of-the-male-lead scenes that seem to be obligatory in prison pictures (e.g., The Shawshank Redemption). This is all especially remarkable in that Hollywood movies at the time were still rife with abysmal gay stereotypes (see Play Misty for Me, The Eiger Sanction, The Producers, any number of others in all kinds of genres.) I'd love to know if this was a conscious decision by Schaffner or the screenwriters (Trumbo and Semple both had good progressive credentials, after all).By the way, if you're going to see this film, see it letterboxed - it loses much of its visual impact in a standard TV pan-and-scan format. "},{"Title":"Hey you bastards, I'm still here.","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a film that I think had all the potential to be a classic. Based on the memoir of the same name that I'm sure had an embellishment or two, about a tale of survival and escape and perseverance, and headed by a genuine movie star in McQueen. In spots, it can be great. There is a moment right after the trio escape the prison, that Dega falls down in agony while Papillon discovers that the boat they had been promised is rotten and no good. McQueen bursts into an uncharacteristic rage at the man he has just spent 2 years in solitary confinement for, and it could have been a visceral moment of pure emotion, having been foiled after the escape they had planned for so long, but it loses its power because McQueen chooses to put on this overwhelming sneer, which feels petty rather than being born of desperation and fear of once again being a prisoner. Both of them are convincing enough. Hoffman's Dega wears a pair of spectacles that balloon his pupils and give him this distinctly endearing geekiness. He frequently slips into his past persona as if he was once more selling counterfeit war bonds, and appealing to men and their patriotic pride and generosity. These sort of conniving salesmen are easy to befriend and to gain trust, but does it ever go beyond that? Papillon may be a better man than I, because it was hard to identify anything in their friendship that was worth those two torturous years in a dark cell. He tears up upon the end of that sacrifice, and as he makes his final leap to freedom, but is there really any substance to warrant it? It has trouble deciding what sort of film it should be. There's humour when Dega's intentions of luxury are foiled and we cut suddenly to the backbreaking Kilo 40, and when they encounter a crocodile and banter over who removes it. When Papillon is abused by the prison guards, the soundtrack balloons and exaggerates the hit and zooms in eagerly just to make sure we understand the impact. And there are several hallucination/dream sequences, which seem to belong to another film altogether, but speak so plainly and vaguely of themes that could apply to almost anything. These are much less effective than McQueen himself. In the most haunting scene, he mutters a wish to confess, but painstakingly resists the urge. He holds back tears, his lips tremble, and we can see every ounce of pain and sheer will in the bloodshot eyes of a man who so diligently values and chases his freedom, and chooses to forgo it for a friend. Later, as he leaves his second spell of confinement, this one 5 years, we see its effects via makeup that have made his body weak, his hair white, and his speech haggard, but it does not seem as bad as before. This is an issue of pacing; we spend entirely too much time in the first prison, and little after it. It seems to be a 2 hour film that has somehow conjured an extra half an hour in excess. There is an wordless sequence where Papillon stumbles upon a native colony, and somehow manages to befriend them and even find romance, and it is the most clichéd, insufferable and unnecessary segment of them all. Similarly, they also stumble upon a leper colony, and Papillon is once again a hit, treating them with empathy as if they were human beings too and gaining their assistance, but at least this is done with sincerity. Schaffner's biggest triumph is that it feels epic in scale. The focus stretches into infinity and shows just how isolated the prisoners are from the modern and civilised world, but also how beautiful and crazy the wild is. As they talk of escape with desire in their eyes, the endless sea's horizon bobbles in the background. Silvers of light in the cramped boat hold reveal the shiny sheen of the prisoner's sweaty bodies. They work in the forests, rain, hail or sun. As Papillon is dragged to confinement, they pass a idyllic beach-front, which is swapped for the grimy grey walls that he loses sanity in. Koenekamp silhouettes characters at golden hour paddling upstream, on pure white Hawaiian-style beaches drinking coconut juice, and atop the cliffs of Devil's Island, which contrary to its name, is covered in palm trees, piglets and streams full of crayfish. It seems like paradise, at least according to Dega, but is is not freedom. And in the final shot, we glide over and reveal the triumphant Papillon, who shouts jubilantly even as he has miles and miles of deep blue ocean still to traverse. This could have felt magnificent, but it is merely satisfying. "},{"Title":"In the shadow of the sabertooth","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a best-selling autobiography by French convict Henri Charrière, Papillon is an excellent if overlong prison flick by director Franklin J. Schaffner. This period saw a number of strong prison movies (The Great Escape, The Bridge on the River Kwai, King Rat, Birdman of Alcatraz, Cool Hand Luke, The Hole, Escape from Alcatraz, A Man Escaped, Riot in Cell Block 11), but Papillion seems to have been forgotten by modern audiences.The plot? Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman play Henri Charriere and Lous Dega, two small time criminals sentenced to incarceration in a French Guiana labour camp. We watch as they deal with harsh conditions, Caribbean heat, backbreaking manual labour, solitary confinement and various double crosses. McQueen, who loved intensely physical roles, throws himself into his character with gusto. He wrestles crocodiles, braves swamps and famously jumped off a huge island cliff. Stunt doubles? McQueen ain't no wimp.Trying to match McQueen's physicality is Dustin Hoffman. Part of a post-Brando wave of Method Actors, Hoffman offered a new kind of intensity, a new kind of commitment, bathing his character in tics, quirks and attempting to convey a kind of super realism or heightened authenticity. Such things are routine now, audience expectations always increasing, and so Hoffman doesn't look as flashy as he once did. Method acting tends to become artificial or contrived with age.Still, both McQueen and Hoffman do good work. Underrated director Franklin J. Schaffner also impresses. Like his work on Planet of the Apes and Patton, he fills Papillon with wonderful widescreen photography, compositions and location shooting. Schaffner's best films have always had a strong sense of scope; a grandiose quality.Papillon falters somewhat its last act. Here we're given a cheesy, overlong subplot in which our hero is rescued by Amerindians and falls in love with a native girl. Better to omit this sequence entirely. The film then needles its way into its best and final act. Here Hoffman and McQueen, now old men, find themselves imprisoned at the Devil's Island penal colony. An inescapable tomb, used to house political prisoners for over a hundred years (roughly 1852-1952), the island begins to sap what little hope of escape these two men have left.Most prison movies have a vaguely existential tone, their characters all longing to break free of constraints or tap into some indistinct notion of freedom. These qualities become most pronounced during Papillon's final act. Here the butterfly tattooed on McQueen's chest metaphorically blossoms, perhaps symbolic of a mankind which refuses to be contained. The film's final shot? McQueen floating on a bag of coconuts, Schaffner's camera pulling back until he's surrounded by a deep, turbulent, Caribbean Sea.8/10 &#x96; An old fashioned adventure movie, of a breed seemingly now extinct. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"The passion of Papillon","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw Papillon in 1973, I thought it was a powerful and moving film, and that Steve McQueen as Papillon had given the performance of his career. Often painful to watch, he traversed those extra yards that only the most dedicated of actors will cross. He even ate a live cockroach! Of course, now, after many seasons of Survivor with Jeff Probst, we know that a lot of people will eat a cockroach, especially if there is money involved.Thirty years after its initial release, my admiration for the film is a little more tempered. What seemed incredibly harsh and realistic then, seems more contrived and less authentic now, especially some of the odd casting &#x96; Victor Jory as an Indian chief for example. However, Papillon still tells a compelling story and many scenes retain their power.Based on the best-selling book by Henri Charriére, it is supposedly true. The screenplay telescopes many of the events and introduces new characters, Louis Degas in particular.Found guilty of a murder he claims not to have committed, Papillon, a petty criminal, is sentenced to life imprisonment in French Guiana &#x96; the infamous Devil's Island. On the voyage he is hired for protection by Dustin Hoffman's character, Louis Degas. On arrival, the authorities warn the new inmates about escape attempts. However Papillon is determined to escape and never stops trying.He escapes a number of times, is often betrayed, and is always recaptured. After his first attempt fails, he is sent to solitary confinement for months and nearly dies. Louis smuggles food to him but it is discovered. The authorities try to make Papillon reveal who sent him the food but he refuses to speak. It is the first in a series of acts that cements the friendship between the two men.Many years pass and both men age. They are eventually sent to Devil's Island itself, from which it is thought there is no escape. However, Papillon's spirit has never been broken and he eventually escapes on a raft made from coconuts after leaping from the cliff tops.A combination of buddy movie and journey movie, by the end, both men have recognised their differences as human beings and are tolerant of each others foibles. They defend each other with acts of moral courage. It is this aspect of the film that stays in the memory more so than the exotic locations or the set piece escapes.The film is largely a two-hander by Hoffman and McQueen. Dustin Hoffman delivers an eye-catching, mannered performance, but it is Steve McQueen who stamps this film as above the ordinary. He obviously suffered for his art in this one; the weight-loss in some scenes is alarming and testifies to his commitment to the role.The score was by Jerry Goldsmith. With echoes of Debussy, it is infused with a feeling for the sea. Unfortunately the film also exhibits Franklin Shaffner's rather linear storytelling approach. There was little subtlety in the technique. A number of dream sequences are particularly heavy-handed. But all things considered, Shaffner elicited strong performances from the cast &#x96; even Victor Jory &#x96; and this human element is the key to the film's ultimate success as an unusual and well-told tale that rises above the occasional false note. "},{"Title":"One man and an island","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" An almost unremittingly grim prison movie, right up to the end, in a fine film less I think, about exposing the cruelty of the French colonial penal system or an innocently convicted man's desire to be free, as celebrating the star quality of Dustin Hoffman and in particular Steve McQueen, as both are put to work in arduous and physically demanding roles.To be truthful, I knew I was watching Hoffman acting all the time rather than his character and McQueen too, in the bigger, title role, takes time to convince he's not going through his various incarcerations Cooler King style, but as he ages and becomes infirm, he fully convinces in a difficult part, completely eschewing his superstar persona along the way.The film is involving and relatively unflinching in its depiction of prison life, the harshness of the prison masters, the toadying of some compliant prisoners as well as the bullying by some others, but central to it is Papillon's stubborn determination to escape and live as a free man again. The film takes us through various tense and exciting moments despite some longueurs along the way, before arriving at the satisfying conclusion in the last scenes of the film.As indicated earlier, McQueen leads a good cast who support him well, but it's ultimately his film and his acting thankfully affirms it. I could carp about the length or occasional dryness of the film, but as a McQueen fan, I was pleased to see him rise to the occasion to deliver one of his best roles in a film which is a credit to producer, director and cast. "},{"Title":"as I'm sure others have said, the 'Other' Great Escape - unsentimental and often harsh","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillon is a story of what men will do in a time of crisis, such as being in a rather hellish penal prison colony run by the French on one of their islands. Steve McQueen was probably the only actor that I can think of from the period who could portray this character, at least if this had to be done the Hollywood way (of course the man was French, Henri Carriere, so this goes without saying not counting French actors; perhaps Belmondo could've pulled it off, who knows). But there's so much that happens in his story, spanning many years (seemingly decades, though it's never completely clear), that I kept finding myself thinking 'Ok, oh wow, what happens next?' It actually isn't entirely a prison movie, it should be noted; the last hour mostly takes place when Papillon, his friend Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman) and another prisoner find a way to get off of the island by boat. But I think the parts of the film I will remember for, well, forever, will be the scenes set in at the prison, and even those early scenes where the filmmaker, Franklin J Schaffner (via writers Trumbo and Semple), simply shows what the situation is all these men put together, most if not all of them have done something likely prison-worthy, but for this place, this setting, an entire ocean away from their homeland is the thing. Indeed an early scene on the ship that takes the prisoners across the sea, and when Papillon first gets into trouble (one of those middle-of-the-night attack things) is just a small sample of what horrors await him.What Papillon and Dega have done does count, up to a point - these men are a safe-cracker who got a falsely accused murder rap and a counterfeiter respectively - and the actors make them vulnerable and just interesting to watch. So that by the time these men are having to watch all the time to not end up on a s***-list, it gets tense. And yet, it being Papillon as played by Steve frigging McQueen, the star of The Great Escape, we might hope that he has one goal to get the hell out. But there's no special motorcycle to do a jump over in this case. When this character gets caught, he has to do more time - in solitary - which is around a 15-20 minute chunk in the middle of this film.I should be clear on this point if you've seen certain scenes set in solitary confinement in other movies, this is one of the most brutal to watch if not just right up there (oddly enough perhaps the other McQueen's film Hunger tops it). We see Papillon stuck in a cell for what feels like a while - and it ends up being two years (!) - and the whole purpose, as he is told by the main prison warden, is to break him from mind to body, from head to toe. And one sees McQueen, giving it his all as an actor, becoming unhinged at a lot of points, eating bugs, having dream-hallucinations of his past in France and with his old friends (and dead fellow prisoners), and it's staggering work. Overall in this film I don't know if I've seen this man give so much for a character; for an actor who was often known for playing quiet, stoic types (and he could do it well), here it's more like hanging it all out. Which, when playing up against someone like Dustin Hoffman, it's a good idea not to be sleepwalking in a role.Papillon puts so many stakes for its characters, and yet what sets it apart from other prison-break-out movies are two things mainly how bleak and unrelenting the pressure and suspense is, that at any minute everything can very feasibly fall apart (as the writing and direction make clear, this is a painfully realistic world, or a realistically painful one, same thing), and the location. It's beautiful in the jungles and beaches, but a lot of things can kill you (or people, like the lepers). The only real flaw for me is when the movie slows down just at point of the second to third act when Papillon winds up with the natives on the beach. There's no dialog, which is a nice experiment, but it drags the story down up until then things have been epic in scope, but the pace is fast and it's all down to the story. If anything drags it, it's this unnecessary sequence.But by the ending, and it's really in the last 15/20 minutes that this tale gains some awesome pathos while still being a tough 'guy' movie, you see what this journey has done for these two men. The characters are built up so well enough, and portrayed with enough grit and honesty, that we care every step of the way (Hoffman really sells the nebbishness, but taking it from caricature to realism). Oh, and Jerry Goldsmith's score, which isn't constant but has enough for you to notice it, is a triumph of adventure/action/drama music for a movie of this kind. "}{"Title":"A Prison Drama About The Triumph Of The Human Spirit","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillon is a prison film that stars Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman. Franklin J. Schaffner directs this true story of Henri Charriere,who is better known as Papillon or the butterfly, a prisoner so determined to escape the notorious Devil's Island, he attempted it multiple times until he reached old age. McQueen plays Charriere and Hoffman is the hero's anxious, defenseless friend. Based on Charriere's own memoir and uncompromisingly adapted by screenwriters Dalton Trumbo and Lorenzo Semple Jr.The autobiography of Charriere, one of the few people to successfully escape from the notorious French penal colony of Devil's Island, served as the basis for Papillon. The pugnacious Charriere,who was incarcerated wrongly for he claims for murdering a pimp. He saves the life of fellow convict Louis Dega, a counterfeiter who will later show his gratitude by helping Charriere in his many escape attempts, and by smuggling food to Charriere when the latter is put in solitary confinement. One breakout, which takes Charriere and Dega to a leper colony and then to a native encampment, is almost successful, but Charriere is betrayed and back the prisoners go to French Guiana. Years later, Dega is made a trustee and is content with his lot, but the aging, white-haired Charriere cannot be held back. This is a grim and brutal prison drama, made more likable due to the lead star performances.Steve McQueen's career high performance while Dustin Hoffman doesn't fail to impress the viewers.As the narrative unfolds slowly, but the two stars are compelling and cinematographer Fred Koenekamp's photography is striking.This is definitely a Classic grungy prison drama that has great themes particularly that of the triumph of the human spirit. "},{"Title":"The Glamorous Tale of Papillon","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Numerous failed breakouts and re-captures, extended sufferings in prison and solitary, an eventual breakout that seems too spontaneous to work and a wild adventure involving scuffles with natives and the monstrous sea. No wonder why people question the authenticity of Henri Charriere's written account, it's an odyssey, but one that appears too glamorous to be believable and the film was no different. It was the story of a man rather than a group of men and his persistent escape attempts from prison but it ended up very lonesome because of this dearth of focus on the others. The relationship between some of the key characters was more an association rather than true camaraderie, lacking the depth and connection for genuine friendship. The film fails to connect you with these characters on a more emotional level which was important. On the outside, we see Steve McQueen, the gruff, seasoned American hero and Dustin Hoffman, the archetypal, sedate fraudster but little else about the characters of these men apart from what their actions have made them to be. At times, rather than a narrative of the two men, it came across as more analytic although in an unrevealing manner. Charriere, as personified by McQueen, has the endurance but lacks the indomitable human spirit which comes from more than just an ability to withstand uninhabitable conditions, mental torture and a few blotched escape attempts. This biopic felt like a recounting of Charriere's diary in many ways, such was how close we were brought to the character. But in this, we were made to re-live extended periods which were trivial, such as much of his uneventful, pitiable 2 year solitary period which became monotonous at times but intended to give viewers a more intense experience of his sufferings. Papillon's eventual escape and adventure fails to hold great surprises and twists, it becomes smooth sailing with a few hiccups along the way and that made the film seem extended unnecessarily. I would have liked it to be more bold, more thrilling and more unpredictable to the point where you could look at Papillon at the conclusion of the film and marvel at his experiences to that point. Not the case. There is plenty happening in 'Papillon' however, it isn't drab. But unlike one of its descendants, the lauded 'Shawshank Redemption', it lacks the connection with the audience to make them curious about the characters. Fact or fiction, Charriere's story has it's moments though. "},{"Title":"Run after freedom","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the second greatest run after freedom movie i've ever seen. Two great actors Dustin Hoffman and Steve McQueen are able to present you disappointment, happiness, loyalty, patience, hope, insanity, friendship and depression perfectly. Every single scene in the picture has a lot of things to say to you. You might get emotionally confused when watching this movie, you might even sense a little bit of friendship or love between the prison guardians and the prisoners and at the same time you might be able to sense the unreasonable hate. When you are not free, then you have nothing else to lose thus you have to run after your freedom, however do not believe in freedom until you get what you used to have before losing it. "},{"Title":"Flawed but fantastic","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillon is a tiring but highly entertaining film that I am rating higher than it deserves for a specific reason. It's not perfect; it has many flaws that have already been explained in other comments, one of the main one being that the story is so vast, a standard feature film can hardly do it justice (it would have worked better as a miniseries). However, I can forgive all that and more, because this film contains a scene that left such an impression on me, I am sure it will be in the back of my mind for as long as I live. I am referring of course to the scene where Papillon is sent to solitary confinement for two years. It's only 25 minutes long in real time, but it's one of the most gripping and harrowing sequences I have ever seen. Papillon is enclosed in a tiny box, five paces across, no windows, high ceiling, constantly monitored by guards, and is not allowed to make the slightest noise. Without revealing too much, his resolution to get through the two years without trouble goes wrong early on, and the warden does everything he can to push him into total insanity. The fantastic suspense that follows is unmatched by almost any psychological horror film.McQueen starred in An Enemy of the People a few years later, supposedly to prove that he could act in a straight drama, but he didn't need to. His performance in these 25 minutes is wonderful as he transforms from a quiet, confident man to a mumbling maniac. The elaborate makeup certainly helps, but the desperation in his eyes and voice is all genuine. There is no need to doubt the man could act.It's not the only memorable scene; there are many, but it's the most impressive. It's helped by Schaffner's intense direction, injecting more and more tension into each scene until it reaches heart-attack levels in the confinement sequence. The film's dialogue is also quite intelligent and quotable, moreso than in most prison films. The whole thing is a bit of chore to get through, but the scenes of human will beating the odds make it all worth it. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Never give up","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was just an adolescent when I first saw the film; but I had further chances to watch it on the TV twice more on my later ages. It is amazing to watch the longing and struggle for freedom... ...giving up of that... ...waving goodbye to the one who keeps up the flame and tries... Lovely... It was one of the few inspirational films that touched my wild soul. Though it really hurts to realize what people may have live(d) through. Lesson to derive  Never give up!However, if you choose to give up...do it with pride and do not regret. Both Dustin Hoffman and Steve McQueen were at their best performance. I would like to go to Devil's Island once in a while and watch the film there once again. "},{"Title":"A Perspective On Papillon","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although Papillon is a great classic film with many admirable qualities (including McQueen, Hoffman, and some high-quality cinematography), I was disappointed in it for the following reasons 1 In all likelihood, Papillon is a completely fictional story. 2 As a portrayal of the suffering of labor convicts, I think Papillon is unimpressive. (For far more brutal, dramatic, and realistic accounts of life in forced-labor camps, read the Nobel-prize-winning Gulag Archipelago (volumes 2-3), by Aleksandr Solzhenitisyn.) 3 The supposed realism of the film has many flaws. The lack of stool pigeons and trusties, and the apparent ease with which the prisoners bought, sold, and smuggled various items are a few examples. (Please reference The Gulag Archipelago vol. 3 and A Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich for truly realistic portrayals, albeit in Soviet rather than French camps.) "},{"Title":"Once you see it, you never forget it.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has a very particular meaning to me. I remember the first time I watched it with my pa', I was 7 or something, and I was really captured by its deep humanity. That was the first and last time I watched this movie since this year, when I found it in a store and immediately bought it. The amazing thing is that, on my way home, I started thinking back about the movie and it was clear to me that I perfectly remembered, after over 15 years, every single part of the movie, from the beginning to the end, even the smallest details. A fact that was confirmed few minutes later when I got home and played it. I reckon not all movies have the same effects. And I think whoever watches this movie is gonna be blown away as I've been before. The real, thoughtful, amazing and, why not, entertaining story this film tells, along with the masterful acting of both McQueen and Hoffman, make of Papillon a really hard-to-forget experience, something you could become addicted to. Unmissable. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Prison Escape Adventure !","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve McQueen's performance is unarguably excellent. Alongwith Hoffman, he has beautifully portrayed the grit, stoic fortitude and the fighting spirit that becomes hall mark of their escape from the notorious and infamous island prison of French Guinea.NEVER SAY DIE is amply substantiated after witnessing the determination and impeccable will of these incarcerated men who were left to rot in most abominable living conditions.Although, the movie is too long and at times slow but still it has an obscure grip over the viewers mind. At times, very gloomy and bleak depiction makes one pensive and feel very sad. "},{"Title":"Great movie by Schaffner","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lately I've noticed that Franklin J. Schaffner was a fantastic director. I've loved Planet of the Apes for some years, and some months ago I watched Patton for the first time in a long period.Both movies were very good especially Planet of the Apes, so I thought that I should try watch another Schaffner-movie and the choice was the 3rd placed movie on his IMDb ranking, Papillon.The movie was well directed and the cast was right. McQueen was good in the role as the strong Papillon, and Hoffman was really the right man to play the intellectual Louis Dega. You could say that the movie is very dark, but there are actually some funny moments in the movie which works just fine.I will also pay some tribute to the composer Jerry Goldsmith, he has also composed the great scores for Planet of the Apes and Patton. He is one of the reasons why Schaffner's movies are great.There is no doubt that this movie is good, I could write a lot about some interesting scenes, but that would spoil your experience with this movie. I recommend this movie, 8/10. "},{"Title":"A man is wrongly accused of murder and sent to the penal colony in French Guiana, but he's not about to give up!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As you know, Papillon is based on a novel with the same name. If you first read the novel and watch the film afterwards, you're a bit disappointed (at least I was). First of all, a lot of the sequences of the novel are simply left out in the film. But I can't blame the two screenwriters for that. The novel's over 500 pages and you just have to leave things out if you want to make a film of a respectable length (it still lasts two and a half hours!). Secondly, the chronological order of events as we see them in the film, is different from the order in the novel. The screenwriters also gave Déga a much larger role in the film than in the novel -and that's my third point. My opinion on that is that they did it to make the film a bit more emotional and to create an opposite between Papillon and Déga, who are two completely different characters. As an adventure-film, Papillon is certainly worth watching. I also discovered Steve McQueen by watching this film! I'm only 21 years old and I hadn't seen any of his films before. I've seen a few of them now and he really was a great actor. Too bad he had to die so young. Dustin Hoffman's magnificent as well as Déga, but that he is in most of his films. The book's worth reading too, by the way. "}{"Title":"Unforgettable acting and brilliant photography!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" One can never forget the desperate attempts at surviving the solitary confinement portrayed by the vastly talented Steve McQueen. Equally brilliant was the indomitable Dustin Hoffman as Luis Dega, the counterfeiter. The settings and location truly match the descriptions as described in the book written by the father-of-all-survivors Henri Charriere. The DVD version contains a short film of Henri revisiting the prison where he was living for most of his life seeking to escape, just to prove a point to his captors. Altogether, a film that is a must-watch for all lovers of classic cinema. Best watched at 200pm in the afternoon after a light lunch on a Sunday afternoon with your favorite brand of beer. "},{"Title":"One of the best prison escape movies ever made!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"     Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman both did wonderful jobs playing Papillon and Louis Dega.  Steve McQueen is one of my favorite actors of the past, and so is Dustin Hoffman.  If anyone didn't know already, Papillon was a real person and lived to tell about his time in the French Guiana prison by writing a novel.  The book is also as great as the movie itself. Also, Papillon was an innocent man all along.  And it was a long, hard struggle for he, Louis, and some others who didn't really make it to escape the tortures of the prison.  This movie also gives a good lesson in strong character, friendship, and freedom.  The butterfly tatooed on Papillon's chest was supposed to be symbolic for freedom.  If it were not for this movie, The Shawshank Redemption, another great flick, would probably be the best prison movie ever made.  IMHO, this movie is, and The Shawshank Redemption would be second. "},{"Title":"First part good, second part spoils a lot","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very long and interesting movie. At least for the first part. You see a number of French convicts being sent to French Guyana where they are kept under extreme circumstances. The film and its actors show these circumstances in a remarkable way. The acting is very good. Of course everyone knows how well Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman did but there are other great performances in this part of the movie.After a long, detailed well made tale of the life of the prisoners, things change. McQueen, Hoffman and another convict manage to escape and from that moment on, I felt the movie was ruined. Without the clear story line of the first part of the movie, all kinds of things happen without much of an explanation. It feel like you are watching a completely different movie with all kinds of random events that are too unlikely to even consider to happen. The well built story of the first part is completely gone and for a while I was thinking I was not watching the story line anymore but rather hallucinations by McQueen, the main character.The first part I thought was good, not great. The second part from the escape on was bad. Close to extremely bad. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly effective","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Many people love this movie and think it a great adventure, and for a Franklin J Schaffner film it isn't half-bad, (it has great visual sweep and he certainly makes the most of the locations). It is based on the true story of Henri Charriere who escaped from Devil's Island, but like all 'true stories' you wonder at how much the film-makers, and indeed the man himself, who chronicled the escape in a book, fabricated events. It's really just one escape after another until he finally gets away, but the escapes are exciting in a literal, very widescreen kind of way and even though you know the ending, Schaffner still manages to crank up the suspense.Steve McQueen is Charriere, ('Papillion'), and he's got a haunted, ferrety look about him; he has the needling determination of a survivor. Dustin Hoffman is the wormy little forger who becomes his friend. They are well-matched. There is a touch of 'Ratso' Rizzo about Hoffman's performance. He hadn't been in movies long and had yet to broaden his range. It's a long movie (two and a half hours) and there isn't anyone else to root for, and though the guards, and some of the other prisoners, are sadistic, the film is surprisingly short of villains. "},{"Title":"Overlong, Over Produced, and Only Slightly Above Average","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Early 1970's the Studio System was Competing with Independent Productions like Never Before for Box Office Receipts and, Believe it or Not, Respectability.This Prison Pic is Loaded with Big Money, Big Stars, Big Writers, and an overall Grand Design Underscored by an Award Winning Jerry Goldsmith.Steve McQueen was a Movie Star forever striving to be an Actor. Dustin Hoffman was an Actor who was a Movie Star. Both had Egos the Size of Their Paychecks and there was reported On-Set Strife at times.The Film, Directed by Franklin Schaffner, more of a Work for Hire Movie Maker than an Auteur, used to Dealing with Large Productions and Larger than Life Stars. Professional, Competent, and Dependable, He delivers a Film that is so Beautiful that it actually Detracts from the Heart of the Story.Lush Scenery, Meticulous Sets, Good Makeup, and an Emotional Musical Score can't Elevate the Familiar Story of Man's Quest for Freedom. The Movie is Lengthy and Episodic to a Fault. It goes On and On, with Repetitive Scenes and Motifs, Interspersed with Awkward Splashes of Dream-Like Sequences. It Works Sometimes but Not All the Time.Overall, the Two Stars are Watchable, Awash in Makeup and Mannerisms, but the Film is Tedious, Too Long, and Over Produced. Worth a Watch but is Overrated and only Slightly Above Average considering the Money, Talent, and Time Spent. "},{"Title":"Was happy for Papillon but felt sad for Louis Dega. Such was the impact  of the acting.","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Directed by Franklin J. Schaffner (Planet Of The Apes/Patton), Screenplay by Dalton Trumbo ( Roman Holiday, Exodus, Spartacus) n Lorenzo Semple Jr. ( Never Say Never Again). The characters were really created very strong especially Hoffmans. Coz It was not that gud in the book. It stars Steve McQueen n Dustin Hoffman. Both of em acted very well. Cinematography by Fred J. Koenekamp (oscar for The Towering Inferno). Awesome cinematography of the jungle, marshland, islands, seas n prisons. Jerry Goldsmith provides the score. Editing by Robert Swink (Roman Holiday, Funny Girl and The Boys from Brazil). Some of the scenes were a bit long but the overall movie was good. It is an inspiring story of resilience and the triumph of the human spirit in the face of overwhelming adversity. There is no doubt that this movie is good, I could write a lot about some interesting scenes, but that would spoil your experience with this movie. This movie also gives a good lesson in strong character, friendship, and freedom. Good supporting cast. Really wanted Woodrow to escape with em. But that dude was busy disposing off the body. The character was very decent. He offers McQueen n Hoffman anti malaria drugs. Woodrow Parfrey (Dirty Harry, Outlaw josey Wales). Don Gordon (The towering inferno, Bullit, Lethal weapon). "},{"Title":"A Stark Depiction of Captivity, Mostly True","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw Papillon on its initial release in 1973 and I found on rewatching recently that I had forgotten most of it. I am not sure what that says about the film, but after decades I was only left with the general impression that a prisoner's life on Devil's Island was horrible.The story is true to some degree. Whatever its authenticity, the film is impressive in its depiction of a horrible reality--for Devil's Island did exist. And it is a filmic testament to the human spirit and its desire for freedom. Much of the credit goes to Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman, who played the two leads. If one is measuring McQueen's acting ability, it might be wise to start with his portrayal of the titular Papillon. Hoffman, on the other hand, has many other tours de force to his credit.Among the canon of prison films, Papillon is certainly first rate. Personally, I prefer Cool Hand Luke or Bridge on the River Kwai, but Papillon presents a stark captivity with little dialogue, relying on the camera's close investigation of the minutiae of daily existence as reflected in the prisoners' faces and their bearing. Did McQueen or Hoffman deserve the Oscar for Best Actor? They might have split the vote if both were nominated, but each probably deserved a nomination. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book.","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am glad that i read the book first. This movie has not covered most of the major parts of the book. And many changes are made to the original story, i guess to adapt to the cast availability.Of course, I agree , no movie can be better than the book. But overall, as a movie it does justice to the story. The part where the Papillon lives with the Indians could have been made more interesting. It helped me give a life to my imagination. Many scenes that i have imagines while reading the book, i could relate to them after watching the movie. Very good acting by the lead characters. Kriti "},{"Title":"my opinion","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The book by Charriere is Reaaaally different-DEGA isn't the one that scapes, is Clousiot -They didn't kept the shotguns -the Masked breton found them after they ate the big bird (Guaco or Pauji) -In the Leper's Island people were really kind, Papillon looked at them in the faces since the very beginning -They arrived in Trinidad, they went to Curacao and then in a Colombian coast(leaving some other guys) they got caught -Papi meets Antonio (or something) and both scaped. Papi found the Guajiros and lived with them for 7 months... he had 2 girls (Lali and her 13 year old sister Zoraima...that got pregnant from Papi) -He decides to return into civilization and got caught again and later is taken to Santa Martaand so on... I hate it when they change the stories! "},{"Title":"A recommendation","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was amazing until I read the book. I still love the movie, and from a cinematic viewpoint it's still way up there. But as it so often goes with movies, the producers had to cut out huge sections of the story. For example, after his first escape, Papillon lives as part of an Indian tribe for seven months, where he s accepted as one of their own and has two loving wives. The book, simply his notebooks containing the story lightly edited and published, places much emphasis on the people Papi meets on his adventure and the impact they have on his outlook on life. I honestly recommend this book very highly. The movie portrays a daring escape and brave adventure; the book portrays the true life of a man, and is so much better than any movie could ever capture. "}{"Title":"Deliberately paced drama","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" What stands out to me about Papillon is the continued teamwork between one of the great director/composer collaborations director Franklin J. Schaffner and composer Jerry Goldsmith. I even found out about the film solely because of Goldsmith. Imagine my surprise when the film was actually pretty darn good too.The film is based on the true story of Henri Charriere who was sentenced to life and taken an infamous penal colony on Devil's Island, off the coast of French Guyana. Once there, he meets Louis Dega, a forger. Though Dega first hires Henri as a bodyguard, they soon bond. What follows are their day by day trials at the penal colony and their multiple escape attempts.If you're going into this film expecting another The Great Escape, then you'll undoubtedly come out disappointed. This is not an adventure film taking place in a prison, but a film about life in prison. That combined with the film's length of 2,5 hours and it wouldn't be any surprise if it bored you stiff. I can't help but feel however that the length is to the film's benefit. Like Henri and Dega, you too get exhausted from the film's depressing locales and harsh prison life. Maybe this is all merely rationalization, but hey&#x85; I guess your mileage may vary here. At least for me, the film wasn't boring. There were many things that kept my attention McQueen's and Hoffman's performances, the way the film conveys through Dega the notion that life in the colony may actually be preferable than escaping, the long, tiring sequence with Henri in solitary confinement. This is a film that risks being boring by plausibly conveying life on Devil's Island and is all the better for it.When you read my opening paragraph you just knew I was going to discuss Goldsmith's score again. It's about 40 minutes long, so it's only occasionally heard in the 2,5 hour long film, but that's one of the reasons it makes such an impact. Entire scenes are carried by nothing but diegetic sound. This includes the entire solitary confinement scene which only enhances the realism. So, when music does appear, the dramatic effect is enhanced. Everything from the French-sounding, wonderful main theme, to the Debussian 'Catching Butterflies' and 'Gift from the Sea', to the climactic escape music (pay attention to the many differences and similarities between the music accompanying Henri's escape attempts), this is one of the great film scores.The biggest thing that might hold this film back is its length and the 'realistic' treatment of its subject matter. The performances and sense of realism in the portrayal of this particular slice of prison life might appeal to you the same way it did to me, or it might bore you to tears. "},{"Title":"Unforgatable","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillion, is an unforgettable film. Performance of actors script, editing, costumes and especially soundtrack which is remind everyone this island. Weaknesses of human nature , the very best of courage and fear offers a way .It deserves all the awards it receives..Movie was not listed on top 250.. but thanks to god it takes its place now..It's the true story of a man who never accepts to be in prison. After 15 years and 3 escapes (8 major in real life). He finally succeed. "},{"Title":"great humor and touching","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henri Papillon (butterfly) Charierre (Steve McQueen) is a safecracker who claims to be innocent of murdering a pimp. He is sentenced to life and imprisoned in the notorious penal colony in French Guyana. On the voyage there, he offers his bodyguard services to forger Louis Degas (Dustin Hoffman) who sold fake government bonds. Degas has enemies like the prison guard who has family that lost money in the fake bonds. Papillon vows to escape. The colony conditions are horrific. He is put into solitary confinement but he continues to plan for his escape.This is possibly McQueen's best performance. Sure he's the cool guy but he gets to do a lot more. He gets to be weak in solitary and he gets to be old in the last act. Hoffman injects great comedic chemistry for the duo. There is great gallows humor early on. The crocodile scene is shocking and hilarious. There are great touching moments. And that cliff jump is insane. That's a thrill only a real stunt gives. "},{"Title":"the characters","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sophia Loren was once in a movie named The Pride and the Passion, which involved hauling an enormous cannon halfway across Europe through deep mud. By the time they heaved the cannon into position, I had long since stopped caring, and even had a little difficulty remembering why they were doing it in the first place. The movie had expended enormous energy without cause. Papillon is a movie like that an expensive, exhaustive, 150- mintue odyssey that doesn't so much conclude as cross the finish line and collapse. It has been outfitted with expensive stars and a glossy production, but it doesn't really make us care. When Steve McQueen finally escapes from Devil's Island we're happy more for ourselves than for him Finally we can leave, too. The movie is based on a best seller by the late Frenchman Henri Charriere, who claimed it was a true story. Maybe. Not that it matters; fiction would have been fine if it had been entertaining. What happens in the movie, though, is that McQueen acts so dogged in his pursuit of freedom that we start looking around for supporting actors we can get interested in. The movie begins with Charriere (McQueen), nicknamed Papillon (or butterfly) on board a prison ship. He meets Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman, peering through Coke bottle glasses), the most famous counterfeiter in France. Dega's life is in danger for two reasons (a) a lot of people were wiped out investing in his bogus 1928 national security bonds and (b) he has a lot of money concealed on (or should I say in?) his body. Once they have arrived in prison, Papillon makes a bargain He'll be Dega's bodyguard if Dega will finance an escape try. This Dega agrees to do, although it is hard to understand, or even sense, the emotional bond between the two men. (To paraphrase Pauline Kael, McQueen underplays, and Hoffman tries to out-underplay him.) The movie slogs on like Sophia Loren, hauling that cannon through the mud. You know something has gone wrong when you want the hero to escape simply so that the movie can be over. At some point in the movie's pre-production, the theory apparently was held that we'd get interested in the contrast between Papillon, the man of action, and Dega, the gentle intellectual. The chemistry of McQueen and Hoffman was supposed to help. That was the theory, but in practice, we don't care because the characters never really escape as people. Hoffman is using his limp again from Midnight Cowboy, and McQueen squints into the sun a lot, and that's about it "},{"Title":"Another Cool Hand Luke!","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Its just another Cool Hand Luke set in French Guinea. It might sound very reductionist but can't help seeing it any other light. The six point given to the movie is for marvellous depiction of extreme inhuman conditions in prisons of imperial powers outside mainland Europe in those times.The movie has a different climax than the another one. This probably had got to do with sense of justice the director is seemed suffering from. The theme would seem oft repeated as persistency wins the day. This is the only contrasting feature of the movie from the aforementioned classic. "},{"Title":"Papi bargains with the Court","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let's try to put some order about the issue at hand - Papillon (1973), the Movie. This film is based on Henri Charrière's 1970 best-selling book Papillon which represents a former convict auto-biography. Charrière spent 11 years in prison in French Guiana, during this period he attempted to escape several more times resulting in increasing penalties from his captors. He was then confined to Devil's Island, a labor camp at solitary island opposite the French territory. From there he finally achieved to escape by using a bag of coconuts as a raft and riding the tide arrived in Venezuela. He lived 20 years there on restaurant business and became celebrity - described in a sequel to Papillon entitled Banco (1970). Lastly he get paroled and returned to France in the 1970s where approached by Franklin Schaffner served as technical consultant to the above movie. Charrière died of cancer shortly before the movie was released.The confusion about authorship and some of the episodes described in the novel comes from the fact that it replicates a similar French novel on escape from Devil's Island labor camp - i.e., René Belbenoit's Dry Guillotine (Guillotine Sèche) first published in 1938 by E. F. Dutton & Co., New York. The book remained forgotten after the World War II, but the experience of escaped convict was there while this time the story evolved along the diagonal Surinam - Panama - California. Belbenoît died as US immigrant in 1956.Now on the film Papillon (1973) itself. I have a DVD release in my collection that have a bonus material - 12 min. short documentary with protagonist Henri Charrière. The man is there in apparently good physical condition and partnering to Steve McQueen, Dustin Hoffman and the Director. Certainly, many of the scenes in this movie were shot on location at actual islands of French Guiana. Also, the music and orchestration in this movie are tremendous with the leading theme humming in the head on hours after the spectacle.If I had missed something, well, don't blame me. I want to add here a list of 12 movies that should be considered favorites in the so called prison escape genre. My screening procedure was arbitrary and no real criteria were used except an inmate story (preferably with documentaries) and some good actor's play. Timeline of list is chronological with year of production, details can be found in IMDb. Thank you!Addendum The prison escape film list,1. I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang (1932)2. Brute Force (1947)3. Defiant Ones (1958)4. Great Escape (1963)5. Papillon (1973)6. Count of Monte-Cristo (1975)7. Midnight Express (1978)8. Escape from Alcatraz (1979)9. McVicar (1980)10. Runaway Train (1985)11. Gulag (1985)12. Tango & Cash (1989)13. Shawshank Redemption (1994) "},{"Title":"Float like a butterfly","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve McQueen was very much the poster boy for 'laconic cool.' He was alongside Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Client Eastwood the superstar of the late 1960s and 1970s after hits such as The Getaway, Bullitt, Thomas Crown Affair and earlier successes such as The Magnificent Seven and The Great Escape.However he was very much regarded as a populist actor, a star unlike those method men such as Brando, Pacino, Hoffman etc.Papillon was an attempt to redress the balance. With Dustin Hoffman in the cast wearing those thick lenses, he knew he had to up his game. Its a, intriguing, fascinating and harrowing tale.The true story it is based on might have been embellished, this tale of Henri 'Papillon' Charriere who is sentenced to life in a French penal colony for a murder of a pimp which he claims he did not do and his bonding with Hoffman's forger Louis Dega who holds out for his beautiful wife which we glimpse in the beginning to find a way to set him free is the real heart of the film.Papillon's many attempts to escape prison does remind you of his earlier film The Great Escape, the prison scenes are disturbing with inhumane aspects, the latter part of the film based in Devil's Island where we see McQueen aged with a seemingly broken spirit might look slightly odd in not only his gait but acting but it does lead to a resounding climax.1974 was a strong acting year, neither McQueen and Hoffman were nominated for acting Oscars which now seems puzzling. "},{"Title":"Long But Harrowing Drama.","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve McQueen stars as Papillon, who was sent to the French Guyana prison camp on Devil's Island for murder. On route, he makes friends with Louis Dega,(Dustin Hoffman) a counterfeiter, and their friendship lasts quite a long time, as it proves to be the only thing the two men have to hang on to as the long years of captivity(with repeated escape attempts) plays out.Harrowing film about captivity and the hardships and fight for survival that both men experience. McQueen & Hoffman are excellent, director Franklin J. Schaffner creates an authentic atmosphere in the prison, and outside in the jungle. There are some comparisons to be made with Midnight Cowboy when you think about it, but this is still a pretty good tale of the resiliency of the human spirit. "},{"Title":"Epic with Steve McQueen's strongest performance. It's a shame it doesn't go anywhere.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I really enjoyed Schaffner's Planet of the Apes, I was very dissatisfied with Patton and The Boys From Brazil. Unfortunately, Papillon is another disappointment, though I had no expectations. It's an attempt at emulating David Lean, updating the style to the rugged 1970s. With it's very cinematic photography, it immediately recalls the wide full frames of The Bridge Over The River Kwai and Lawrence of Arabia, with some slow motion shots, POV shots and documentary style zooms scattered around for good measure. Everything is gritty and sweaty with wet walls and faces in every scene. It's much more gruesome than I expected, somewhat like a Sam Peckinpah film with all the red pain blood being spilled. It's a film that certainly knows how to kick a character right down to the very bottom and has us in for the ride. So it's great when our protagonist, Papillon (the nickname of Steve McQueen's character - which is French for butterfly, and involves an ironic butterfly catching scene) finally rises above the cruel oppressors. Unfortunately there's no point at all which indicates for me to care for the characters. The only reason I empathise is because human suffering is bad and escape is better than imprisonment - so that's what I want to see him overcome. Otherwise, there are no particularly likable characters. But what really kills the film is its extremely unjustifiably slow pace especially with very short scenes. Sometimes the development comes from montages when it could've come from a well written scene. It's bad enough that the film is 2 and a half hours anyway. It's ironic for a film with an Oscar nominated score to utilize silence so often - sometimes to great effect, but sometimes testing patience. Granted, for the most part it is well written. Just very bloated. There's funny moments that make the very downbeat film more lighthearted but there are times when it's awkwardly out of step for the film. There's a few dream sequences in there which are too obvious and bizarre for their own good. They come off as lazy writing rather than a genuine insight into the character's mind. Otherwise the film really doesn't spare details that it should've just to get to the point.Papillon is a generic triumph of will film posing as an episodic epic but it doesn't go anywhere. By the confusing third act - wherein it skips 5 years of film time that we don't glimpse into - the character plummets into insanity and is a broken man. While the film could have held my attention more if there was a big specific mystery I wanted answered throughout, it stuck to when will Steve McQueen escape? and when it inevitably happens, it doesn't feel like his will triumphed. It felt like his will was beaten to the point of his triumph being useless. Made the ending I'd been waiting for very unsatisfying. Particularly as the duo of Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman gain and lose many redundant accomplices on the way - though it's refreshing to see a duo not built out of chemistry as I expected, but out of tested trust and conflict. Plus to that point, it had blurred the lines between fantasy and reality that I wasn't sure if what was happening was real. The film does has its qualities, but the flaws certainly outweigh them upon reflection. Worth watching regardless, if just to see where they went wrong.6/10 "},{"Title":"The strength of the human spirit","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This wonderful movie is often overlooked and with more play on the movie channels, it would be appreciated for the classic it is. Its lustre comes from having two outstanding actors in Dustin Hoffman and Steve McQueen, as two men who cope with terrible adversity and never yield. Hoffman is a great character actor who has been a force in the world of film for over four decades. Steve McQueen is the lead and he is a film icon who enhanced every movie he starred in. The movie is based on a novel and semi-autobiography describing an extended sentence in a tropical penal colony. McQueen is Henri Charriere, known as Papillon because of the butterfly tattoo on his chest. Papillon is a man whose spirit is never broken. Throughout several failed escapes, humiliation, solitary confinement and every indignity inflicted on this man, he never gives up hope or succumbs to bitterness. Hoffman is Louis Degas, who reminds us of a modern day white collar criminal and worries about his wife sitting on top of his vast wealth. Degas and McQueen are friends who cooperate in their efforts to bust out of the hell hole known as Devil's Island. Degas uses his craftiness to acquire creature comforts but never gives up his dream of making the break with his loyal friend Charriere. The movie keeps you wondering what the next strategy will be. Plans are made, executed, and have some success until the authorities catch up with them and exact their brutal justice. This is a stunning movie, not just about prison life but the heroism and inspiration of these two men. I didn't think about what they might have done to be confined on this remote island because I was on their side. There is also an underlying assumption that it must have been a travesty of justice for these men to be sentenced to such a cruel fate. But It seems that Henri was convicted on a murder charge and Louis, as a counterfeiter. The strength of the human spirit portrayed by these men is the the real attraction of this film. It is enhanced by a superb production and photography. Highly recommend. "}{"Title":"An excellent tale of misery & freedom","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best pieces of creative work. What makes this movie even more powerful is the fact that it is based on truth. It makes one realize how lucky one is to be born free and live & breath in environment where there are no shackles. It instills in you the love for free world where one is born and where life runs and smiles and where humanity prevails over the anguish & pain of inhuman torturous places like Devils Island. We must learn to love our freedom while we still have it. The movie portrays the horrors of solitary excellently and of all the worst things that a human may do to the other, i think solitary lies at the lowest level of humanity. You can feel it through, the unbearable distress of solitary confinement and how it cripples all you ability to think and believe. I think Mcqueen was excellent there. I recommend this for all those who have the desire to understand the urge of running from a hell like devils island and back into the world, our world! "},{"Title":"Excellent adult film","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in the cinema in the UK in 1974, at the tender age of 12, and although much of its adult themes obviously flew over my head, I do remember that I enjoyed it, even though I remembered very little about the film.Fast forward to October 30th 2007, watching Papillon on DVD for the first time since 1974.What a delight, what an utter revelation, a film of great depth, covering themes far reaching for anyone who has lived a bit ) While McQueen is excellent in this, the solitary confinement part of the film is just classic cinema, Hoffman, a young man at the time, plays this middle-aged counterfeiter with such conviction, with so many deft touches, that yes I believed his character was about 40 years old.The locations, the music, the photography all add to making Papillon a great experience.If you can get the film in it's original widescreen format then treat yourself, it really is another excellent example of American 70's cinema at its best.They really don't make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Indomitable persistence and determination in real-life drama.","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Coming from some of McQueen's earlier movies like The Getaway (1972), Le Mans (1971), Bullitt (1968) and others, when I first saw this film in 1974 I came away disappointed and bewildered a bit, I think. It was such a change for him that I probably thought he had been miscast.Now, that was thirty-three years ago when I was much younger and perhaps more impressionable and susceptible to Hollywood hype. Whatever...Recently, however, I got a DVD of the film and had another look &#150; and was I glad I did! I've not read the book, so I can't compare that to the film narrative. As a well-produced and well-acted movie, however, it certainly stands the test of time. And &#150; surprise &#150; McQueen's performance is much better than I recall. In fact, I'd go as far to say it could be regarded as his best performance in a dramatic role. For that alone, it's worth seeing.Dustin Hoffman gives another sterling performance as the eccentric counterfeiter Louis Dega and watching the two actors bounce off each other verbally is a joy to watch and hear. Alas, only a few nominations for this really good film; I guess the competition for Oscars that year was very strong.The cinematography and editing are quiet good; but this is not Lawrence of Arabia (1962) that did win for those categories, among others. The jungle backdrops are superb, the golden beaches scintillating in the ever-present sun. The best part for me, however (aside from the fine acting), is the script by Dalton Trumbo, one of Hollywood's great writers who fell victim to the excesses of the 1950s MacCarthy witch-hunts.And the story? Who can resist a real-life account about the only man who ever managed to escape from Devil's Island and live to tell the tale? See this one for sure. And, if you've seen it before, have another look. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Truly awesome film *****","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve Mqueen was in many great films, The Great Escape, Geta-way, Bullit, but this could easily pass as the best performance of his career. This is an absolutely breathtaking film about 'Papilon', a man who is falsely accused of murder and sent to 'devils island'. Steve Mqueen is truly awesome as the lead. Alongside Dustin Hoffman, Mqueen breaks out of the prison and sets out on an a journey to freedom. Dustin Hoffman is great, but it is really Mqueen's powerful performance which really steals the show. The escape is portrayed with as much action as possible, and is some times tragic at times. This based on the biography of Henri Charae', the real papilon. Recommended for all Steve Mqueen Fans- 10/10 "},{"Title":"An Inspiring Adventure, Very enjoyable viewing","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillon - I can remember my Mother reading this book when I was only ten. At the time she told me that it was undoubtedly the best book that she had ever read. The movie is no expectation. A tale of two prisoned men and their amazing journey/fight for freedom. True story Papillon and autobiography of Henri Charriere, one of the few people to successfully escape from the notorious French penal colony of Devil's Island, served as the basis for this incredible movie,Papillon. Steve McQueen plays the pugnacious Charriere (known as Papillon, or butterfly, because of a prominent tattoo. By the end of the movie you will be left, at the very least hoping, this poor soul,after all his attempts, makes it out to find freedom.My Movie Rating, 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A bit long but loaded with talent!","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time a couple of months ago. What can I say; I'm a bit slow. In my opinion, Steve McQueen sparkled in every movie he ever did. We all lost a great one when he left us. He plays Papillon with much humility and courage. Dustin Hoffman is loaded with talent in this one. I must say, though, that Anthony Zerbe's performance as the leper is outstanding. The humility Zerbe emotes (without saying a word and with half his face hidden under a disguise) when McQueen thanks him for his help took my breath away. The entire cast is first-rate. The only negative thing I have to say about the film--I thought it is a bit long. As I said, the entire cast is first-rate, even though, at times, the film lags just a bit. Wonderful location shooting. Oh, and one more thing-- William Smithers rocks out loud in this gem of a movie!  "},{"Title":"All time Classic","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Truly great classic movie.  If you like Steve McQueen or Dustin Hoffman, this is a must see as it may very well be the best movie either of these two actors has ever played in.Movies over 20 years old or so often seem outdated, and sometimes their impact may be lessened when watched by the current public. Not this movie.  It's timeless.  Top it off with the fact that it is based on a true story, and it'll make you cringe.I had to post this quote as the only other one available was too negative for a movie that sits in my top ten of all time.  "},{"Title":"Great movie but too much is changed compared to the book","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really loved watching Papillon. So much in fact that I decided to read the book by Henri Charrière, which I would strongly recommend to all who liked the film.The film stops where the book goes much further, and Papillon has many more troubles and adventures to overcome before the story ends. Another example of the many things that was changed in the film; Louis Dega (played by Dustin Hoffman) only plays a minor role in the Book, and is never sent to Devil's Island, as he is in the film.I find it a bit of a shame that so much has been altered and cut away. Since the book is a self-biographical (ie. TRUE) story of what happened to Henri Charrière, I think it's a bit disrespectful to alter the story that much.All this being said, I still think that Papillon is a great and very moving film, I'd just like it to be the real story of what happened to Henri and not the mixed-together fact/fiction it was made to be.  "},{"Title":"A Stately Sort of Action Adventure","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" How can so many critics gripe about a lack of sufficient empathy for a character consigned to a dehumanizing, barbaric, inescapable prison colony for the rest of his life? I don't care whether the title character's guilty or innocent of killing the pimp, I wouldn't care who he killed. There are very very very few people in the history of the world who truly, in an absolute sense, deserve this sort of lifelong treatment. Such is the charm of prison films, survival films It's not about who they are; it's about us. We want out of there, he's going to struggle to do so, so we watch engrossed.The film begins with co-adaptor Dalton Trumbo lecturing the newest consignment of prisoners sent to the South American jungle terrors, en route on a cargo ship steaming into a Caribbean port, in one outstanding long shot that incorporates the ship, quay, river, jungles on the other side and the sea far off. He tells them they are hereafter objects, property, luggage. It sets up the expanse and atmosphere for a stimulating spectacle of fortitude, pioneering and besieged camaraderie. It's a very classically made adventure movie. We're always caught up in the physical expanse of the story. Director Franklin J. Schaffner doubled between personal dramas and grand-scale epics, and Papillon was one of the gargantuan Oscar-effort productions that confirmed him on the A-list, along with Patton and Nicholas and Alexandra.Though many spectacular shots in Papillon aren't practically vital and though they give you the sense that the film was shot predominantly from a zeppelin, they bring to mind an all but outmoded storytelling technique to which we're all a little biased, the sort that looks to substantiate character and event by telling us a large amount more about topography, environment, climate conditions, plant life and architecture than we categorically need know. Likewise, its puffy running time emphasizes the captive feeling of the characters languishing in time. The metric nature of the cutting is protracted, using the usually massive visual composition of the shots to extend the physical nature of time rather than eliciting the most basal and emotional reactions in the audience with a fast pace. It elicits those reactions from us with the desperation of the prison environment itself.The movie analogy to the novel's descriptive paragraph is the long shot. It fills the screen with elements and data intended to persuade us that since the setting is authentic, so must be the people in it. Papillon frantically needs this kind of scaffolding since the Dalton Trumbo and Lorenzo Semple Jr. screenplay, apparently like the book, identifies its characters less by what they feel or think than overstated events and Herculean feats. I can understand the view that Papillon is dry in the sense that a Victorian costume drama is. We understand the dilemmas of the characters right off, because they're in a strait-jacket environment where they always have to watch their step, much less express how they truly feel in ways other than what's not considered downright subversive. But Pride and Prejudice, Sense and Sensibility, Howards End and Gosford Park tell their stories in the same manner as this prison struggle. And it's effective on just the same level.Steve McQueen was not just another action hero. He was like Clint Eastwood, a master of masculine understatement. And Dustin Hoffman, who plays a refined counterfeiter, a white-collar criminal whose guilt is without doubt, does outstanding work portraying his character's adjustment to the demoralization of prison life. There are various and sundry peripheral characters in the story, all essentially requisite for a Devil's Island adventure the sadistic guard, the condemned prisoner, the idealistic doctor. The atrocities of prison life are explicitly exposed, including a decapitation that concludes in blood gushing onto the lens of the camera, cockroaches eaten to improve the prison intake, storms at sea and a hand-to-hand confrontation with a crocodile. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is based on a true story of the life of henry Henri Charriere which is played by tank Abbott aka mqwueen.The movie is shot in Spain and Jamaica,its Frank J.Schaffner's film of papillon united Mqueen and the 2 time academy award winner Hoffmen in one of the greatest movies f the 70's.This movie has great acting by Dustin Hoffmen who should have taken the leading role Tank is a good actor but these movies are just too big for him. This movie has great locations which were chosen Franklin J. Schaffner(Patton) . This movie has great music,his movie has great screenplay.But because Tank Abbott wasn't that good (he was smoking a lot and fighting a lot with the Franklin J. Schaffner)and it was very very slow.I gave an 8/10.BUT STILL ITS A GREAT MOVIE "}{"Title":"Whether you empathize with the escape hinges on two things","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" In Steve McQueen's escape classic, The Great Escape, the validity of the attempt is beyond question it's a prisoner-of-war's DUTY to try to escape. Even if you turn it around, a German prisoner-of-war trying to escape, the validity is still completely intact. The validity of Henri Papillon Charriere's (Steve McQueen) escape attempt, however, hinges on two things, whether the sentence is just and whether the condition of the prison is intolerably inhumane. I am not going to attempt to provide answers to these questions.Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman (playing fellow prisoner Louis Dega) are often mentioned in the same breath when people talk about Papillon. However, unlike Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Papillon is not Charriere and Dega. McQueen playing Papillon is the lead. Hoffman is the support, albeit a very prominent support.The movie starts off with a good buildup covering in considerable detail the condition of the prison, the development of the friendship between Charriere and Dega, paint brush introduction of some other important characters. All these provide a good foundation working towards what I think is the best part of the movie, Charriere's unsuccessful escape attempt culminating in two years of solitary confinement. Considerable pain has been taken to depict his struggles in this period, particularly in steadfastly refusing to disclose the name of Dega who smuggles coconuts in to him, convincingly crystallizing this man's integrity and loyalty to his friendship with Dega. However, I do not think that it is really possible to share on the screen one's experience in two years of solitary confinement. How can you possibly even begin to depict the hours and hours and hours of inactivity and boredom.After Charriere's release from the first (yes, there's more) solitary confinement, the movie leans a bit towards being melodramatic, in the sequence on the second escape, becoming more event-driven than character-driven. Charriere's sudden plunge into an idyllic existence in Honduras and subsequent betrayal by a nun are somewhat out of tune with the rest of the movie.Quite cleverly, the moviemakers refrain from making any attempt whatsoever to depict the second solitary confinement which lasted for 5 years, even at the cost of disturbing again the pace, as this period takes up about one minute on screen. Much will be told, it is obviously hoped, by Charriere's haggard face and white hair. With McQueen's excellent acting, this strategy enjoys some success.The last part of the movie is interesting. Sent to a paradise-like island that is an inescapable prison, Charriere re-encounters Dega. Compared with solitary confinement, and even with the prison where all prisoners are shackled at the ankle every night when they sleep, this island on which they each have their own hut and are allowed to move around freely does seem almost like paradise. And yet, Charriere doggedly holds on to his determination to escape and eventually succeeds, according to the real story on which the movie is based.McQueen is excellent. Hoffman is good. The movie is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"great adventure of the era","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" great movieits good and great adventure real story of the era.it even influenced me a lot in my life.its a must to see movie.and if you like it you can read a auto biography. one is Pepillo. second is banko.my id is homage to this real superstar.i have a life time wish to visit and see myself the barracks where papillon had been imprisoned in french Guenna.if you are determined you can win in all situation.i recommend this movie to see.and read also if you like.how a small person who is unlucky enough to sent in jail for the crime he had not committed made his mind to get escape and try his best. after so many items he finally get success.it is not sh awned in picture but after his escape papillon went to Venezuela by hard journey.there he got citizenship. he married to Rita Marlowe.he became celebrity.even he visited France.he went to crime area to get his revenge.but his good heart turnaround and he give up the idea of revenge.some one must should make a film of second part. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I´ve ever seen.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Freedom is the most important thing for prisoner Papillon. And his longing for freedom is stronger than longing for living. Excellent roles created by Steve and Dustin. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Location of movie","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The cave scenes were filmed in Negril, Jamaica, beneath what is now the Xtabi hotel. The Xtabi caves were also the scene of another famous movie (20,0000 Leagues Under the Sea). Director Frank Schaffner was friends with Richard Fleischer, who directed 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, and was impressed with the footage shot by Fleischer at Xtabi. Schaffner remembered the raw, unspoiled natural beauty of the Xtabi cove and had his Director of Photography, Fred Koenekamp, scout the location for the Papillon film. The hotel itself was originally built to accommodate the cast and crew who spent several weeks in pre-production preparing the caves and eventually shooting the scenes, which took just over a week. Steve McQueen insisted that a bar be constructed on the Xtabi cliffs for the cast and crew(which is still there today). "},{"Title":"McQueen and Hoffman at their absolute best","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is certainly Steve McQueen's best movie, and is Hoffman's second best after Rain Man(1988).  This is a fantasic, heartbreaking story of two desperate inmates of devil's island prison.  The film is vastly entertaining from beginning to end, although it does drag a little bit in a few scenes. This movie is often underrated, because most people dont know about it. It's a great film.  ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Gut wrenching prison film","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie, based on the novel of the same name which I haven't read, is definitely not for the faint of heart or those who like glamorous entertainment. This is the first Steve McQueen movie I've seen. I was extremely impressed with his performance and look forward to watching his other films. Dustin Hoffman is also superb as his good friend. I think one of the wardens was also in that Star Trek episode that took place in an ancient Roman setting. I know I'm rambling! There are some very graphic scenes in this film but they are not gratuitous. Two of the most memorable are McQueen's stay in solitary and his encounter with the leper colony. A true classic, 9/10.  "},{"Title":"A Classic Prison Escape Film","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Franklin J. Schaffner felt that the obligation of motion pictures is to entertain, it's as basic as that, and that is exactly what Papillon does. It is also a movie that really triggers your emotions from start to finish. I feel this is one of Steve McQueen's best acting roles. It was probably the most physically demanding and emotionally challenging role of his career. Dustin Hoffman is simply magnificent as Louis Dega, a role that demonstrates how versatile the actor really can be. It eventually earned him a best supporting actor nomination. Unfortunately, McQueen was overlooked by the Academy that year.  Another example of their stupidity!!The film is emotionally draining, but I find myself watching this film time and time again because of its portrayal of one man's quest to gain his freedom no matter what it takes.  Freedom always comes at a price. It is not something that is handed to us or exists freely. It must be earned and that is exactly what his character does by the time the credits role on this film. The viewer will not believe what the character of Papillon had to endure to gain his freedom. The trials he goes through are unforgettable and often left me wondering if I would persevere if I had to undergo the trials he faced. For me, Steve McQueen is one of those actors who really has a great on screen presence. I will almost always watch a movie just because he appears in it, good or bad. Papillon is no exception. Although Papillon is a character driven film, the movie must be viewed for more than just the characters. It also has wonderful cinematography, direction and a memorable, and at times haunting, musical score by Jerry Goldsmith. It is right up there with the best of the prison escape films.  Henri Charrière, the real life Papillon and author of the novel, talked about society and his real life experiences in this waySociety does not want free men. They talk freedom, democracy, anything you want, but they do not want free men. Society wants conditioned men, men who march in step. It's up to the viewer to agree or disagree with that statement while viewing the film.I highly recommend you watch this film today!  "},{"Title":"Wrong Metaphor","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henri Charriere may have acquired his nickname from his tattoo, but as a symbol for this  movie it's all wrong. I have no idea what the real Charriere is like, but, at least as  portrayed by Steve McQueen, he comes across less as a butterfly--a spirited, carefree  creature--and more as a naked mole-rat, those inscrutable little cold-blooded mammals  whose entire existence is devoted to blindly gnawing though dirt. But a movie titled  Naked Mole-Rat is unlikely to pack them in, so why complain?The fact is, this is a sloppily constructed, overlong, not terribly well-acted movie. The  painfully obvious image of the frogman assisting McQueen/Papillon's raft at the movie's  final scene (and listed in the goofs section of this site) is exceeded in its  amateurishness only by the sudden intrusion of a narrator into the movie's epilogue a  few seconds later. Along the way there are lapses of plot continuity, failures of motive,  and unexplained incongruities (convicts get beheaded in the penal colony for far less  violent offenses than Papillon repeatedly commits during one of his escapes but for  some reason neither he nor his co-conspirators ever sees the guillotine), as well as  tedious dead spots througout. The moviemakers' idea of conveying the tedium of  solitary confinement, apparently, is to depict it in real-time.McQueen was better as a prisoner in The Great Escape. Hoffman was a better gimp  in Midnight Cowboy. And those two movies together are probably shorter than this.  Do yourself a favor and watch those instead. "},{"Title":"A little too Fantastic to believe","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" *** WARNING **** SPOILERS AHEAD!!!! After watching the movie for the first time last night my opinion is that some of the plot was just too unbelievable.I find it hard to believe that Papillon escapes for the 2nd time and finds the manhunters, that were tipped off beforehand, to be murdered and he is befriended by some stranger.And then goes to a leper colony and is befriended by the lepers and given a boat.And then is befriended by a honduras national once he reaches the mainland. But wait the honduran national is killed and Papillon is captured by the tribe that was sent to track him down.And then Papillon is befriended by the tribesmen but no wait.... he is turned in by some nuns at a convent.Papillon is then put on devils island which is escape proof but wait... he puts some coconuts in a bag, throws it off a cliff, and floats on the coconuts for 23 miles to the mainland and lives a free man.Yeah.......sure.......And all prisoners are innocent are they? If this was labeled as a fantasy film I would have given it a 9 for the acting.I don't believe half of the film really happened. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but boring","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" If David Lean had directed Robert Bresson's austere prison-break film A Man Escaped, the results might have looked something like this. Papillon is made in the old epic mode of film-making that began sometime in the early 50s and was dying off by the seventies, when this film was made. For about its first hour I enjoyed the movie as a throwback to that vanished style, with the beautiful clarity of its widescreen photography and the attention to detail in its sets, costumes, and props. Franklin Schaffner's style, particularly in his meticulous widescreen compositions, is best described as monumental- he even he seems to prefer a monument's somber color range of , with lots of grays, whites and blues. He was heavily criticized at the time for handling what I really a fairly simple prison-break story in such grandiose fashion, but in his defense I think Schaffner is trying to show that one man's determination to reach freedom is an epic theme. As the film begins French prisoners are being taken away from their homeland to French Guiana. Papillon (Steve McQueen), a safecracker convicted of killing a pimp (a crime that he insists he is innocent of), befriends Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman), who, though a notorious safecracker, has no chance of survival on his own; Papillon provides protection for him, first on the sea journey to the colony, and then in the fetid swamps where they're put to work. The film's meticulous recreations of the story's setting and locations really pay off here in conveying the characters' harsh environment, a nightmare world in which convicts are brutalized for the slightest infraction, are forced by guards to kill crocodiles, and are hunted by professional manhunters through the jungles if they attempt to escape. Steve McQueen was not much of an actor in the sense of someone who slips into a character's skin, but in the right role his presence could tell you everything you need to know about a character. One of the basic characteristics of McQueen's characters is that they refuse to be hemmed in by any form of authority, and here he holds the movie together because you know that Papillon will stop at nothing to escape. If the movie had continued in the vein of its first hour it might now be remembered as a great adventure film. It starts to go downhill, however, after Papillon is condemned to solitary confinement. The sequence that follows is like a grim variation on McQueen's similar scenes in The Great Escape, and really it's much too grim for a Steve McQueen movie. There's plenty of brutality in the earlier scenes, but there it's in an adventure movie format that the movie can support, and there's plenty of detail and spectacle to balance out the central story's narrow focus. In the solitary confinement scenes, however, all you have to look at is Steve McQueen locked into a tiny prison cell, and the hollowness of the movie's self-seriousness is exposed. These scenes are also the most similar to A Man Escaped, which only shows up the inherent flaws of Papillon, a film with infinitely more resources than Bresson had and far fewer ideas about what to do with them. Papillon never recovers from what this sequence, even the film returns to familiar escape-movie ground more suited to Schaffner's talents and McQueen's personality. Papillon's escape from the island is well executed technically, but by treating it like the Greatest Story Ever Told, Schaffner saps these scenes of any sense of exhilaration. Even worse, Papillon's success in escaping depends on way too many contrived details for it ever to be taken as seriously as the director intends. It's almost like a fairytale, with Papillon running into people every step of the way who are improbably willing to help him. Old time epics, for all of their proud claims of accuracy in even the minutest details, sometimes founder on the little details. The American accents of Papillon's cast produces a disassociated feel, as if Americans had replaced all of the French characters and were carrying on in their place. Another lapse is the puzzlingly sloppy makeup job on the leader of a leper colony that Papillon encounters, which in a daytime scene can be seen to only cover part of his face. The screenplay's decision to have Papillon be recaptured after he seems to have been home free for a while is a bold decision, particularly since his betrayer is a nun (!), but it also means that the last half hour is completely perfunctory, since we know that he will escape again, successfully this time, at the end of the movie, leaving us with nothing to watch except Steve McQueen trying to out-act Dustin Hoffman, not exactly his forte as a performer. It's in the last shot, however, where the movie really shoots itself in the foot; as Papillon drifts away from the island on a raft, supposedly alone in the middle of the ocean, I could see, very clearly, a frogman under the raft. At the end of what was obviously a very expensive movie to make, this gaffe isn't just embarrassing, it's mind-boggling that the filmmakers would effectively throw all of their effort in a few seconds. In terms of escape movies, Papillon straddles the line between a serious art-house film like A Man Escaped and a 1960s Hollywood guys-on-a-mission action flick like The Great Escape, but the film is too solemn and narrowly focused to capture the exuberance of the latter, and too much of a movie star-fuelled spectacle to capture the real seriousness of the former. By the movie's end, what began as a compelling adventure movie can be summed up in three words beautiful but boring. "}{"Title":"Schaffner creates an great atmosphere in the prison as well as in the jungle","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve McQueen as Papillon is sent to the French Guyana prison camp on Devil's Island for murder. On the road he makes friends Louis Dega, a counterfeiter, and their friendship lasts quite a long time, this proves that this is the only thing that makes 2 men to hang on to as the long years of captivity.McQueen and Hoffman are excellent, director Franklin J. Schaffner creates an great atmosphere in the prison as well as in the jungle. The movie has a different climax. This probably has something to do with sense of justice the director seems to be suffering from. This is one of the contrasting features from the the known classics. "},{"Title":"Still holds bite even today","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" (72%) A pretty great, and very punishing classic film telling a very worthy tail of the extreme conditions found within a French colony prison that through the many years since its release has not really aged all that much at all. Owing to its classic status is due in parts to the fact that it is so well made and wonderfully acted. Good old Steve McQueen is great in the lead role going through one of the utterly worst ordeals almost possible, while the direction and editing is fluent; it never drags once in its 2 and a half hours runtime. This is now without question a classic film that should be tracked down by almost anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"Hey you bastards, Papillon's still here!","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie doesn't give you a moment to settle down. Drums beat. Prisoners are assembled under a blazing sun and informed that they are being packed and sent for the rest of their lives to the penal colony at Devil's Island, French Guinea. France has disowned them. Among the prisoners is the titular character Papillon (aced by Steve McQueen) charged with a crime he hasn't committed, and Luis Dega (Hoffman), a fraud banker convicted on counterfeit charges. Bound by mutual necessity, they soon become friends during their journey to Devil's Island. Then begins a ruthless documentation of inhuman prison conditions in that infamous penal colony that has shamed French history forever. The movie is based on a book by the same name authored by Henri Charriere, a former convict and fugitive from Devil's Island and though the work is fiction, the background is entirely based on real events.As soon as Papillon declares his intention to flee this place to Dega, we are with him! And why not - the harrowing surrealism with which prison life at Devil's Island is depicted makes us grateful to afford our daily cup of coffee. Not surprising because the greatest prison movies have the power to nurture a sense of gratitude in us - that simply of being alive and free. Papillon is right up there with The Shawshank Redemption in that regard, and there are scenes toward the end of the movie where McQueen's character behaves as hysterical and looks almost identical to Tim Robbin's Andy Dufresne.However, the movie is also different from Shawshank in that it transcends the prison genre, occasionally yielding to levels of adventures expected in Indiana Jones or Monte Cristo. But the tension running through the movie is palpable; we find ourselves repeatedly cheering the poetic heroism of Papillon and his never-say-die attitude through the film; yet a part of us knows and feels the attempt is futile; that iron bars and grim walls of hard stone can break down any man's will; and even if you get past those obstacles through luck or friends, there is only a vast, endless ocean to conquer. Repeatedly we fail to offer him our trust, repeatedly he defies us by the strength of his being, till it all ends as a matter of choice in the brink of incertitude. Papillon finally finishes on a high note, with McQueen screaming Hey you bastards, I'm still here! This movie is also a great study of contrasting approaches to life. A life led by courage and a life led by cunning are not the same. Where Papillon always has his heart in the front, Dega the friend he earnestly trusts has his mind. There is a moment in the film where Papillon suffers much on account of a move by Dega, but he doesn't give his friend's name away to the officials. During such moments, we almost wish he were as practical as Dega, but we are reminded that a man of courage like Papillon can never be Dega. Nor can Dega ever be a Papillon. Yet, through the course of this movie, Dega transforms in his understanding of the heroic man and acknowledges that such men exist. In the breakdown of Dega's cynicism during the final hysterical scenes laced with black comedy and the gruff, raw editing that somehow suits and runs through the length of this movie; we know Papillon has triumphed and whether he live or die in the story, this movie will gloriously live on an island all its own!And inspire. (Hats off to Mr. Henri Charriere for living to tell us the tale!) "},{"Title":"I'm still here you bastards!","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" So says Henri Papillon Charrière as he desperately clings to the bars of his cell, ever defiant in the face of life imprisonment in the French penal colony of Guiana. It is where he and many other inmates of the French prison institution were sent to live out their sentences in the period between 1852 and 1952. Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman make a fine cinematic pair, two prisoners who seek each other out for mutual benefit in the harsh climate of French Guiana. Hoffman's Louis Dega, the bespectacled bookkeeper looking for protection from the fellow murderous inmates that would like nothing better than to slit open his insides and rummage around for the chargers of money hidden in his rectum. He employs Papillon as his defacto bodyguard, but on the assurance that Dega will fund his escape from the seemingly inescapable prison island system. Together the pair ride out the grueling boat journey across the Atlantic, weathering harsh working conditions, tropical diseases, sadistic guards, alligators, manhunters, local tribes, and all manner of pitfalls and treachery. With each escape attempt they are punished with increasing severity, until the human depravity is at an almost intolerable peak. At first the prisoners are somewhat shocked by the horrible standards, but as the years go on, death seems to be commonplace, and no one looks twice at a starved or collapsed boy laying in the jungle heat. The colony is akin to a concentration camp, and indeed perhaps that was the intention. The two leads act as perfect complimentary foils to each other, with McQueen representing the freedom fighter that will stop at nothing to escape, and Hoffman the somewhat apathetic submissive, who still has faith in institutionalization and society. Each escape attempt is more daring and elaborate than the last, and McQueen portrays wonderfully the vibrant human spirit forever in pursuit of his freedom. Hoffman too steals the show with each scene he is in, but it is McQueen that carries and envelopes the story with his relentless defiance. But the tale is not just a telling of a one dimensional, petty criminal. Throughout the film, Papillon is questioned certain existentialist ideas of what worth his life is, he who seeks to escape justice. The film leaves you with a nice moral to not waste your life, never painting the run for freedom with heroics or unnecessary romance. The script is very intelligent compared to the average prison film. Aside from the screenplay, the costume design, photography, make up, and on location shooting all provide wonderful colour and flair to the adventure. The story provides levels of imprisonment, until they are finally interred on the infamous Devil's Island that housed political prisoners, and the gradual wear and tear of their character and bodies is convincingly realized. You really get the sense that these guys have been through Hell for 20 or more years. You can feel the films influence on subsequent movies, from Shawshank Redemption, Cast Away, and even Apocalypse Now. The finale should go down in film history as a classic moment, filled with sadness, but always there remains a light of humanity that longs for autonomy. It is no surprise that Papillon means 'butterfly' in French, and the main character is probably the greatest libertarian hero in all of cinema, more so than any protagonist of Clint Eastwood or John Wayne. It isn't flawless, towards the middle it may drag a bit, but any self respecting film goer should watch this on the biggest television possible for the full effect. For such a great movie, it is somewhat under appreciated in today's age. "},{"Title":"Great long prison escape story for an old movie night.  Two great actors at their best.","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillion is one of those movies that balances a strong protagonist with a story that includes quality performances from other fine supporting actors. Namely, Steve McQueen is at his best with Dustin Hoffman aptly fitting in as best friend and others such as Bill Mummy and Don Gordon.One of the most engaging features of such a protagonist in a movie or book is the theme of wrongly convicted-which is certainly present here. While we never know for sure, Papillion made convincing arguments that he was innocent and his resolve throughout his life story seems to gain energy from them. His will to survive and be free is strong but is it possibly strong enough to overcome fate? The story twists and turns from France to the jungles of French Guiana to an infamous Caribbean island Devil's Island with many adventures and escape attempts well tied to the main plot.One must remember, when criticizing this movie, that it is a true story...well at least 75% true according to Henri Charrière (aka Papillion). Be critical of the plot but remember that this actually happened and to add embellishments must be done with discernment! I liked it all and have deemed it one of my very favorites. "},{"Title":"The Man with the Butterfly Tattoo ...","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Should I or should I not review Papillon?This question has been puzzling my mind for several months. And now, I understand that whatever I'm going to write, the relevance will be undermined by the fact that I didn't read the novel. In advance, I apologize for the following intellectual masturbation.Is an adaptation supposed to be a complement of the original book, or it should be regarded as a totally independent medium? Since I've seen more films than I read books, the most convenient choice is to believe in the second option. However, one of the first things I remember about the film was my father's experience, it was the first novel he read that was adapted into a film, and as much as he admired Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman, he thought the film was an insult to the book. And guess what? Many IMDb users share the same feelings, and insist that the film doesn't respect the film's narrative, and even worse, fails to vehicle the same gripping emotions, than Henri Charrière's biographical best-seller. With that in mind, I knew my appreciation would be biased, and although it didn't ruin my desire to enjoy the film, I often find myself wondering how extraordinary the reading of some paragraphs would have been. Indeed, the more I recreate in my mind, the famous 'isolation' sequence, where I remember the agonizing white-haired face of an exhausted Steve McQueen, forced to eat cockroaches and his own excrement, reaching for the thinnest light of hope as the only tunnel to existence, I know I'm missing one hell of a literary experience. I know the book would be a thrilling psychological study, inviting us to identify with a man who could only hang on his desire to escape, not to die in starvation or insanity. The Shawshank Redemption succeeded with less potential, here, even in the middle of a jungle, where the isolation is accentuated, the film is more about the escape than the human motives beneath them.Still, in that very part, McQueen's performance as the man with the Butterfly tattoo, did probably justice to the novel, as I've never felt so intensely absorbed by the pain endured by a prisoner. And the isolation part plays as a microcosm to what makes Papillon one hell of an exhaustive experience, in both the right and the wrong way.The problem is that the film is almost three-hour long, and quite irregular quality-wise, it's not the kind of prison film where each scene works alone as a classic or gets stuck in your mind, I wish it was. In its attempt to be faithful to the experience lived by Charriere, (even the fictional parts), the film covers a bit too much, victim of its own ambition. Roger Ebert's criticism sums it up quite well, when he regrets that the film spent too much time developing the friendship between Charriere and Dega (the geeky counterfeit played by Dustin Hoffman) as if Dega was significant enough to the story. Granted it's hard to picture Dustin Hoffman playing a minor role in the 70's, and since he's the one who hired Charriere as a bodyguard, and cost him his isolation by supplying him some food, he became an important element of the story. Still, between the hellish life and mental torture of a prisoner in the famous Devil's Island prison and a friendship story, the film tries to oscillates, with a clumsy editing and a result far from the developed relationship between Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman in Shawshank.The result is therefore uneven we're grabbed by the story, the setting is realistic enough to hook us immediately to the prisoner's experience, and its exoticness conveys a thrilling sense of danger that makes even the escape a debatable option. But there comes a moment at the end, where all we wait for is the nightmare to stop. As said Ebert (I'm still saddened by his recent passing, so it's only fitting to quote him) we don't want the prisoners to escape for their own freedom but just so the film could be over. And I don't even detect sarcasm in this remark, for even the best-looking and best-acted films can reach a no-return point in the viewer's attention span. Papillon, after nineteen intense minutes, turns out to a series of misfortunes, so repetitive they are tragicomically frustrating, from a well-crafted escape that end up in a unseaworthy boat, from a long trip in a indigenous tribe's camp to the capture by South-American soldiers, to the providential help of a nun that leads him to another arrest, we start to wonder when the hell is going to get off that one, and this is a selfish feeling too.And another sad consequence is that no matter how great Steve McQueen is, there are five minutes that are totally unwatchable when they discover that they can't take the boat, McQueen's acting is inversely proportional to the wonderful scene where he has a nervous breakdown and can't tell the guards who gave him the food. To those who wonder why he didn't get the Oscar, maybe that scene cost him the award. I still give the film an 8, because I enjoyed it, and still regard the isolation part as some of the best movie scenes from any other prison movie. But I know that sooner or later, I will read the book, and my opinion might be more severe. Is Papillon one of the best movies of the 70's, one of the most memorable, yes, the highlight of Steve McQueen's career, probably. An unforgettable experience? At some parts, yes. But a masterpiece, it isn't &#x85; and God knows it had the potential to be one. "},{"Title":"A lot better than I was expecting...","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" PAPILLONI thought it was really good. I had been putting it off for a while because it didn't really take my fancy... but last night I decided to watch it.The movie is about a man who has been imprisoned on an island called Devil's Island and his numerous bids to escape.It stars Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman... I have only seen a couple of Steve McQueen's films but I have to say he has been brilliant in them all. I will be looking out for more of his movies. Steve plays Papillon... and he plays it well. The stress and health problem his character goes through in this movie was horrible and believable to watch. At one point Papillon looked so ill that he nearly died. He actually looked really bad. He goes through such a rough time trying to escape but never gives up. He meets someone there who he gets close to and they try and escape together. Dustin Hoffman plays his friend really well too. I am not a big Dustin Hoffman fan, but this is one of his best films that I have seen.The film is on for just under 2 and a half hours, which is very long... but to be honest it didn't feel like it. It didn't drag out and I didn't get restless during the movie.I tried not to compare this to Steves other famous escape film, but I couldn't help it before watching it... but they are 2 completely different movies. If you have not seen this, do not compare them because they are not the same. I didn't like this film as much as the Great Escape though, but it was still very enjoyable.The only mistake I saw whilst watching it was when Papillon was sitting on a makeshift raft floating in the sea and you could actually see someone swimming underneath his raft holding it to make sure it didn't move too much. I mean it really was very obvious, I noticed it straight away... but don't get me wrong. That just amused me and didn't ruin the movie.I will give this film 7 out of 10... A really good movie, and definitely worth a watch.for more reviews check out my Facebook pagehttp//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"An Excellent Prison Drama","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" A man (Steve McQueen) befriends a fellow criminal (Dustin Hoffman) as the two of them begin serving their sentence on a dreadful prison island, which inspires the man to plot his escape.Many people have had problems with this movie for a variety of reasons, most of which circulate around the exaggerated way the film presents the novel and/or the way the story tends to stretch the truth in the first place. Frankly, when watching the movie, I just ignored this completely... and enjoyed the film for what it is.Dustin Hoffman has always been a great actor, but he is far outdone by McQueen here. I cannot even say I thought much of McQueen in the past, but here -- wow -- he really nails it in the solitary confinement scene. His aging (thanks, makeup department), tattered clothes and loss of mental stability are excellent. "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant and unforgettable!","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" For my age I've seen a loads of movies... And I mean LOADS of them and still there's just a handful of movies which I'd rate as 10 out of 10. But... Papillon has been and it's still is one of them. Forget Shawshank Redemption, forget Prison Escape, just forget ALL the other prison escape movies and series that you've seen so far, because none of them will ever reach the dimensions, feeling and realism of Papillon. This movie may be old, but it has grown totally ageless. No matter what age you are, where you are from or how much you like other prison movies and/or series. This movie will blow you away 100-0. That's guaranteed. Papillon is a long movie and kinda slow paced sometimes, but it still keep it's grip throughout the whole movie. You just can't stop watching it once you started. Papillon is one of those movies that I'd highly recommend for anyone, anywhere, anytime. "},{"Title":"Best prison-life/prison break movie ever.","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" For me, this ranks along with the shawshank redemption as the absolute best among prison life or prison break movies. with a stunning background score which for the most part of the movie does not have any music and has only the sound which closely resembles that of boiling water, you really live the prison life. the seclusion scenes are some of the most powerful i have ever seen. Steve Mcqueen gives what is easily the best performance of his career. Dustin Hoffman as the counterfeiter who is along with Mcqueen in the prison spots a nerdy look and is excellent. like the better known shawshank redemption, this also did not get any recognition by the Academy and was strangely nominated only for best music. the movie is very gripping and does not drag even though it is close to 150 minutes. this is the best time i have had in the drama genre at the movies for the recent path "}{"Title":"I'm still here you bastards!","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" During the Steve McQueen phase of my young life, PAPILLON and THE GREAT ESCAPE were among the films that I've enjoyed watching numerous times.The similarity between the two is they are based partly on true events featuring larger-than-life personalities and the daring adventures that lie ahead. While the 1963 John Sturges classic had colorful characters and witty dialog, Franklin J. Schaffner's prison tale is the polar opposite of the latter film's breezy style.McQueen brings his signature King of Cool persona into Henri Charriere, the wrongfully convicted safe cracker who will never give up his personal freedom without a fight. Dustin Hoffman gives another winning performance as Louis Dega, a currency forger with an unlimited amount of cash hidden inside his intestines. Starring together for the first and final time, the two men have a particular goal of escaping the hellish, tropical South American penal colony known as Devil's Island.Having seen the original PLANET OF THE APES, Schaffner has a distinctive visual flair which makes him truly underrated as a director. While watching the opening scene in PAPILLON, one must feel the desperation that the prisoners are going through. Stripped of their belongings and nationality, the march around the streets of Paris (or in this case Madrid) is melancholy but at the same time mesmerizing. The film's combination of Old Hollywood epic storytelling with gritty New Hollywood filmmaking is nothing short of remarkable cinema.Despite seeing PAPILLON in all its widescreen glory on DVD, the picture quality is inferior but the 5.1 sound re-mix of Jerry Goldsmith's score is outstanding. Maybe if I get a Blu-ray player one day, the media book will be the first purchase.To quote the last line of the film, Hey you bastards, I'm still here. "},{"Title":"Butterflies are free","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Megastars McQueen and Hoffman manage to recruit their acting skills and put aside their persona's to play a pair of petty criminals convicted and sentenced to imprisonment by their French government in the colony of Guiana, preceded by a notoriety earned from unfathomable cruelty and harsh, oppressive conditions of incarceration. Despite the odds, McQueen can only contemplate escape as a means of balancing the ledger, for his apparent false imprisonment for murder. Hoffman as a meek, weak but extremely wealthy white-collar criminal seeks tough-guy McQueen's protection, leading him into a lifelong association that culminates in the pair being sent to Devil's Island, from which there has never been a successful escape.It's an intrepid tale told like an adventure with several sub-plots and narrative diversions, each distinct and entertaining in their own right. Some reviewers have questioned McQueen's dramatic presence and lack of accent, but I found him to be the one-dimensional character he was playing whose only, primal concern was freedom at almost any cost. Hoffman might be unrecognisable to some more familiar with his recent penchant for comedies; these were the films he used to make before he turned to less emotionally demanding roles. Pity. William Smithers has a good supporting role as a sympathetic prison warden, Woodrow Parfrey as the ill-fated Clusiot, Don Gordon, Victor Jory, John Quade, Anthony Zerbe, Gregory Sierra and even future Seinfeld cast member, Len Lesser have minor roles. The acting is without exception, superb.Great location work, sets, dialogue and sub-plots build the two-and-a-half hour epic to a rousing climax that's as anticipated as it is unlikely. Terrific entertainment that resonates long after its conclusion. "},{"Title":"Butterfly Out Of The Jar","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Franklin J. Schaffner's 'Papillon' is based on the harrowing true story of Henri 'Papillon' Charriere who was convicted of murder and sentenced to life in the French Guiana. To begin with, the atmosphere and setup of the prison resembles that of Guantanamo Bay footages. Thanks to the superb art direction, makeup artist and costume designers, the prison looks cruel, dirty, unsanitary, stifling, overcrowded and unsympathetic. It's among the last places anyone would want to be in. The scenes of mistreatment and torture are difficult to watch but they never feel exploitative or out of context.While most of the inmates give up hope, Papillon is determined to escape. He's been caught multiple times with consequences getting more severe but his mental strength keeps his going. Eventually, the guards give up and banish him to 'Devil's Island' (from which apparently there's no escape) but Papillon, despite years of unsuccessful attempts and torture has not given up.Many of criticized Steve McQueen's performance for a majority seem to prefer him in 'Cool guy' roles. However, I think he nailed the part. He is great in both the physical and emotional parts of his role. I was particularly impressed by his transformation from a strong robust energetic prisoner to a physically weaker yet mentally determined older man. Dustin Hoffman is equally convincing as Louis Dega from the man who is initially reluctant to escape as he had faith in his wife who has had the case reopened by a lawyer to someone who has mentally broken down, completely giving up hope. Anthony Zerbe, Don Gordon and the rest of the cast provide fine support.To give the director further credit, with some fine camera-work, the escape sequences have been skillfully shot. The selection of locations is also impressive. The pacing is steady. 'Papillon' is longer than he standard 90 minutes but length doesn't bother me as long as the picture never drags.This may not be an easy film to watch at times but it's worth viewing. As dark, gloomy and chilling as it is, in the end, 'Papillon' is about determination, hope and freedom and The Butterfly knows what the value of liberty is. "},{"Title":"The Story Of An Innocent Convict Who Escaped And Was Given Freedom","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'PAPILLON' is the tale of the dark, corrupt, degrading, and bloody penal system and a man who was put into it while he was in fact not guilty. Henri 'Papillon' Charrière was put into this hell for 14 years, in which he made 8 grand escape attempts. The excitement and danger he faced was captured true and bound to the book, actually written by Mr. Charrière. The scenery in which the film was made in is authentic in most cases, save for the prison sequences. Mr. Charrière, himself, actually helped the film director out with what life was like during his years of imprisonment, during which he desired freedom, justice, and revenge for what was done to him. It was also in this time frame that he suffered unimaginable cruelty including guard abuse and imprisonment on the infamous Devil's Island. These dreams and nightmares were embodied in one man, and the motion picture that portrayed it, 'PAPILLON'. "},{"Title":"Faith wins.","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Throughout one sees such relentless and persistence of the main character, Papillon's aim to get to freedom. Despite his repeated setbacks and failed attempts of escape from the prison island ( a french colony located in south America) to which he was wrongly sentenced to, Papillon never lets go of his belief that one day he will succeed. His incredible faith wins out in the end. This is truly an inspiring true story and shows the power of the human will which can overcome terrible obstacles.Steve McQueen's portrayal of Paillon is one of his best roles, and Dustin Hoffman's portrayal of poor Louis Dega is so convincing that one cannot help but be moved by his situation.I for one can never get tired viewing this wonderful film and recommend it highly. It is a true classic. "},{"Title":"Best adventure film that i've ever seen.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman's acting is very good.It's an exciting film that is much worthy to see. It's also an interesting film that you want to continue to look at. One of the best films i have ever seen. It's simple excellent! "},{"Title":"Not your average escape film....","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was little and the music scared me!(Really). I just saw it today and I don't know what to think of it. It isn't great and it isn't terrible, I just don't know. This is by far McQueen at his best and Hoffman isn't bad in one of his early roles. It was different but interesting. Check it out! "},{"Title":"McQueen's Cool Hand Luke","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Papillion(McQueen) is a man who will stop at nothing to regain his freedom. This is a classic tale of a wrongfully convicted man who is sentenced for life in prison. Dustin Hoffman gives a great performance as Dega, who will do all that he can to help out Papillion. McQueen's never say die attitude makes the viewer want to see him succeed.This movie rivals The Sand Pebbles as McQueen's best performance. Hoffman displays early signs of greatness with his performance. This movie is definetly one of the 70's best. "},{"Title":"Excellent Performances and Excellent Story with Great Cinematography","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman did not get along well together off-screen, their on-screen performances solidify Papillion as a lost screen classic. If you enjoy the movies of  either of these two actors, then I wholeheartedly suggest that you see this movie. The story is one about the human condition where the character Papillion (McQueen) refuses to stay locked up in a cell for even moment longer than he has to in the desolate jungles of the carrabien. Together, Papillion and his good friend Dega (Hoffman) travel great lengths across the Atlantic Ocean and islands of exile in search and hope of freedom. Will they ever be free? You'll have to see the movie to  find out. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this timeless classic, the film is based upon the life of Henri Papillon Charriere, a safecracker framed for the murder of a pimp.  Before the United Nations charter in 1945, European nations had a way to rid their population of convicted felons by deportation to an overseas territory.  Modern nations like the United States and Australia were founded as a result of deporting convicted felons from Europe, especially to rid the problem concerning surplus populations.  This film portrayed the last vestiges of colonialism, where convicted felons would serve their time, and either remain there for life, or become colonists.  Much of the film was close to Henri Charriere's autobiography, and Steve McQueen's portrayal of a convicted felon was a homage to both Captain Hilts (The Great Escape) and Doc McCoy (The Getaway).  One characteristic of the film was the portrayal of the brutality of the French penal system, especially the use of the guillotine, where the worst of the worst were dealt with harshly.  Much like Malcolm X (1992) and The Hurricane (1999), this would be a timeless classic.  Even The Green Mile (1999) and The Shawshank Redemption (1995) are great films, but Papillon has a class of its own.  Colonialism might be over, and after seeing this timeless classic, one would experience the grim reality of colonial life.   "}{"Title":"One of the best prison movies ever","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"        Steve McQueen is terrific as a Clint Eastwood type man in the 1930's, who is framed for murder of a pimp and sent to one of the biggest hellholes in prison history, off the coast of northern South America, in a prison system full of searing heat, swamps, crabs, snakes, crocodiles, starvation, gruelling labor, and totally sadistic and uncaring guards. Dustin Hoffman also has a great role as a bookish man who is serving a sentence for counterfeitting. There have never been more graphic scenes of the filth and harshness these men endure, and a great deal of time in the movie is glimpsed into 2 years of solitary confinement, where Papillon is sent after an escape attempt and is confined to a filthy, dark cell and fed nothing but one cup of cold, watery soup a day. This is based only part on the novel written by the real Papillon, who died from throat cancer soon after the filming of this movie. In this movie, the only part I'm a little confused on is the time they land somewhere in Columbia and immediately encounter Columbian soldiers who try to kill them, his brief life among Indian natives who disappear one morning, his arrest in a Catholic orphanage, etc. By the end, he is an old geezer who's aged about 30 years over a 10 year period. Great movie overall! "},{"Title":"Steve just kinda floats away...","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is mostly good-if you take the Count of Monte Cristo cliche, you knowlong-time sentence/frame-up case stuck on a prison island, tries to escape loads of times, finally makes it, etc. throw in a typical long Steve McQueen drama, with some realism and stark prison life scenes in, then you have it. Steve and Dustin's acting styles contrast-one an introvert who gets sucked into his role, the other a terse, Eastwood/Bronson action guy who lets his eyes and actions do the talking for him. I personally enjoyed what is here, though wish it would speed up some-its a film that could have used about 25-30 minutes of editing it seems to me, and still woulda made all its story telling points and then some.*** outta ****, a good viewing, worth your while. "},{"Title":"Great movie, even greater book!","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are certain things a movie cannot portray, they aren't very visible to the naked eye unless you've read the book. As in other terms, I'd recommend reading the book after seeing the movie, however - because your expectations won't be hurt as much then...     "},{"Title":"Some of McQueen's best acting.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Papillon contains some of Steve McQueen's best acting and it's a brilliantly told story of escape. Dustin Hoffman is great as Dega and the direction from Franklin J. Schaffner is solid. Definitely one of the most entertaining movies you will ever watch, don't pass it by. "},{"Title":"We really WANT Papillon to escape!","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve McQueen is fantastic in the title role of this biographical movie about one man's struggle to escape French justice.  Papillon is a petty thief, framed for murder, and finds himself sentenced to life imprisonment in a prison in French Guyana.  His unbelievably strong will and determination to be free of these unjust chains, drives him to attempt escape after escape.  Long periods in solitary do nothing to reduce his character.  He leaves the authorities no choice but to send him to Devils Island, a place from where there is no escape except to the cruel surrounding ocean.The movie is very moving as we follow Papillon through the years and we can do nothing but admire the man for never losing sight of who is he and where he wants to be - free!  McQueen has never been better and there is strong support from Dustin Hoffman has a fellow prisoner whom Papillon befriends. The film is two and a half hours but they fly by, which is more than can be said for Papillon's sentence.  We really WANT him to succeed and as the credits roll you will be left with a hopeful smile on your face. "},{"Title":"Papillon the best film ever","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" we can see the best sample of a real friendship a real lover of liberty and freedom Dustin Hoffman's acting in the last scene is awesome <3 The story of film has slow speed and you can see all of details. A lovely drama excellent in all aspects. Steve McQueen's dialogs  Hey you bastards i am still here ))) is so wonderful. I must point to Jerry goldsmith's masterpiece in this film that provides so many emotions to me .Hope is the last thing that human will miss human without hope is dead man who moves )).Everywhere even in prison person needs money without money you will die in work rally points . Lie is every where there is no difference between doctor soldier officer or businessman . "},{"Title":"one of the greatest recognized by none?","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" (1) The Godfather Part I(2) Once Upon A Time in America(3) Papillon/The Shawshank Redemption (The Shawshank Redemption/Papillon)Every time after watching Shawshank, I would place it (slightly) ahead of Papillon. Every time after watching Papillon, I would place it ahead of Shawshank.While Shawshank now sits at the top of the IMDB250, Papillon isn't even included in the list... In a sense, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. It means this deeply loving movie belongs only to a small number of people, and we don't have to share it with the rest of the world.Note, I don't quite like the ending of Shawshank. But the ending of Papillon, ..., (running out of words here).BTW, who is the real villain in this movie? For me, the nun, of course. "},{"Title":"A bona fide classic","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Regardless of its veracity as a true story, PAPILLON is a wonderful piece of movie-making. It's a prison breakout movie that transcends its genre origins to become a study of the human condition, exploring man's endurance and survival against the harshest elements. Featuring a couple of stand-out turns from the lead actors, this is an underrated classic and a film that you never hear much about, which is criminal.Steve McQueen, still effortlessly cool a good ten years or so after THE GREAT ESCAPE, plays another con, this time a Frenchman with the tattoo of a butterfly on his chest - hence his name, 'Papillon'. He's sent to a French penal colony in Guyana, where he endures the kind of extreme conditions that would send most of us to the loony bin. The film that follows is absolutely gripping from beginning to end, even though it's fairly slow-paced for a lot of it.It's worth mentioning Dustin Hoffman, lending brilliant support as the short-sighted fellow con, and Franklin J. Schaffner's direction, which wrings every drop of sweat out of the grimy and dirty conditions. I'm also guessing this must have been a big hit in Italy, because the cannibal movie sub-genre that followed shamelessly rips this film off, from the jungle traps and natives to the crippled man attempting to navigate the depths of the jungle with only a stick to help him. "},{"Title":"Free as a Butterfly","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has early 70s written all over it, in both appearance and feel. My husband kept after me to watch Papillon for years and I had heard of the movie, but thought it was just going to be another prison movie. It is anything but. The movie is part drama, part fantasy, part action. At its heart it is about friendship and the power of the human spirit. Steve McQueen is fabulous as Papillon, a petty thief who is falsely imprisoned for murder. The conditions of the prison in French Guiana are abhorrent. From the beginning, Papillon attaches himself to Louis Dega and becomes both friend and protector. This friendship ultimately leads to solitary confinement for Papillon. At some point in the movie, you forget McQueen is even acting--he really seems to become the character. No matter how hard they try to break his spirit, Papillon is determined to escape and reach freedom at all costs. It is hard to fully do this movie justice--it has so many different elements to it, from the scenes in the prison to the fantasy sequence on some exotic island. Well worth the 2 1/2 hour time commitment. "},{"Title":"The Rise and Fall of Humanity","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillon was one those films that gets better and better as it progresses. This is while i liked and could identify myself with Louis and Papillon the longer i got into the film. The nice thing about this was that these two very different men, discovered humanity in a very inhumane place, and what started to be a deal to survive the harsh prison evolved into a very strong bond and friendship, a friendship that defines and reflects the beauty of this movie. The nice things about this film wasn't the man-eating sharks, man-hunters, the native Indians or Papillons epic escape thus again returning to the prison. Most of these things where pretty stupid and cliché. Instead it was the beauty of their friendship, and how they would help each others through the whole film. Actions that almost cost them their lives several times. It is this sincerity that makes the film worth watching. Another important point in this film was how Papillon and Louis would have to lay their lives in the hands of people that they had no reason to trust and then getting deceived by people taking advantage of their desperate situation. This made Papillon and Louis, including myself, lose belief in humanity. But amongst all these villains and unscrupulous people there are people who are willing to help only because they are good people. Human. The man in the forest, the lepers the Indians and so on. All of the outcast, the people no one normally would trust, seems to be more human than the civilised french guards. It really suits the film to both tear down man while at the same time exalting him. This gives the film a much more harmonized and varied picture as well as being a good point. I also liked Papillons repetitive attempts to escape in the sense that even when he got to the retirement island he would plan an escape. Not because it looked possible, but because he simply have to keeping seeking the freedom that has been taken from him. And only because of this way of thinking he was actually lucky to escape at the end whereas Louis, who didn't work as hard for freedom as Papillon therefore never achieved. If you want to achieve anything in life you will have to keep on trying till it happens and never give up and if you do that there will be gold at the end of rainbow. All in all Papillon is a film worth watching because of its good acting and dialogue between the two protagonist and it's message and typical carpe-diem-courage-dog-bad-***-************-attitude. "}{"Title":"devil's island","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Devil's Island ,, just the name would give me chills if i were sent there. Steve McQueen is sentenced there along with Dustin Hoffman,, the movie is based on the life of the director who spent 14 years there, and several years in solitary confinement. i think that both of the lead actors play very well off of each other,, there's even an appearance from Mel,, aka vic tayback from Alice's Restaurant,, after several trying escapes,, and years in confinement, in part due to failed prior escapes you see how they are trying to break the prisoners,,, half rations and so on,, they try to buy their way out of prison, but the boat is in shambles,, this is a movie that doesn't have special effects and car chases,, it's more of a character study,, and about the French Penal System.. great movie. "},{"Title":"First rate on all levels","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched Papillon last night after a gap of many years. Having watched Angels And Demons at the cinema earlier in the week, I felt compelled to compare the two, since both are well over two hours of blockbuster movie, based on best-selling books (which they do not so much translate to the screen as adapt), featuring well respected actors at the top of their game.But there the comparison comes to an end. For where Angels and Demons is big and brash, full of sound and fury signifying nothing (as Mr S might say), Papillon by contrast, notwithstanding its action sequences, is a film full of subtlety and subtext.Head and shoulders above everything is the relationship between Papillon (Steve McQueen) and Louis Degas (Dustin Hoffman). Born out of expediency - Papillon needs Degas' access to money to fund his escape attempts, Degas needs Papillon's physicality for protection - the relationship between the two men ultimately far transcends pragmatism, with each making significant personal sacrifices for the welfare of the other. In the closing minutes of the film, the two men embrace, and this gesture - full of awkwardness and love - is part of perfect performances by the two principals of this movie.Both actors play to their strengths, yet go well beyond the obvious. McQueen's action man persona is clearly well suited to Papillon, the perennial escape artist, but he is given long stretches in which to portray the physical and mental deterioration and debilitation arising from years in solitary confinement. Hoffman had already raised his own bar with performances in The Graduate and Midnight Cowboy, but Degas is rather more than a downtrodden underdog he has a nobility of his own, and Hoffman's portrayal takes him from scared nerd to reluctant hero to squirrelly and nearly beaten.The other performers, well known and less so, are all also excellent.The film possibly suffers from being a touch episodic, but I suspect that is an inevitable result of having to abridge the source material. The power of the original narrative, and the deprivations suffered by prisoners (and the strength og character needed in order to survive) are preserved intact, and celebrated.I suggest it is worth watching Angels And Demons to see an empty headed blockbuster, followed by Papillon, to see a blockbuster which also contains a great deal of food for thought. "},{"Title":"Grand Styled. Even Epic Telling Of  Prison and the Human Spirit! No Light Escapism Here!!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Prison Picture is one Genre that has always generated a lot of interest with the movie going public. We can go far back into the silent days through the Gaqngster/Prohibition Era and find so many examples of movies that are still and always will be viewed over and over, generation to generation. Titles Like THE BIG HOUSE, 20,000 YEARS IN SING SING, and EACH DAWN I DIE are among the films that would easily come to mind among the truly 'classic' movies out there. Even comedy teams would usually have a title or two that spoofed the Prison Picture. Laurel & Hardy contributed a 2 Reel Short,THE HOOSEGOW and a feature, PARDON US , which definitely parodied THE BIG HOUSE.Let's fast forward to the 1970's which had a lot of movies with Black Themes. True to the previous trends, there were a good number of Prison Pictures in the mix. The two films that come to mind immediately are TERMINAL ISLAND, and SOUNDER*. But the very best, grandest, greatest productions of this Era is Franklin J. Schafner's PAPILLON.Based on the autobiographical novel by the same name (Papillon is French for butterfly, and the nickname of the protagonist of the story, who had a butterfly tattoo on his chest.) The story, as in the real life occurrence, is set in France and in the French Guiana Penal Colony-including infamous Devil's Island.The film runs very long, and was cut to its present running time only days before its general release, around the Christmas Season in 1973. The cast was headed up by Co-Stars, Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman. If there were ever a pair of lead actors who were truly opposites, truly different in all respects, it was these two. Though both were stage trained, that was as far as similarities go. Steve McQueen had become a sort of action star, though a very eloquent one. Dustin Hoffman on the other hand had made it a career up this point by portraying the clever type, who always uses his brain to navigate the tough waters in life.Together, they make a truly fine twosome,each offsetting the other guy's weakness, with their own strengths.The verbal and action interplay through out make the story both believable and satisfying to the senses, including the sense of humor.Director, Franklin J.Schaffner, came to doing theatrical movies after finding success in direction on live television. His previous two credits were both big pictures. NICHOLAS and ALEXANDRA, and PATTON, were permanent proof of the talent of Mr. Schaffner, as both were critically acclaimed and successful at the box office, particularly PATTON Mr. Schaffner does not pull any punches, characterizing the prison as what the prisons are, just a cesspool of corruption; a closed society run not by the administration or the Guards, but rather by the inmates, themselves. They then and now, inmates are bothered by the local homosexuals. The Director doesn't gloss over this fact, but we aren't over exposed to it, either.It should be mentioned that Schaffner and company made the decision early on that probably was a great contributor to the success of the film. That is, namely there is no attempt to affect any French accents. Other than an occasional 'Monsouer' from a prison guard, there is only English, American style.The Original Music, theme and incidental, was composed by Jerry Goldsmith, who has been responsible for so many other scores, including PATTON and RUDY. he music is varied in mood from somber and tragic to distressed and finally triumphant.The location shooting in South Anerica and in a Spanish town (doubling for a French city) make some of the most beautiful color film that we can remember. This is good, because like so many other great films, it is a sort of a downer, and one should be in the mood for this type of fare.On a personal note, I can't remember just how many times I viewed PAPILLON. You see at the time of its release, I was a Chicago Policeman and was employed as part time extra employment working security at the State-Lake Theatre, 190 N. State St., in Downtown Chicago. Remember, no one sees the pictures more than the Cops! This was a release of the Allied Artists Pictures Corporation which brings a rather absurd notion to my head, but I'll share it anyway. Allied Artists had been formerly known as Monogram Pictures, home to the Bowery Boys series. One can only wonder, if it had been made 20 years earlier, would it have co-starred Leo Gorcey and Huntz Hall?* Perhaps you would disagree with my classifying SOUNDER as a prison picture, and it,strictly speaking, probably isn't. However, prison plays such a big part in the story, that it's worth a mention. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the great prison movies.  Makes you appreciate freedom.  McQueen and Hoffman shine if this story of men sent to the famous Devils Island.  An incredible viewing experience that numbs the senses. Cancel my vacation plans for Guyana.     "},{"Title":"Great experience","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cried a lot. One of the few movies I can watch every day. A perfect mix of suspense, history and nice images. One of the best films ever made. Strange that I don't like both main actors but in this movie they, Hofmann and McQueen seem to be just perfect. My favourite scene is the sequence at the little island at the end of the movie, when there is only sun, waves, silence and McQueens last flight from prison. A must see for every cineast. "},{"Title":"Ultimate perseverance","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great film and two outstanding performances by both Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman, the latter who never seems to age.  Honestly, in Papillon at the age of 36 he looks the same as in Rain Man at a tender age of 51.Anyway, I tentatively rented this film being a fan of both actors but having not previously heard any comments regarding it.  Yes it was a harrowing account (be it true or not) of Henri Charriere's desperate attempts for freedom.  But I found it to be just as humorous as it was dramatic.  I mean 5 years, in solitary!?  Nice touch with the white hair and the permanent walking-defect.  When he emerged from solitary the second time he was confronted with the death of his friend.  Nice touch!  I can see the humor on the guards part (and after all it may well have been 5 years to the day that they were both caught on the run, so fair enough!), but for his friend to die just as he was released.....rather unfortunate after 2000+ days in solitary!  Maybe it was the bright light and clear air that made him light-headed.  "},{"Title":"McQueen give up?  No way!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rewarding but incredibly brutal prison drama from Henri Charriere's bestselling (and suspect) autobiography. Filmed on a spectacular scale by director Franklin Schaffner, with masterful camera-work by Fred Koenekamp, this movie cost a fortune and it shows. At first Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman are an unlikely pair, but their contrasting acting styles eventually seem to mesh, as the story inexorably builds to a poignant finale. If you like McQueen, you'll love this. Be warned there is much graphic violence and the bugs are real! Also, the film is long and non-McQueen fans may find it heavy going. But Charriere's tale (embellished as it may have been) contained a wealth of incident, and this film packs a lot into two-and-a-half hours. The final credits run over shots of the real ruins of the penal colony in French Guyana; pretty grim stuff. "},{"Title":"Just wondered...","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  spoilersPapillon (Steve McQueen) is sentenced to 2 years of seclusion for his attempt to escape. The film spends a lot of time showing how tough this time is on him. For his second attempt to escape he is sentenced to 5 more years of seclusion, nothing at all is shown of these years. Some effort should have been made to make the viewer feel that this time passes. "},{"Title":"Wish to see more","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a person that has both the book, & movie Papillon. I have enjoyed it both ways. And that is where I take my internet nick name from. The movies with Steve McQueen & Dustin Hoffman, was great for what it did do with the book. But if you have read the book, you would know that the movie started late in the book. And that it ended with a lot of story left out. If it was within my ability, I would find the money to produce a mini series. Doing the whole book, and the sequel to it. As to who I think should play Papillon, I'm not sure. There are a few great actors that could play that roll. I would like to end this by saying, if you like Steve McQueen &/or Dustin Hoffman. You must see this movie. Then read the book to enjoy the story fully. "},{"Title":"doesn't reach level of book by far","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is trying real hard to catch the reality that's in the book but doesn't make it by far. Read the book if you want to really understand what this man has been through (the whole thing is a true story, papillon kicks superman's butt if you see what he's been through!) "}{"Title":"Spirit in captivity yet free  Papillion is my favorite film!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A simple approach from one singular perspective.  The Butterfly on his heart. A Butterfly represents freedom, metamorphosis, and envy.  We want to capture it.  The fact that Papillon has a faded Butterfly on his chest signifies his unending quest to follow the path of heart, and all outside calamities are a representation of man being inexplicably drawn to solve the riddle of his destiny.  Dega wears glasses.  Enough said about glasses, but I would like to add that in this film I feel it is portrayed as a perspective of the world, Dega's glasses show the intellect and it's approach to solve our destiny through the mind and the Butterfly is Papillon's emblem ofennduring freedom at no cost to the flesh our his sanity it is the driving force of mankind.  The indian chief recognizes the significance of this and has himself branded with it he pays him in pearls through his daughter and the pearls return Papillon to our Christian representation of Freedom, exploit it and capture it for our own means. The Butterfly on the chest.  A simple undercurrent that is so beautifully crafted into the subtext of the film it is just a fraction of the millions of ways this film can be interpreted it truly is art.   "},{"Title":"The Best Prison Movie Ever Made","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is by far one of the most underrated movies ever made. I am assuming that not enough people had seen this movie. Unfortunately it was over shadowed by other classics such as The Sting and American Graffiti which I thought both were not nearly as good as this one. Steve McQueen's performance was by far one of his best. It is because of this movie i began to really enjoy McQueen as an actor. Dustin Hoffman plays a great supporting role and it is by far one of his best performances as well. This movie should be rated over movies like The Shawshank Redemption which i felt was a bit too overrated. Papillon had a much better story line and it has you on the edge of you seat the whole time unlike Shawshank which isnt a bad movie but not nearly as good. I would have to recommend this to prison/escape movie buffs because this one is by far the best. Lets give credit where credit is due!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve McQueen was always an underrated actor in his time. Only now are we beginning to appreciate the range of his talent. His commanding performance in Papillon is a great demonstration of his skills. The transformation of Charriere from a relatively youthful man to a physically broken individual but with spirit intact, is a marvel. The presence of Dustin Hoffman in the key role of Dega doesn't hurt either. The movie captures an expansive sense of space and time, and, as well as being an epic of the human spirit, is just a hell of an adventure yarn to boot. And it's worth noting the movie's depiction of the barbaric prison system maintained by the French, those self-annointed defenders of liberte, egalite et fraternite. The fact that they perpetuated such a system well into the 20th century says a lot about Gallic hypocrisy.  "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm sorry but I thought this movie was really boring. It felt like it was at least one full hour too long and there were a lot of scenes that were way too drawn out that could have easily been much shorter, or some scenes that could have just been cut out altogether. The guy escapes again and again and ends up in the same place so why do we need to see the entire thing seeming like it is in actual real time taking forever? The end is OK but they could have gotten there sooner. I also thought that Dustin Hoffman's character was very annoying, he just didn't seem too believable. Steve McQueen is about the same in every movie and I like him so I liked him in this. I thought the story was OK especially since it is supposedly based on a real story it just felt way too drawn out and boring to me. "},{"Title":"Good film but book is even better...","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Who reads book Henri Chariere Pappilon know that in film was many many lies, wrong situations, writings and even more.... I know that they cant film everything but if you wanna see scenes from book then you will not see them.....only the main ones. Same thing with actors, in book when Pappilon is at Georgetown he looks like 28-30 years old but in film when he is jumping to sea he is looks like 50 years old man with white hair. Another thing.....film is showing only painful parts of his life (exemption of indians). The worse part was when Pappilon escape with Dega and Maturete, in book it was Pappilon, Maturete and Clausiot. Then when they stopped on tropical forest everything happened on 5 minutes (no ants, no 7 days of camping, nothing....just 5 minutes of lies). It will be better for you when you first look the film, then read the book and then again film. You will see differences. I am very disappointed.... ( (sorry for my poor English) "},{"Title":"Great Soundtrack & Decent Adventure!","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve McQueen is impressive in this as are Dustin Hoffman's eyeglasses (the thickest in movie history) and the music is incredible. Decent directorial job by Franklin Schaffner, but something's missing from this epic tale of escape and madness. It's too long for sure.A 6 out of 10. Best performance = Mr. McQueen. Billy Mumy (from Lost in Space) has a brief appearance and Anthony Zerbe as a leper is sad and creepy. It's always nice to see Don Gordon (also in Bullitt with McQueen) and the location shooting is exotic and treacherous. The script has problems, though, that can't be overcome. It doesn't really flow. "},{"Title":"Tears and Suspense","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie first by accident on TV during night. I couldnt stop watching and suffering along with the two protagonists, performed by McQueen and Hoffman. They both are superb in this saga of prisoners in penal colonies of French Guyana. I couldnt hold my tears during several scenes, but thats not the only criterion for my judgement.The secret of this European-style masterpiese is its silence and patience. So when I saw it not appearing in the top 250 movies of this database, the American audience seems to prefer fast and dramatic movies. For Dustin Hoffman it is only one of many fine performances, but for Steve McQueen this is a real highlight as a serious actor. One thing I ve got to say in addition To me it means a kind of wonder, how the director gets to feel physically the abnormal heat at the different locations in South America. Only this fact is worth watching this movie. So guys and girls, with Papillon you get a high-level mixture of history, psychology, suspense and emotion. Try it! "},{"Title":"Too freaking Long","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first half of this movie was brilliant. It was great. Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman both gave extraordinary  performances throughout the film, but it died at the half-way point. They should have ended it after they escaped the first time. That would have been fine. But they kept it going throughout and made it stupid. Introducing cubans and natives on the island, nuns who turned him back to authorities. One thing that really got me was that when they landed on the island, they dropped Dego (Hoffman) and ran. We don't know how he got off the Island or how he ended up back at the prison. Now I know that the movie is based on the book and if that was the case, they should have shortened parts in the movie. Like McQueen on the island running, or when he was serving time in the cooler. Overall, the first half was great and the performances were exceptional, but it was too long. I give it a **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Dark Tale Filled With Heart","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve McQueen is a legend. He gives, in my opinion, one of the all-time great performances in Papillon and he wasn't even nominated for an Oscar. Paired with Dustin Hoffman they create wonderful chemistry together and give the film the heart it needed. Although not as memorable as The Great Escape, it's by far more daring and complex.Papillon (McQueen) and Dega (Hoffman) are supposedly wrongfully convicted inmates at the infamous Devil's Island. McQueen, just like in The Great Escape, is desperate to escape. While Dega is convinced his wife will one day pay her way to releasing him. You don't get to spend enough time with them in the cells as I would have liked. I believe in the relationship but it seems like they escape within the first hour of a 150 minute film. Similar to The Great Escape, this film lacks a defining villain. Our heroes are only as good as the villains. But it's such a wonderful ride with these characters that I can forget the few mistakes it has and appreciate the masterpiece of a film it is.I was a bit taken out of the film for about ten minutes when Papillon finds himself on an island with a community of people. I didn't think it fit with the rest of the film. With that being said, the actual ending of the film is definitely worth your time. I was getting worried as to the final direction it was going but props to Hoffman and McQueen for delivering. With all the pain and suffering these characters go through it's a very satisfying conclusion to their journey.In all, McQueen gives his best performance and Hoffman perfectly compliments him in what is one of the greatest escape films of all time.+McQueen gives legendary performance +Unbelievable story +Truly care about the leads +Ending pays off -Out of place Island scene 9.4/10 "},{"Title":"Papillon ***1/2","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very engaging film of 1973 starring Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman as two literally condemned prisoners brought to an island by the French government to serve out their lengthy sentences. To say that the French penal system was brutal, that's putting it mildly.This is by far one of the best performances that Steve McQueen ever gave. Didn't Dustin Hoffman's appearance in the film remind you of his memorable Ratso Rizzo in 1969's Midnight Cowboy?The film began to lag somewhat after the duo made it to Honduras. To believe that they were betrayed by that organization is amazing. It certainly gave a bad name to that institution.A film dealing with the commitment of attained friendship, brutality, and the desire for freedom. "}{"Title":"Hey You Bastards..I'm still here....(papillion famous dialogue )","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Actually i was very fond of Prison movies and prison breaks.. I've checked out so many movies of this genre.. I read so many reviews of this movie and i want to give it a try.. I had to go different video stores to get this movie..I finally got one..and I wanted to give a try to this true classic.. If you know how to watch a film..Watch it..You will get a several small messages,through out the entire film.. He fought against the law..He will never give up...Helping the untouchables ..He is friendly..He is a trusted person...This movie tells about corruption in those days and about dirty mankind..He was die enough to survive...Papillion was a well plotted movie..Though it was a heavy length movie , It is still worth of its time ..Doug , who was a friend of papillion , was done justification to his characterI can still remember the words said by papillion in the end Hey you Bastards , Im still here His never give up policy is the best part of movie... This is the best movie of prison breaks I've ever seen.. This movie is the blue print for many prison breaks..Like Shawshank Redemption , Escape from Alcatraz , The escapist..and the list goes on... If you want a true classic of prison...Please just give it a try.. You will feel worth of it... In one word to say about this movie(No way!we cant say about this classic in one word)Its best if you have a big screen ..and a Blu-Ray player and watch it...Its awesome..You wont regret it (Note  Nudity warning)A True classic..Don't miss "},{"Title":"Great McQueen movie about the notorious Devil's Island.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is about a wrongly accused man who is sent to one of the most brutal prisons ever, Devil's Island. You get to watch as he tries to find a way to escape this island and once again live the life of a free man. Steve McQueen is great in the title role as Papillion as is Dustin Hoffmon as Dega a person whom Papillion becomes friends with even before the two reach the island and get sent to a horrid little area of the island thanks to some unsound advice Hoffmon's character gave a guard's wife or something. There is humor in this one as I enjoyed the scene with the alligator, and there is some action as some of the escape attempts had a lot to them. There is also some good drama as there interplay between the characters is very good. I especially enjoyed the scenes involving Papillion being sent to the solitary confinement section of the prison and his time there in the dark and going crazy. One problem with the film though is that I never really know how much time has passed during the course of the movie. However, this could be on purpose as when one is in prison and secluded one does tend to not realize how much time has passed in the real world. The ending is all right, but after all the other escape attempts that were so elaborate the one that actually succeeded seemed rather simple. Still, the cast is solid and the story entertaining enough to really get you involved emotionally with the film and its characters. "},{"Title":"Good movie, better book","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I read this book in high school back in 1974, a few year after it came out in English. Actually, the school board band it before we could finish it. I lifted a copy from the storage area and finished it - ya, it was that good. If you have read the book, you will probably not like the movie. I was able to sit through the entire movie, but was frustrated with most of it knowing what was in the book. Also, I found Dustin Hoffman to be a believable Louis Dega, but did not picture Steve McQueen as the Papillon I pictured when reading the book. If you have not read the book and really know nothing about Henri Papillon Charrière, you will probably find this movie enjoyable and entertaining. It will give you an idea of what life was like in a prison in French Guiana. Besides, we're talking Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman. That alone makes it worth watching. After you have seen the movie, read the book. It is well worth it. "},{"Title":"Lethargic Adventure","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a true story (although the veracity of the events have come into question), this film relates the adventures of a French prisoner at a penal colony in Guiana. McQueen is fine in the title role, as is Hoffman as a fellow prisoner. Thankfully, neither actor attempts a French accent. Because of its episodic nature, the film moves in fits and starts, making it difficult to become immersed in the story. The best part is the escape sequence in the middle. While the cinematography is impressive, Schaeffer directs at such a lethargic pace that it seems like it will never end. Also, the violence is gratuitous and rather off-putting. "},{"Title":"what a great movie .. Steve McQeen's unforgettable fabulous performance","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have really a great joy watching this masterpiece .. this movie is taking us to depths of the humanity and the human psyche . Many aspects of the human psyche are shown all the way from the beginning till the end . Steve McQueen performed a great complicated dramatic structured character which will take the leading role and the whole movie to higher levels . After seeing this movie we are going to learn for how much long we can go through troubles in our lives and how strong our volition is . May be its a bit long (230) but every time you are going to feel a little boring there is something arise to refresh and give a new whiff . Desert Dream scene and the dialog within is one of the best scenes I ever watch in cinema especially its accompanied by a great sensitive main-theme soundtrack that will stick in our memory for very long time . Steve McQueen  Papillon  performance in the reclusion cell was really amazingly wonderful and touches me strongly . Dustin Hoffman also played very sharply his character as  Dega  and he quite the contrary of 'Papi' represents the unsure-feared peaceful man who is looking for certain things and has no bold in the escaping attempts , and this is one of the most attracting aspects in the whole movie . At the end we should learn that  Hope  matters a lot in our life and without it we have no humanity . "},{"Title":"Made Me Feel   IMDb top250 Is Not Reliable","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Shawshank Redemption was my favorite prison movie until i saw Papillon. Now i feel its kind of light. This movie is why we shouldn't trust IMDb top250. i can't believe it is not even in the list. In my opinion its even better than The Shawshank Redemption.Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman are far better than Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. Morgan talks about hope in the movie than you start thinking about hope. Man, this movie is all about hope. About how much can you stand. Teach you how to never give up! But sadly its far underrated. Now I've started to collect McQueen's movies. I feel so unlucky because of he is not from our generation. Well at least we have Pacino and De NiroD "},{"Title":"cinematic butterfly","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve McQueen starred in what may have been his last really great movie here. As Devil's Island inmate Henri Charriere, he gets down and dirty throughout the whole movie, and we really see how nasty the prison is. Equally good in the movie is Dustin Hoffman as Charriere's friend Louis Dega, looking about like he did in Midnight Cowboy and Marathon Man.The alligator scene is quite shocking, but what the movie portrays overall is supposed to be shocking, what with the hellish prison life. As for the issue of the movie's accuracy, that's always up to debate. The point is to understand how Henri and Louis had to cope with everything. All in all, this isn't the greatest movie ever, but worth seeing.An interesting change of pace from the director of movies as dissimilar as Planet of the Apes and The Boys from Brazil. "},{"Title":"Shockingly great","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that a person needs to see but doesn't necessarily want to see twice because it is so gut wrenching. When you see this one cannot help but entertain the notion that only the French could have such little respect and place such little value on human life. That isn't true but it isn't completely wrong due to their past horrid prison systems and their extreme use of the guillotine. Steve MacQueen is powerful and equally so is Dustin Hoffman and yes I agree with another commenter that as far as acting goes this may be the best movie each one of them did. This film, as several others namely Cool Hand Luke, The Shawshank Redemption, Escape from Alcatraz really drives the point home that prisons are not supposed to be fun places to be yet they should not be houses of pain, suffering, torture, and premature death either. The lack of decency in this movie by the people who are not in prison is staggering and just plain sick. It makes me want to cry and I'm not even a soft hearted person. Some of these men deserved to go to Devil's Island but none deserved the treatment they received there. MacQueen's character, Papillon, is framed for a murder he didn't commit and sent to French Guyana to serve a life sentence. He quickly meets up with Louis Dega, a master counterfeiter and rich man who is in desperate need of a bodyguard. Papillon agrees to do the job if Dega will buy him a boat to escape with. As the film progresses Dega and Papillon fall deeper and deeper into the hell that is the St. Laurent prison. They watch their comrades die and be killed and they are helpless bystanders. Each time they try to improve their situations with bribery, cleverness, and escape attempts they find themselves in worse shape than before. This would be a comedy or farce if it wasn't so damn tragic and heart breaking. Hoffman plays the rich criminal with a heart of gold to a tee and MacQueen plays the wrongfully convicted man who won't give up and simply just refuses to die. They share a bond as fellow inmates, partners in crime and friends who won't run up the white flag no matter how rough it gets or what is at stake namely their sanity even more than their freedom or what is left of their condemned lives. A noteworthy piece of art. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is often seen on AMC (American Movie Classics).  It is not to be missed.  The movie is easily one of the best I have ever seen.  Even if it is not exactly a true story (it was revealed that the particulars may have been gleaned from several different prisoners, not just Henri Charriere), it is none the less a fascinating tale of life in (and out!) of the French Guyanan prison.  The scenes at the leper colony and at the end of the film on the island with Dustin Hoffman are truly unique.  Steve McQueen was born to play this role.  Dustin Hoffman was equally enjoyable.  I just noticed that Vic Tayback was in this movie, although I didn't notice that before.  Bill Mumy (the boy from Lost in Space) is also in it.  There is so much going on that the whole movie seems to fly by.  I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"MCQUEEN'S FINEST PERFOrMANCE","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one movie I never tire of watching.  Steve McQueen gives the finest performance of his too short career in this most exciting tale of survival. This is the true story of Henre Charier, nicknamed Papillon, who was sentenced to a long term at Devil's Island in French Guianna.  The movie deals with the many attempts at escape that Papillon executes.  Dustin Hoffman gives a fantastic performance (as usual) as Papillon's fellow convict and friend Louis Dega.  The chemistry between McQueen and Hoffman is nothing short of magic. Directed by Frank Schaffner (Patton, Planet of the Apes), this is a most compelling and edge-of-your-seat entertainment.  The final scene on the cliff should go down as one of the classic moments of cinema history. "}{"Title":"First-rate film; Excellent!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film when it first came out in the theatre, and really, due to the gorgeous scenery, that's the only place it should be seen.  But since it has to be relegated to the small screen, the acting is so good that it more than makes up for the loss of the big screen.  The only criticism I have is that, after reading the book, I learned that Mr. Charrieire, (I apologize for the possible misspelling) was not as nice a character as Steve McQueen made him seem, though he may have been innocent of the murder charge that sent him to Devil's Island, but I guess it's Hollywood's job to make people nicer than they might otherwise be.  Still, it's a must see film, and often! "},{"Title":"Brutal, redeeming and brilliant filmmaking","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If it weren't for Shawshank Redemption this would be the single greatest prison escape movie of all time. Steve McQueen, in my mind, knows instinctively how to play the quintessential hero (as seen previously in The Great Escape). But, the movie doesn't ride completely on his performance. Dustin Hoffman seems almost typecast for his weak genius role, and the cinematography is breathtakingly brilliant and brutal at the same time. Not to slight the rest of the movie, but the long scene of Papillion in solitary confinement is so well-executed, in my opinion is one of the greatest scenes in cinematic history.  "},{"Title":"Convoluted escape movie...","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1st watched 2/15/2014 -- 3 out of 10(Dir-Franklin J. Schaffner) Convoluted escape movie giving the star Steve McQueen one of the most complex roles which he does OK with, but Director Franklin J. Schaffner really never comes across like he was clear on how he wanted the movie to come across. Advertised as an action prison escape movie with star power of McQueen and Dustin Hoffman and based on a well received novel, but this epic attempt of telling the story has no real pull on the viewer to care about the outcome unless you just can't wait to see the inevitable after it's forecasted by a prisoner near the beginning that Papillon will never return home to France, and a scene where it's emphasized that the prison is in-escapable(aka. maybe expect the opposite to occur??). Papillon was accused of the murder of a pimp(which he denies), and is transported to a brutal French Guiana prison shown in the initial scene in a strange triumphal departure from the country while the French look on. It's obvious that very early on Papillon intends to attempt to escape and he knows that Hoffman's character, Daego, has a lot of money at his disposal so introduces himself and intends to use this method to make things happen. Initially Daego doesn't want to go with him, but will provide the funds if he's safely delivered to the prison. The movie is really about the friendship that eventually happens between these two characters because of each one's self sacrifice for the other, but the Director never promotes this idea to his detriment. The rest of the movie is plodding chronicle that never seems to want to end despite Hoffman and McQueens watchable performances even though the characters lack depth and development, and sometimes change from scene to scene. I'm sure the book wasn't this un-focused or it wouldn't have been so popular -- but I think the movie was popular -- so who's to know. Sadly, this is probably McQueen's finest character and performance as an actor but it's spoiled by this long winded movie about very little except portraying one man's determination against overwhelming odds. "},{"Title":"This movie should be in IMDb's top 250 definitely","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie should be in IMDb's top 250 definitely. I think this movie is a great classic and one of the best of his time. This movie is known by many titles as butterfly,seventh wave,papillon,when i was advised to watch this movie,my friend told me movie name is butterfly so i had some problems to find it.I watched a lot of movies from that time,70',and 80% of them looks dumb comparing to Papillon.What do you think?Papillon is still one of the best prison dramas.So,should this movie bee in top 250? "},{"Title":"Steven's Back In Jail Again","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Right after making The Getaway, Steve McQueen was back doing even harder time on Devil's Island as the title character in Papillon, a French mec convicted of a murder of which he swears he is innocent, who refuses to abandon his hopes for freedom, no matter the cost.It's a great role in an occasionally affecting, often frustrating film that forces us to spend time in solitary confinement and hard labor, taking abuse from guards and making friends among fellow inmates, in particular the fastidious counterfeiter Dega played by Dustin Hoffman who, like McQueen, was enjoying the peak of a richly-earned stardom. It's a kind of buddy film, though McQueen spends much of his screen time alone. Seeing him grit his moldering teeth at the sun, yelling defiance and eating bugs, is to see a man in desperate circumstances, winning our respect by never giving up.It's not the escape itself, but not accepting his imprisoned condition, that drives Papillon on.You think it will work? Dega asks him about yet another escape plan.Does it matter? is Papillon's reply.A lot in Papillon doesn't work. Director Franklin J. Schaffner creates some grand spectacles, but also pushes for too much effect. A minute after landing, one of Papillon's fellow prisoners makes a break for the water so we can see him shot in the head, right after another maims himself in order to die horribly later on. There are overwrought dream sequences, such as one where Papillon imagines himself accused of leading a wasted life, and an abusive trusty who wears eyeliner so we get the point he's supposed to be all menacing and gay.Then there's the problem of compressing the source text, Henri Charriere's autobiography-cum-fantasy. Papillon the book's a great read, equal parts folk stories and prison-yard blarney, but in trying to capture the decades-long storyline, we get a lot of incidents that just sort of happen with no set-ups or apparent reason.In the book, Papillon (Charriere's nickname means butterfly in French, he wears a tattoo of one on his chest) is continuously befriended by strange people - lepers, cannibals, native tribespeople, even a prison warden - suggesting a sort of rogue hopefulness regarding the human condition. Here, there's no time for scene-setting, so Papillon just oddly latches on to assorted people for a couple of minutes here and there, while attempting another escape. The film runs two-and-a-half hours, but too much of its running time is either this mad montage stuff or else Papillon and his comrades standing around. As an adventure movie, it's mighty slow.But it is beautiful to look at, with swirling palms and azure seas courtesy of Fred Koenekamp, who also shot Schaffner's Patton. There's a great supporting cast of familiar faces of the time playing the various cogs in Papillon's misspent life, like the preacher from Blazing Saddles, the ship executive from Poseidon Adventure, Orson Welles' guardian from Citizen Kane, and the nun from my sixth-grade science class. Woodrow Parfrey is not one I remember seeing before, but his turn as the ill-fated inmate Clusoit is a real standout.You also get a terrific supporting turn from Hoffman, working his usual tics in new and interesting ways (he thinks he doesn't need to escape because his wife will spend all the money he hid with her to rescue him, poor sap). Even better is McQueen, shedding his King of Cool image as he hobbles around, hair white from exhaustion, half-crazy but still bent on his escape.Me they can kill, he tells Dega, when Dega tries to talk him out of one more crazy plan. You they own.I understand how McQueen fans celebrate Papillon, and think it unfairly overlooked. I just don't agree. It's a fantastic McQueen turn, but like his later Tom Horn, one mired in a lesser film. By the time we end up at Devil's Island, two hours in, McQueen is totally locked into his part, but the film has beaten down my ability to care about his fate. Papillon may not have wasted his life, but Papillon wastes a fine central performance. "},{"Title":"Rather controversial movie, I presume","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillon stroke me as a little shocking since I wasn't expecting so much controversial material in a movie this old, in other words, a movie with Steve Mcqueen. Homosexuality, nudity, loads of blood and gore, elements which today STILL have it hard and are somewhat still regarded as tabu. The movie itself is highly entertaining and beautiful to watch but I wasn't really impressed with neither the acting or the story. Steve Mcqueen was never a very good actor for my standards of acting and although he has many really bright moments in this one his inability to stop switching his role on and off to his usual Steve Mcqueen persona didn't help much. Dustin Hoffman is better but is still more of an along for the ride character, not his greater work. Prison movies are always entertaining just for their location and this one is saved by some great torture scenes and escapes. Well worth the watch though. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The GREATEST prison movie ever (including Shawshank Redemption)","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you haven't seen it, make it the next film you rent.  The most deeply affecting movie I've ever seen.  The best film Steve Mcqueen ever made. Dustin Hoffman at his best.  Makes The Shawshank Redemption look like a country club stay. Beautifully acted.  Beautifully directed.  I do however have a single complaint...The score was awful.  Other than that, FLAWLESS.  "},{"Title":"brilliant , masterpiece , exceptional....","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm surprise that this movie is not listed on Top 250 list!!! what's wrong with you people?! this is a Masterpiece ...god it almost made me cry..please vote good for this movie ..this movie deserve to be on the top instead of stupid movies like This Is Spinal Tap (1984) and lots of other not so deserving titles on top 250 films list on IMDB...Steve McQueen is at his best as Papillon...great story and overall an excellent picture..if you haven't seen it yet ,do not hesitate you owe that to yourself if you are a movie fan and don't forget to vote after you watched it we have to have this movie on Top 250 films list..Don't you agree with me?10/10Bobby "},{"Title":"a masterpiece!","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" i saw this movie when it first came out, with my girlfriend, with whom i lived for 4 years, and, who brought me the most happiness. i was transfixed! i had read about henri charriere before i saw this movie, i think. i listened to some of the movie's songs on the radio of my little vw beetle. but, to see the brutality, the insanity, the suffering, of this innocent young man! papillon was innocent. he was only 23 when he was convicted of murdering a pimp, in France. he had his whole life ahead of him, and, sentenced to a lifetime, yes, a lifetime, of hard labor on devil's island. devil's island was a french penal colony, finally closed down in 1945. henri charriere, of course, escaped devil's island, the only one, to my knowledge. he spent his life after escaping, in south America. one day, at a store, he happened to read of a female inmate of devil's island, who had just died. he went and got pencils, legal pads, and, sat down, and, wrote his story. it was accepted for publication right away. the tragedy is that charriere died only a few years after writing papillon. of a heart attack. i cannot believe this movie did not win any Oscars! i have seen it 2-3 times since. great story! great acting! "},{"Title":"A movie soo good, it literally sets the standard for all other dramatic films of the era...","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really have to state my opinion as 'A movie soo good, it literally sets the standard for all other dramatic films of the era'...It really is that good...the Proverbial 'Lightning in a Bottle'...I saw this film as a young person upon it's release at a 'real' theatre...(meaning, an old theatre located in a prominent uptown setting (before urban malls had killed most small towns and UPTOWNS / DOWNTOWNS were really the center of all activity within a city's limits)...This wonderful place (where previously I'd only seen the release of 'H.R. Puff' N' Stuff'!), a single-screen huge-theatre 'complete with a real balcony...At any rate, it was as a wonderful place to really be engulfed in 'whatever' was presently headlining...I saw all the Bond films from the late 60's thru the 70's there and several others, BUT NONE could compare to the all encompassing story of Papillon...There's really nothing about this movie that anyone could complain about (regardless of how finicky)...In fact, This is probably the only film which one can only 'sing it's praises'...a true landmark of a film, no matter of when it was made, fine acting from the best in the business Steve McQueen doesn't need any bragging, nor does Dustin Hoffman...or for that matter any of the other casting selections...Just about as perfect as it can get!... As a side-note...which I have always found to be very 'weird'...Dustin Hoffman, with all the success this film brought him (and he to the film)...has never acknowledged...EVER...his time with Steve McQueen or their 'Butch & Sundance' equivalent performances in this landmark-film...It's as though it never existed for him...I may be wrong (completely), but I have never, ever seen him or even heard of him mentioning Steve McQueen or Papillon...and considering the magnitude of this film and their performances, I personally find that (as I stated)...nothing short of Weird!... "}{"Title":"A must see but...","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The main reason of the 7 is the comparison with the book. That book is one of the best I red. I urge you to read it.It's the true story of a man who never accepts to be in prison. After 15 years and 3 escapes (8 major in real life). He finally succeed. It's a good movie, with good actors, who play their part very well (especially Dustin Hoffman(His best role in my opinion).A few things really bothered me The make-up is really to much at the end. The characters look too old. It's too short, everything happens so fast. It should have been a mini-series.It's a movie you should see but you should also read the book. "},{"Title":"Two great actors made the movie unforgettable","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve McQueen is Papillon and he is great in this role. As for Hoffman,he is excellent as Dega.They are both so good that i consider this movie is the best movie of 1973. Believe me. I've seen a lot. I'm certain.  "},{"Title":"The film is much too long, and lacks the continuity of the book.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The famous novel, which this film is based on, was a big best-seller when it was released. Hollywood, of course, was immediately there and realized, that this was something that you could make a movie out of. Despite good performances by the leading men, the film is much too long, and lacks the dramatic continuity of the book. The music, though, by Jerry Goldsmith and the cinematography by Fred J.Koenekamp are both excellent. A little more French influence on the making of this movie would probably have increased its authenticity. "},{"Title":"an attempt to dis-brainwash","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" sorry lemmings, this movie is not about hope.liberal lemmings like to rant, what hope?, what freedom? what the movie really impresses me is certainly not about hope but the sufferance, and accepting fate. when people facing such cruel reality. more hope means more despair....everyone has hope, there is nothing special to have hope, nothing to be proud of..what people really need is to understand the reality,have the courage to face the reality..only someone so disillusioned can be so clinical like Mccqueen's character, Henri Charriere I remember Steve Mccqueen mumbles many time I don't know I don't care.such words show how cool and prepared he is. he is ready for any injustice....the true reality is not one person was lucky ..and escaped and got free, the reality is so many people couldn't be lucky and able to do the same.. to be broad, so many people are killed everyday in the world.people can't hold their fate, whatever how much they try. if people could really handle their fate, nobody would be killed or treated badly.. if a gang can kill a person, the society can play the role too..the society is unfair, it has been and always will be. just the nature of the society.talking about hope..shawshank is a movie about hope.very idealistic about that one can easily escape the prison , easily deal with social machine. life is always wonderful as long as you have hope..and do what Andy does... typical brainwashing "},{"Title":"possibly the original Shawshank Redemption","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Papillon is the character played by Steve McQueen. Convicted with life sentence for accursedly killing a young girl, he was transferred to St. Laurent's penal colony of France along with his colleagues of prisoners, where he met Dustin Hoffman, a counterfeiter, and several other inmates and marshalls of different aspects. His motivation to escape the colony led others to follow his trail, and ends up being put in rationed reclusion for every attempt he do...and still survives time.Although McQueen seemed to be worn out of his escape role here, the character role's vital strength of courage amidst the very rough penalties given makes this movie worth watching. Added by the feeling style of the reclusion and the seemingly endless integrity with his fellow inmate Hoffman, now you will be impressed with this movie. The only flaws were...he escapes too long and still end up...whatever. Also, the other flaw was the whole tribal meeting that seemed worthless in the movie. But, hey! It still has the lesson that's note worthily same with the Shawshank Redemption courage and hope.You might had read this comment or the title I summarized for it, but I recommend you watch it and find why I said it the much more original Shawshank Redemption. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Compared to the book, this was a disappointing potrayal of the tale of Papillon and seemed to be skewed as to the natural timescale of the tale.Much emphasis was put on Papi's early days in the penal colonies, with not enough time spent on his days after his escape, and with his Indian tribe.  There was even none of his days in venezuela, which came across so powerfully in the book.On a lighter note, Dustin Hoffman was passable as Dega, even if I didn't find Steve McQueen particularly believable as Papi.Perhaps I just watched this too soon after I finished reading the book, and its sequel Banco. "},{"Title":"overlong, pretentious, meandering & glib","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wrongly convicted Henri Carriere (Papillon, a bland performance from McQueen) tries to escape from the evil prison environment of Devil's Island with the able assistance of fellow convict, Dustin Hoffman.The big problem is with the director's choice of lead McQueen looks too relatively sedate & out of place for a tough story like this. Perhaps he still thinks he's the Cooler King from the more entertaining The Great Escape. But in this harsh world of jungles, extreme prison measures & unfriendly environment McQueen just doesn't fit  the bill.I was, however, more interested in Hoffman's character as a crooked financier who sold a lot of investors into poverty and is now a Public Enemy by a lot of people. And only a bodily-inserted capsule full of money manages to keep him alive.The great thing about Hoffman is that he can play all kinds of characters with equal conviction unlike the rather starry-eyed, one dimensional efforts from McQueen.Another problem with this film is its aimless narrative, painfully overlong with no good reason, lack of any progressive tension & poor direction. It could have been a great prison film in the hands of a better director & writer but alas we are stuck with an under-adapted story and overly pretentious directing that seems unable to focus on anything meaningful.**/***** "},{"Title":"the dull side of freedom","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The dubiously factual true story of Devil's Island prisoners attempting to break out, Papillon is concerned with the same themes of most prison films freedom, humanity, the indestructible human spirit, etc..  All fine and good, as the glibly entertaining The Shawshank Redemption proved, but Franklin Schaffner's film is undone by narrative formlessness (the movie was made up as they went along and it shows), overlength, clumsy direction, and unforgivably hambone acting by Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman.  The half-baked brand of visceral showmanship displayed here would be done much better in Midnight Express and countless other superior prison films. "},{"Title":"Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffmann","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The aging Steve McQueen did not have a graceful career in the 70's. He had very few roles coming his way, and he didn't look as young and fresh as he did in 'The Great Escape'. The only thing that was going for him in 'Papillon' was the fact that he acted alongside Dustin Hoffmann. Apart from that, it displays an aging McQueen that was not treated kindly by the 70's. "},{"Title":"Great production effort, poor cast.","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" ******CONTAINS SPOILERS****I watched the movie for the first time when I was really young and remembered it being really gripping and intimidating(especially the bug scenes). Having re-watched it again over easter, I must say I was just bored and confused when we got to the second half of the movie. I still enjoyed the first half of the film up until they leave the leper but after that the pace gets strangely confusing. Episodic and disjointed as some say in their comments. I was lost as to why we spend 10 mins watching McQueen living with this Indian tribe running around with this half-naked woman. How much time was that supposed to be? Why do they all disappeared suddenly? I even thought maybe he's hallucinating or something.I kept trying to think maybe I should give the movie some slack as it is from the 70s. It must have been a very elaborate production at the time with such exotic set. The casting I must say is a total flop though. McQueen and Hoffman are great actors but why them? Shouldn't they be French (or at least have French accents)? Why are the rest of the prisoners Americans? And why are the bad guys (i.e. guards) English?? It makes things pretty confusing I must say.Overall I enjoyed the production but as a movie it is not at all coherent and convincing. Let say I enjoyed the Great Escape a lot more. "}{"Title":"Escaped","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this first when it appeared, and then again recently.The first time around, I was deeply impressed with the existential tone, within which Hoffman's character amazed me.Now, the picture seems cheap and the acting mannered. Did I change that much? Probably, but I believe that much of that change is an evolution in what we expect from films. Part of this is a recognition of clean presentation values, the writing, directing, acting. Part is the significance of tone we need to get something to keep.The acting here by McQueen is pedestrian, only that of Hoffman is interesting. He impressed a few decades ago simply because of his commitment. But that's common now, and with finer discrimination, we see how artificial are his mannerisms.A primary device here is the notion of confinement in a seeming paradise. This was novel enough when new, but even in the past few days, I saw a much more rewarding cinematic treatment of the notion; `Proof of Life.'Sadly, I report that today, this film is not rewarding enough to watch except for historical interest.Is this the only major escape movie not referenced in Chicken Run? "},{"Title":"ego trip?","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Papillon has got to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Blame it on the historian in me, but the rendering of what couldhave been an interesting story ends up being an American moviewith American actors displaying American characteristics of themisunderstood victim whose grand ideals have no limits(whereas it's all supposed to be French, right?).  Steve McQueen is pathetic overblown hero figure who has theworst lines anyone with a brain can come up with.  Despite ALLhis troubles, he still has room for humor and determination. Neverdown, no, not him.Unfortunately Dustin Hoffman does not save this movie. His role isjust as pathetic and he seems stuck in his Midnight Cowboycharacter's awkward nerdiness.  Of course this also serves ashumor when the movie isn't going anywhere.Another drawback in this movie is that we have no idea when thisis happening or how long things are taking to develop.  *spoilers*How long does Papillon stay on that island (where he befriendsand charms the natives, to the point of painting a butterfly on thechief's torso. He even has a girlfriend!  Are the kids his?  Why theheck doesn't he sow his shirt or exchange it for something else?)before getting caught again?  Even in the prison, we have no ideahow long anything is taking except for the 7 years of solitaryconfinement.Some parts in this movie looked like they were trying to re-enactRobert Redford and Paul Newman's friendship in Butch Cassidyand the Sundance Kid (namely the cliff scenes), but it isunsuccessful and lame.  Although a lot of work was put into this movie (it's very rich inannoyances), the result is a typical I'm-a-determined-American- and-all-I-do-is-great hero movie, the lead part going to McQueen. The script is bad, the acting is bad, the dialogue is horrible, thescenery is inconsistent (the jungle looks like a set but the sea isgood), the music is good (but not good enough to make a goodmovie), and the overall result a total waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Papillon","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Franklin J. Schaffner (Planet of the Apes, Patton), I saw this listed in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, and I was corrected on the pronunciation of the title, I was certainly interested. Basically this is the true story of Henri Charrière (Golden Globe nominated Steve McQueen), also known as 'Papillon' (French for butterfly, he has one tattooed on his chest), the wrongfully convicted murderer sentenced to serve life imprisonment in a French penal colony in 'Guiane' (French Guiana, South America) on Devil's Island. While serving time in the hellish, notorious island prison he becomes friends with fellow inmate, counterfeiter Louis Dega (Dustin Hoffman), but he plans to escape. Papillon tries a few attempts at escape, but all fail and end up recapture, there is a point when he is put in solitary confinement with little food or drink for seven years and near death. Finally though he manages along with Louis to escape incarceration, but it is a challenge now finding a way off the island, not being able to find a safe boat, being surrounded by guards and tribes people. There is a point when he is shot at and he does manage to get away, and for a while he settles into life with the tribes people, before moving on to find a place to settle with nuns in reclusion for five years. After this time he explores the island further, and he finds Louis alive and well, having settled in his own place, and he decides it is finally time to get off the island itself. He judges the ocean current and waves and when is the best time to jump with flotation and let the current take him away, Louis decides in the end to stay behind, and the end narration said that Papillon did make it to shore to live the rest of his life not in prison. Also starring Victor Jory as Indian Chief, Don Gordon as Julot, Licence to Kill's Anthony Zerbe as Toussaint, Robert Deman as Maturette, Woodrow Parfrey as Clusiot, Bill Mumy as Lariot, George Coulouris as Dr. Chatal, Ratna Assan as Zoraima and William Smithers as Warden Barrot. McQueen gives an enigmatic performance, and Hoffman is splendid when he is on screen, there were points in the story where I might have drifted a little, I mean it is pretty long at just over two hours and forty minutes, but as a harrowing study of confinement and as an escape movie it is quite a highly watchable biographical prison drama. Dustin Hoffman was number 24, and Steve McQueen number 14 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, McQueen was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and McQueen was number 43, and Hoffman number 21 on The World's Greatest Actor. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Jerry Goldsmith. Very good! "},{"Title":"Not even a small piece of reality","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Probably the worst movie i've ever seen.If you want to know the true story of Papillon READ THE BOOK!!! Here are some reasons why this movie is so bad 1. The script twists the original book in a freaking manner. The 1st escape takes place before Papi reaches the detention island , he escapes from the prison with Maturette and CLOUSIOT not with Dega which is to scared to escape and does not help them in any manner, the escape scene is partial true , there was no party and no guard was so close to raise the alarm like in the movie. BUT in the movie before the escape him and Dega go in woodcutting camp that's not true , Papillon went in the woodcutting camp with Clousiot AFTER THEY GOT CAUGHT, after Papillon escapes with ANtonio ,the guy who speaks Spanish, from a Colombian prison. 2. Apart of changing the initial chapter order they miss a lot of them to, the Conciergerie chapter is not even mentioned and it has a vital role in comprehending the idea of the book. MOST IMPORTANT PART THAT HAS BEEN CUT IS THE TRIAL AND THE DREAMS OF REVENGE THAT KEEP PAPILLON GOING THOSE ARE Extremely IMPORTANT and you realize that after reading the book .3. Hollywood style is doing marvels )). Papillon had no butterfly tattooed on his chest he had a tiger tattooed on the chest and he tattoos the Indian chief with a tiger not a butterfly. Also DEGA is not an important character of the book he appears in the Conciergerie Chapter, the travel to Guyana and at Papillon's 1st solitary detention.CONCLUSION  They ruined a marvelous book doing a very bad movie. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Phoniness A fool and his money!","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henri Charriere? Who's he? This movie is about Steve McQueen! Devils' Island? Where's that? This movie is about Hollywood! I saw this film way back when in a time where Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman were at the height of their popularity. McQueen was the typical good looking lead while Hoffman was part of the new wave of serious actors. Frankly this was all fluff and this film stands out as a example of popular reputations polluting a interesting subject for a film.Devils Island had been used by Hollywood as a setting in melodramatic plots not much unlike other prison films. Although his story is based on fact and has tried to bring some more gritty reality to the story, it is still a Hollywood formula film where the looking for respect actor but really movie star McQueen is paired with the a new wave (for the time) respectable actor but really movie star wannabe Dustin Hoffman to give it commercial appeal.McQueen's casting works somewhat he having a tough guy image but Hoffman's casting, again I think meant to make McQueen look good, looks sillier every day. He is just too light to be doing this part, a part someone like Edward G. Robinson would have been perfect for in his prime. Time and social changes has betrayed the phoniness of the late 60's Auteur directing and method acting as some kind of a religion school of thought. McQueen's movie star charisma has held up much better because it was a integral part of him. Little Big Man Hoffman's later roles such as as Tootsie just makes him a joke as in most famous Hollywood expression of them all There's ten dollars I'll never see again. My favorite part of the movie is when McQueen is in solitary and he tries to stop from going crazy.I will not go crazy! I will not go crazy! I crazy will not go! Go crazy I will not! Not crazy go not I! I wonder if the audience was as successful? By the way, how do I look? Did the warden ever keep pet mocking birds? I've got such a lovely bunch of coconuts!In short, McQueen and Hoffman try hard but the movie is just too long.Of course the biggest bunch of phonies at the time were the audience of pretentious message film as art of intellectual wannabes sitting in the cinema. A generation of baby boomer's once removed from European peasants holding City College degrees lording over the universe. Lure these self important phonies in and be pseudo socially relevant all the way to the bank. Sounds like a formula for a death camp movie, not Devils Island.In other words. like seeing oneself in some home camcorder production from the 70's, this film has aged as well as canned mystery meat at best.So there! "},{"Title":"it SUCKED!","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you ever take the time to read the novel, you will realize that the movie absolutely sucks. The plot has been butchered, some characters are miscast and it just doesn't give you the same feeling as the novel does. When I read the novel, I felt like I was in prison and like I was going through the same hardships as Papillon was. When I watched the movie, it didn't really leave any kind of impact on my emotions. It seems as though the screenwriters didn't read the novel, but had instead heard a few things about it, and then went on to write the screenplay. That usually doesn't promise a very good movie adaptation. So in conclusion, read the book, do NOT watch the movie. "},{"Title":"miserable film","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I heard this film had got Oscar for something. Haven't you ever thought why films of such different levels get Oscars? Nobody is surprised that Coocoo's nest did but this one! Extremely unimpressive McQuinn's play and Hoffmann who tries to save the situation and fails. And who could wait that the director of Planet of the apes may product such an unfortunate picture?! "}]