[{"Title":"It's all in the title.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great tale about the joys of being an immigrant in 70's Switzerland and being rejected from their society for anything other than for labor.It's all in the title, no connection to the popular pane e Stella Italian snack here, rather the bread is a metaphor for the immigrants who have little choice but working abroad to put bread on their families table, while the chocolate refers to the luxury Swiss product and symbolizes that country's wealth. It's bread and chocolate as in rich and poor, as in eating for survival as opposed to eating for pleasure, as in immigrant and swiss, etc. "},{"Title":"First movie I ever saw.....","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was four when Bread and Chocolate played at a small theater in San Francisco.  My mother decided to take me(no babysitter).  The story I've heard many, many times was that I was upset with her that she wouldn't (although now I realize it was more that she couldn't) read the subtitles to me.  I eventually became frustrated with her and moved two isles over.  My mom has said that she would turn to watch me and although I couldn't truly read the subtitle or comprehend the language, I laughed continually throughout the movie.  She said I truly enjoyed Bread and Chocolate.  Many years later I rented the movie and it's amazing.  It's exactly as I remembered it.  Truly a gem of a movie, though the second time around I was able to fully grasp the meaning of this movie.  It's universal and it's timeless. I now own this on DVD and have enjoyed sharing it with my family and friends.  Certainly a must see movie! "},{"Title":"A bittersweet comedy","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For the Italian cinema this is an important film. Not only because there's a big actor -Nino Manfredi- but because it's based on real situations of the time it was made...In the Sixties and Seventies Italian and Spanish workers were the biggest immigrant groups in Switzerland. Pane e cioccolata talks about the experiences and difficulties of an Italian waiter in this country. Of course, some situations are caricatural, nevertheless the movie still keeps its strength because everything it's credible.Manfredi's character wants to remain in Switzerland because he believes he can make enough money to help his family, he dreams of carrying there wife and children and giving them a better life. We laugh a lot, at the same time there's much sadness because we see someone who tries everything to integrate in another society, without success.A bittersweet comedy, Italians are among the best moviemakers for mixing different feelings and talking about life.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed and produced tale","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film when it first came out and fell in love with it.Having spent some time in Switzerland,  I knew the truth of the rejection of foreign workers, and I saw the places where they lived in great poverty, in the midst of rich, glittering inter- national crowds.  The bigotry was (and still is to a greatextent) painfully true.This is one of those marvelous films that makes one cry and laugh, almost simultaneously. As many have said before, it is Chaplinesque.I especially appreciated hearing the various languages actually spoken by the characters - German, Italian, Greek, Turkish.  The subtitles help the viewer very well indeed, but the sound of the actual languages enhances the verisimilitude of the story.Just recently I have, after more than 20 years of searching,  discovered that this film is on video tape, and I can't wait to acquire it - at long last! "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If all the film-festival awards this movie has won haven't convinced you to see it, then my review probably will not either. Regardless, it is important to know how well-done this movie truly is. Nino Manfredi does an absolutely stellar performance as a poor Italian immigrant trying to fit in in a world which dislikes him and his kind. From the start, this seems like a regular enjoyable comedy, but quickly transitions into both a comedy and a drama. On the one-hand, Manfredi's Chaplinesque loveable loser character is both endearing and hilarious. On the other hand, the film offers true insight into the problem of immigrational bias and cultural dissimilarity, and a stabbing insight into the premise of a national identity; how it is both meaningless and yet extremely important. This film deserves every award it received and then some. "},{"Title":"A unique comedy","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film about the struggles of an Italian immigrant in Switzerland generates bizarrely conflicting emotions; indeed at times you don't know whether to laugh or cry! I saw this years ago when I was at university and I expect it has dated in the sense that the status of immigrants has changed a lot since then. It may even be disquieting at times for those who have grown-up believing that they must never laugh at particular social groups, but the film is clearly sympathetic to those whose dignity is compromised daily by their circumstances of life. I defy anyone not to cry with laughter at the restaurant and chicken-coop scenes.  "},{"Title":"Moving and brilliant bitter comedy!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie brilliantly and movingly, but always with a lot of irony, describes the plight of an Italian migrant laborer in Switzerland. Some scenes are among the best in  the history of cinema.A group of migrant laborers are doing some filthy work in a ramshackle barn. Through a small window they see some beautiful young Swiss adolescents riding on horse back. These youngsters look like gods compared to the poor ants in the barn!In another scene the hero of the film has been trying very hard for some time to assimilate, to become even more Swiss then the Swiss themselves. But he can't suppress his deep feelings of identity for ever. One day he enters a pub and watches a soccer match between Italy and Switzerland. At a certain moment he can't control himself any more and starts shouting to encourage the Italian team. He makes such a nuisance of himself that the Swiss throw him out.Utterly brilliant! "},{"Title":"This gem is too new to be forgotten.  Seek it out!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a warm, wonderful film.  It is touching and funny and one of the very best humanistic films from Italy after Fellini lost his touch.  It's hard to understand why this film is so little know to younger movie buffs. If you can find it, take a look! "},{"Title":"Should be turned into a Broadway musical","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When this comedy came out in the 70's, it was aptly described as Chaplinesque. The hero, a coarse Italian immigrant in Switzerland, is as much an Everyman as Chaplin's Tramp. The movie was a hit in the US, winning the NY Critics' Award for Best Foreign Film. Nino Manfredi is funny and touching as the earthy immigrant, the bread in the land of refinement (chocolate). Anna Karina is stunning as the Greek stowaway who shares some of the same predicament as Manfredi. The chicken coop sequence is particularly hilarious. I think this is one movie that deserves to be transformed into a Broadway musical. How about it, Mr. Sondheim? "},{"Title":"Aflounder in an alien society.","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (Some spoilers) This was a very popular film when it was first shown in America in 1978, about five years after its Italian release, and was probably one of the best-known and liked Italian film among the general public in America, along with LA DOLCE VITA, CINEMA PARADISO, and LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL. It was directed by Franco Brusati, and this may be his best achievement. This immensely famous bittersweet comedy stars Nino Manfredi as a Chaplinesque immigrant waiter, Nino, trying desperately to assimilate among the cool and methodical Swiss.  His presence in the country is as a temporary worker and much of his time is spent trying to stay afloat and to avoid deportation.  Right from the start the film captures the pain and confusion of the outsider with incisive precision, as when he is denounced for public urination.There are many great scenes. One is when Nino finds employment in a chicken farm and lives among a family of eccentrics who find the impersonation of chickens to be the highest of mankind's callings. Another scene, in which Nino watches a group of Swiss youth bathing in a lake and looking like gods in some kind of sensual Valhalla, encapsulates his feelings of inferiority and alienation. An Italian worker drag show, funny and sad, is performed by these men that have left behind friends and family in sunny Italy, to return only at Easter and Christmas. Another great moment occurs when Nino modifies his appearance to attempt to look more north-European, and  cannot help but revert to his Italian persona when the locals cheer on the Swiss soccer team and he vociferously applauds an Italian goal.Nino Manfredi rarely had a better role than this one, and Anna Karina, with whom he is tentatively in love, is fine as Elena, the Greek teacher-in-exile with a musical-prodigy of a young son. Johnny Dorelli is memorable as the wealthy Italian industrialist who befriends Nino, but who overdoses when confronted with financial ruin, taking with him some of Nino's own money.   Bad luck dogs our hero, but he seems to emerge from the tunnel of despair with renewed hope&#133;and literally so at the film's end.The term Bread and Chocolate in Italian refers to a snack of Nutella spread on bread and is the equivalent of peaches and cream or fine and dandy, which is used with irony here in this great commedia all'italiana.  "}{"Title":"I pity the poor immigrant ..(B. Dylan )","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although a bit too long,Pane e Cioccolate features moments of unquestionable brilliance,of sheer genius ,which make him a classic of the Italian cinema any day.The scenes in the chicken cop are terrific and include idea to rival the best of the Italian cinema of the seventies ,which is saying something.It's so terrific I have to search my memory to find such terrifying scenes as those of the poor wops turning into poultry.And as if it weren't enough,those purple passages are followed by the irruption of posh young people,rich kids,who look like E.T.s .It's Italian directors' forte to walk a fine line between comedy and drama (the drag act),a thing French movies simply can't achieve ,with a few exceptions.Much more accessible than his stodgy disordine ,pane is Brusati's (and Manfredi's ) triumph it's updated Chaplin -the scene when the hero chews his sandwich when elegant ladies are serving cakes and enjoying classical music - An immigrant will always be tried out .Everywhere he shows,he will be the perfect loser .Like this? try these.....They're a weird mob (Powell,1966) America America (Kazan ,1963) The immigrant (Chaplin,1918) "},{"Title":"Saw it when I was 16!","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This played at a suburban cinema in my town back in 1978 when I was in high school. Back then they were sneaking foreign films from the city into the suburbs hoping to broaden their audiences (it didn't work). I remember fighting with the ticket lady to get in. It didn't have a rating originally but the theatre gave it an R on its own. When I pointed out that that was illegal (I was bluffing--I have no idea if it was legal or not) she quickly gave me the ticket.The movie wasn't THAT bad--there's only some pretty tame female nudity here and there. As the rest of the content I have never forgotten the first scene when the main character is in a beautiful forest enjoying the sunshine and birds--and then comes upon the bloody mutilated body of a little girl. The juxtaposition of beauty and horror shocked me and that scene has never left me. That aside I found the film quite funny--I didn't try to understand what it was about. Back then I loved movies (and still do) and just saw anything I could see. The chicken coop sequence was uproarious and I found the waterfall sequence with the nude teenagers quite beautiful. I haven't seen this film since 1978 (that's when it opened in the U.S.) and I'm afraid to. I don't think it will live up to my memories. Still, if you get a chance, I do recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Emotional and funny","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bread and Chocolate is a very humanistic movie that mixes funny with sadness. The way the Brusati shows us the way foreign people are welcome to Switzerland is somehow not the saddest way  but in addition it has some humor. This makes the audience, like people said before, cry and laugh at the same time. It can also be based on a real person and not fictitious as people like Nino would do anything to stay in a country where they have opportunities. Excellent job for Brusati, it is the first Brusati film I have seen and I am looking forward to see another one.  "},{"Title":"Inspirational film","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The most touching moment of this film was when the late and great Nino Manfredi colours his hair blonde to assimilate being a German whilst watching the historic Italia 4 -Germania 3 match. Of course he can't contain himself when the azzurri come out on top in extra time. With the great Friulian goalkeeper Dino Zoff who kept going until 1982 when Italia were once triumphant over the team from Deutschland. This phenomenon of pretending to belong to a culture is quite common in South Australia. People with the most remote Italian roots masquerade in the clothing of Italian football teams and go around offending first generation Italians. In particular those of the Istrian refugee heritage. I've coined this phenomenon the Van Brussel effectAB Pods "},{"Title":"Recently recommended to me","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this film, but it was discussed recently on Jon Favreau's Dinner for Five on the independent film channel. Two of his guests that evening, director John Herzfeld and actor Peter Falk were discussing the film. They both raved about how wonderful it was. I am now determined to find it and view it for myself. "},{"Title":"Great adult comedy, a modern day Chaplin-like little tramp story.","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great adult comedy, a modern day Chaplin-like little tramp story. "},{"Title":"a good film","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Film Review of Pane e Cioccolata Written By Jeremy LawrenceThe film Pane e Cioccolata, also known as bread and chocolate (1973) directed by Franco Brusati is one of the remarkable films that installs the perception of both lifter and of sorrow. Brusati takes the audience through the life of an illiterate southern Italian immigrant as he tries to find refuge in the economic system of Switzerland in order to earn enough money to support him self and that of his so called families back home in Italia. As he progresses through the story unusual problems arise that involve differences in culture as well as a specific stereotype problems created by the society and even by himself. Threw out the film Nino (Nino Manfredi) is thrown into situations that arise because of his lack of a formal education and of his difference in cultural practices. For instance in a spectacular scene ware Nino is confronted by a Swiss police inspector (Giorgio Cerioni) who presents Nino with a photograph of himself urinating in public, his cultural differences are evident. But at first the inspector tells Nino that he has committed an obscene act in public. Nino is appalled by the accusation, but when the inspector tells him that the act was of him taking a pepe in public Nino is Lost and can not see why the act was so offensive that he should be fired for the act alone. What is missing is that in Nino's culture of uneducated southern Italians (hicks) the act is a trivial one and an obscene act is much more sever, infect Neno rebuttals that he has not done an obscene act in private for some time. This and a plethora go to show the distance that Nino was from the members of his surrounding communities. Finally after trying to assimilate into the Swiss culture Nino gives up and decides to change his physical appearance to better resemble the traditional blond hair. When he travels into a pup for a drink he does not know how to answer the water. When a soccer game between the Italian team and the Swedish team appears on the television Nino tries to hide his indignation of the Swiss towards himself and root for the Swiss team. To all that are in the pup the fact that Nino is not a Native German speaker is in explicitly evident. He is ultimately rejected from the society and is imprisoned ware when he is released his blond hair was cut off. This further goes to illustrate his lack of acceptance from the members of the Swedish society. But when her tries to return to Italy, he abandons the train and returns to Switzerland. Throughout his struggle Nino is constantly rejected and a pone boarding the train that will take him back to Italy he is reminded of the stereotypical cultural influence of the fellow train occupancy as they brake out into song. This further goes to demonstrate his unwillingness to return to the foreboding family back home and reaffirms his belief that wail he may not be educated he is at least trying to make ends meet. But one must wonder if he were smarter why did he not go to the Italian speaking part of Switzerland or after a few years why he could not speak more German than the hand full of words he admitted to know. But all in all the stories goes to show that racism and prodigies are not always the solution and that wail one may be illiterate that the circumstances that perspired against that person may or may not lead that individual full circle. This film has much more to say and I, the writer do not have the space to elaborate. For example there is the social implications of the forged friendship of the Italian Industrialist and Nino. But for all purposes this film encourages those who take the time to watch the film to engulfed ourselves in Nino's struggles and to relate to Nino's desperation and a lack of social mannerism and lack of cultural adaptability. "},{"Title":"good movie if you are in the mood to be challenged","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As I said before, I would recommend this film to anyone who likes a challenge.   Taken at face value, the movie itself is rather boring, and it would be easy for me to say that I did not enjoy it, however taking a closer look, this movie contains themes to which we can all relate.Garofalo is an Italian man who is traveling around Switzerland looking for work. He refrains from returning to Italy because he can make so much more money in Switzerland.   Throughout the film, Garofalo meets many people of all nationalities who face the same problem as he.   May I suggest to the next viewer that you investigate the meaning behind the tittle.   I am working on that one myself! "}]