[{"Title":"Altman's mischievous take on a cinema archetype","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"101 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The very embodiment of '70s Hollywood genre revisionism, Robert Altman's film of The Long Goodbye stands as one of his most accessible, wittily misanthropic films, and probably the finest performance of Elliot Gould's career to date.A warning for Raymond Chandler purists you probably won't like this film. Altman and screenwriter Leigh Brackett had quite a task in adapting Chandler's second-last novel to the screen, for in it the 'knight errant' Phillip Marlowe comes over more like a prudish sap. Altman and Brackett have streamlined the narrative, removed peripheral characters, and &#150; crucially &#150; transformed Marlowe into a murkier, more comically ambiguous protagonist.In Altman's and Gould's hands, Marlowe is laconically relaxed, murmuring, alternately amused and annoyed at the world. Like Chandler's hero, he is an outsider, a spectator, everywhere he goes. Unlike the literary Marlowe, Gould's character seems washed up on the shores of an unfamiliar land, his nobility as crumpled and stale as his suit.Along for the ride are the archetypal Chandler villains and victims self-hating celebrities, young wives trapped in loveless marriages, crooked doctors, low-rent psychopathic gangsters, bored cops, flunkies lost out of time. Typically, the milieux Marlowe moves in range from the affluence of the Malibu Colony to the cells of the County Jail. Altman, however, wishes to make a film in and about 1973; the film is shot through with the psychic reverberations of the end of hippiedom and the remoteness of the 'Me Generation'.Another Altman touch is his openly expressed contempt for Hollywood and its conventions. As if to acknowledge the artificiality of a private detective story in the midst of 1970s Los Angeles, the film is suffused with jokey references to cinema. Bookended with 'Hooray for Hollywood', the film shows gatekeepers impersonating movie stars, characters changing their names for added class, hoods enacting movie clichés simply because that's where they learnt to behave. Even Marlowe himself refers to the artifice when talking to the cops 'Is this where I'm supposed to say 'What's all this about?' and he says 'Shut up, I ask the questions' ?'As for the supporting cast, Sterling Hayden shines out as the beleaguered novelist Roger Wade. There is more than a touch of Hemingway in Hayden's bluff, blustering, vulnerable old hack. Baseball champ and sportscaster Jim Bouton is casually mysterious as Marlowe's friend Terry Lennox, Laugh-In alumnus Henry Gibson is suitably greasy as Dr Verringer, actor/director Mark Rydell (best known for 'On Golden Pond') is convincingly chilling as gangster Marty Augustine, and Nina van Pallandt lends a dignified, defiant pathos to her role as Eileen Wade.Special note must be made of Vilmos Zsigmond's tremendous photography, employing his early 'flashing' style of exposure to lend Los Angeles a suitably sultry, bleached-out aura. Also deserving attention is John Williams' ingeniously minimalist score. Comprised solely of pseudo-source music, the score is a myriad of variations on a single song, appearing here as supermarket muzak, there as a party singalong, elsewhere as a late night radio tune.The film's controversial ending is utterly antithetical to Chandler's vision. The message from Altman, however, is loud and clear Chandler's world no longer exists &#150; if indeed it ever did.  "},{"Title":"Pivotal Seventies Masterpiece","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"78 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Altman was on a roll by 1973 when he chose to film Leigh Brackett's screenplay of Raymond Chandler's The Long Goodbye, which is considered his last great novel. But Altman decided to transmogrify the novel's serious hard-nosed private eye, Philip Marlowe into a bumbling Rip Van Winkle type character who has figuratively been asleep for the last two decades and has missed all the psychedelia of the Sixties and the dark cloud descended in the Seventies. And who better to play such a role, than the great Elliot Gould? Even though the novel's tone and time period have been changed, the highly-complex plot remains, and due attention must be paid.One of the film's greatest strengths, is the cinematography by the great Hungarian DP, Vilmos Zsigmond. He has worked with Altman on McCabe & Mrs Miller (1971) and Images (1972) and on the former, he used a technique known as flashing, this was an unpredictable method for eliminating contrast from the negative to give a pastel look to the show and to bring out subtle shadows in the nighttime scenes by exposing the already-exposed negative to more light in the lab during processing. But on McCabe, it was used in moderation, but on The Long Goodbye, he, Altman and Skip Nicholson at Technicolor all worked together to more or less use varying degrees of flashing for the WHOLE picture! It was a big risk, but it paid off - the movie has a look all of it's own. The camera constantly keeps moving in this film and gives a the viewer a great sense of voyeurism and keeps you studying the frame for details. This film is a visual marvel, in my opinion.Altman excelled himself here, he took risks and put all he could into the film, and I think that The Long Goodbye can now be seen as a pivotal Seventies masterpiece - though those words may be hard to swallow for some people.Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"Quirky, Atmospheric, Unique Altman Spin to Chandler!","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"56 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I admit, when I first viewed The Long Goodbye, in 1973, I didn't like the film; the signature Altman touches (rambling storyline, cartoonish characters, dialog that fades in and out) seemed ill-suited to a hard-boiled detective movie, and Elliott Gould as Philip Marlowe? No WAY! Bogie had been perfect, Dick Powell, nearly as good, but M.A.S.H.'s 'Trapper John'? Too ethnic, too 'hip', too 'Altman'! Well, seeing it again, nearly 34 years later, I now realize I was totally wrong! The film is brilliant, a carefully-crafted color Noir, with Gould truly remarkable as a man of morals in a period (the 1970s) lacking morality. Perhaps it isn't Raymond Chandler, but I don't think he'd have minded Altman's 'spin', at all! In the first sequence of the film, Marlowe's cat wakes him to be fed; out of cat food, the detective drives to an all-night grocery, only to discover the cat's favorite brand is out of stock, so he attempts to fool the cat, emptying another brand into an empty can of 'her' food. The cat isn't fooled by the deception, however, and runs away, for good...A simple scene, one I thought was simply Altman quirkiness, in '73...but, in fact, it neatly foreshadows the major theme of the film betrayal by a friend, and the price. As events unfold, Marlowe would uncover treachery, a multitude of lies, and self-serving, amoral characters attempting to 'fool' him...with his resolution decisive, abrupt, and totally unexpected! The casting is first-rate. Elliott Gould, Altman's only choice as Marlowe, actually works extremely well, BECAUSE he is against 'type'. Mumbling, bemused, a cigarette eternally between his lips, he gives the detective a blue-collar integrity that plays beautifully off the snobbish Malibu 'suspects'. And what an array of characters they are! From a grandiosely 'over-the-top' alcoholic writer (Sterling Hayden, in a role intended for Dan Blocker, who passed away, before filming began), to his sophisticated, long-suffering wife (Nina Van Pallandt), to a thuggish Jewish gangster attempting to be genteel (Mark Rydell), to a smug health guru (Henry Gibson), to Marlowe's cocky childhood buddy (Jim Bouton)...everyone has an agenda, and the detective must plow through all the deception, to uncover the truth.There are a couple of notable cameos; Arnold Schwarzenegger, in only his second film, displays his massive physique, as a silent, mustached henchman; and David Carradine plays a philosophical cell mate, after Marlowe 'cracks wise' to the cops.The film was a failure when released; Altman blamed poor marketing, with the studio promoting it as a 'traditional' detective flick, and audiences (including me) expecting a Bogart-like Marlowe. Time has, however, allowed the movie to succeed on it's own merits, and it is, today, considered a classic.So please give the film a second look...You may discover a new favorite, in an old film! "},{"Title":"No mixed feelings about this one....worked for me","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's true. You can't have mixed feelings about The Long Good-bye; you'll either love it or hate it. I started the movie with what I pretended was an open mind, but a secret hope that I'd be fully justified in hating it. In my defense, The Maltese Falcon is my favorite movie and Bogie is my favorite actor. Noir is my favorite film genre and I love Howard Hawk's The Big Sleep wihich had Bogart as the definitive Marlowe.Altman's take on Chandler's other book with private eye Marlowe, The Long Good-bye, updates the action to the 1970's. He introduces a very 70's theme song and finds as different an actor as he can from Bogart for the role of Marlowe. From the opening frame, Elliot Gould plays Marlowe like a push-over. He's a man who constantly mutters to himself, suffers nervous tics, can't even fool his cat, is afraid of dog's and seems to be the only man not attracted to his sexy hippie neighbors despite their friendliness towards him and obvious promiscuousness.However, Gould really creates a unique persona with the way he walks, talks, wise-cracks and operates. He becomes a believable person - which is why the uncharacteristic ending is so impacting. The photography, especially the night scenes, are beautifully filmed. The theme music plays everywhere - a Mexican funeral, a doorbell, a car radio etc and with different singers. There are other layers of flesh added to the telling that really work - like the compound security guards impressions of James Stewart, Barbara Stanwyck, Cary Grant and best of all Walter Brennan aka Stumpy from Rio Bravo.This movie worked great for me and the plot, intricate though it was, was understandable. I will not compare this Marlowe to Bogart's, but do find it admirable that Altman just stuck to the goal of making a good movie without trying to ape or make obvious references to the noir genre. "},{"Title":"The Best adapted screenplay of all time?","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"70 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can say, without feeling too stupid, that is my favourite film of all time.It has it all, firstly an incredibly brave screenplay that brought Raymond Chandler forward a generation after Bogart's best attempts to turn the great author into an insomnia remedy.The casting of Elliot Gould as Marlowe is a stroke of genius - this Marlowe is undoubtedly very cool, but his 'coolness' comes from his idiosyncrasies, nerdy quirks and inability to fit into defined social circles. Sterling Hayden's performance, for me out-does his work on Dr Strangelove and can be added to Jack Nicholson in The Shining, Hoffman in Midnight Cowboy and Brando in The Godfather as one of the finest examples of character acting you will ever come across. His 'Hemingwayesque' alcoholic rages are violent, visceral and disturbing and yet he contains a brittle fragility that draws you to his performance.The shining light though is Altman. Not only did he get the best career performances out of his finely assembled ensemble (did Gould, Hayden or Van Pallant ever do better?), but also produced one of the best shot films of all time. Only bettered in this era by Coppola's The Conversation (not a bad film to come second to).On top of all this is an overwhelming sense of the auteur, the soundtrack, camera work and acting performances all combine to create a synthesis of near perfect cinema.Turn your computer off, run out of the house and rent/steal or buy this film. Watch it, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Altman tells a story in a rhythm","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"39 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Easily one of Altman's best films and an early precursor to other films later in the decade by the director. The Long Goodbye is a fine transition in style to Altmans later films like Nashville and A Wedding Elliot Gould does an outstanding job portraying the outre detective Phillip Marlowe, using his mumbling, bumbling, smart ass speaking style, as a technique to keep the film under the illusion that everything is in motion, like the ocean waves in the film, Marlowe speaks in a sort of beatnik type Daddy-O style combined with a smooth talking private eye, and the result works perfectly.  The film works like it is timed by a metronome, it rolls along, seamlessly in a way that only Altman can achieve, and like the rhythm of the waves and Marlowe's speech, the camera is constantly in motion as well. The roving camera does an excellent job of allowing the viewer to feel as though they are witnessing more action than actually exists on screen.Wade (Sterling Hayden) is a fantastic Hemingway-esque writer in the film. Hayden's size and booming voice, in conjunction with his alcoholism and potential brutality, lend an aroma of unpredictableness to his character. Wade's beautiful wife, who has a mysterious bruise on her face, is like a timid, loyal animal, subjected to the whims of her over bearing master. Henry Gibson, who plays Wade's doctor, is excellent as a sort of despotic mouse, who frightens an elephant into conforming to his will, this irony is one of the films intriguing, bizarre twists.This film works well as a character study, and is one of the best films of the seventies.  A must see for every student of film. 9/10  "},{"Title":"A Masterwork","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"35 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was back in the seventies and this was the film that won me over to Robert Altman's great works in the American cinema.Granted, at the time of the movie's release Raymond Chandler purists naturally didn't appreciate the transformation his knight errant private eye underwent.  But nowadays, the viewer must see the film for its great direction, terrific performances, Leigh Brackett's excellent screenplay and the fine cinematography. Not to mention simply the challenge of understanding a truly baffling plot. As in all of Altman's works, this one is peppered with offbeat characters and subtle (and some not-so subtle) situations that positively take you by surprise.  As a maverick figure in Hollywood, Altman made sure iconoclast was stamped all over this film, it's a true nose-thumbing at every institution that Hollywood reveres; idealistic movie heroes, neat happy-ever-after endings, big budget spectacles, dependable money-making conventions and all around ass-kissing.But the real treat here is, of course, Elliott Gould, and I don't believe that it's the best thing he's ever done on screen, as many think.  He's certainly turned out even better performances than this one throughout the past 3 decades.  But yet, in The Long Goodbye, Gould is just so much fun to watch, especially when he's being interrogated by the police or just muttering lines like, He's got a girl, I got a cat or a melon convention when he gives up trying to get his topless next-door neighbors' attention.An interesting thing to note at the end of the film - we see the back shot of Marlowe walking away and that to me, was the private eye's closing shot, but then we have a front shot of Elliott Gould who begins playing his harmonica and then continues on up the road doing his little number, dancing a jig, etc.  And to me that shows where Marlowe left off and where Gould takes over.  So they weren't one and the same after all.  Once again, a statement to those who would be too quick to take the Marlowe myth seriously.The Long Goodbye is vintage Altman, a masterwork to be savoured forever. "},{"Title":"A neo-noir haiku for a crumbling 70's Los Angeles.","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Much like the 30's hard-bop jazz music that opens the movie, The Long Goodbye appears on the surface to take its cue from classic film-noir. No surprise here, it IS based after all on the Raymond Chandler novel by the same name, Chandler as iconic a figure in the noir realm as you're likely to get and responsible for some of the most distinctly classic moments of the genre (Double Indemnity, The Big Sleep, also Strangers on a Train for Hitchcock). But instead of rehashing styles and themes from a bygone era of film-making, slaving them in the service of a hip or serviceable crime flick that passes the time, Altman instead takes Chandler's film-noir exoskeleton, strips it of all fat and hangs on it his own unique take.Elliot Gould is Phillip Marlowe. Scruffy, sardonic and alienated private dick with a smart mouth and a cigarette eternally glued to his lips. He's cool alright but not the suave kind of cool that would impress dames in the 40's. He seems constantly out of place, doomed to observe and comment in his witty repartee on what's going on around him or just let the chips fall where they may. And they do.Chandler's story is as good as one would expect from such a patriarch of hardboiled hijinks and the screenplay matches it every step of the way. All the staples of a noir film are present, simultaneously fulfilling the genre promise of a Phillip Marlowe film and in the same time preparing the ground for Altman's take on it; murder, missing money, unhappy marriages, a private eye hired to investigate, twists and turns. The works. Sprawling and convoluted like the best of noirs usually are. The dialogue crackling with inventiveness, shedding toughguy lingo for a sense of playfulness, rolling in and out of the picture in a stream-of-consciousness way. Some of the twists and characters seem to carry a sense of seething malice, a fleeting glimpse on the seemy underbelly of the Great American Beast, the scars and ugliness of Hollywood showing behind a faded facade of glamour, an escalating creepiness factor that recalls the later works of David Lynch, predating him by a good number of years as it does. The mousey Dr. Verringe and the whole clinic subplot reminded me of Lost Highway for example.What really elevates The Long Goodbye in another level is Altman's direction and Vilmos Zsigmond's cinematography. This is only my second Altman picture (after the very good McCabe and Mrs. Miller) but 2 hours in his presence were enough to leave an indelible sense that I'm watching the work of a director on top of his craft. Altman's camera is always on the move, slowly panning and zooming in and out of the frame, picking up details, guiding the eye but never getting in the middle of the story or screaming for attention. The whole thing has a naturalistic, subdued feel to it, what with the unobtrusive lighting and bleached-out, hazy look; no glitz or glamour here. Only the faded, long-gone impression of it. The Long Goodbye is both a fantastic and somewhat hidden gem of 70's crime cinema and also one of the missing links in the evolution of noir, all the way from Sunset Blvd. to Mullholland Drive. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not one for those looking for a gripping detective story, but still interesting","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"36 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Phillip Marlowe is out getting food for his cat at 3am when friend Terry Lennox pops over and asks for a lift to Mexico. Marlowe obliges but returns to his home to find the police waiting for him with stories of Terry murdering his wife and Marlowe being an accessory. Three days later he is released from a holding cell whereupon he learns the news of his friend's suicide and all charges are dropped. Determined to get to the bottom of this open and shut case, Marlowe finds himself involved in the stormy marriage of Roger and Eileen Wade and the criminal activities of Marty Augustine.Hailed as a classic, this film is actually a bit of hard work crossed with cool style in a plot that gets somewhere but seems to take a long time and a million back roads to get there. It won't be to everyone's tastes as a result because, even though I quite liked it, I must confess that the narrative is hard to follow and hard to particularly care much about. The wit of it is watching Marlowe updated &#150; a device that will annoy as many as it pleases. In Gould's laidback and shabby detective we have the opposite of the tough and snappy detectives of the genre, but it sits well within the modern setting of the modern generation (as was) with its hedonism and fads. This is interesting but not the same as a good detective story, which sadly this isn't. If you're not won over by the overall approach then it is unlikely that you will find a lot more to fill the time.Altman's direction is focused on the style and, although he is fairly respectful to the material in regards what happens, he doesn't go out of his way to make it engaging. Gould fits the role well and enjoys his character. I would have liked more of the complexity underneath to come through to contrast with this surface. He is the film but he is well supported by a hammy show from Sterling and solid turns from Rydell, Pallandt, Gibson and Bouton.Overall then a difficult film to really like. It has enough of its own style to be interesting but not enough of a hook in the narrative to please a mass audience. Altman's hands are all over the film and I understand why some viewers don't like it for that reason. Not one for those looking for a gripping detective story, but still interesting. "},{"Title":"A Great Masterpiece","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"30 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the film it was after I've read Chandler's book and I was disappointed, because it was not the same Marlowe and not the same story. Now, after seeing this film many times I can say without hesitation that this is a masterpiece an Altman is a master of his craft.I think, that if it was made according to the book, it would be long forgotten.The film is all about masks, misleading and misinterpretation.These are the bases of P.I. s' movies, and as Marlowe says all over the film That's alright with me, but when it gets to Marlow's inner circle and ruins its basic beliefs its not alright anymore.The cynical mask Marlowe wore in the relatively naive 40', so he could cope with the harsh reality then, isnt enough for the sober 70',and he had to change it to an indifferent clown mask. He think he could get away with this mask, but the treacherous reality gets to him at last. Eliot Gould is terrific in this roleUnlike many reviewers, I think the real Chandler's Marlow without the masks is revealed in the finale scene with Terry.Nina Van Planndat who played Eileen Wade was known as the misstress of a well-known hoaxer at the time, and that contributed to her enigmatic role.She plays the fragile beaten woman (The blond femme fatale). Sterling Hyden is great as full of rage and bad manners Roger Wade.These impressions are of course all masks, but Marlowe fails to interpret them right, until its too late.  The only one who doesn't wear mask is augustine (Mark Rydel in a real horrific performance)and he is the key for solving the mystery.Dont expect a Marlowe regular. this film reflects the mood of one of the worst eras in US recent history, and its dark soul is masked by colors and brilliant directing and performance.   "}{"Title":"Slow-paced, laid-back, smart-mouthed, but so good!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is a superb illustration of Altman's skills as a writer and director. Taking Chandler's Long Goodbye into the 1970's, he makes a film which is at the same time an homage to the novel, and a travesty of the film noir conventions. Gould's Marlowe, with his characteristic lazy phrasing (a lot of voice-over is used) intent on feeding his cat falls into a twisted case of missing money, adultery and murder - only it all takes place in Malibu, where everything is fake the guard at the entrance keeps impersonating movie stars (from James Stewart to Walter Brennan), a nice reminder that the people to be met inside will not be who they pretend to be.Gould beautifully creates a private eye completely opposite to all the genre's clichés not interested in seduction (either of the beautiful Nina Van Pallandt or in his pot-smoking naked neighbors), not particularly virile (he takes an awful lot of beating, is scared to death of a dog, while an other dog blocks his car, in a scene that sums up the character), not overly astute in facing the police or understanding the case, he nevertheless stands for certain values the strength of humor and irony in the face of brutality, faithfulness to his idea of friendship - to the bitter end.While extremely funny, the film does have some violent reality checks the psychopathic gangster in a brutal fit of anger smashes a coke bottle into his girlfriend's face, as shocking a scene as I've ever seen in a movie; the portrayal of local corruption in Mexico is humorous but filmed in an unusually realistic way. The photography, and above all the editing is superb throughout. The use of music in the film is stunning a single musical theme (by John Williams) accompanies all scenes, in a different orchestration each time as Mexican music, supermarket music, piano-jazz.This film was clearly an inspiration for the Coen bros' Big Lebowski same laid-back, lazy, unprofessional investigator tying to figure out the odds an evens of a case that is evidently out of his reach, same ferocious portrayal of a 'beach community', same encounters with strange characters, mad artists (Roger Wade/Maude Lebowski), crooks, doctors, hapless policemen... Some scenes in Long G-B border on the burlesque, as when Marlowe in hospital receives a tiny harmonica as a present from a man all wrapped in bandages.In short, a masterpiece of irony, beautifully filmed and constructed. "},{"Title":"Marlowe the Loser","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first and only screen rendering of 'The Long Goodbye' is not Grandma's vision of Philip Marlowe, but it's a break from convention that pays off. Innovative for its time in both direction and cinematography, the film still holds considerable weight in an era when detective stories have dropped off the radar.Adapted from a screenplay by Leigh Brackett of 'The Big Sleep' fame, Robert Altman's 1973 thriller bases itself on an imaginative premise that succeeds thanks to excellent directing and the versatility of its cast. As Altman has many times explained, the 1940ish Philip Marlowe wakes up one morning to find himself in early 1970s Los Angeles, a city drenched in LSD, yoga, and capitalism gone mad. The hardboiled storytelling of Chandler is stood on its head, becoming a sort of expressionist montage Marlowe adrift in a society he doesn't understand and can't be bothered trying to figure out.In this film, as in others inspired by Chandler, character development becomes more important than plot because so much is happening. 'The Long Goodbye' uses the formula of a private detective who is misled and sent full circle. After an early-morning struggle with his cat, Marlowe drives his other 'friend' Terry Lennox (Jim Bouton) to the Mexican border and is soon taken into custody by the police, who explain that Lennox's wife had been murdered. Marlowe is released from jail and reads in a newspaper of Terry's apparent suicide in Mexico. While disbelieving either story - it's his 'friend' after all - Marlowe is called on a new case to the Malibu development where Terry lived. The client is Eileen Wade (Nina Van Pallandt), whose drunk author-husband Roger (Sterling Hayden) wandered off to a rehab facility without telling her. Marlowe's investigation hits some potholes when a local drug boss (Mark Rydell) jockeys for several thousand dollars in cash that Lennox toted across the border and Marlowe knew nothing about. Leigh Brackett ties up the loose ends in uncanny fashion, with an ending different from the original novel and quite surprising.Chandler purists will find this movie hard to swallow, especially the opening half-hour when all detective story conventions are flipped into the trash. Elliott Gould, who paired with Altman in 1970's MASH, is not the dynamic, suave Marlowe of other films. Instead, he is an unkempt crackpot who finds solace in his pet cat and drives around in an old, bulky Lincoln convertible. The Gould version of Marlowe is okay at his work, but only good enough to stay in one piece or as few chunks as humanly possible. He smokes incessantly, is bewildered by those around him, and can't win the respect of anybody. While a Marlowe of this type is hard to imagine, Chandler's novel actually supplies the needed atmosphere for Altman's idea to work. 'The Long Goodbye' is another Chandler tale with a bewildering series of events, where characters brush, collide, and overlap. The L.A. of Chandler is so overloaded with deceit that you have to forget action and start concentrating on motive.The Long Goodbye's outstanding feature is its look as a pseudo-noir, if such a thing were possible. The visuals by cinematographer Vilmos Zsigmond (including his use of 'post-flash' technique) give this film a subdued tone, reminding us that Marlowe was created in the past but is living and breathing in the present. There is a certain Deco feel to the movie, emphasizing straight lines and pastel colors. The use of Malibu locations helps retain an exotic look for Chandler's story, much like his palm tree-filled backgrounds of the 40s.Style leads the way in Altman-directed films, which bring strong love or intense hatred from viewers. There are indeed moments when we're begging Altman to step away and let the movie take care of itself. Altman's use of a free-moving camera may be as distracting to an audience as this initially was to the actors. The film's theme song by John Williams and Johnny Mercer is pleasing and fits the mood nicely, but it's just about the only melody heard. It keeps changing form based on the situation - sometimes a jazz theme, sometimes a funeral march, sometimes a doorbell ringing. The soundtrack, which Altman admitted was a 'conceit,' is in need of diversifying itself and reaches a point of overkill. But on the whole, this film is a leader of early 1970s craftsmanship and Chandler's writings never fail to generate sparks.MGM Home Entertainment outdid itself when releasing its DVD of 'The Long Goodbye' in 2002. The film is nicely presented in widescreen with Dolby enhancement of the original mono track; French 'dubbing' is provided, along with subtitles in English, French, and Spanish. MGM supplies featurette interviews with Altman, Gould, and Vilmos Zsigmond, who first photographed with Altman on 'McCabe and Mrs. Miller' in 1971. Also reprinted is a 1973 American Cinematographer article on Zsigmond's post-flash photography that was revolutionary for its day. Completing this disc are the original theatrical trailer and five radio commercials used during The Long Goodbye's advertising campaign. For fans of Altman and the detective genre, you can't go wrong with an unusually full disc from the MGM penny-pinchers.*** out of 4 "},{"Title":"THE essential Chandler movie. (possible spoilers)","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In recent years, critics have tried to 'defend' Robert Altman and his 'Long Goodbye', suggesting that he wasn't trying to negate Chandler's Phillip Marlowe after all, but showing how out of touch his values were in the corrupt 1970s (there are a lot of gates and water in this film!). But the whole point of Chandler's Phillip Marlowe was that he was out of time, a knight in an era of gangsters and bent cops.  Marlowe was the first detective not central to, or without a purchase in, the society he operated in - no matter what Pyrrhic victories he snatched, the rot would continue.  Marlowe's only way to remain central was to tell his own story - at least he could dominate that.  it is clearly Altman's intention not to show Marlowe's anachronistic idealism (those shots where he's dwarfed, Canute-like, by the tide), but his irrelevance, extinction.  There is a complex play of reflections throughout, that serves to turn Marlowe into a shadow, with no hope of dominating his life, never mind a plot in which he is permanantly in the dark. His killing Terry is shocking, not because 'Marlowe would never do that', but because he is killing himself, his double (watch that opening sequence and the the punning on cats), admitting the impotence of his code. A superlative film worthy of superlatives - best ever adaptation of a Chandler book; best film and performance of the 1970s.  The ingenious, anti-realistic variations on the theme song alone, matching the moving camera vortex, are the stuff of genius. "},{"Title":"A terrible disappointment","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really don't understand why this film gets such high ratings. It doesn't work either as an adaptation of a Chandler novel or on its own merits.I'm a big Chandler fan. I understand that adapting a book to film means making concessions, but I don't think there is a single line of dialogue from the book in this film. If you like Chandler then you know it's his dialog that makes him such an outstanding writer and more than just a pulp-fiction hack.I can also understand changing the plot, but this movie removes so much of the original and changes not only the storyline, but the characters and motivations that it becomes incoherent. I mean why make Mexican gangsters in the book into Jewish ones in the film? It takes away from the reasoning of Lennox's flight to Mexico. There is never any real understanding of why or how Lennox and Marlowe met or became friends. There are a whole group of characters left out which gave meaning to story. Without any understanding of the characters, the plot doesn't make sense, and the changes take away from the understanding and make the motivations weak.Although the story was updated to the 1970's, the look and feel is more of an early 1960's film. It wasn't avant-garde, but already outdated when it came out.Some people like the soundtrack, but I find the one song, in it's numerous variations very insipid. Hearing each version over and over again only point out how awful a song it is. It comes off as a cheap trick.So even on its own terms this movie is very weak and frustrating and as Chandler film it will make aficionados cringe. "},{"Title":"An Abomination, An Insult to Chandler","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is early proof that Altman is a lousy director, full of himself and his very bad ideas. After trying to see his genius for years now, I'm convinced that M*A*S*H was a fluke, created much in spite of the director by his amazing cast (who also thought he was a fool).The Long Goodbye is one of the best novels of the 20th century. Yes, it's only a detective story but Chandler's writing and the depth of his characterizations make his book stand next to the best of American fiction, including Faulkner and Hemingway and Fitzgerald. If you truly love and appreciate Chandler - and Marlowe - you will likely find this adaptation absolutely atrocious. The movie also features an obnoxious and tuneless song, horribly sung, which endlessly blithers on and on. I thought this awful movie would never end, much as the song. As other reviewers here have noted, this movie is an insult to Chandler, and to Marlowe. "},{"Title":"Highly disappointing","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gould as Marlowe is an inspired piece of casting and he is the best thing in this film. In fact, he's the only good thing in it. The 'improvised' dialogue in most cases falls completely flat. It's obvious that the cast are self-consciously 'acting'; worst culprit Sterling Hayden as Wade, basically just harrumphs around and says 'balls!' a lot. Whoever played Lennox was just as bad. Henry Gibson was so-so. The cops were poor, Marty Augustine was the least convincing mobster/tough guy in the history of film. Nina van whatshername was pretty good as Eileen Wade.That song!! God, you'd think if you you were going to use the gimmick of having different versions of the one song throughout the film, you'd make it a decent song...'There's a long goodbye/and it happens every day' - I mean, how lame is that??? Anyway, Elliot Gould is super in this, so watch it for that reason only. "},{"Title":"a clown Marlow laughs at the heart of darkness","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Altman drags Leigh Brackett from the Warner attic, ties her to a wheelchair and flings her downstairs to write a delightful present for movie lovers, instead of the creaker it might have been (see Philip Marlowe attempts by Michael Winner and Dick Richards). This movie is completely uninterested in Raymond Chandler and is only barely coaxed into coherent storytelling. Instead we get a delirious funhouse mirror, a riff on Studio Era anachronisms that would have been impossible under Studio Era constraints. Altman is at his most dangerous here, with lots of silly sight gags, much obviously improvised dialog, and actors sometimes visibly intoxicated. The highwire act should fall, but keeps its feet because, as much as any film of that bizarro time and place (early seventies Hollywood), it captures the free spirit of why not? go-for-broke artistry. Many of this period's experimental films, though, like EASY RIDER and all those revisionist Westerns, and even a lot of Altman's own seventies work (CALIFORNIA SPLIT, NASHVILLE), have a cheap, rushed look; yet in the midst of what might have seemed chaos, Vilmos Zsigmond quietly pulls off visual tricks nobody would attempt today without CG effects. He invests bright sunlight with the gravity of murky night. He uses windows as mirrors and walls and prisms, and windows, simultaneously. The photography of this movie is probably its biggest homage to the technical excellence of Warner's golden age.You won't forget Dick Powell or Humphrey Bogart, but only because Elliot Gould isn't attempting any of the same stuff. This movie is a joke, a very good joke difficult to tell and told well. Gould somehow makes this buffoonish version of an archetype work, though subverting his swagger at every turn - like a lonely fat girl, he's a slave to his cat; he orders CC and ginger, the faggiest drink a tough guy ever threw a lip over; he evinces no physical bravado; he smokes so incessantly the joke should get old in the first reel - but he and Altman are comedians of the first stripe, and everything plays because they want it to. The usual Altman ensemble elements are in place, plus the inspired casting of Sterling Hayden as Hemingway and Mark Rydell as the scariest Jew since Jesus Christ. A couple of years later, as if in indignant rebuke to Altman's irreverence, Robert Mitchum was disconnected from his bong to star in the two worst Marlowe movies ever made, by-the-numbers yawners reinforcing the fact that every genre is mostly garbage. Let us not forget that Mitchum starred in OUT OF THE PAST, at least as good a detective movie as any '40s Chandler effort with the possible exception of DOUBLE INDEMNITY. So these two late-seventies entries do a double service by reminding us not to try and repeat ourselves, a mistake THE LONG GOODBYE did not make. "},{"Title":"Admirable intent, uneven results","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an attempt to revive the Philip Marlowe character and place him in the context of early 70s America. As scripted by Leigh Bracket, the film's got all the ingredients of a solid detective noir. But as directed by Robert Altman, it's a bit too self-conscious and post-modern to really do its fundamental job.The oddity originates right away, with the relatively effete Elliott Gould playing the gumshoe detective. He makes some very strange decisions that Altman blithely allows him to get away with, like smearing his face with magic fingerprinting ink that somehow leaves enough residue to cover his entire face and give him an opportunity to perform a Jolson impression. This isn't nearly as studied as the Walter Brennan impression offered by the Malibu gate guard. The movie pretty much wallows in this type of post-modernism, as in ha ha, here's a movie that's about movies. I find it quickly tiring.What's great about the movie is Sterling Hayden's performance, intimidating and endearing in his big bushy beard and looking like a man not comfortable in his own body. He re-enacts the scenario from A Star is Born with such zeal that we want to believe it's actually the first time we've seen it. His long conversation with Marlowe (whom he calls Marlboro Man) on the beach is the absolute high point of the movie.What's really horrible about the movie is Nina Van Pallandt's excruciatingly one dimensional performance as Hayden's wandering wife. She's so lacking in basic appeal and screen presence that her function as a femme fatale is completely subverted.Too many things in this movie feel arbitrary, as if the film-makers were just enjoying their own cleverness. What the point with the hippie neighbors was, I really don't know. It didn't enhance the movie, it is just a colorful distraction. The basic conceit of the movie, that Marlowe is basically the same person from the stories while the world around him has changed, is distracting and fills no real purpose other than novelty. If a real P.I. drove around in that 1940s automobile, I don't think it would be very easy for him to go incognito. Still, the movie kept my attention. Most of the performances outside of Van Pallandt's are excellent, but the visual style of the movie is very bland. "},{"Title":"Are You Stoned, Mr. Marlowe?","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" That most expert of genre benders -- Robert Altman -- takes aim at the noir detective film in this delightfully creative and witty adaptation of the Raymond Chandler novel.Altman -- not to mention Elliott Gould, who delivers a wonderfully whacked-out performance as Chandler staple Philip Marlowe -- gives us a hero who's right at home in the drifter, everything goes environment of 1970s L.A. His mumbled refrain throughout the film is It's o.k. with me, a refrain that sees him through all manner of confrontations, some of them life threatening. The plot is one of those convoluted puzzles for which films noir are known, having something to do with Marlowe's close friend, Terry Lennox, turning up dead in Mexico after supposedly murdering his wife. Marlowe, unable to believe that his friend would be capable of such an act, can't let the case drop even though the police want him to. And of course, in true noir fashion, he's hired for a separate case that at first seems to have nothing to do with the other but eventually turns out to be connected, involving the wife (Nina van Pallandt) of a suicidal novelist (Sterling Hayden, giving a frightening and intense performance).But, also true to film noir (and true as well of most Altman films), none of this plot really matters as much as the movie's tone, so artist and genre find themselves perfectly matched. Over the course of the film, we realize that Marlowe is the only honest person in this crooked version of contemporary L.A., and he begins to seem like more of a relic from a past decade, a shuffling gumshoe that might be at home in a Warners crime film from the 40s, but who is woefully under equipped to handle the dirty dealings of the present. That is until a shocking and cold-blooded finale, in which Marlowe proves himself to be a bit more resourceful than we had given him credit for.There's a hip quality to The Long Goodbye -- it's a sustained joke of a film that Altman pulls off beautifully. Our introduction to Marlowe finds him going off in the middle of the night in search of his cat's favorite brand of pet food, and then trying to trick the cat into eating a brand it's not used to. This endears us to him, and we stay endeared to him for the rest of the film, thanks largely to the way Gould plays him. The film looks great too; Altman's frequent collaborator on his early 70s pictures, Vilmos Zsigmond, does cinematography honors. And John Williams composed a great theme song, that plays in numerous variations throughout the film and contributes a running gag to the proceedings, popping up at one point as the funeral dirge being played by a Mexican band and at another as the tinkling tune of a doorbell.I've liked The Long Goodbye more and more every time I've seen it, and have quickly come to the conclusion that it's one of Altman's best.Grade A "},{"Title":"Cats and dogs","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Philip Marlowe, the iconic private detective of the 1940s, wakes up to find himself in the 1970s. His first case is to feed his cat, and so he spends the first ten minutes of Robert Altman's The Long Goodbye scheming to placate his feline. In the apartment next-door several naked women cavort sexually, but Marlowe isn't interested. This is neither the permanently horny Humphrey Bogart of The Big Sleep nor a sexless modern update rendered impotent by female empowerment and women's liberation. No, this is a noir hero who suffers modern consciousness. He's long withdrawn from a world he no longer cares about. Already we see Altman deconstructing both Marlowe and noir, peeling back the layers and undermining the familiar. Altman teases Marlowe, egging his movie with inside jokes, and doing his best to show the adolescent idyll in Philip Marlowe pictures. Altman's Marlowe has a cat instead of girlfriends, gives tips to the thugs tailing him and is always being caught up in real-life games, like the gatekeeper at the Malibu Colony who does Hollywood impersonations, or the film's soundtrack, which contains countless variations of the The Long Goodbye, a mocking tune which plays in clubs, on the radio, in a Mexican band and even on a home doorbell. If, as Camus says, irony is the force that overwhelms mythical value, then it is the aim of Altman's playful film to destabilise noir tradition. But it is not only noir myths that are being undermined, it is Marlowe's very world view that is being challenged.Two events kick the story into motion. The first is Marlowe losing his cat. The great joke of The Long Goodbye is the way Altman populates his streets, landscapes and dialogue with references to cats and dogs. Marlowe sees the world in terms of absolutes and binaries, docile cats and hostile dogs, and so when his feline goes missing, he understandably fears for its safety. Meanwhile, as Marlowe tends to his cat, his best friend Terry Lennox talks to a Malibu security guard with a penchant for mimicking movie stars. Just remember that you don't understand! Terry effectively tells the guard. This is Altman's direct instruction to both Marlowe and his audience. Later, when Terry later goes missing and is implicated in a crime, Marlowe is the only person in the film who fights for his innocence. He still cares. To other characters, his lack of apathy seems quaint.Significantly, Jim Bouton, the baseball player who plays Terry Lennox, was famously nicknamed Bulldog. Meanwhile Marlowe's other buddy, his cat, disappears when Bulldog appears. One has not scared the other off. They are one and the same.The film proceeds along playful lines until a single Coca-Cola bottle, rammed hard into the face of a beautiful young girl, turns parody into the real thing. Recalling Altman's use of Coca Cola bottles in Thieves Like Us, the mundane swiftly turns sinister. And so Marlowe leaves his self-imposed bubble and enters the world one last time, his mission to redeem his friend. When he eventually learns that Terry is really guilty of crimes (reversing Marlowe's cat's refusal to be duped by fake-brand cat food), Marlowe ruthlessly shoots his buddy in the head. Now long past disillusionment, Marlowe skips off down the road, Hooray for Hollywood blasting on the soundtrack. There's no victory here, only a sort of further disregard and total disenchantment. And so Altman has inverted classic noir alienation. Faced with the greed, insanity, lust, vanity, self-delusion, lies, drunkenness, ineffectuality, ambition, murder, larceny and social climbing of others, Marlowe's mantra throughout the film was a casual It's okay with me. He knows the world is scum, but experiences no self-loathing as he isn't a part of it. But when Terry Lennox is revealed to be a criminal, it's suddenly not okay with Marlowe. And so the noir hero now suffers the double helix of modern consciousness. Like the Malibu security guard who does countless impersonations, Marlowe knows everyone disguises their real thoughts and intentions by the roles they take on. Marlowe's flaw is that he, in his idealism, refuses to abide by this, and so appears inept to everyone else. Thus, whilst most noirs use the voice-over to let the hero explain his thoughts, Altman's Marlowe never actually speaks to the audience. Instead, as a solitary modern man does, he mumbles to himself constantly. He has his own outdated moral code, his own sealed off world, wearing 40s suits and driving an antique car. Any man adhering to such a code, Altman contends, will experience dysfunction living and working in modern Los Angeles, a place of lies, false facades and cinema itself. Yes, Marlowe's anachronistic personality operates as his moral salvation, but it is also the root cause of his lack of success. Aesthetically, the film differs from most other noirs. Altman's restless camera becomes a metaphor for both Marlowe's quest and the audience's confusion, always looking for a solution. There is no safe place to stand, no clear perspective from which to view the mystery.The film's big flaw is its final act. Marlowe wakes up in a hospital next to a goofy patient, chases comically after a car and then finds himself in Mexico where, in a brilliantly brutal scene, he guns down Terry Lennox. The contrasts, the pacing, are a bit grating. One wishes for a more drawn out showdown, some kind of meatier ending, but of course Altman's immediacy is the film's very point. Marlowe learns the truth and promptly makes a decision. The message is clear That ain't fine my me. 8.5/10 &#x96; Once subversive, Altman's revolution has now become canonical. Marlowe may think he's cut himself off from the world, but he's no match for, say, Jeffrey Lebowski. Lebowski's so obsolete he has a mythical cowboy narrating for him. "}{"Title":"Long on atmosphere, short on substance...","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Critically-acclaimed modern noir from director Robert Altman, a rather rambling adaptation of Raymond Chandler's novel, has drowsy, early-a.m. atmosphere and rumpled panache to spare, but a dreary plot and characters to contend with. Elliott Gould does the gumshoe genre proud with his portrayal of Philip Marlowe, bachelor detective in present-day Southern California, but the murder investigation he's involved with here isn't engrossing or suspenseful, and the eccentrics who dot the cast aren't amusing--just dull. Evocative cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond is a definite plus, yet Altman's decision to play this material so deadpan and low-key results in a 'sleeper' of the worst sort. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Marlowe, The Marlboro Man","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Usually smoking, and sometimes smirking, Elliott Gould mumbles and stumbles his way through Altman's re-invention of this gumshoe novel by Raymond Chandler. The film's unexpectedly interesting ending suggests a good story, but you'd never know it from the film's plot, which rambles and meanders, seemingly without purpose, a pointless talk-fest wherein Marlowe interacts with the cops, a femme fatale, a buddy who wants to disappear, and assorted hoods and mobsters. It's all rather sordid and seedy as you would expect, except that it's brought up to date, for 1973, and in its hipness and sophistication becomes something of a parody of 1940's private-eye flicks. Gould's Marlowe is annoyingly smug, with a too casual manner. And I found none of the other characters to be sympathetic or likable.The dialogue and the acting are stilted and self-conscious. In one party sequence that takes place on the beach, Dr. Verringer (Henry Gibson) insists that he get his money. The guests stand around, as if they are movie extras brought in for this one day of shooting. The viewer can easily imagine microphones just over the heads of the principal actors, and personnel just off-screen, waiting for Altman to yell Cut. Along with other scenes, it looks forced and staged.The film's best attribute is its cinematography. I especially like the sequence showing human figures retreating into the surf at night. Combined with the sound of ocean waves, it makes for an interesting segment.Some viewers love this film because of Altman's direction and Gould's performance. Others hate it because it so deviates from Chandler's original story. I personally did not like the film, mostly because of Marlowe, himself, and because of the tangled and convoluted plot, populated by loquacious characters who I found totally not interesting. "},{"Title":"A good Altman movie one of his best shot, and with a great soundtrack.","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Beautiful early John Williams score, really well shot. I wish more   Altman films were this slick visually many interesting visual things   happening, reflections upon reflections, beautiful compositions. Plus,   the film stock this was shot on looks more expensive than the one   Altman usually uses. Makes this look more like a movie, and his other   movies (aside from Gosford Park perhaps, which is also   self-referential) look more like we're spying on actual happenings,   from the graininess of the footage resembling home video almost. I must   say The Long Goodbye has an admirably smart look about it due to this   better film stock.    Elliot Gould's performance of Marlowe as a man sort of drifing through   this movie, like the naked hippies next door to him, fits well with   Altman's depiction and send-up of contemporary (1973) LA.    Funny motifs run throughout the security guard who does impressions of   Hollywood celebrities (Jimmy Stewart is probably his best) is lots of   fun, and also Marlowe's temporamental cat provides amusement. Like with   Dr T and the Women and MASH, however, the jokes in Altman comedies   are not really intended just for empty amusment - so you don't   necessarily laugh out loud. More often than not, though there is humour   for humour's sake, the jokes are vicious, slap in the face-style,   attacks at certain social constructs (or often just presentations of   certain social biases, like treatment of blacks and women in MASH).    Curios    Arnold Schwarzenegger before he was famous, playing the next step up   from an extra, owing to his muscle man frame exposed in the scene where   Augustine has his thugs and Marlowe strip so they'll be honest. He   looks ridiculous with those breasts of his.    Screenplay by THE Leigh Brackett, screenwriter of classic Bogart flick   The Big Sleep (1946), based on another of Raymond Chandler's Marlowe   novels.  Obviously a lot of   Chandler's overly complex plot had to be summarised, but i think   Brackett (in an Altman movie most of the dialogue has been reworked by   improvisation and rehearsal by the time it gets to the screen, but it   was certainly Brackett who gave the overall structure of how it would   be adapted and how much of the book could be told in the movie) did a   good job with the hard task she was given - the plot of Chandler's   novel is more convoluted than The Big Sleep, if that's any indication!    Bottom line what a great soundtrack! One of Altman's best movies, and   one of his best shot. If you're not a fan of his ensemble movies (how   could you not be, but still) here's one of his narrower, smaller cast   movies that works really well. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing bad...","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Agreed. Robert Altman was a lovely man and ultimately a gifted filmmaker in his own time. He obviously has a lot of friends...but were we watching the same movie?(!) This movie is so bad that it's hard to watch.Why take a novel from a writer who is an icon to his genre and so completely change the plot, to the point of violating so many of the qualities of a classic character? The ending of this movie totally violates every original intention for that character. If the filmmakers felt the characters and plot were too dated for 1970's tastes, they should have started fresh and filmed an original concept. Passing this movie off as a film linked to Raymond Chandler is an insult to Raymond Chandler fans. "},{"Title":"It stinks -- not because it betrays Chandler, but simply because it stinks.","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gimmick upon gimmick upon gimmick.The topless neighbors, the cacophony of mumbled dialog, Sterling Hayden's embarrassing performance, the idiotic choice of a '48 Lincoln for Marlowe's wheels (just what a P.I. would drive on the job!), the chain smoking.And, like all of Altman's oeuvre, only the most threadbare of plots.A year or so ago I traveled to New York to see the Met's production of Berlioz's Benvenuto Cellini, a great swashbuckling opera. I had to close my eyes (not my ears!) to the mess they made of it. It was clear to me that the director and producer had no faith in the work. Similarly, Altman here shows no faith (or even interest) in the detctive genre. That's well and good there are plenty of genres (sci-fi, westerns) that I can't force myself to watch. But why put all the effort into spoofing an artform he dislikes?All in all, a group of unsympathetic characters thrust together in a melange of apathy and deceit. Bargain basement nihilism. Perfect for U.S.C. film students, 'movee' critics and best of list composers. For all others a waste of time. "},{"Title":"damn near unwatchable","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Apparently when The Long Goodbye was released, many critics thought it was a parody. Perhaps Altman should have set out to lampoon Marlowe, he couldn't have done any more damage to the reputation of Chandler's superb novel.Putting aside comparisons with the original work, as a film The Long Goodbye makes painful viewing. The casting is bizarre; Elliot Gould in no way conjures up Marlowe. The contemporary setting is incongruous; Marlowe's cynicism and barbs are very much tied to his age. As is his chain-smoking - Gould's constant lighting and relighting of his ciggies here just seems ludicrous. The seventies setting does allow Altman to throw in some topless co-ed neighbours, apparently for the titillation (no pun intended) of the crew.The production value is questionable. Gould mumbles his lines and a lot of it seems dubbed. Even then, you have to strain to hear the dialogue much of the time. The film has a cheesy, made-for-TV look that is not all down to being made in the 1970s.All great directors have their flops, and Altman is no exception. Peter Biskind cites rumours that Altman was drunk much of the time on set. I can only assume he was out of his skull shooting this one. "},{"Title":"Overblown disservice to Chandler","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watching it recently crystallized my dislike of the Altman oeuvre. High-falutin', cutesy-wootsey, mumbling dialogue throughout with a storyline insufficient for a straight narrative.Three elements stand out as outright garbage having the Marlowe character smoking a cigarette every single second he's on screen, the endless repetition by various performers of the theme song, and the half-naked girls-next-door.While Altman toned down some of his self-referential affectedness a bit in his later movies, they were always there and they always drove home his utter inability to tell a compelling story (yes, even the earlier M*A*S*H included.) "},{"Title":"A really awful adaptation - read the book or watch Chinatown instead","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really atrocious.  Robert Altman has stated in interviews that he didn't even bother to finish *reading* the book on which the movie is nominally inspired, which makes you wish that he had chosen a different book to adapt.  Marlowe is cool and this movie stinks.  It is full of bad haircuts that are supposed to look good, lots of mumbling, and has nothing to do with what makes Chandler noir or even good updated film noir (see Chinatown) really great.  This movie is definitely the very bottom of the barrel, and I'd be surprised if anyone post-1973 would bother to sit through the whole thing except maybe just to *witness* how bad it really is which what I felt obliged to do. "},{"Title":"Listen Harry, in case you lose me in traffic, this is the address where I'm going.","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye is directed by Robert Altman and loosely adapted to screenplay by Leigh Brackett from the Raymond Chandler story. It stars Elliott Gould, Nina van Pallandt, Sterling Hayden, David Arkin, Jim Bouton and Mark Rydell. Music is by John Williams and cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond.Private Detective Phillip Marlowe (Gould) tries to help a friend who is accused of murdering his wife, but he is quickly thrust into a world of bluffs, deceits, alcoholics, violence and a suspicious suicide.Much has been made about how Altman and Brackett tampered with the Chandler source material, so much so I have seen and read some venomous arguments/diatribes as regards the film's worth. Venturing into it for the first time I was forewarned that it plonks legendary Private Dic Phillip Marlowe into a 70s setting, that it satirises the gumshoe aspects of decades previously to put Marlowe as a sort of man out of his time. Then there's the controversial ending thought up by Brackett, and the casting of Gould as Marlowe that caused some consternation to Chandler purists. So as much as I adore Bogart and Powell's takes on Marlowe, I ventured into The Long Goodbye with an open mind. And I'm so glad I did.I love it, I really do, I found it so easy to dissociate this neo-noir version of Marlowe with the hard boiled film noir versions from the classic cycle. This Marlowe is a riot, abused and used by those around him, he is world weary to the extreme, he can't even bluff his own cat, who it appears is probably his only real friend. He sleepwalks through life quipping away to himself because nobody else cares to listen anyway, and he chain-smokes, how unfashionable! But he is always cool, even when faced with hostile cops or murderous thugs, his coolness is not for shaking. Attaboy Phillip.Cynical but very at ease with itself, the picture pulses with classic noir themes of betrayal, loyalties and moral corruption. It also looks and sounds ace, with a desaturated 70s sheen blending in with the emphasised sounds of everyday West America life. Oh and Gould is just triffic to boot. Great stuff, annual viewing requirement assured here. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Peculiar updating based on Raymond Chandler's novel  in which Marlowe  becomes involved with mysterious murders","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Splendid film chronicles a Detective Story in this remarkably faithful adaptation from Raymond Chandler novel , though there are a couple of crucial changes and some spoofy lines , featuring world-weary private eye Philip Marlowe . It deals with down-on-his-luck detective Philip Marlowe (Elliot Gould , he improvised some scenes as when he smears fingerprint ink all over his face and original choices for this character were Lee Marvin and Robert Mitchum) tries to help a friend who is accused of murdering his wife . Following the reported suicide in Mexico of a friend, a gorgeous woman (first English-language film of Danish actress Nina van Pallandt) hires him to locate her alcoholic and mercurial husband called Roger Wade (Sterling Hayden , this role had originally cast Altman's friend Dan Blocker but he died before filming commenced) . Then Marlowe being interrogated by Police Inspectors . The wisecracking eye private becomes involved into a dark world of killing , treason and leading in twisted results .This enjoyable , hard-boiled though overlong film packs thrills , suspense , mayhem , some nice touches an exciting plot in ever-twisting directions , using that crisp Raymond Chandler narrative . Interesting adaptation by screenwriter Leigh Brackett who twenty-seven years earlier co-wrote the script for the classic The big sleep (1946). The picture offers a nicely detailed scenarios from Malibu ,in fact , the location for Sterling Hayden's home was actually Robert Altman's home at the time and the name of the private estate was Malibu Colony. The movie was part of a predominantly 1970s revival cycle of pictures adapted from novels by Raymond Chandler . Likable acting by Elliot Gould as tough and cynical eye private . This was one of five movies actor Elliott Gould made with director Robert Altman , the films include M.A.S.H. (1970), Nashville (1975), The player (1992)and California Split (1974) . Very good support cast as Nina Van Pallandt is stunning as a Femme Fatale and sensational Sterling Hayden as her drank husband . There appears uncredited, a bearded David Carradine and Arnold Schwarzenegger as a muscleman but has no lines in the film . And special mention to director Mark Rydell as a violent Jewish mobster , he returned to acting for this movie after an absence of around a decade. Atmospheric as well as jokey musical score by the great John Williams , pre-collaboration to Spielberg , all the music in this film is different arrangements of the theme tune. Colorful cinematography by magnificent cameraman Vilmos Zsigmond , the camera is always moving ; there are no static shots in the movie ; Vilmos tried to approximate human vision through the post-production technique of exposing the undeveloped negative to additional pure light, which literally dampens blacks and softens intense colors . Other films about this famous detective are the followings  ¨Murder my sweet¨(1944) by Edward Dmytryck starred by Dick Powell , ¨ The Big Sleep¨ version directed by Howard Hawks with Humphrey Bogart , ¨Big sleep¨ by Michael Winner with Robert Mitchum , ¨Marlowe¨ by Paul Bogart with James Garner , ¨Farewell my lovely¨ by Dick Richards with Robert Mitchum . The motion picture was well directed by Robert Altman . At the beginning Altman realized Shorts and he then went to Hollywood to direct Alfred Hitchcock's TV show . From here, he went on to direct a large number of television shows, until he was offered the script for M.A.S.H. (1970) in 1969. He was hardly the producer's first choice - more than fifteen other directors had already turned it down . This wasn't his first movie, but it was his first success . After that, he had his share of hits and misses, but The prayer (1992) and, more recently, Gosford Park (2001) were particularly well . "}{"Title":"Marlowe Reincarnated & Satirised","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman's The Long Goodbye is a satirical take on private eye stories in general and the iconic Philip Marlowe in particular. Its style is easy going and good humoured but there are also some moments of pathos. This is a tale of friendship, loyalty and betrayal and also a variety of characters that, for various reasons, mistreat the hapless Marlowe by either beating or cheating him in one way or another.This movie's incarnation of Marlowe differs radically from Raymond Chandler's hardboiled hero but is nevertheless just as out of place in his early 70s L.A. surroundings as Humphrey Bogart's or Dick Powell's characters would have been. The normally sharp and witty dialogue is replaced by occasional wisecracks uttered by a much more worn out Marlowe who drifts about in an environment in which he seems lost and disconnected from those around him.The visual style of The Long Goodbye with its washed out and rather blurred colours is quite distinctive and very successfully evokes the tone and mood of the classic film noirs. Another link with the original film noirs is the use of the doubles motif (e.g. 2 suicides, 2 investigations which converge, 2 moments of shocking violence, Marlowe twice threatened with extreme physical violence and also twice suspected of something he didn't do, once by the police and once by a gangster).Philip Marlowe (Elliott Gould) responds positively when an old friend is in desperate need of help. Terry Lennox (Jim Boulton) calls by one evening and asks Marlowe to drive him to Tijuana. When Marlowe returns from his trip, he's immediately told by police officers that Terry's rich wife Sylvia has been murdered and Terry is suspected of having killed her. This seems inconceivable to Marlowe who out of loyalty to his friend, refuses to cooperate when he's interrogated by the police. They then respond by taking him into custody ostensibly on suspicion of being an accessory to murder.A few days later, news is received from Mexico that Terry has committed suicide and Marlowe is released from jail. The police regard the case as closed but Marlowe remains unconvinced that Terry could have been the murderer.Eileen Wade (Nina Van Pallandt) is a neighbour of Terry's and hires Marlowe to locate her missing husband. He's an alcoholic author with writer's block and a man whose behaviour is often unpredictable and self destructive. Marlowe tracks him down in a sanatorium run by Dr Verringer (Henry Gibson) who's very reluctant to let Roger Wade (Sterling Hayden) out of his care. Marlowe overcomes this problem however, by breaking Wade free and returning him to his home and Eileen.Further trouble awaits Marlowe after he completes the Wade investigation as he gets visited by a vicious gangster called Marty Augustine (Mark Rydell) who was owed a large amount of money by Terry. Augustine is accompanied by a bunch of his henchmen and believes that Terry left the money he owed with Marlowe. After he leaves, Marlowe follows Augustine and watches as he visits the Wade residence.Marlowe becomes increasingly intrigued by the links between Terry, the Lennoxes and Augustine and this leads him to embark on an investigation of his own into the circumstances surrounding Sylvia's murder. What he eventually discovers turns out to be surprising and disappointing and leaves him feeling saddened and betrayed.There are two shocking moments of violence in the film. The first incident shocks because of the casually cruel nature of what's done to the victim and the second shocks because it's carried out by Marlowe and seems so uncharacteristic of the man as he's been portrayed throughout all the preceding action.The Long Goodbye features plenty of understated humour and a particularly enjoyable example of this is the numerous versions of the title song which are heard so frequently in a series of often unexpected places (such as a funeral procession).Elliott Gould looks perfectly comfortable in his role as the famous private eye who's now seen as a mumbling, chain smoking slob who's bewildered by what he sees around him. The young women who live close by and habitually enjoy marijuana and topless yoga are a case in point. He talks to them in a neighbourly way but has no understanding of why they do what they do. He's a man who lives by his own code and has some admirable qualities but he also appears to be perpetually jaded and weary from having been everybody's punch bag for much too long. The quality of the acting is consistently good in this movie and Nina Van Pallandt and Sterling Hayden provide the best of the supporting performances. "},{"Title":"Yeah, and I even lost my Cat!","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Being awakened by his pet cat at three in the morning private eye Philip Marlow, Elliott Gould, drags himself down to the local all-night food-mart to get his kiddie it's favorite cat-food, Curry Brand, only to find out that it's all sold out. Coming back home to his shabby apartment Marlow tries to trick his cat, by putting another can of cat food into a Curry Brand can, but the cat is far to smart to fall for that trick and walks out on him. This was the start of Marlow's troubles in the movie The Long Goodbye where he's walked out on betrayed and doubled-crossed by almost everyone, man woman and cat, that he comes in contact with.The movie puts 1940's old fashion values of personal ethics loyalty and respect into the 1970's Me Generation of greed selfishness and nihilism. Marlow is contacted, as he's out looking for his cat, by long-time friend Terry Lennox, Jim Bouton,who needs his help desperately. It seems that Terry had a fight with his old lady Silvia and may have knocked her out cold. Needing a ride across the border into Mexico Marlow without as much as a thought, not knowing what condition Silvia's in, takes him there only to find out later, after Terry was safely out of the country, that she was found brutally murdered.Held in custody for three days Marlow is let out of prison after it was reported by the Mexican authorities that Terry was found dead with a suicide note by his side. Marlow is a bit puzzled in the fact that Terry would murder his wife knowing him all these years Marlow feels that his friend is totally incapable of committing such a brutal and vicious act. Almost as soon as Marlow is back home he gets a call from this Malibu socialite Elleen Wade, Nina Van Pallandt, that her husband big time writer and drinker Roger Wade, Sterling Hyden, is missing.Marlow has no trouble locating the missing Roger Wade who checked himself into a sanatorium to dry out. It turns out that Roger had been doing this kind of thing on and off for years. As Marlow starts connecting the dots he finds out that not only had both Roger & Elleen been neighbors of Terry and his wife Silvia but that Roger had been having an affair with Silvia and may well have been the one who murdered her in a drunken and violent fit.Marlow also gets in trouble with the local mob boss Marty Augustine, Mark Rydell, whom Terry had stolen $355,000.00 from when he checked out of the country. Augustine feels that Marlow knows where the money is and is determined as hell to get it back even it it kills him, that Marlow not Augustine. To show what a lowlife sicko this Augustine is director Robert Altman has a scene put in the movie where he, just to make a point,slices open his totally innocent and doting girlfriend Jo Ann's, Jo Ann Brody,face with a broken bottle. This despicable act on Augustine part just to show a shocked Marlow, and audience, that he really means business.Marlow, given a few days by Augustine to come up with his stolen cash, travels to Mexico to check on his good friend Larry's death. Having become a bit suspicious about what really happened to Larry after he got a $5,000.00 bill in the mail from Larry for helping him get away from the dangerous Augustine mob that includes Mr. Muscles himself Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger. Marlow begins to put all the pieces together and realizes that it was not writer Roger Wade who was having an affair with Silvia but the other way around. That Larry in fact was having and affair with Elleen. This revelation came to Marlow after Roger, dead drunk as usual,walked into the Pacific Ocean and drowned himself. It had to be that Roger couldn't live with himself knowing that his wife,not himself as at first Marlow suspected, and Larry were in some way responsible for Silvia's death.Things begin to crystallized for Marlow when Augustine and his boys, Big Arnold included, are about to take him apart that the stolen money, minus the $5,000.00 that Larry sent him, mysteriously showed up at Augustine's office. It's then that Marlow was allowed to leave with his most vital organ, that was just about to be amputated, in tact. Traveling back to the Mexican town where Larry was supposed to have killed himself Marlow finds him alive and living the life of Riley without a care in the world! All this after all Marlow went trough in saving his neck from the police and Augustine mob!Told by Larry that he's sorry for his troubles, yeah sure, and that his wife's death was an accident on his part Marlow for he first time in the movie loses it. The snickering and condescending tone of Larry's remarks not giving a damn for what he put his friend through. Smugly telling him that he's just a born loser, to him being a born winner?, and learn to live with that fact had Marlow the only time in the movie act like the tough as nails Philip Marlow of the 1940's. A mad and outraged Marlow uses his gun, which you would have never known that he had,to put the scheming and double-crossing Larry Lennox away for good.Walking back to the bus depot to get a ride back to L.A Marlow sees Elleen, the now departed Larry's lover, driving down to see her boyfriend and noticing him Elleen senses that something terrible has happened! As for Marlow he just walks up the road smiling and dancing with anyone he meets to the music of Hooray for Hollywood as the movie ends. "},{"Title":"the ending isn't Chandler's, but it is certainly Marlowe's.","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The central problem of the film is that it demands the viewer know something about Raymond Chandler's novel while mercilessly revising Chandler's jaded post-WWII vision for the early '70s.Chandler's novel stands alone from his other work, and from the history of the hard-boiled genre in general; in many ways, it is not a genre novel at all. It is a dissection of moral collapse, not triggered by socioeconomic collapse, but by an affluence that allowed Americans to ignore the psychic wounds of first the Second World War and then Korea. It is about the convoluted narcissistic excuses Terry Lennox makes in order to excuse reprehensible betrayals.The one thematic element Altman leaves out from the original story is that of hope - the hope that some sense could be made of all the shoddy wretched excess of American culture entering world dominance. Gould's Marlowe remains as confused at the end as at the beginning, he has simply decided to burn through all the rot with the one statement he can make about the one issue that really mattered to him, the betrayal by his friend. So the ending isn't Chandler's, but it is certainly Marlowe's.Not a pleasant film to watch, but very memorable; holds up surprisingly well over time. "},{"Title":"Revisiting The Long Goodbye","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw this film back in the 70's, I thought it was just too quirky like many movies made at the time. However, 40 years later, I can appreciate it more and I'm glad I gave it another look.Private eye Philip Marlow lives in Los Angeles with his cat. When a friend asks to be driven to Mexico, it leads into a story of suicide, murder, a scheming woman, a setup, a frame-up, a dodgy doctor and a psychotic gangster.To be honest, the plot is a bit ordinary as was the story in the original novel, but just as it was on the printed page, the power of the movie was in the telling.Years ago, I read Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novels and if the plots weren't overly convoluted, they were implausible. The success was in the character Chandler created and the way he described his world. Altman got it; the film is different to the novel, but it's all about Marlowe and the way he reacts to what is happening around him.Altman didn't set his film in the late 40's as depicted in the novel, otherwise it would have been more like Farewell My Lovely with Robert Mitchum as Marlowe made a couple of years later.Altman places Marlowe in 1970's Los Angeles. Bogart and Mitchum gave us classic Marlowe, but Elliott Gould gives us something different. He's a man who sticks to a personal set of principles despite seeming out of place. Elliott Gould plays him as pretty chilled-out, and the film captures a sense of disillusionment with just about everything &#x96; it was the 70's after all.Arnold Schwarzenegger has a non-speaking part as a heavy, and an aging Sterling Hayden plays an author with issues. Perfect typecasting really as the imposing Hayden was apparently drunk or stoned most of the time on this film.The movie has a different ending to the novel and it's not a totally satisfying one; the final scene even pays a little homage to the final scene in The Third Man. One thing the film does is highlight the unique vision of Robert Altman who gave a new twist to an almost dead genre. "},{"Title":"So bad it's...terrible.","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is nothing to recommend this movie. My wife watched it with me and concurs in that evaluation. I have not read the book on which it is based, so I judge it as a stand-alone effort.The plot is silly in concept and routine in execution (e.g., the PI's oh-so-cool and combative way of talking to the police), the characters are flat, the dialog is trite, the acting is uninspired, the incidentals are distracting (the topless girls, the chain smoking). Even the music is tedious. One description I saw before watching it said it is a send-up of the detective genre, implying humor. There is no humor anywhere. If it is intended as a spoof, it fails.A complete waste of two hours. "},{"Title":"More Than One Betrayal","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Loosely followed from Raymond Chandler's penultimate book about private-eye Phillip Marlowe (1953), The Long Goodbye was updated to a hip and hedonistic (i.e., topless yoga) world of 1973 California. Elliot Gould stars as an easy-going, chain-smoking, old-fashioned Marlowe, a wisecracking and disconnected observer of modern life. Others had previously played the Marlowe role, most notably Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep (1945). In the pre-credit opening sequence, to a brief tune of Hooray for Hollywood, Marlowe is awakened at 300 AM by his hungry cat. As the detective has run out of pet food, he goes to the all-night supermarket. The cat's favorite brand is sold out, so Marlowe tries a substitute. Returning to his penthouse apartment, Marlowe places the cat food into an empty discarded can of its favorite brand. The cat is not fooled, however, and leaps off the counter and runs away. In the meantime, Terry Lennox (former baseball pitcher Jim Bouton), Marlowe's close friend, arrives at Marlow's and asks the detective to drive him with his two duffel bags to the border at Tijuana in Mexico to get away from his trouble with a local gangster. We will later learn that Lennox was running money across the Mexican border and it was not delivered. When Marlowe returns home he is arrested by the local police, who tell him that Terry's wife Sylvia has been murdered and that Marlowe may be an accomplice. As the gumshoe utters impudent answers to questions, he is held for three days. The beleaguered detective is finally released when the police notify him that Mexican authorities have confirmed that Lennox is dead, having shot himself. Before dying, Lennox had written a confession that he murdered Sylvia. But as Marlowe cannot possibly believe that Lennox is a murderer he decides to investigate further. Meanwhile Marlowe is hired by Lennox's neighbor Eileen Wade (Nina van Pallandt) to find her alcoholic, boorish, and large husband, Roger (Sterling Hayden), who has been missing for a week. With ease Marlowe locates Roger, who was held in a shady detoxification sanitarium under the direction of creepy and diminutive Dr. Verringer (Henry Gibson), who is not beyond humiliating the much bigger man (6'5/220 pounds). Jewish gangster Marty Augustine (Mark Rydell), arriving with his gang of thugs, tells Marlowe that when Lennox went to Mexico he took a large bag containing $355,000 of his money. Augustine wants his money back and threatens Marlowe with physical harm. For emphasis, he does commit one quick and surprising act of violence to his mistress Jo Ann with a coke bottle. When Augustine leaves, the detective trails him to Roger and Eileen's beach residence. HINT Eileen was not truthful to Marlowe when she denied knowing Terry and Sylvia Lennox, her Malibu neighbors. But exactly how are the two Wades, Lennox, and the mobster connected? The charming and manipulating Eileen now says that Roger was having an affair with Sylvia. Then, after a Malibu beach party, Roger wades into the ocean and drowns himself. The private-eye believes that Roger was feeling guilt for murdering Sylvia. But was Lennox the killer all along? Was he having an affair with Eileen, and did he crave some of that Wade fortune, which is obviously extensive? Meanwhile Marlowe has received a note and a $5,000 bill (a James Madison) from Lennox in the mail for his services. He drives to Mexico to confirm the death of Lennox. Somewhat satisfied, although the Mexican authorities said that Lennox had just one duffel bag, he returns to LA. In the presence of Augustine and his gang, Marlowe is searched and his $5,000 Madison bill is discovered. (There were three in Augustine's $355,000 bag.) While this conference is in progress the stash of money is delivered; the gangster is satisfied and releases Marlowe. So who had and who returned the cash?ADDITIONAL SPOILERS When Marlowe arrives at Eileen's, he discovers that she has put her house up for sale and left. Not totally convinced of the meaning of some recent events and realizing he has been used by several people, Marlowe returns to Mexico and discovers the authorities were bribed by Lennox, who is still alive. He tracks Lennox at a hacienda, and the latter admits to killing his wife Sylvia accidentally and initially failing to deliver Augustine's $355,000 to Mexico City. That information does not bother Marlowe as much as Lennox used him and placed his life in danger. Lennox even insults him. Consequently, without batting an eyelash Marlowe pulls out his pistol and fires. Right after Eileen is seen driving her jeep to the hacienda as Hooray for Hollywood is played. It is obvious that Eileen and Lennox were having an affair. They clearly returned the cash after she had inherited Roger's large fortune. So there was not really much for Marlowe to solve, but there certainly was a score to settle! One may differ with director Roger Altman's (MASH, 1970) anachronistic adaptation of Chandler's hero, but the picture does succeed. Furthermore, since when was Altman a purist? Moreover, Gould, not the misogynist of MASH, provides one of his best performances as a not-so-tough disheveled sleuth who also drives an old car, like fictional police detective Columbo. In fact, the acting is fine throughout, even by a quirky cast of characters who inhabit LA. Near the beginning catch David Carradine as a jailed hash-smoking philosopher and towards the end spot Arnold Schwarzenegger as one of Augustine's henchmen. "},{"Title":"Tasty ham.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is hard to review. If you were born after 1980, this might not hold your attention. It doesn't have either the best production values or the best acting, but if you are a bit older, you might enjoy it for the nostalgia, as I did.I like movies from the '60s through the '80s, as they tended to be plot-driven, unlike more modern films, which are often built around their special effects. I liked how this film captured the times, l liked the cars, and I liked some of the other material objects in the film, even if they were in questionable taste, because it all brings back an innocence I can still vaguely remember. Some of the acting was a bit painful. In particular, Sterling Hayden was pretty awful. In his mind, I'm certain that he felt that he was actually playing himself--a misunderstood noble creature, a man's man fighting against the encroaching darkness, etc., so much more than the self- absorbed, crashing bore he appears to others, but which he no doubt actually really was. Every time he was gobbling up the screen, I couldn't wait for him to get off. Quite a few other performances were weak or hammy also. Still the plot was solid, and the attempt to drop the classic noir detective into that particular time period was interesting, if nothing else. In the end, the positives of a good plot and, for me, a hearty shot of nostalgia, significantly outweighed the drawbacks of mediocre acting and production values. So, I liked it a lot, but if you are a member of one of the ADHD generations, I'm not sure this film is for you, although it certainly wouldn't hurt to give it a try. It's not totally old-fashioned-- there's some modern swearing, a bit of disturbing violence, while no actual sex, a few scenes with some topless women, and even Arnold Schwarzenegger flexing his way through a brief, early, non-speaking role (at least, I didn't notice him saying anything, but the same thing happens when he actually talks, so I'm not totally sure). For what it's worth, that's my very personal take. "},{"Title":"A Warped Vision of Film Noir","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Trading fedoras for shaggy hair, Lauren Bacalls for Nina Van Pallandts, gun molls for kitty-cats, The Long Goodbye is the antithesis of the cherished film noir genre, throwing away any tough-guy rawness Humphrey Bogart left behind, replacing it with the moppet placidity of Elliott Gould. At first glance, it's a mess of a movie, the equivalent of a stoned rant Raymond Chandler may have had if he was alive during the days of Twitter. But if you look closely, you will find that The Long Goodbye is not as straggled along as you might so quickly think. It's a reinvention of the black-and-white, gumshoe focused detective pictures of the 1940s and '50s. The film, to say the least, isn't an easy, merry-go- round homage. It's an assortment of film noir trademarks thrown onto a sticky wall, crossing its fingers that the oddest of the odd concepts will stay in place. All the disarray is led by Robert Altman, a director you wouldn't at first think to be the first choice, let alone a choice at all, to command a project with material as esteemed as The Long Goodbye. When we think of Robert Altman, we don't instantaneously reminisce about the times of dames and pistols; in fact, we don't think about anything so exclusive or one-note. Dozens and dozens of actors pop into our minds, weaved into a story of startling complexity that, by the end, is framed in a splattering of words like genius, brilliant, or masterpiece. (Examples Nashville, Short Cuts, The Player.)But Altman is a chameleon of direction &#x97; never once does The Long Goodbye head into fish-out-water territory, as if Ingmar Bergman directed Iron Man 2. The Long Goodbye makes you forget about the tough-guy rawness Humphrey Bogart left behind, the black-and-white, gumshoe focused detective picture of the 1940s and '50s. It's such a wonder of a film that one can only sit in a state of puzzlement and come to terms with the fact that Robert Altman has made a golden, almost nostalgically antique genre unravel before our very eyes.Phillip Marlowe is a national treasure in film, this time portrayed by Elliott Gould with staggering nonchalantness. A detective with a cigarette attached to his lips at every waking moment, Marlowe finds himself perplexed when his good friend, Terry Lennox (Jim Bouton), becomes the prime suspect in his wife's murder. The police are so convinced that Lennox is the killer that Marlowe, ever calm, decides to investigate the case himself.This leads him to a sexy but enigmatic blonde, Eileen Wade (Nina Van Pallandt), who hires him to probe her husband's (Sterling Hayden) sudden disappearance. The case, however, isn't just a social call out of the blue &#x97; it appears that Wade, whether she'd like to admit it or not, has something to do with the whole Lennox situation. There is a profusion of colorful supporting characters that glide in and out of scenes with sly influence Henry Gibson as the crooked doctor, Mark Rydell as the lunatic gang leader who uses carefully selected politeness to cover up his pungent barbarity (this is a man who slams a glass bottle into his girlfriend's face but places it in the grips of a morality lesson), and Ken Sansom as a security guard who would rather entertain onlookers with imitations of Barbara Stanwyck and Walter Brennan than actually do his job. In the '40s, these figures would be destinations, guest spots for big names to run by and maybe get an Oscar nomination. But Leigh Brackett, the screenwriter who also penned the script for 1946's The Big Sleep, characterizes these personalities with such a spicy aroma that they are just as critical to the film as Marlowe himself. Ultimately, Altman hoped The Long Goodbye would be seen as a sort of Rip Van Winkle story, a movie about a detective who falls asleep during the Hollywood Golden Age and wakes up to find himself in the hazy decade that was the 1970s. This idea alone only proves why Altman was and is such a visionary &#x97; would other directors during the time have dared to do something so bold, something so potentially poisonous? In all likeliness, probably not. There's a reason why adrenaline junkies tend to leave a bigger mark that those who place themselves in the status quo.Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Altman's take on the iconic Marlowe","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Chain-smoking, scruffy, grumbling private eye Philip Marlowe (Elliott Gould) has his cat and hot chicks neighbors. He gives a ride to his friend Terry Lennox to the Tijuana border. The cops arrest Marlowe with a trumped up charge. They suspect Lennox of murdering his wife. Then they release Marlowe after Lennox's suicide in Mexico. Eileen Wade (Nina van Pallandt) hires him to find her alcoholic husband Roger (Sterling Hayden) who's been gone for a week. He tracks Roger down under the control of Dr. Verringer (Henry Gibson). Then hoodlum Marty Augustine (Mark Rydell) and his men rough up Marlowe trashing his place demanding the $350k that Lennox was suppose to deliver to Mexico City. Marlowe follows Augustine back to the Wades as he tries to put these different threads together.Director Robert Altman gives a naturalistic feel to this Raymond Chandler character. It's his beautifully unique take. The whole thing is an interesting puzzle wrapped in the Altman style. His style of long cross-talking scenes is in full use. It's not the normal noir style. Elliott Gould is an unusual choice for this hard-boiled icon. He doesn't project a tough guy but he excels at the world-wearied beaten down guy. "},{"Title":"Chandler Barely Recognized","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's unfortunate for us Postmoderns that Raymond Chandler didn't write more prolifically or within a wider scope of genre style. The Long Goodbye is one of his best works. If you know the Chandler novel and are familiar with the Noir Film style this movie will make you feel like a pig in slop! What is this world, this seemingly bright, sunny, happy land peopled by human ciphers in advanced states of ethical and moral erosion? The cast is an excellent line up of some of the finest actors with the best credits Elliot Gould stars as a slouching, sloppy Phillip Marlowe, with Sterling Hayden as Roger Wade, the lesser known Nina Van Pallandt as Eileen Wade, and the equally proficient Mark Rydell as Marty Augustine. As with many other Altman films there is also a support cast of known actors who add characteristics and color to the film. Because Robert Altman bases much of his production on actor improvisation, sometimes the passing wave of recognizable faces of the unspoken cast creates much of the pleasure in his films. This film also has Henry Gibson, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Vince Palmieri, Jack Riley, Tammy Shaw, and Helen Mirren. Altman eschews the classic Noir imagery in his story and attaches it only to character traits for his lead persona Marlowe. The detective's activities include a plethora of the genre accoutrements. For instance Marlowe chain smokes through every possible scene, just like the old movies; he drives an old 1930s automobile that sticks out in the streamlined 1970s California urban landscape; he wears a jacket and tie, and mutters the line It's okay with me, seemingly as a reaffirmation that the corrupt world he is investigating will not tarnish his errant-knight capabilities. Altman has referred to this film as Rip Van Marlowe, a re-imagination of the story of The Long Goodbye as if Marlowe had been asleep for 30 years, awakening in Los Angeles in the early 70s. The concept is so California New Age-y Post-Neo-Noir that it requires the viewer know the detective genre and its conventions well to get the humor Altman is pushing. It is a push because the film seems filled with unthreatening everyday activity. The point that Terry Lennox may have killed his wife and committed suicide seems so like just another news item that the Police shuffle it away by slapping a solution on it to avoid more investigative man-hours on the case. Marlowe's personal code that will not allow him to believe that someone he considers a friend could be a murderer also compels him to know the Truth. It is this personal integrity that he exchanges with those in the world, and it transcends money or sex or just about anything else. Marlowe cares as little about the $5000 thousand dollar bill he receives from Terry Lennox, as he does about losing the one dollar bill he loses to Terry from gambling. The film is slow going however if the viewer is not hip to Altman's perspective and his attitude of how Noir sensibilities fit into postmodern mindset. Altman utilizes few of the classic Noir imagery for his film; in fact his characters' moral universe is normal for the day. What Altman does is turn the Noir convention inside out to show how the perception of the conceit has no strength today, regardless of how individual moral codes like Marlowe's are paramount to the character. There is no real Noir for Robert Altman because the worlds moral system has become too forgiving, and the moral code that detectives like Marlowe have lived by in the past is so archaic it's like driving a 1940s automobile on the streets of present-day Los Angeles. Elliot Gould's Marlowe drives around the city in an old museum piece of a car, clearly identifying his place in the history of things. The film is quite literate in the way it presents to us a seeker of Truth embodied in the 'Detective'. In the Chandler novel The Long Goodbye Phillip Marlowe recalls his involvement with an ex-war veteran Terry Lennox and the ultimate search for him by a gangster who believes Lennox has taken his money, and by a whacked-out Psychologist/Quack. It's a story of how a character gets away with murder, and how it seems justified given the personality of the victim. Chandler always wrote about the underneath of things. He may write about innocent characters but they are sure to have a streak of corruptness to them, just enough to veer all the other good stuff in their personalities toward some distinction that will satisfy them in a perverse manner, but will also be their downfall. Terry Lennox is just such a character. He has a war record, a scarred face, money, and a lifestyle that doesn't require working a regular job. Those of us who feel that film serves as a temporary portal for our imaginations, and who are familiar with the detective genre watch with amusement at Altman's draining of Chandler's prose, and also the inverting of Film Noir. There's no Noir left in Altman's Los Angeles, and to top it off his adaptation of one of the best Chandler novels challenges our sense of cinematic story-telling technique. Terry Lennox was supposed to get away with it, and Chandler's point is that no one gets away with it, but Chandler painted a character so unapproachable, so unrealistic, that no one would identify with him. Terry Lennox lives in that rarefied world of seeming means- he has money to cushion his moving through society. "}{"Title":"a different Marlowe","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Elliot Gould stars as Philip Marlowe in The Long Goodbye, a 1973 film also starring Nina van Pallandt, Sterling Hayden, Jim Bouton, Henry Gibson, and Mark Rydell.Right off the top, I'll say that Robert Altman has never done it for me. I can't tell you why. There's something very unsettling about his movies, with everybody talking at once, background noise, lots going on at the same time. The one film I saw of his that I thought was fascinating was Secret Honor, basically because I did transcription for a living and I couldn't believe how Nixon was tossing that tape recorder around. I also liked The Player.The Long Goodbye, based on the Philip Marlowe novel, has been modernized by Leigh Brackett. In it, Marlowe is like Rip Van Winkle - he sleeps for years, metaphorically, and wakes up to a world (the '70s) where he doesn't belong. It's a world of fakes -- only his cat can't be fooled when he tries to substitute her regular cat food with another kind. Marlowe, unfortunately, can be fooled.Gould's characterization here is excellent. He's a relaxed man, somewhat disheveled, trying to make sense of things that don't make sense. He talks to himself.Marlowe is awakened at 3 in the morning and asked by his friend Terry (Bouton) to take him to the Mexican border. Marlowe complies but later is arrested by the police asking about Lennox, as his wife had been murdered and Lennox has committed suicide. Marlowe finds it hard to believe that Terry would kill his wife and wants to clear his friend's name.In the midst of this, he gets a new case, in Malibu, no less. A beautiful, dignified blond, Eileen Wade (Van Pallandt) wants Marlowe to find her husband, who has escaped from rehab. This becomes difficult when a drug lord (Rydell) approaches Marlowe for a lot of money that Terry Lennox took across the border.Marlowe has to eventually come to grips with the real world and see that his own standards and ethics just aren't working -- only by doing that can he get to the truth and see through the fakery.Elliot Gould is perfect for a '70s Marlowe. He's a wisecracks, but underneath it all, he's confused and out of whack with the rest of the world. Nina Van Pallandt was a singing star in Europe along with her husband. She made big news here in the '70s when she was exposed as the mistress of Clifford Irving, who wrote a fake autobiography of Howard Hughes, except that Irving never met him. Poor Irving - you can only write fake stuff after someone dies -- Hughes said he was a fake, and Irving went to prison. Van Pallandt had her fifteen minutes of fame here, with a nightclub act, and she appeared in several movies. She's actually quite good. Given the fakery Marlowe encounters, I don't think it's a coincidence that she was cast. As her Hemingwayesque writer husband, Sterling Hayden is fantastic.The Long Goodbye has a noir feel to it - it's dark, but it's also very '70s in its attitude and atmosphere. The Marlowe of the '70s isn't Humphrey Bogart...he morphed into Elliot Gould, and actually, it works quite well. "},{"Title":"Hard-Boiled","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Detective Philip Marlowe (Elliott Gould) tries to help a friend who is accused of murdering his wife.At first I was a bit turned off by the theme song, especially the thought that I was going to hear it a dozen times. But only the opening had a version I disliked and it grew on me from there.Oddly, the film at first received negative critical feedback. Jay Cocks wrote, Altman's lazy, haphazard putdown is without affection or understanding, a nose-thumb not only at the idea of Philip Marlowe but at the genre that his tough-guy-soft-heart character epitomized. It is a curious spectacle to see Altman mocking a level of achievement to which, at his best, he could only aspire.This turned around when Pauline Kael and Roger Ebert came to its defense... and I am not really sure where Cocks was coming from. Sure, I am looking at the film forty years later (2013), but to me it comes across as something of a masterpiece. Some think Altman's best work is Nashville, but I will take this one any day. "},{"Title":"Nothing says goodbye like a bullet","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is based on book by Raymond Chandler with the same title. I haven't read the book , so I don't know how much they changed (if they changed anything at all). Anyway thanks to that fact I could watch the movie with open mind.Robert Altman is an unusual choice for director of thriller and it shows here . The movie is funny . Very ironic . Perhaps even too funny in some places. The dialogue is really witty and it's very pleasant to listen to. On other hand Altman doesn't necessary handle the serious scenes too good &#x96; the exception is the scene with the bottle and the ending . It's kinda hard to believe that our hero is in some sense of danger. It makes the movie less thrilling. Also , the big twist is presented here in a very unimpressive manner , like it isn't a big thing . Strange , because it IS a big thing.Elliot Gould is great as Marlowe. He's hero is different than Bogart's version &#x96; he's less charismatic . less manly , more sympathetic and charming smart ass. He easily dominates the screen and there isn't a single actor in the movie who can match him. He steals the whole show. Other actors are nice , but nothing memorable.The long goodbye is funny. I love how Roger Wade keeps calling Marlow Marlboro .Or how Marlowe gives instructions to Harry &#x96; guy who is following him. My favorite is probably beginning of the movie when Marlowe tries to outsmart his cat . There are also colorful characters like the weirdo from prison cell and crazy neighbors of Marlowe &#x96; naked hippies.The long goodbye is more of an unusual comedy with some mystery in it than a serious thriller. More funny than thrilling mystery from Altman . Watch it that way and you won't be disappointed. Watch out for Arnold Schwarznegger (Terminator) in a small role of one of Marty's thugs in the office. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Marlowe's adventures in why you should never do favors.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After watching this film for the first time a few days ago I couldn't even start writing a review until discussing it with a bar patron nearly twice my age at work. This overall is a good movie and I understand why it's considered a classic when I compare it to films of its era but something was missing. While the casting is great and the film work is fine it just doesn't quite come around. Elliott Gould has the look and the attitude to make for a love able gum shoe but he never fully won me over. His wise cracks are just a sliver of sarcasm short of brilliance. A few characters never really develop and the ending was anti climactic, as if the rest of the goodbye was too long and they had to squeeze it in. A good rainy day watch but nothing I'd rush out to get on beta max. "},{"Title":"Margaret Reines It's so weird but clever","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of my favourite movies with definitely a cult following. Elliot Gould lights up (cigarette ) in every scene except the last.Marlowe- Elliot Gould as the consummate mumbler-he surely out-mumbles anyone else in cinema history. Some strange choices for roles Nina Van Pallandt was a model. Un-titled bit part for Arnold Schwartznegger as (what else ) a gangster.Terry - Jim Bouton - (chief protagonist) was a boxer. Chief gangster Mark Rydell (Marty Augustine) says Harry &#x96; Your father was a mohel &#x96; Cut it. (of Marlowe).Throw in to the mix for added humour/pathos Henry Gibson and in an iconic role Sterling Hayden. Not to mention the semi naked girls in Marlowe's adjacent apartment constantly practising their yoga. Harry(David Arkin )says - I can remember when people just had jobs.Watch out for the title tune ('The Long Goodbye.') It shows up in some weird places - and in a strange way acts as unifying agent for the film. "},{"Title":"The Long Goodbye","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing the DVD cover for this film a few times, with the leading actor walking on a beach, I assumed it was some kind of domestic drama, but it was in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die so it didn't really matter, from director Robert Altman (MASH, Nashville, The Player). Basically Philip Marlowe (Elliott Gould), the chain- smoking, wisecracking private investigator is visited late on night by his close friend Terry Lennox (Jim Bouton) who wants to get a lift from Los Angeles to the California&#x96;Mexico border at Tijuana. After doing this Marlowe is greeted by two cops who tell him that Lennox is accused of murdering his wealthy wife Sylvia, and he is arrested when he refuses to give them any information, but he is released three days when Lennox is found in Mexico to have committed suicide. The case seems pretty open and shut, but Marlowe suspects more is going on, but in the meantime platinum-blonde Eileen Wade (Nina van Pallandt), wife of alcoholic and writers' block suffering novelist Roger Wade (Sterling Hayden), has hired him to find her husband who has gone missing, he has binged on alcohol and disappeared before, but never longer than a day or two. While investigating, visiting private rich detoxification alcoholics and drug addiction clinics, Marlowe finds out the Wades knew the Lennoxes, so he believes there was something else to the murder of Sylvia and the suicide of Terry. He also crosses paths with Marty Augustine (Mark Rydell), the ruthless gangster who Lennox took money from which he wants back, he does manage to recover the money and travels back to Mexico, and there Marlowe finally uncovers the truth and solves the case. Also starring Henry Gibson as Dr. Verringer, David Arkin as Harry, Warren Berlinger as Morgan, Jo Ann Brody as Jo Ann Eggenweiler, Stephen 'Steve' Coit as Detective Farmer and Jack Knight as Mabel. Elliott is odd casting but certainly likable with his alternative approach to the character played previously by the likes of Dick Powell and Humphrey Bogart, I can see why it might be considered semi-spoof because of the amusing nature about it, I confess I was confused most of the time, but I could just about follow the investigative stuff, and it worked alright as a thriller-esque story, so its a worthwhile detective drama. Good! "},{"Title":"Entertaining tribute to the Philip Marlowe character.","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found this one on Netflix streaming movies, I saw it as a nostalgia movie, and because it is directed by a Robert Altman.Elliott Gould is private detective Philip Marlowe, playing it in his own unique style. He get to know him first in his messy apartment, needing to feed his cat, a cat that seems very particular about its food.Then an old friend shows up, asks for a ride. To Mexico. That very brief part is played by Jim Bouton, former major league baseball pitcher. He has few lines so it works out OK. Right after the cops question Marlowe, it seems the friend's wife is found dead. Then Marlowe gets hired by a woman to find her husband, Sterling Hayden as Roger Wade, author, who is pretty strange.I enjoyed it not so much for the story but to see the old Altman movie, and Elliot Gould in an early role. Also fun was to see Arnold Schwarzenneger in an uncredited part as one of the body guards for a mobster. Arnold has no lines, and the scene requires him to take off his shirt to reveal his muscles, in his prime during his run of world bodybuilding titles. It is strange to see this guy in his early 20s, knowing what a big action star he was to become. "},{"Title":"A Great Film...","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye is a excellent neo-noir mystery directed by Robert Altman and starring Elliott Gould. I have not seen any of Altman's films before so I have no real opinion on him. But as far The Long Goodbye goes, it's a great film with strong performances and interesting mystery to offer.Elliott Gould is just superb in the leading role, where he plays a private investigator. He gets involved in a mystery surrounding a murder, suicide and missing 350 000 dollars. And it's basically 90 minutes of aimless wandering around Los Angeles to find out what happened really. In a hands of lesser director and screenwriter, this could have been a convoluted mess, but it's not. Mostly thanks to phenomenal acting by Elliott Gould, who carries this film with ease.The supporting cast is also great. Sterling Hayden gives a very entertaining and over the top performance as a hard drinking, psycho writer. He is a ton of fun to watch. Mark Rydell is also a ton of fun. He plays this weird gangster type. You will love every single scene his in. Believe me... Nina van Pallandt gives a more subtle performance as troubled wife of Sterling Hayden's character. All around a great cast.It's worth mentioning that there is Arnold in this film. Arnold *beeping* Schwarzenegger!!! His appearance made The Long Goodbye amazing.I loved the direction and cinematography. It evoked a classic 70's feel with lots of mood and atmosphere to spare. There is hardly any flaws in it. Some may argue, that there is no plot but only a series of things that happen or nothing of consequence is happening at all, but to me that doesn't matter. I loved the performances, the strange characters and situations. Plus the character of Marlowe is such an enjoyable guy, thanks to Elliott Gould who just nails his performance.The Long Goodbye is a must see for any person who considers himself a fan of film noir and neo-noir films. Also if enjoy great performances and are big fan of Robert Altman or Elliot Gould, it's worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Much more than just all right with me","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Private investigator Philip Marlowe has a major shortcoming - he is easy to push around. Even his cat has his ways with him and sends Marlowe off in the middle of the night to get some cat food. But when he fails miserably, the cat smells a rat, well, sort of. And now that we've set the tone How about a favor for a friend? That's OK with our hero as well, no need to ask too many questions. Well, big mistake, boy!When getting into The Long Goodbye it helps to know that the version of a Philip Marlowe as Eliott Gould portrays him in Robert Altman's film is far removed from the original character created by Raymond Chandler in his novel series. It's a Rip Van Marlowe as Altman himself referred to it, a character from the fifties who wakes up in the seventies. Only to tumble into a strange kind of film noir. In color of course. With a coolness bordering on lethargy exhibited by the protagonist, exquisite deadpan humor with dozens of sharp-tongued one-liners and a serious dosage of Altman approach. The latter translates to nothing less than a bold re-invention of a whole genre. The plot is negligible, quite complicated actually to untangle, be it on first or subsequent viewings, but it's not what this flic is about. All the ingredients of a Chandler noir are still there, but Altman wouldn't be Altman if he hadn't some own ideas up his sleeve. He satirizes conventions, plays with them, lets Gould improvise and eventually opts for a different ending which sets everything that happened before in perspective. Also a nice touch Throughout the movie the film's title theme - with or without lyrics - is repeated over and over again in variations, making perfectly clear where it's heading... To conclude If you love film noir and are appreciative of a fresh take on it I'm sure you'll welcome the often seriously underrated The Long Goodbye with open arms. "},{"Title":"I know what to do and I know what to think.","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I hear the name Raymond Chandler and already I'm thinking Bogey in The Big Sleep as detective Phillip Marlowe. Elliott Gould is about the last person I'd think of casting as Marlowe, and his take on the character quickly made me forget about the original source material and had me viewing the story as a Seventies murder mystery. On that level the picture works well enough for me. I enjoy the sarcasm coming from a straight character like Marlowe, though the writing was somewhat lacking in the snappy banter department. The contrast to Bogey getting grilled by Ward Bond and Barton MacLane in The Maltese Falcon is what I'm referring to, the dialog here didn't quite pull it off. I know, Bogey was Sam Spade in that one, but you get the idea.Cinematically the picture's a treat, and I don't think I've ever been as enthralled with a filming technique as much as the one used here when Roger Wade (Sterling Hayden) and his wife (Nina van Pallandt) have the conversation in his study as Marlowe hangs out on the beach behind them. The double exposure technique, or whatever it's called, constantly shifts your attention between the parties and adds to the surreal nature of the crimes being investigated.You know, when gangster Marty Augustine (Mark Rydell) had his henchmen strip down in that confrontation with Marlowe, I didn't know what to make of that guy with the bulging muscles who looked like Arnold Schwarzenneger. Turns out it was him after all when I checked the uncredited cast list, imagine that. I'd also like to find out how Jim Bouton was selected to play the part of Marlowe's pal Lennox. Not being that much of a baseball fan, I didn't recognize him playing the character, but learning about it after the fact made me do a double take.The kicker in all this of course is the fatal ending for the already presumed dead Terry Lennox. I don't know that Chandler's hero ever took it personally, but here was Marlowe collecting payback big time. Just goes to show that you can only take friendship so far. "}{"Title":"1940's detective meets 1970's LA","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a wild movie. And when I say that I don't mean to say it as a fault. Quite the opposite in fact! This has quickly become a top ten movie for me as it is just so interesting on so many levels. First, Elliot Gould is a revelation as the chain smoking, wise cracking private detective living as a man out of his time in the wild 70's of LA. His under the breath come backs are so snarky and perfect, you have to love him. He's got a cat that has special dietary needs, wild next door neighbors, a doorman who does impressions, and a friend who needs a ride to Mexico at three in the morning (Who later winds up dead, setting off the movie) If it all sounds a bit odd, it is. But it's so good, you'll wonder what took so long to find this movie.As with many great movies, there's more going on here than a great leading man and his wisecracks. Director Robert Altman tries some different things here, which really work. First, the title song which is great, is repeated throughout the whole movie in different arrangements. I've never seen that before in any movie, and it works great. The second, which is much more subtle, is the fact that the camera never stops moving for the entire two hours. Not one static shot. A ingenious device IMO. Finally, we have the supporting cast. Without being more familiar with Sterling Hayden's work other than the Godfather, and the great The Killing, his role as an alcoholic writer is so impressive, that you have to wonder if he's really acting at all. Mark Rydell, later a director (For the Boys) has a small role as a gangster who is terrifying. To try and accurately describe this movie wouldn't do it justice, needless to say it is a must watch. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Jumbled but amusing","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye is an amusing dropping of Philip Marlow, prototypical noir detective, in the decadent and aimless 1970s. That alone makes this movie worth a watch to any fans of the genre, especially as much of it indulges in subtly spoofing the absurdities of the golden age detective pulp fiction by putting them in a realistic contemporary context.I suppose Elliott Gould is as good an actor as you're likely to find to pull this off. We meet Marlow as he struggles to please his picky-eating cat, and soon is tasked with ferrying his wealthy friend Terry Lennox to Mexico. Lennox's wife was just murdered, and Marlow is picked up by the bullying police, the first of several misadventures his helping Lennox puts him in. We don't meet the femme fatale, Eileen Wade, until well into the movie, and we gradually learn she isn't just hiring Marlow to retrieve her drunken husband, as she initially claims.As a detective story, the plot is too confused and haphazardly delivered to be all that effective. But the movie is more of a satire of the detective genre than a serious attempt at a mystery movie, so I suppose that's excusable. Marlow, who refuses to remove his American flag tie and drives around an antique car that screams noir, is mildly amusing as he wanders through some very stereotypical 1970s surroundings.The cheeky fish out of water joke is a bit much to hang an entire movie on, though. This movie does have some funny moments aside from the main joke, though, mostly provided by Gould's ad-libbing, and the casting of a very young Arnold Schwarzenegger as a nameless goon provides yet another reason to revisit this movie. A lot of elements of the movie, like the clichéd Mexican characters and the repetition of the title theme, are downright corny. "},{"Title":"The Counter-Culture Does Phillip Marlowe","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The screenplay (Leigh Brackett) of The Long Good-bye is unusually well thought out and coherent. For a private-eye movie, that's an exception, and I suspect it's that very tightness which forced the famously anarchic Altman into a disciplined groove. It also helped produce this, his most accomplished, film. Then too, only an audacious film-maker of Altman's calibre could have brought such an irreverent approach to the screen. Small wonder Chandler purists detest this 1960's version of Phillip Marlowe. Like others of that period, the film sets about subverting an icon of the popular culture. Elliot Gould's Marlowe is anything but the hard-boiled professional audiences have come to admire and expect. Instead, he's grubby, feckless, and seemingly too disengaged to care about Chandler's prized passion chasing after truth despite an uncaring corrupt society. Worse, one suspects Gould's Marlowe is a hippie at heart, ready to chuck it all and head for the woods with his beloved cat, a load of pot, and a world-weary Its OK with me. Moreover, he's tossed about by most every event that comes his way, too burned-out to complete a thought and too bummed-out to press an investigation. He can't even find his cat. The slouching gait and hang-dog expression have all the assurance and verve of a man headed for a hanging. Bogart's classic impersonation, it ain't.But Altman has laid a trap, one that only comes into focus at film's end. It's a startling yet oddly believable turn of events. Head doctors term this type of reconfiguration Gestalt Shift, and here the shift is a rewarding one, causing us to go back and re-examine the Gould character and his passage through what has gone before. It's also a brilliant stroke which at last links the counter-cultural Marlowe to the classic version. There are many fine touches in the film, including a highly effective use of sudden violence, particularly runty Henry Gibson's slam-bang humbling of lordly Sterling Hayden (he knows about drunks). And, for once, Altman's penchant for non-actors like Jim Bouton does little damage, although I wish the ending had skipped the ill-advised Hooray for Hollywood. Nonetheless, this is one of the half dozen or so films that define counter-cultural film-making from the 60's. However, Its key Southern California ambiance is best viewed, as other reviewers point out, in wide- screen. So catch up with that mode if you can. "},{"Title":"An essay on film making","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Taking a leaf from Jean-Luc Godard's varied book of ideas in the 1960s, when the 'nouvelle vague' had gripped American film makers, Altman delivers a curious, fascinating, humorous, and irreverent discussion of Phillip Marlowe and the detective genre.Godard had eroded the genres of the musical and detective film and showed what their limits were. That is when genre film styles are transgressed the limits of genre they could not be genre films. When something similar is done with music, mixing country with disco, it is also disturbing and funny. This strategy had been the force behind the French structuralists, by revealing what it is, and manipulating its devices, plots, and characterizations, the work is no longer what it pretends to be.Altman seems to have understood this idea well (perhaps only intuitively) because he did it in all his works and in The Long Goodbye its employed with some success.The method is best in the first half and certainly in the opening 20 minutes, but in the middle, the crucial second act, it breaks down because it has to adhere to plotting and story telling but is also working against that motive. Consequently there are many dull and plain boring parts. The drinks between Marlowe and Wade on the beach being one.It is no wonder in this world that only van Pallandt's character is normal, plays by the old rules, where everyone else is busking their way through proceedings and seems to be part of some semiotics class on the meaning of the private eye movie.If viewed as not a Chandler movie and as an extended essay on film making (which is Godard's own view of film making, as essays), then The Long Goodbye can be enjoyable. "},{"Title":"It's OK with me.","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was 23 when I first saw this in a theater. I left scratching my head. I was already an Altman fan, but he seemed the last guy on earth that would adapt Raymond Chandler. Elliott Gould, known mostly at the time as a comic actor, as Phillip Marlowe? That was like replacing Bruce Willis with Steve Carell in a Die Hard movie.Watching it now, I see how much I missed watching it as a callow youth.Gould/Altman decided to portray Marlowe as a man out of time. From the dim alleys and sleazy nightclubs of Bogart-era Chandler, was are transported into sun-drenched SoCal. Everyone's dressed for the beach or a patio party. Marlowe's in a black suit. People are drinking, but Marlowe has a perpetual cigarette in his mouth. He twitches and mumbles. His neighbors are a gaggle of cute girls who are usually topless. Except when he needs their help finding his cat, he ignores them.Tough knight errant Marlowe has a cat? Oh yes. In fact, the entire first ten minutes of the movie are devoted to him and his cat as he goes on a middle-of-the night quest to a supermarket for cat food. He can't find the brand his cat likes, so he buys another brand, brings it home, shuts his cat out of the kitchen, transfers to cat food to an empty can of the kind the cat likes, lets the cat into the kitchen, shows it the label on the can and dishes it out. The cat turns up its nose and ends up running away.Why is this scene in a detective movie? It shows the length he will go to take care of someone (or some cat) he cares about, even though he ends up betrayed. And that's the bottom line on Marlowe.He's a man of deep integrity, plain and simple. That is why, handed a case, he can stroll blithely through all kinds of corruption, vanity, stupidity, sadism and treachery with total equanimity. It's OK with me, is his constant refrain. It simply doesn't rub off on him.The entire cast is superb. Sterling Hayden roars his way through the movie as an alcoholic Hemingwayesque writer. Henry Gibson is a sleazy doctor. Nina Van Pallandt is the glamour, floating around in billowing clothes. Marty Rydell is a gangster boss who has the second most shocking scene in the movie when he uses his meek girlfriend to demonstrate to Marlowe what he is capable of.Marlowe himself has the most shocking scene, at the end, when he delivers justice. His final moment on camera, a long shot on a cheerful moment, reveals that we didn't really understand this guy at all.Classic noir. Classic '70s cinema. Classic Altman. "},{"Title":"Surprising Anachronism","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes you watch an actor and wonder WHY they weren't bigger. Yes, Elliott Gould was/is a significant (I was going to say big) star, but after watching this movie one has to ask themselves why he wasn't a BIG star. This movie had me from the beginning as this totally unique and irreverently-funny character jumped off the screen. The fact that this guy cared so much about his cat showed you the type of guy he really was. The fact that he switch the cans so the cat wouldn't know the tuna wasn't its favorite cemented the believability and the likability of the character...one that stands out considering ALL the characters I've ever seen. And when he turns his finger-printing into a Minstrel comparison during his impromptu jail stint - I was floored by the comedy of the whole thing and thought to myself how in the world were movies this funny and clever in 1973? I will forever love Gould and continually be convinced there are MANY gems out there to be found...as I am also convinced that NOBODY, unfortunately or otherwise...from music to movies, does it as good as they used to!! "},{"Title":"Character and style over plot and story.","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman will always be remembered as a daring and willing director, not afraid to go against the conventional ideas and themes usually associated with certain films and genres. With The Long Goodbye, Altman takes on Raymond Chandler and his famous hard-boiled dialog and characters, particularly the famous private eye Philip Marlowe. However, this is not a retelling of the famous Chandler stories that gave us Howard Hawk's The Big Sleep, considered by some to be the greatest of all film-noir. Rather, Altman reinvents the whole character of Marlowe and uses the typical murder plot to show a different kind of man as well as create some very intriguing and interesting sarcastic remarks at the early 1970s.1973 is the setting of this film in more ways than one. Marlowe's neighbors are a group of spaced-out hippie girls constantly without tops, he runs across a guard with a knack for actor impersonations, and the style and look of clothes and homes is certainly of the times. Yet, Marlowe looks and feels like he is from a different era. His wardrobe matches closer to that of the 1950s and he seems in many ways put out and isolated from all happening around him. It is in this way that Elliot Gould deserves much praise for his performance; he doesn't embody or call to mind Bogart as Marlowe but rather creates and entirely new and unique persona that is just as memorable.The plot itself, like most Altman films, is secondary to the quirkiness of the characters and the tone and feel of the atmosphere and surroundings. What happens to Marlowe isn't as important as how he reacts to all of it. This sets ups for a very striking ending, and one that after all that has happened makes total sense. Maybe not as memorable as Hawk's film, but Altman is more concerned with establishing his own style. And here he succeeds. "},{"Title":"This Satirical Neo-Noir Is All Right With Me.","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When he awakens at the beginning of the movie, private eye Philip Marlowe is a 1953 character in a 1973 domain. He wears a dark suit, white shirt and skinny tie, yet sees flower power and nude yoga each time he steps out of his apartment. He chain-smokes, and no one else seems to take even a drag. He is allegiant to Terry Lennox and calls him his friend, but all we see is a scene of them playing conversational poker. Marlowe carries a $5,000 bill for most of the movie, but doesn't commit to the risks he takes with a big pay-off in mind.Bogie, Mitchum, Montgomery and Powell were concise and watchful. They show us in their stylish ways contempt for phonies and resentment for trivialities. Gould's Marlowe is virtually unflappable and wryly cynical. He's not that terribly dissimilar from the other Marlowes we're used to, but the film seems to almost parody Chandler's icon by having him deliver a wandering discourse that plays as a dazed narration to himself. Gould's Marlowe has a cat, and in the endearing pre-credit opening sequence he tries to persuade the cat he is providing its preferred cat food, but the cat is no rube, so he goes out in the wee hours of the morning to buy the right can. There is no narrative reason for this sequence, except that it establishes Marlowe as a guy who, no matter how dry, has a heart, and that his cat is his one true friend.The story can be explained in a spare sentence or a roundabout monologue. At any rate, how everyone connects to each other doesn't interest Altman nearly as much as the texture and atmosphere of the film. Probing the ever-shifting line between fantasy and reality, he wants to show a private eye from the noir era floundering through a plot he is maybe too old-fashioned to wrap his mind around. The movie's aesthetic approach accents his bewilderment. Altman and his cinematographer, Vilmos Zsigmond, flashed the color film with delicately gauged extra light, to give it a bleached, pastel look, as if Marlowe's domain evades rich colors and acute delineation. Most of the shots are filmed through cloudy foregrounds Panes of glass, trees and shrubbery, building nuances, all skewing our view.The trademark Altman overlapping dialogue makes it seem like Marlowe doesn't get wise to everything around him. Far from objecting to the darkness in his world as he did in older Chandler adaptations, Marlowe periodically recaps the fantastic logline, It's all right with me. The line was ad-libbed by Gould, and he and Altman chose to make it a cynical motto. In a way there is another, in character with Altman's penchant for the self-reflexive use of sound and music The title theme, which is almost the only music in the film. It plays constantly with various performers, even a Mexican mariachi band, with the sheet score pinned to some guy's shirt. I guess Altman found it funny in that detached, cynical way that Gould's Marlowe finds so many things amusing. The film is full of unexpected humor, which is often funnier than when it's expected. I laughed the most when Marlowe hand-walks a gangster's blockhead henchman through the basics of tailing him.Casting is pivotal to film noir since the actors in the genre's essential works tend to show up already en route to their destinies. Altman's actors are as surprising as they are destined. Sterling Hayden, a humiliated lion, growls and bluffs in futility at his pathetic situation. Mark Rydell, a director, sounds as if to siphon Martin Scorsese's speech patterns in a performance that utilizes laborious politeness as a masquerade for a barbarism only the dumbest of thugs would follow; this notion is used to hilarious effect. And Gould is a Marlowe lunged into a play where everybody else knows their parts. He rambles carping and baffled, and then abruptly gets precisely what he must do.This screamingly iconoclastic condemnation of a movie should not be anybody's first film noir, nor their first Robert Altman movie. Its entire impact comes from the way it messes with the genre and the way Altman's admirable signature attempt to subvert some of American history's most forthright myths frustrates the basis of all private eye movies, which is that the hero can walk through murky alleys, see beyond doubt, and tell right from wrong. The man of dignity from the 1950s is lost in the punch-drunk self-seeking of the 1970s. "},{"Title":"It's okay with me","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As an avid Raymond Chandler reader, I am always interested in films that adapt his works. When I first heard of The Long Goodbye I assumed that it was a faithful adaptation of Chandler's novel. When I learned that it was not, it dampened my enthusiasm for it and I avoided it for awhile. However, finally I did see it and in the amusingly repeated words of Elliott Gould's iteration of Philip Marlowe, It's okay with me. The setting has been changed from the 1950s to the 1970s. However, the film does have an appropriate look that is often dark and would fit with a more conventional noir style detective film. Added to this is John Williams' excellent score, which makes the most of variations on one song.Elliott Gould leads the cast as the iconic detective Philip Marlowe. Gould's Marlowe is in a number of respects the polar opposite of Bogart's famous portrayal of the detective in The Big Sleep (1946). He is exceedingly casual, sometimes mutters lines that Bogart would deliver with force and is often meek or clumsy. It was interesting to see this unorthodox version of Marlowe, and Gould handled the role well. The film even parodies the frequent smoking of Hollywood classics by highlighting the fact that Marlowe smokes in each scene and lights a match on any surface available. Amusingly one of the characters even calls him Marlboro. Marlowe's frequent smoking appears excessive and unrefined, which is a fitting given contemporary negative perceptions of smoking.The rest of the cast is solid as well. Especially notable from the supporting is from Mark Rydell, who is convincing and shocking as the gangster Marty Augustine. Nina Van Pallandt is also effective as the classy, suffering Eileen Wade and as is Sterling Hayden as the belligerent alcoholic Roger Wade. Henry Gibson was an apt choice as the small yet imposing Dr. Verringer. I also enjoyed Ken Sansom as the guard who excels at impressions of famous Hollywood actors and actresses.There is still a mystery story in this film as in the novel. It is less intense than the original and liable to displease those looking for a more precise Chandler adaptation, but for me it was satisfactory. This film does effectively give a sense of the seediness surrounding Marlowe through the characters as in Chandler's novels. The combination of the novelty of Gould's Marlowe, the mystery story and the character interactions was enough to keep this film interesting despite the deviations from the novel.The only part of the film that didn't strike me favorably was the ending. I realize that the Marlowe of this film is not the same as that of the books, but for me his decision near the film's end was too far beyond anything Philip Marlowe would do. No doubt those that favor the ending will argue it fits with the tone of the film, but ultimately my complaint about the ending is a minor one against this overall great film. However, I was amused by the crackly Hooray for Hollywood at the film's end. Those willing to see a revisionist approach to Chandler should give The Long Goodbye a chance. "},{"Title":"a mess of a classic book","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" what a complete mess of a movie. i saw this in the cinema when it first came out. philip marlowe & the long goodbye, my favourite book, far more than a private eye 'thriller', meets robert altman, maker of - up to then - fine iconic movies such as MASH & McCabe & Mrs Miller. i believe that if raymond chandler had seen this insult to what he considered his finest work it would have re-inforced his very jaundiced view of Hollywood. the screenplay completely changes the motivation, time-line, the character of the protagonists. philip marlowe, the man willing to walk down mean streets, the tarnished knight, becomes a shambling mumbling slob, a mess. sterling hayden, doing a fine job as the alcoholic writer, commits suicide instead of becoming the victim of a clever murder. marlowe commits a vicious murder at the end, totally out of character with what we had seen to date in the movie. what a waste of celluloid. "}{"Title":"Original and entertaining Philip Marlowe","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Philip Marlowe is a detective who lives alone in an attic, with his whimsical cat, and lives a bohemian life lonely and somewhat extravagant. One night his friend Terry Lennox gets home, tells him he has had differences with his wife and asks her to accompany him to the Mexican border for a change. The Marlowe detective agrees, but upon returning home finds police questioned him on the subject of travel. Marlowe, for a short time, ends up in jail accused of complicity in the murder of the wife of Terry, who has appeared brutally beaten.Robert Alman can take advantage of this simple story of Noir and Police Cinema. A good script by Leigh Brackett based on Raymond Chandler novel about character Marlowe. A catchy music of John Wlliams, Vilmos Zsigmond acceptable photograph and some pretty good performances of Alliot Gould, Sterling Hayden and Nina Van Pllandt among others. I think Gould plays the role demystifying the character in the novel, filling the role of a single subject, with his perennial cigarette in mouth, with its principles and individualistic style that makes you attractive to the viewer Elliott Gould builds an Marlowe original, and although not a masterpiece itself is an acceptable free interpretation of Marlowe as nice guy, non Bogart or Mitchum, but is able to rile their opponents in the movie. And I particularly appreciate this type of character leaving the alpha male stereotype, which is already more than enough of those in American Cinema. Sterling Hayden is also very good in the movie, by the way.But the most curious is its final film, very taste of The Third Man, with the choice between friendship and justice. Even the final shot looks like something out of Carol Reed's film.In short it's a 1973 film that can be seen and have a good time forty years later. And this is a whole merits being a recreation of the novel. "},{"Title":"Inconsequential","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, we get it. This is an ironic treatment of the classic hardboiled detective story. Ten minutes into this self-indulgent heap we're still covering the 'feeding the cat' scene which is disposable to the plot and apparently only serves to characterize the lead. An economical director would have advanced the story in some manner AND managed to infuse character qualities into his lead, but not here. We can only do one thing at a time - over and over. And so we've got to sit through repetitive scenes that tell us the same thing in slightly different ways, as if we're kids and didn't understand it the first time. (What's the definition of a bore? Someone who won't come to the point. What's the definition of an even bigger bore? Someone who keeps talking after they've made their point. Guess which one Altman is?)The topless 'groovy chicks' next door for instance. How does this develop or change over time? It doesn't. So it illustrates the point that this detective is from a different era. Okay got it. Now what? Oh here we go again, he's interacting with the groovy chicks, and look(!) he's still wearing that dark suit and tie. Yeah, I got the point the first dozen times you stopped the whole film to make this or a similar statement. Here's my question. So what? If the anachronistic detective illuminated the modern age, sure, that would be a story worth telling. This instead is a very timid, lightweight film. It seems like a 'project'.If you want to read a review that goes to heroic lengths to justify a mess, checkout Ebert's review, which illustrates why he rates crap movies like the Star Wars prequels so highly. "},{"Title":"Marlowe meets the 70's","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As other reviewers astutely noted, this ain't your prototypical Phillip Marlowe. What we have is Elliot Gould cast as a semi-neurotic, fiendishly chain-smoking, loquacious quasi-private dick who nonetheless has strong a penchant for seeking out his version of truth and justice in his own eerily calculating manner. He turns out to be the quintessential Marlowe for the early 70's as he romps through the L.A. environs that are rife with trendy gangsters, semi-shady cops, topless yoga freaks, nouveau-riche Malibu jet-setters, et al. So much time is devoted to satirizing the aforementioned crowd and the overall scene at that time, with verbose and sometimes rambling dialogue, that the actual plot story line could have probably been wrapped up in an hour or less. But, hey, it was the 70's, and people got buzzed and rapped incessantly!Yet Mr. Altman & Co. purposely includes this tangential plot fodder to add more emphasis on the characters, individually and collectively. By letting his characters verbally ramble, he lets us know more about each one's set of idiosyncrasies and how that inevitably adds to the overall plot scheme. For example, Sterling Hayden's verbal rantings were not just for a momentary freak-out show, but were a part of his inner frustrations that would manifest themselves more clearly as the plot unfolded. Each actor carried out the demands of his/her role in an interesting fashion, which made for an entertaining drama coupled with a solid detective yarn (and a cool ending)!Lastly, the accompanying theme music, bearing the movie's title, added a poignant touch to the goings-on, especially since that theme was performed by 4 or 5 different groups of musicians, each with a different musical texture and apropos to its accompanying scene. "},{"Title":"Great atmosphere, but moves slowly","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye takes Philip Marlowe out of the '40s. Elliot Gould brings a different delivery to the character, a delivery that audiences of the '70s could respond to in a way that the audiences of the '40s could not. He is a wandering soul who happens to be good at investigating. He is passionless as he relies on the skills that suit his vocation. Somehow, the murder that drives the plot in this movie falls into his lap and he knows how to capitalize on each of the quiet revelations, not in a forward-moving way, but in a haphazard style that builds to an unexpected end.The movie has lots of mood, thanks to the very slow scenes, especially at the beginning. Halfway through the movie the plot threads begin to weave together and the characters and motivations begin to make some sense. Altogether, this isn't the main point of the movie. Plot is still the driving force, but building the atmosphere around it, and highlighting the quiet non-conformity of the main character, seems to be pre-eminent in the minds of the movie makers.Adding to the atmosphere is a score that is not what we expect from John Williams, but a nice study for fans of his work. He captures an echo of a previous era with his title tune The Long Goodbye. It could have been a jazz standard that Billie Holiday would have sung. Instead, the melody finds itself in variations so varied that one has to listen discerningly to realize it's the same tune throughout the movie. As such, it becomes a backdrop, a part of the texture, a reminder of the theme of the movie, and even a hint toward the climactic ending.Gould is excellent in the lead, bringing the right touch of sympathy to the character without forgetting the rough edges which are so practical to the type of character he plays. Altman controls the pacing, the contrast within scenes, enough to draw the reader into the story, so that it becomes less a voyeuristic experience that most movies strive to be, but bordering on a visceral experience, as if we are Marlowe's unseen sidekick.The movie demands a bit of patience and some careful watching, but in the end it's worth the time to get lost in the movie experience. "},{"Title":"You got an assignment, cheapie","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Of the five Raymond Chandler novels I read in 2009, The Long Goodbye (1953) was the most mature and accomplished &#x96; and, indeed, probably the finest book I read throughout the year. It pains me that the early-1970s adaptation is such a disappointment, though admittedly it did spur a new cinematic interest in Philip Marlowe giving us such films as 'Farewell, My Lovely (1975)' and Polanski's very Chandler-ish 'Chinatown (1974)'. Too bad that that Robert Altman had to go all revisionist on Philip Marlowe, because a perfectly wonderful story is squandered with an annoyingly-active camera (always zooming, panning or lurking behind inanimate objects) and washed-out photography that makes it seem as though you're watching the film through frosted glass. Elliot Gould's young and cocky Marlowe is a curiosity, always mumbling some wisecrack to himself like a detached introvert, so at least the performance is interesting.As in Chandler's novel, Marlowe runs into police trouble after helping a friend (Jim Bouton) evade the authorities. His subsequent case involves tracking down missing novelist Roger Wade (Sterling Hayden), a washed-up alcoholic who abuses his beautiful wife Eileen (Nina Van Pallandt). Altman's version of the story is thoroughly abridged, and in the process loses a lot of its emotional power. Marlowe's investigative inquiries are essentially isolated fragments, without offering any insight into the characters or their motives. Marlowe himself, for example, is kept entirely detached from the mystery &#x96; even more so than Bogart in 'The Big Sleep (1946) &#x96; and, indeed, from reality itself. One of the most harrowing moments in Chandler's novel occurs when Marlowe faces a conflict between his professional integrity and his oppressive lust towards Eileen Wade. Not only does Nina Van Pallandt fail to fulfil Chandler's generous descriptions of Mrs. Wade, but Marlowe is curiously depicted, in Sherlock Holmes fashion, as an asexual. "},{"Title":"Elliot Gould-top notch choice to play Philip Marlowe","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's not easy being private investigator Philip Marlowe.First his hungry cat wakes him up and then runs away.Later the cops put him behind bars for his friend Terry Lennox is accused of murdering his wife.And it was Marlowe who drove him to Tijuana, Mexico.Then we hear that Lennox has killed himself.Then he's hired by the wealthy Eileen Wade who asks him to find her alcoholic husband, author Roger Wade.He finds out that the Wades knew the Lennoxes.It's not the easiest case to crack.The late great Robert Altman is the director of The Long Goodbye (1973).We hear the fantastic title song by John Williams many times during this movie.Elliot Gould makes a great Marlowe.The legendary Sterling Hayden plays Roger Wade.This is a great movie.Watch it. "},{"Title":"A fine movie...and it's possible to enjoy Altman's Philip Marlowe as much as Chandler's Philip Marlowe","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Terry Lennox has a problem. He's in trouble and needs help getting out of the country. Who else can he go to than one of his best friends, Philip Marlowe? All he asks is that Marlowe drive him down to Tijuana...right now. Marlowe, a private eye who probably has few good friends other than Lennox, does it. When Marlowe gets back hours later, he's picked up by the cops, knocked around, jailed and finally released. It seems Terry's wife has been beaten to death and the police want to know where Terry is. Marlowe doesn't believe that his friend is a killer and decides he'll look into the case. He also is hired by the sexy Eileen Wade to find her missing husband, the aging alcoholic writer Roger Wade. Funny, Marlowe finally decides, that the Wades live very close to the Lennox house in an exclusive, gated Malibu enclave (with a private cop at the gate who does a good imitation of Barbara Stanwyck). Then Marlowe is forced into a private conversation with the gangster Marty Augustine...something about a missing $50,000 of Augustine's that Lennox supposedly had and that Augustine wants back. Marlowe is taught how vicious Augustine can be in one violent act so startling it'll make your stress level rise every time Augustine shows up. Marlowe finally puts all the pieces together, slowly and persistently, until he finds himself in Mexico for probably the last time. Is this really Philip Marlowe we're watching? Well, it's Robert Altman's Philip Marlowe, which means Raymond Chandler probably wouldn't recognize him. Is this a bad thing? Not at all. Altman (and Elliot Gould as Marlowe) has put his own imprint on the iconic gumshoe. Marlowe is often just confused by things. He's laid back, quizzical, good-natured in a reasonably skeptical way, not quite a loser, maybe not too smart the first time around but he learns and he is not going to stop looking for answers. The mystery has a vague resemblance to the bones of Chandler's book, but Altman isn't as much concerned with the trajectory of Mrs. Lennoxes murder as he is with the interplay of Marlowe and those he meets, and in how the story evolves from that interplay. Altman put together a vivid cast. Gould would probably be glaringly miscast as a Marlowe played tough and straight. As Altman's Marlowe, however, he's the glue that holds the movie together and provides that strange Altman mixture of almost sly humor and drama. The byplay between Marlowe and his hungry cat and between Marlowe and the three luscious yoga practitioners in the next apartment lets us settle into this new-model Marlowe. Sterling Hayden as Roger Wade gives a roaring, dynamic, foul-mouthed performance. The scenes he shares with the small, precise and sleazy Dr. Verringer played by Henry Gibson are almost surreal in the disparity between the two actors' physical sizes and acting styles. Gibson, with a terrible comb-over, holds his own. When he slaps Hayden full in the face, it's almost as startling as what Augustine does with a glass Coke bottle. Nina Van Pallandt does a fine job as the complex and compelling Eileen Wade. We're no more sure of her game than Marlowe is, but he's got enough sense not to fall for her. Jim Boulton as Terry Lennox doesn't have a lot of screen time, but you'll remember him. The end of the movie, when Marlowe puts the pieces together and provides his own sad justice, left me thinking...but about what, I'm not sure. About the nature of friendship, I guess...how friendship doesn't necessarily work both ways, even when you think it does. Altman has given us a first-rate movie that goes well beyond a private eye caper. Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe is a fine creation. So is Robert Altman's. This is a film worth watching several times. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but re-watchable?","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I would like to put this in the top tier of Bob stuff with McCabe and Gosford Park, but I feel that it has lost some of the nuance that the viewers of three decades ago must have enjoyed. Elliot Gould seems almost blasé in his portrayal of the prototypical noir detective, Philip Marlowe, and his cool, detached demeanor makes the film tend toward the soporific. Sterling Hayden felt a little too Hemmingway-esquire (maybe it was the beard) as the alcoholic writer. Nina van Pallendt delivers a rather by the numbers performance as the red herring/romantic interest who momentarily diverts Marlowe's deductions. The film has a washed out, golden look, owing to a technique of 'flashing' or overexposing the film. Altman's idea was that Marlowe has been asleep for twenty years and he wakes to find himself in the sun baked, marijuana baking L.A. of 1973, but having the same values he had in 1953. This conceit does not get voiced literally, but every scene has some little feature that crows out the modernity of Marlowe's surroundings while making him seem terribly anachronistic by comparison. In fact, the temporal displacement gag feels a bit heavy handed after a while. If Altman had made another Marlowe movie every 10 years or so, the premise might have seemed to have achieved fruition. But 'The Long Goodbye' on its own, while still very watchable, does little that one doesn't see in scads of antecedent noirs. Swartzenegger looks awesome in this (it was during his pumping iron days) and thankfully says nothing. "},{"Title":"Good, but not Chandler","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman's stirring and ultimately bleak vision of the 70's, The Long Goodbye has been described as Rip Van Marlowe, with Elliot Gould stumbling as though awoken after 20 years through the psychedelic and bleak landscape of 1970s Los Angeles. In the film, Elliot Gould plays infamous private detective Philip Marlowe with subtlety and flourish, observing the violent and unnerving acts around him with concern and cynicism. He plays the character of Marlowe perfectly witty, harsh, and honest.But that's where the comparison to Chandler ends. If you went into The Long Goodbye expecting Raymond Chandler's masterpiece, you'll come out confused and disappointed. In this version of the film, Mrs. Wade is no longer the golden goddess described, Terry Lennox is a sly, slimeball slickster, and a large number of characters disappear into thin air. The plot has been bent and stretched to fit Altman's vision, and the only seemingly Chandler-esquire part of The Long Goodbye is Roger Wade, played gruffly and expertly by Sterling Hayden.If you're prepared to see something remarkable, see The Long Goodbye.If you want to see Raymond Chandler, see something else. "},{"Title":"What was that car","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one my all-time favourite movies, everything about it is so sweet - especially the soundtrack and Elliott Gould. However, I'm really keen to know what the car he drives is - anyone help? This is one of the few films that I can watch over and over, the story is not especially complex but the construction of the film and the performances make it fresh each time I watch it (and that was twice last week). It also contains one scene (gangster and his girlfriend) of such simple but devastating violence that it always shocks me, perhaps it's because it's so sharp compared to the rest of the movie but every time I know it's coming up I still squirm. Cheers Mike  "}{"Title":"Weird film-noir with some great twists","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Long Goodbye has been attacked by Chandler purists with good provocation, but Altman still has constructed a unique film (despite certain liberties taken with the story) that still stays true, particularly the wit possessed by Philip Marlowe as played by Elliot Gould which remains firmly intact from how Chandler originally envisioned the character. The film has a great laid back feel to it as Altman is more interesting in the quirks of his Marlowe character and the eccentric denizens that populate L.A.than trying to solve the mystery. Gould is terrific in a very understated performance. Altman continues to subvert our expectations through out the film and the surprise ending even causes us to evaluate our entire perception of the protagonist. But this isn't a world where every thing is clearly defined as good vs. evil. It is much more ambiguous and complex.  Marlowe isn't a hero, he is just like any of us. A flawed human being capable of anything. One of Altman's best and one of the greatest films of the seventies. "},{"Title":"A last hurrah","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A film by Robert Altman, the character Philip Marlowe has deep roots in film noir.  The character created by Raymond Chandler is an excellent example of a hard boiled detective.  Set in the 1970's this picture is not exactly film noir.  Gould's interpretation of the character is vastly different from Dick Powell's (Murder My Sweet, 1944).  Where Powell's was an everyman, Gould becomes an outcast. Great film, great shots, intriguing plot.  "},{"Title":"Snappy (hilarious) yet cool writing, a great new Marlowe by Gould, and some keen noir stylizing","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye (1973)What a great, different film. It's clearly a neo-noir, filled with the empty yearning of the main character, played by Elliott Gould with smart alecky perfection. And we see old film noir star Sterling Hayden appear in a strong support role acting with more conviction than maybe ever before as a drunk and declining writer at his beach house in Malibu.Gould's character is detective Philip Marlowe, smartly updated, living in an incredible apartment complex overlooking the L.A. basin. Never mind the absolutely absurd and frankly sexist and indulgent inclusion of some neighbors, a group of young women doing yoga day and night on their balcony, topless and stoned or just plain California-ed out. That's the one drag on an altogether first rate production, directed by a relatively refreshed face in the New Hollywood scene, Robert Altman, who had been making movies in the 1950s, switched to t.v. stuff, then returned with a splash with MASH in 1970 and several others, including the legendary Nashville in 1975.But between Gould's cool, elevated performance and some of the best writing you'll find in movies in this era, the movie digs in and won't let go. It's based on Raymond Chandler's book, of course, with screen writing the irregular Leigh Brackett, the woman who also wrote the classic 1946 screenplay for The Big Sleep, another Chandler novel turned to noir. Good credentials there, and probably one of Altman's best decisions, tapping into film noir's most baroque roots. The plot, as such, isn't such a big deal, but more a vehicle for letting us absorb and be absorbed into the scene and all its atmosphere. But it does gradually unfold that the various people asking for Marlowe's attention are interrelated, and one murder leads to more death and a spectacular last scene, which is a true New Hollywood thumbing of noses at the old Hays Code. Repercussions and responsibility? Not for this new round of ethics. In fact, the nudity is less a sign of the changing codes than this ending, which is part of a moral vacuum that ultimately makes the most sense for Philip Marlowe, because Marlowe, however kind he is deep down, does look out for himself first. "},{"Title":"Can A Confused Pop Culture Freak Find A Chuck Barris Connection Here?","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watched this film again last night for the 4th or 5th time in 20 years. I can add nothing to the brilliant observations already posted by other IMDb contributors. However, I did want to comment on a rather irrelevant aspect of Gould's performance. The Gould & Altman take on Chandler's Marlowe character struck a familiar chord with me. Watching Gould mutter, shrug & mug his way through THE LONG GOODBYE, I had a wild-hair of a notion that the persona adapted by notorious song-writer/game show creator/Gong Show host Chuck Barris seemed to have come directly from this film. Outrageous notion? Maybe. Irrelevant? Of course. "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Controversial films of the 70's","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye was one of the most controversial films of 1970's. Along with McCabe & Mrs Miller Robert Altman polarized critical reaction that in many ways contributed to both films poor showing at the box-office. By 1973 a lot of the good will that Altman had built up from the commercial and critical hit MASH had dissipated and his films were playing to near empty houses around the country. Older critics that had grown up with Bogart as Phillip Marlowe could not believe what Elliot Gould had done to their hero. Marlowe is now a plodding, stupid and out of touch private detective that still charges just a few dollars a day and expenses and drives a 1949 car and lives in a rather squalid apartment.Time has been good to The Long Goodbye. As virtually all of the movies of the film noir genre have been re-released and canonized we have a broader perspective with which to place Gould's take on the private eye. Gould's Marlowe is a logical figure given what the 70's were like and where the movies were heading.Shown in very bright Southern Cailfornia sunshine the film turns a lot of visual traditions of the style on their head but the feel is stil distinctly nourish predating the visual style of The Rockford Files to hit the small screen in a couple of years. Both work within the noir framework and reward repeat viewings. The ending has been particularly maligned by the commentators of the time but viewed from a 21st century perspective it is just the perfect way to close the film. "},{"Title":"It's (NOT) okay with me.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am familiar with the Raymond Chandler type of detective even though I have not read this particular book. I was curious to see how Elliott Gould would fit in to the preconceptions I had of Phillip Marlowe.I wasn't impressed with his style. He didn't seem hard enough. The constant chain-smoking seemed contrived. He seemed lackadaisical.Then I looked at the director - Robert Altman, the Hollywood-hating director that went against type. Everything made sense. The constant Hollywood references in the movie, and the private eye that hung around with bare-breasted hippies still stuck in the Summer of Love.Done in between Mash and Nashville, it is particularly Altman. It is a caricature of Marlowe, and, in that sense, Gould fits perfectly. I am not happy with the film, but I understand.The cinematography was great and the sound tract was superb. Sterling Hayden (Dr. Strangelove) was great as the Hemingwayesque writer, and Nina Van Pallandt (Clifford Irving's mistress for you literary types) was also very good as his wife.Good Altman, but not a good Marlowe. See Bogey in The Big Sleep for the best example of how that should be done. "},{"Title":"Return of the Shaggy Dog","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The way a film starts can tell you a lot about where it's going. When Marlowe stumbles out of bed, mumbling and beholden to a mewing feline, you know you will not witness a typical translation of Chandler's work. I had reservations before seeing this movie the first time, worried, as I was, that Altman, by taking liberties with the novel upon which its based, was somehow mocking the source material. I was wrong. The Long Goodbye isn't a loyal translation of the novel, in terms of narrative, but it maintains the spirit, at least, and updates it for a new era. It's as cynical as Chandler's novel, but it's a different (and, perhaps, more justified) cynicism. If anything, Altman chose not to mock the source so much as to mock the continuing glut of crime films that refused to update their heroes for a post-Kennedy, post-King, Vietnam world. What happens when you take a retro gumshoe and drop them into the southern California of the early 1970s? They seem distinctly out of place. They don't seem to get it and, as a result, they find themselves in a lot of trouble. Marlowe, in this version of the Long Goodbye, spends much of his time as a fish out of water. He's fairly ineffective as a private detective, though he does achieve a certain amount of success finding Roger Wade and deducing what truly happened with Terry Lennox. He's stumbling in the dark for enough of the film, though, to make his successes seem the product of chance, not skill. Some may call this the inversion of the genre--I would say, however, that Altman takes a familiar genre and all its trappings but places it anachronistically in the then-present to show the failure of the genre's tropes to universally translate. Without the Long Goodbye, would there have been a Chinatown? A Farewell My Lovely? Perhaps, but Altman's masterful rendition certainly paved the way for those arguably more successful pictures. In addition to upsetting a genre, though, the Long Goodbye contains an amazing performance by Elliot Gould, who more or less carries the film by himself (no one else has enough screen time), as well as a marvelous turn by Sterling Hayden, who seems to channel Ernest Hemmingway and Raymond Chandler simultaneously. The other supporting roles are filled with equally effective performances. There is also the sun- drenched photography. The Long Goodbye might be a noir, but it's not particularly dark, in terms of its colors. Much of the action takes place in the daylight, which, I think, makes it all the more ominous. All in all, this is a fantastic film and one of Altman's best. "},{"Title":"An improbable classic.","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" How's this for a pitch? We want to update a Chandler classic to the early seventies and give it to Bob Altman to direct. Oh, and Elliot Gould's gonna play Marlowe. Come again? Yet it works. Boy, does it work. It's a great adaptation of the novel overlaying a mesmerizing examination of the semi-mythical world of '70s LA (it's like a feature length video for early Warren Zevon albums). Great scenes abound including Sterling Hayden on the beach at night and one of the more brutally effective moments of shock violence in movie history from (of all people) Mark Rydell. Superbly written (making you forget how Chandler's dialog richly deserved its fate of being parodied to death), and solidly acted this is, to me, the best work of Altman's storied career. "},{"Title":"dogs, man--lotsa dogs","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" am in an Altman phase (watched both Mash and TLG tonight) and was struck by something kinda odd about TLG.In the movie there is one cat (marlowe's) and about thirty different dogs (including the two making sweet love...) at a certain point, i started to think that the dogs were reflective (ellie's's damn doberman, etc) and wondered if it set up a way to think about the movie-- is Marlowe the only cat in a world of dogs? Does anyone know Altman's take on dogs/cats-- in Mash Hawkeye had a dog, but the dog was not particularly important.I know -- odd question, but it seems valid-- after all the director chooses whats on screen-- and one cat and 30 dogs cannot be an accident.maineblackbear "},{"Title":"Strange and quirky doesn't even begin to cover this one","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Phillip Marlowe (Elliott Gould) is a washed out private investigator in California. One night old friend Terry Lennox (Jim Bouton) asks for a quick ride to Tijuana. Marlowe agrees then gets caught up in a VERY complex plot involving sexy Nina van Pallandt, alcoholic Sterling Hayden and violent hood Mary Rydell. The plot is WAY too complicated to get into.Odd take by Robert Altman on Phillip Marlowe. He changes the story drastically. He moves it from the 1940s to the 1970s--yet Marlowe dresses like the 40s and even drives a 40s car. He is rumpled, mumbling and run-down here. There's a security guard who does celebrity impersonations (for no reason). Everybody talks strangely and the complex plot moves VERY quickly. It's never dull and it's beautifully directed...but I'm not quite sure what Altman's point is here. On one hand he seems to be doing a straight-forward (albeit a little strange) detective story--on the other he seems to be making fun of Marlowe and his attempts. The tone of the film wavers uncomfortably between humor, violence and satire. I'm still not quite sure how to take this.The acting is great--Gould is just wonderful--probably his best performance ever; van Pallandt is also very good (interesting costumes--VERY 70s); Hayden yells and screams a lot; Rydell is downright terrifying as a crime lord. Since it an Altman film there's pointless female nudity (Marlowe's neighbors) and a sick scene where a Coke bottle is smashed across a woman's face. It's also highly unbelievable--no Coke bottle would break that easy.Also David Carradine and Arnold Schwarzenegger pop up in cameos! A VERY odd movie and (understandably) a commercial failure but it's acquired a cult following. I'm not quite sure WHAT it's saying--but I liked it--sort of. I give it a 7. "}{"Title":"The Last To Know","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With all the detective films where the lead investigator is so far ahead of the audience he needs to explain things to the villain/girlfriend/dopey companion just so the audience can catch up, it's kind of a relief to see one where the P.I. is the last to know. Such is Elliott Gould's Philip Marlowe in The Long Goodbye.Marlowe is the last to know when his friend Terry Lennox is accused of killing his wife and then kills himself. He is the last to know that Lennox was holding money for a dangerous hood named Marty Augustine. He does figure out pretty quickly where the drunken writer Roger Wade is holed up, but again is the last to know how Wade's story ties in with that of Lennox. Finally, at the very end, he does manage to get ahead of the audience with one sudden act few viewers could have expected, but does he succeed only in making himself a bigger loser than ever?Robert Altman's idiosyncrasies as a director were well-established by 1973, and ill-suited for adapting one of Raymond Chandler's Marlowe mysteries. That was probably why Altman did it. Mysteries are hard enough to follow without overlapping dialogue, artfully haphazard camera framing, weird segues, and eccentric characters who have nothing to do with the main story.Just to make things more interesting for the maverick auteur, he cast Gould, the ironic antihero of his day, in the role of the classical film-noir detective and surrounded him with non-actors like the mistress of the man who forged Howard Hughes' journals and the pitcher who scandalized baseball when he wrote Ball Four. Casting better-known actors would have distracted people from thinking about the director.The problem with The Long Goodbye is that Altman is making this film strictly for himself. Chandler fans expecting a good mystery story will be disappointed. But the movie pulls you in all the same, right from the beginning where Marlowe is woken from a deep sleep by his cat, who wants Courry brand cat food and accepts no substitutes. Marlowe has his standards, too. When he goes to the store at 3AM to buy what his cat wants, he makes sure to put on his tie first, and doesn't stop to talk to the nubile ladies who smoke pot and dance half-naked in the next apartment. When Wade tells Marlowe one morning to come have a drink with him, and take that goddam J.C. Penney tie off, Marlowe, no morning drinker, only half-agrees Well, that's okay but I'm not taking off the tie.Punchy but proud, Gould keeps his head up and makes for an engaging center in this very off-center film. His presence helps make this more of a comedy more than a mystery, though with a sinister undertow. Most memorable is a scene of sudden violence involving a Coke bottle. What's startling is not just the act itself, but the fact that the scene has been played for laughs right up to that point. More bizarre, the scene goes back to being played for laughs after the moment of violence is over.The Long Goodbye may have problems as a straight screen story, but it is a stylistic triumph that influenced a lot of movies that followed, kind of a bridge between the film noir style of the 1940s and early 1950s and today's more ironic fare. For example, film noir classics like Murder, My Sweet (also a Marlowe mystery) took place almost always at night, so The Long Goodbye is drenched in sunlight and color.Those who want a linear storyline and clear-cut characters may be better off elsewhere, but if you don't mind a bit of kookiness mixed with black humor that has significance beyond its box-office receipts, you will enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Still underrated","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that is persistently underrated. Chandler purists hate it but we've all seen beloved books turned into movies we feel are inadequate because we've created our own film in our heads.I haven't read the book and I think that this is a great film. Altman is brave enough to ignore Chandler and make his own Marlowe, assisted by the perennially underrated Elliot Gould. It's a slow and laconic film that really works.If you loved the book then there's probably no chance that you'll love the film and that's a shame. "},{"Title":"Chandler purists shocked by ending, but it's ok with me","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why people expect Altman to be any more reverential  to Raymond Chandler than he was to Raymond Carver with Short-Cuts. But in updating both, in a kooky California kind of  way, I think he's true to the spirit of the work(s). There are plenty of text examples of Marlowe being incredibly whimsical  and, at times, a bit of a sap (albeit a self-aware one). Altman and Brackett have just brought that out. As for the controversial ending - it may not have been in the book, but  it's the one moment in the film where Marlowe's code shines  through, where he finally says That's not OK with me. "},{"Title":"Are we watching the same movie?","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I waited forty years to watch this pretentious drivel, and have come to the conclusion that I was right in delaying this waste of two hours of my life till I lay in the twilight of my life, in retirement. Watching this movie is like watching a high school student attempt to make a meaningful movie, without talent, understanding, or plot. Rambling dialogue made up on the moment, obviously without thinking or blocking, by actors on drugs, and a one liner plot, make one clear statement about Hollywood and that is, the people who greenlight these atrocities have as much clue as the courtiers telling the Emperor he looks better and better, as he sheds more and more clothes till naked, a la the Emperor's New Clothes. Which is to say, zilch.Utter dreck, forever a blight on the careers of everyone associated with this waste of time. Chalk up another reason for the decline of civilization in the last forty years.Ugh. "},{"Title":"Gould leads shining example of noir excellence","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Private eye Philip Marlowe (Gould) attempts to cover for his friend who leaves a wake of trouble behind for Marlowe after he leaves the country.Robert Altman's adaptation of Raymond Chandler's novel spices with that noir vibe of gritty crime, a fantastic central moody protagonist and a luxury score capitalizing on the mood of the moment.Raymond Chandler's books were big adaptations in the 1940's with hits such as the big sleep and a screenplay for Double Indemnity. A brief one year series entitled by the central character Philip Marlowe went unsuccessful in 1959 and ten years later Marlowe starring James Garner was released without much hype. 1973 and The Long Goodbye was released and fans of Chandler are praising this as the finest appreciation of the character's series.Our first accompaniment with the detective is in his flat where he is awoken by his hungry cat. Intermixing with dialogue with the hungry pet is genius at conveying Marlowe's personality as the sarcastic and blunt persona ebbs its way into our hearts and Elliott Gould is perfectly resolute in the starring role, eclipsing everyone in his wake with his playful banter and unflinching attitude towards surroundings. It seems only his cat is smarter than he is and thanks to this basis of a care free attitude the character is approachable and exceptionally likable, and that doesn't happen in too many noir films.Capturing the essence of noir we have the moody detective, the troubled blonde haired Nina Van Pallandt as Eileen Wade and a dark story involving murder and betrayal.Modern crime films such as your Bonds and Bourne's revolve around a mystery and adrenaline soaked action and suspense but with indie flicks such as this 1973 release you get a feeling of relaxation in an inappropriate sense. For example everything happens in stride with a chilled attitude. There is hardly any action until the final third as everything is revealed through intelligent converse and clever actor portrayals. And with today's modern representation of gangsters wearing flashing accessories and being covered by money in films such as Be Cool it really is remarkable to see how times have changed.In this case less action is more for the plot. As to when the big scenes arrive there is a stronger emphasis on the situation, for example the dealings with the gangsters and the groundbreaking last few minutes. Nothing is lost and everything is gained from epitome of revenge to rightful consequences and credit where credit is due for the screenwriters.The film capitalizes on its tremendous score. Never have I watched a film involving two main themes and been convinced it is one of the finest, well in the noir/crime genre.The scene setting escalates on the mood, the relaxing morning drinking scene by the beach is exquisite whilst the providing nature of the naked girls next door to Marlowe's adds some tasty humour which all files together to make a really tremendous film. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman's inspired and ingenious modern revisionist take on legendary private detective Philip Marlowe","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Elliott Gould delivers a brilliantly loosey-goosey performance as a shabby, rundown, laid-back and sarcastic Philip Marlowe, who finds himself adrift and out of place in mean'n'selfish 70's Los Angeles. Marlowe investigates the apparent suicide of good buddy Terry Lennox (well essayed by former baseball player Jim Bouton). During his investigation Marlowe encounters boozy, washed-up writer Roger Wade (a beautifully touching performance by Sterling Hayden), Wade's alluring femme fatale wife Eileen (a solid portrayal by the stunningly gorgeous Nina Van Pallandt), sinister alcohol rehab clinic head Dr. Verringer (a splendidly slimy Henry Gibson), and volatile neurotic Jewish gangster Marty Augustine (a genuinely frightening turn by director Mark Rydell). Director Robert Altman, working from a wonderfully acid and ironic script by Leigh Brackett, deftly creates a morally topsy-turvy world where greed, betrayal and deception take precedent over honesty, loyalty and having a code of honor. Moreover, Altman peppers the film with a lot of nice and amusing quirky touches numerous variations of the haunting main theme occur throughout the picture (there's even an insipid Muzak version on the PA system at an all-night supermarket!), a security guard does dead-on celebrity impressions, Marlowe keeps on nonchalantly saying That's okay with me at regular intervals, and Augustine breaks a Coke bottle over his lovely girlfriend's face. Vilmos Vsigmond's bright, gleaming, smoothly gliding and agile cinematography gives the film an exquisitely lustrous slick look. The lush, jazzy orchestral score by John Williams likewise totally hits the spot. Popping up in nifty bit parts are David Carradine as a spacey philosophical flake in a jail cell and Arnold Schwarzenegger as one of Augustine's goons. A real treat. "},{"Title":"annoying glitch in The Long Goodbye","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Elliot Gould must have been directed to keep lighting cigarettes or smoking them every minute he was on camera. Problem is, whether he was actually ever a smoker or not, he looks like someone faking it. His inhalations are totally unconvincing. The cigarette sticking out of his mouth as he moves about looks like one stuck in a snowman's mouth at a wrong angle. Small thing? No, once you notice it, it's maddening. Otherwise, an interesting film, although the dialog does not sound like Chandler, whether Chandler's words are used or not. Oh, one other thing I have only seen this in a DVD, and I kept running it backwards, or pausing to get a closer look at the lady's face in the jeep in the last scene. Maybe it's the small screen, but it's almost s if I am not supposed to see her clearly. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman's The Long Goodbye The Radical Noir","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman jettisons most of Raymond Chandler's sinister post-World War II ambiance for the more insidious banalities to be found in the daily life of the early 1970's. Many of the twisting complexities of the plot are ignored also (see the DVD's special features interviews for greater insight). The remaining shreds of the Chandler story leave the viewer with a gaggle of corrupt, near-corrupt, and aimless searching souls who inhabit Los Angeles and its general vicinity. But Marlowe is still stuck with finding out where a more than slightly deranged novelist is located, and where a pile of cash belonging to a decidedly sadistic hoodlum has gone, and who murdered the wife of his best friend, Terry Lennox. Perhaps most pressing of all, for this Marlowe, is tracking down and grabbing as many cans as possible of the right brand of pet food for his finicky cat. Altman is in full re-invention mode here, turning a classic crime novel that searches for truth and justice through its careworn but noble sleuth into a laid back character study that plumbs the depths of our hero's righteous resolve. Since the focus has been turned fully on Marlowe's actions and reactions within his murky occupational world, its left to the actor playing the part to pull an engaging performance, a counter cultural rabbit if you will, out of his hat. Abracadabra! Elliot Gould's loose-limbed, chain-smoking, cat-loving gumshoe seems more like a hapless victim of circumstance than the determined detective who attempts to pull it all together in the end. He's mostly off-balance and confused. And even though he declares near the film's conclusion that I didn't solve anything, this Marlowe knows who done it. Gould is very amusing and entertaining as the private investigator. He isn't the best Marlowe ever (Dick Powell gets the prize for his surprising turn in 1944's MURDER, MY SWEET, with Bogart coming in a very strong second in the 1946 version of THE BIG SLEEP), but Gould is refreshingly different (a trench coat in Southern California?- no way, man).He's an improvise-as-you-go p.i. who probably would have been plowed under in late 1940's America (no, he isn't as tough as Powell or Bogart) but is ideally suited for the slippery ethos of the 1970's. Altman's ultra relaxed approach nudges the characters at the viewer who in turn push their flaws and foibles at us with intriguing results. Megastar alert keep your eyes open for an unaccredited muscle-bound newcomer who makes a brief appearance, and whose name would shortly be on the lips of millions of moviegoers as well as quite a few Hollywood executives. "},{"Title":"Altman's update of the Chandler novel","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film came out a few years before private detective stories became popular again with Chinatown but many feel that this often overlooked gem is as good if not better than those. Story is from the Raymond Chandler novel but takes place in Los Angeles in 1973 where we see an updated version of Philip Marlowe (Elliott Gould) who encounters his friend Terry Lennox (Jim Bouton) who asks him for a ride to the Mexico border. He helps his friend but later both the police and gangsters start to harass him over the accusation that Terry has killed his wife. Marlowe is held by the police for three days and gets his picture in the paper which leads to a job opportunity in Malibu. Eileen Wade (Nina Van Pallandt) hires him to find her writer husband Roger (Sterling Hayden) which he does by locating him at a sleazy rest home.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Marlowe also gets a visit from a local gangster named Marty Augustine (Mark Rydell) who tells him that Terry took off with his money and that he had better find it. He learns that Terry committed suicide in Mexico after killing his wife but Marlowe doesn't believe it and after asking some questions discovers that there is a connection between the Wade's and the Lennoxes and Marty. The trail Marlowe follows leads him back to Mexico where he finds out the truth (More or less) and a conclusion that differs from the novel.This film is directed by Robert Altman who adds just the right touch for updating an old Raymond Chandler story and Altman always has been great in filming stories in LA. Once again he shows LA in such a way that we can all relate to it like the lesbian yoga girls next door and the security guard who does impressions of movie stars. From the beach homes in Malibu to the chic apartments in the hills this is a Los Angeles that seemingly only Altman can capture with such glory and it's shot by the great cinematographer Vilmos Zsigmond. Gould's interpretation of Marlowe is different in that he's more of a mumbler and a person totally out of sync with the way that the world is changing. He's not a tough guy and he chain smokes constantly and wears the same dark suit everyday even when sitting in the sun on the beach. At the same time Gould is perfect in the lead and his laid back coolness is used perfectly and in interviews he would state that this role helped rejuvenate his sagging career. There are other good performances in this film as well and Van Pallandt is exceptionally well cast but Hayden as the broken down alcoholic writer is memorable. This script is written by Leigh Brackett who was the co-writer for the 1946 film The Big Sleep and he along with Altman recapture a genre of film that most thought was long dead. In small roles you can see David Carradine in a jail cell and you can't miss Arnold Schwarzenegger as one of Marty's henchman. Many think that this is equally as great as Nashville and McCabe & Mrs. Miller but I feel that this is a small notch below those wonderful films but at the same time this is a terrific film that is easily one of Altman's best.  "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've had this film on video for over twelve years, as it was a film that I watched on a long-defunct UK film 'slot' called Moviedrome.  I remember watching it and thinking it was intriguing but hard to follow...but I was only fourteen or so. The video has sat on the shelf for a while, and I've kept it the same way that I've kept other films that intrigued me. One day I'll sit through them all and see what all the fuss is about. There are some films that you have to be ready to watch.  Anyway, it's been a good four or five years since I last watched it, and I decided to read the novel that it was based on a couple of days ago. (I like Raymond Chandler books - they're fantastically written, imaginative and inventive and effortlessly elegant, but in a hard-boiled way.) So I read the novel yesterday - it was my day off, and I really concentrated and read hard - and then watched the film again this morning. SPOILERSWhat was Altman thinking? OK, so he wanted to make an adaption of The Long Goodbye... but he didn't. He used the same characters and elements of the same plot, but why did he bother doing all the different stuff? Why not make a 'new' film?  So he wanted to update Chandler. Fair enough, That's OK with me. But why in such an inconsistent manner, and with such little regard or respect for the source material? Elliot Gould is fantastic, as always, the acting is uniformly splendid, the score is excellent and the camerawork is impressively foreboding. My problem is with Altman and his rather childish treatment of such a great source. There's something that has always bothered me about him - the 'easy target' syndrome. MASH, The Long Goodbye, Short Cuts, The Player.... all great films (yes, The Long Goodbye IS great, but VERY flawed). But why does he do things in such a childish and transparent manner? (Not just here - witness the clumsy dog sh*t in Pret A Porter, the war metaphors in MASH...and so on.) You can almost hear the conversation when he pitched this film to United Artists. Hey, let's make Marlowe a shambling fool. If someone was transposed from the early 50s to the early 70s, that's what he'd be, right? He can let people walk all over him. He can drive an old car and wear these strange anachronistic clothes so that it refers back to the period when the book was set... What? Have I read it? No, I didn't bother (allegedly). Anyway, forget all this mystery business, and the plastic surgery, and the intertwining relationships and the betrayal at the end and the rather tender and touching ending (so I've been told, I didn't finish it, remember?). Let's dumb it down. Let's include some senseless mysogyny, because that's what the 70s is all about. In fact, forget about telling a story, that can be incidental. Let's make it a big in-joke, and a scathing comment about cinema in the 1970s! Yeah, that'll work. The audience can unpick it themselves, including the references to Hollywood that pervade every scene. You know, the way that the security guy imitates Hollywood stars. The way that everything is done on looks and image and how people see things. Let's throw in some contemporary politics, some sly cursory nods to current fads. We can get rid of all the intriguing things about the novel...and replace them with generic stereotypes. 1970s audiences can't cope with subtlety or anything too complicated. And throw in a big chunk of missing money, cause that's what everyone's obsessed with nowadays. And get him to shoot an unarmed man at the end. Can he be in danger? No, he just commits a cold-blooded murder. Yeah, that's right, to end the film with. Then Marlowe can wander off as happy as Larry, and we can dub an ironic song on the end...yeah, 'Hooray For Hollywood' will do. After all, hooray for any town where we can get away with this butchery, huh?BUT.................criticism of Altman's motives aside.......... If you haven't read the book, or you don't read the book after you've read it, it works pretty well as an Altman film (a look at Hollywood from the inside, although not necessarily a subtle one). As an abstract look at Hollywood in the 70s (as I've outlined above) it works well and gives an insight into what was in vogue at the time. I only question Altman's reasoning behind using such an excellent text, butchering it completely and subverting the storyline for his own ends. I haven't got anything against adapting texts - after all, a book is a book and a film is a film. But when the source is so perfect, why not just come up with something _original_? ...And before you say it, I mean why not come up with your OWN story rather than dessicating someone else's. Why put Chandler's name on the credits at all? "}{"Title":"Fascinating, difficult adaptation","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've just watched The Long Goodbye for the second time (first was several years ago), and after writing it off as a travesty originally, I enjoyed it a lot more the second time around, and would certainly place it on a list of great Altman films. Probably because I've also watched MASH and McCabe & Mrs. Miller recently, I was able to appreciate the whole Altman-ness of this movie, and there sure is a lot of it. It seems like every other shot is made from behind a window or under a staircase, and the use of overlapping and realistic dialogue is as perfectly-executed as anything in MASH.But the biggest controversy in this movie, of course, are the liberties taken by the screenplay in adapting the original novel. I'm a huge Raymond Chandler fan -- much more so than I am a Robert Altman fan -- and I've long considered The Long Goodbye to be his best novel, his most important novel, probably his most personal novel, and the novel where he really takes Philip Marlowe to a new level. A lot of that has to do with the post-war atmosphere in the novel, and the way Marlowe seems to be reacting to a new, darker world; it's like Chandler is taking the classic (stereotypical even in 1953) elements of film noir and throwing them back at Marlowe in his own book. I could argue how this novel is one of the most important American post-war novels, how it influenced Thomas Pynchon and other serious writers, but that's a story for another time.But suffice it to say, one must tread lightly, or surely, when attempting to adapt a work like this. When I first watched the movie, my reaction (like so many others, it seems) was disappointment and a feeling that the film had adapted the novel into an entirely inferior product. But this time, the novel was fresh in my mind (I read it again last week) and, ironically, I enjoyed the movie much more.Now, if you can't get past the fact that this version of Marlowe is not the same as the one in the book, you'll probably never like this movie. But I don't think that he's really all that different. His characterization (by Elliot Gould) is much different than the tough guy from the books, but he still clings to the same sort of stubborn integrity that was always so important to Marlowe.As for the storyline, Leigh Brackett obviously had to remove large chunks of plot from Chandler's longest novel to make it even close to filmable. By concentrating mostly on Marlowe's relationship with Mr. & Mrs. Wade, the movie is able to capture the atmosphere of one (large) portion of the book, even though it totally ignores many others (the gimlets, the plastic surgery, etc). And this is the key, I think, to why this is a great movie even though it's not a faithful adaptation of the novel's story.Altman concentrates on the Wade storyline, and the way he tells that story -- with lots of obscured shots, as I mentioned before, the classic Altman trademarks -- really captures the feel of the book, as Marlowe maddeningly tries to break through the Wades' shells and find out what's really going on in their marriage. He spends a lot of time with the couple but is always aware that there's something more there, something below the surface. Altman's style captures this feeling perfectly, even as the storyline diverges farther and farther from the original. Who cares? It makes a great and compelling movie in its own right, while still retaining a large portion of the book's spirit. What more can you ask for in an adaptation?- - I suppose there are some mild spoilers in the next paragraph, but no more than you'd find in almost any guide book entry on this movie - -And the ending? Well, yeah, it's pretty different from the book. And it's pretty different from anything in any of Chandler's novels. But I don't think it's inconsistent. The ending of the movie wouldn't make any sense at all if grafted on to the end of the novel, but as I mentioned, the plotline of the movie is really quite different from the novel (even though it retains the same atmosphere), and it the context of the characters IN THE MOVIE, the ending makes perfect sense. Terry Lennox is a completely different character in the movie. I think that's what confused me the first time I saw the movie, and what made me think the ending was a total farce. When I saw the movie originally, it had been quite a while since I read the book, so in trying to follow the movie's plotline, I was also struggling to recall the book's plotline, and got them mixed up in my head while I was watching. By the end, somewhat confused over the whole thing, I was still applying the characterizations from the book to the characters in the movie, and that caused me to say WTF was that??? when I saw the ending.But this time, having just read the book, it was clear to me every time the movie differed from the book (which was frequently), and it was obvious by the end that the moral judgements of each character from the novel just didn't apply to this new story, and that the ending was a completely consistent culmination of everything that had gone before.I really think this is a forgotten classic for Robert Altman, and it's nice to see that it seems to be getting some long-overdue recognition. It reminded me a lot of MASH -- Gould basically plays it as Trapper John, P.I. -- but with a really powerful storyline rather than a bunch of vaudeville sketches. Not that MASH isn't powerful in its own way, but this movie was really a lot more compelling to watch. Even if you've seen this one and not liked it, give it another chance! "},{"Title":"Some Films Never End","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some Films Never EndSpoilers herein.A remake can be a wonderful thing, because in addition to all of the usual things you can  reference, you have the original. This is the best case I know.Here we have the writer of the original, someone who knew the importance of reference  and layers. We have an edgy, intelligent director at the height of his curiosity about how  the narrative eye works. And we have someone who would become one of our topcinematographers.This is, in effect, a film about a film. The first one had Marlowe in a world different than  his own, so in the Altman case we have three layers Marlow, the world he visits and the  world that world tries to be.The business about trying to fool the cat. The stuff about the hippie girls (who don't  interest Marlowe sexually), all the stuff about the `writer' in the nuthouse as a refuge. All  this and more is part of the presentation by the orchestra, a presentation on layering and  observation. More nuanced than the `Stuntman' of 1980.This is effective because it is intelligent and all the artists are completely simpatico.  Certainly the best domestic film of that year. I might elevate it to a four.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Superb Novel, Strange Movie","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Altman has created such unique and thoroughly enjoyable films for me as Short Cuts, Three Women, The Player and Gosford Park.  First rate originals all.  As a youngster, I admit detesting MASH (so I was one in a hundred) and something odd called The Long Goodbye.In the past year, having always been a big fan of film noir, I finally picked-up Raymond Chandler. WOW!  After reading the terrific Little Sister I was stunned to learn that it had been filmed as Marlowe, a truly lousy 1969 film with James Garner in the lead.  Playback, Chandler's last, remains to be filmed.  The High Window was turned into two minor films decades ago. Two novels were made into major hits, but having seen the top-notch films, I have not read The Big Sleep or Farewell My Lovely, which became Murder My Sweet.Last week I finished The Long Goodbye --- sensational (have you read it?).  I cheated by reading the IMDB review before eagerly turning to the movie, realizing the story was spun into a then contemporary 1973 variation, with plot elements altered.  OK, acceptable in theory.But what were they thinking?  Visualizing the 1954 novel, I thought Robert Mitchum/Grace Kelly/William Holden/ Kirk Douglas/Burl Ives as the leads, and here we get Elliott Gould/Nina VanP/Sterling Hayden/baseball's Jim Bouton/Henry Gibson!?  Yikes.  Totally eliminated from the film were The Lorings (picture Gene Tierney/Clifton Webb reunited), among others. My major complaint --- to me the novel's theme was loyalty, blind loyalty perhaps, and Altman's ending destroys the essence of the book.  Terrible ending don't you think, wrong killer, wrong fate.  "},{"Title":"one of those four letter words...","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why not do A Farewell to Arms as a pornographic comedy? It would be a new approach, right? Or a hip-hop version of As Time Goes By.The truly outrageous fact is that as most of the comments on this page reflect, Mr Altman has tried to portray how out of date the values of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe would have been in 1973. No problem, he just missed the whole point of the Chandler-Marlowe prose and ended up exposing himself as a shallow fool instead. Every creator who actually admits that he didn't even bother to properly familiarize himself with the classic material that he tried to interpret would be better off creating a trash can stairways to the moon. The true values of Marlowe, that he concealed under a hard boiled shell, were just as much out of date in the 1930-s and 50-s as they were in the 1970-s. They were actually the chivalric values of a knight in shining armor, a crusader. By the way I'm fairly certain that the knights would have found him out of date too. Injustice and corruption were not invented on the 20th century. Philip Marlowe was a dream that Chandler had, a dream of an ethical man who could go down the mean streets (which were actually considerably meaner in his time than in Altman's)without losing himself on the way. I hear voices crying in the night and I go to see what's the matter. You don't make a dime that way... no percentage in it at all. As Chandler himself stated in his essay The Simple Art of Murder, his detective would be a good enough man for any world. The Long Goodbye was Chandler's ultimate masterpiece, a brilliant study of friendship, loyalty and betrayal with a sideline of the most realistic and intriguing descriptions of alcoholism ever printed.Altman's version of The Long Goodbye is worth less than the celluloid that it's filmed on. The man could have at least had the decency to alter the name of the main character or better yet, leave Chandler out of it altogether. After all it was a totally different story. The movie might even have turned out to be a good one, but then again it needed Chandler's name to be marketed.  "},{"Title":"Out of Character.","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't very impressed with `The Long Goodbye'.  Elliot Gould was okay in the role of Philip Marlowe.  The movie was very uneven and I guess I have trouble with the portrayal since I am very familiar with the character from reading the books.  The Marlowe from the books would not act as Gould acted in the movie.  Gould portrayed some slovenly, chain smoking goof that was a caricature of the literary character.  The literary Marlowe had a well defined sense of morality, maybe somewhat hard-edged, but still very strong.  He was also a thoughtful person who played through master chess games in his spare time.  Gould's Marlowe could barely open a can of cat food and muttered to himself throughout the movie.   The ending was very out of character for the literary Marlowe and also for the character as portrayed in the movie.  The editing was sloppy.  I had to actually reverse the DVD I was watching in order to be sure that a scene transition was not a skip caused by a scratch.   A very definite SPOILER warning.  Marlowe would not go dancing down the road after shooting someone and I doubt he would shoot someone like that in cold blood.  It was a disappointing ending.  SPOILER defunct.The supporting cast was good and the story was decent until the end. "},{"Title":"It stinks!","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" That's right, stinks. It makes Heaven's Gate smell like roses. I hold Raymond Chandler in high esteem as an author, and The Long Goodbye is arguably his masterpiece --a heartbreaking tale of loss and loneliness. Altman's smirking revisionism was not appreciated by me. Unctuous, weaselly Eliott Gould as Marlowe? Give me a break! If Altman and company wanted to do a seventies take on noir crime sagas, they should have created an original character, as Towne did in Chinatown. To play fast and loose with the source material, especially such esteemed literary source material, is inexcusable. Leigh Brackett should have known better and been ashamed of herself. Instead she and Altman chose to mock and sully an artistic achievement the likes of which they could only aspire to in their best work. Chandler deserved better. "},{"Title":"another masterpiece by Altman 9/10","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As private dick Philip Marlowe, Elliott Gould gives one of his most charismatic performances.  The film is really intersting; it's a mystery, but it doesn't want to be one.  There really isn't a case to be solved -- more of a score to be settled.  Each scene brought a new direction to the film -- and by the end of the film I couldn't believe where it went. Great ending by the way.Classic Altman film that stands as one of his strongest pieces of work. "},{"Title":"Typical pretentious Altman pseudo hip popcorn","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like most, or maybe all, of Robert Altman's films this one tries hard for casual hipness that with time really defines Hollywood Square. This movie seems so hermetically sealed up in coy attitudes & kool moods & stylish settings while flaunting Altman's usual nasty misogyny (this time a coke bottle smashed in a woman's face - nice touch), it's an embarrassment (especially for a Coca Cola & Raymond Chandler fan). "},{"Title":"Altman & Gould Outlast Critics In This Unforgettable Film","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Raymond Chandler's Detective Philip Marlowe Fell Asleep and is Awakened 20 Years Later in the Now Smogged Hazed Los Angeles and Seems OK With It Although He is Undoubtedly Dazed and Confused.That's the Premise and You Are Asked to Give In to That Premise in No Uncertain Terms and Go With the Flow. Marlowe Sure Does. He Stumbles and Mumbles Barely Trying to Regain His Sense of Place and Time. He Still Smokes Continuously and Retains His Sense of Cynical Humor About the Amoral People that Still Populate the City of Angels.A Conglomerate of Artistic Displays are On Hand in Altmanesque Fashion. The Peppering Overlapping Dialog, a Fluid and Attentive Constantly Moving Camera, and a Remarkable Ensemble Supporting Cast. Henry Gibson, Sterling Hayden, Director Mark Rydell, Nina Van Pallandt, and Baseball Pitcher Jim Bouton All Stamp the Film with Indelible Characters.The Film is an Homage to Hollywood and Chandler. Altman Takes a Bite Out of Tinseltown but is Kinder to Marlowe, Chandler, and Film-Noir. The Director is at His Most Playful Here and Most of it Works Despite Loud and Angry Outbursts From Purists and Traditionalists.It's Odd, Offbeat, and Obscure, Against the Grain of the Seventies Neo-Noir Realism and was Dismissed and Booed Upon its Initial Release. Others Saw a True and Singular Filmmaking Artist at Work and the Movie has Gained Elevated Status Over the Years and Has Become More than a Cult Movie or Curiosity. Elliott Gould as Marlowe and Altman have Weathered the Controversy, and the Film Emerges as a Seventies Highlight. "},{"Title":"An unpolished gem from the Auteur era","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye is a strange bird of a film. It's easy to access and enjoy, but it's difficult to really like. The film has a lot of great characters, witty dialog and impressive scenes, but the overall pacing and the anti-climactic climax may put a lot of people off.Nevertheless, The Long Goodbye is an important piece in the history of 70's cinema, and a major step in Robert Altman's career, which set the stage for his most important films. Altman made a gutsy and interesting choice by picking Raymond Chandler and Philip Marlowe, icons of the film noir genre, as a basis for a film that deconstructs the genre and constantly plays with the audience's expectations; Elliott Gould's Marlowe is not the classic private eye from The Big Sleep and the rest, just like Nina Van Pallandt's character toys with the femme fatale prototype but never goes there, and Mark Rydell's is anything but the fearless mob leader. Interestingly, Altman remains faithful to the storyline of Chandler's novel; but in a precursor to the rest of his films to come, the narrative takes the backseat to the characters and the bigger picture, to what Altman wants to say about the genre and about the setting as a whole.Altman plays around a lot with the audience's expectations, but he doesn't quite manage to wow them; it makes for an interesting twist on the genre and characters but by the end of the film it doesn't really make that much of an impression. But interestingly, it's still enjoyable - mainly thanks to the fascinating characters. Sterling Hayden in particular steals every scene he's in, and makes for a character who's enigmatic, intriguing, irritating and lovable all at once. The rest of the cast is terrific too, and with exquisite cinematography, editing and music the result is a film that goes down smoothly even if you don't stop to think about it too much. Altman will do greater things later on but The Long Goodbye remains a respectable title on the list of great 70's American films. "}{"Title":"An Unlikely Success","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I probably can't think of two genres less suited to each other than Altman's laid-back auteur era verite, and Chandler's highly stylized noir narratives. As such, I was pleasantly surprised by A Long Goodbye, which successfully updated the genre without attempting to imitate it. If wise-cracking Humphrey Bogart in black and white was the Philipe Marlow of 1940's Hollywood, there is a strange logic in a rumpled, mumbling, chain-smoking Elliot Gould taking on the mantle in 1973. Wheres in the 30's and 40's Los Angeles was all about stark shadows and mysterious damsels made up in Max Factor's finest, the 70's aesthetic was embodied by sunshine, femmes au natural, and the general chaos of an era and city that was still holding onto the past, and at the same time moving fast into the uncertain future. Although I was initially dubious about it, I'm so glad that Altman didn't do a period piece with this story. By translating the characters and sceneries to the present time, he has indelibly shown that Raymond Chadler's vision of Los Angeles transcends era or epoch. In fact, it may just be THE definitive portrayal of the City of Angels. "},{"Title":"Two and a half cheers &#151; not the full three . . .","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, I've just seen the DVD &#151; I bought it on eBay after watching McCabe & Mrs Miller and being a longstanding fan of Nashville &#151; and I read several reviews here, but I can't quite join the parade. In the Seventies, I imagine, this was something else &#151; all of one with the revisionist iconographic spirit of the age, and thus a surefire winner. (We were all hip then). More than 20 years on, it is still far more entertaining than many another 'great film from the Seventies' &#151; and I know you her it coming &#151; but . . . You see style over substance is not usually associated with the Seventies in that the Seventies as a matter of course chose to make up in excess what it lacked in style. But there is actually rather less to Altman's The Long Goodbye than meets the eye. Outstanding are Mark Rydell as Marti Augustine and the song The Long Goodbye in its many incarnations (great idea that). Less enthralling for this viewer was Gould's endless hip mumbling. I got pretty sick of it pretty fast, but there was no let-up. I was also rather less enthralled by the lack of a plot. Or rather a plot which was n't really there and when it did take shape dissolved far too quickly in your mouth rather as candy-floss does (or as you say in the US 'cotton candy'). Now there's a complaint we watch a film by a director renown for his style yet complain that there is too much style at the expense of meat. Well, I. I'm sorry but I do. Too many loose ends. Too much taking the viewer for granted. And that rather dates the film. Now this is 2006 and perhaps in 2026 this film will be re-evaluated and my comments might seem carping. It all depends on what film you want and how you want your films. As I say, two and a half cheers. Looks good, holds your interest, but then, like cotton candy &#151; sorry... "},{"Title":"Meandering plot, awkward directing and casting","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Probably the worst movie I've seen in a while on a number of fronts--camera work, casting, acting, scenery, etc--even with an earnest effort to give this movie a chance I hated it.The camera never stops moving; it is constantly drifting, panning, wavering, and zooming in a manner that is highly distracting and contributes nothing to the scenes. Much of the time the camera is located outside a window looking in, or at a great distance, giving the scenes a voyeuristic feel which makes it difficult to feel as though we are actually immersed in the story. The sound of the movie is also a bit distracting, as even when the audience perspective is located at a distance the scene comes out just as clear as when we are close. The actors often mumble their lines in a way which may be intended as realistic, but I don't think anyone speaks in such an aimless manner in real life. There are tons of elements that appear over and over but aren't connected to the plot and end up wasting time. From the security guard who does impersonations to the dog that constantly barks, half the time spent watching this movie is waiting for these things to either go away or prove to have some significance. The topless neighbors are especially pointless and seem to be a fairly cheap additive. I suspect all the pointless scenes are an attempt to make up for the lack of plot and fill up time. The scenes that Altman attempts to make mysterious often just seem out of place or convoluted. None of the characters are particularly sympathetic, especially since the detective's one liners aren't even close to being funny. By the time of the supposed twist ending I was so bored I couldn't be shocked, and it only provided proof that nothing was accomplished by what we just watched. Elliot Gould seems an odd choice for the detective role and he acted throughout the movie as if he was as bored as I was, at times barely muttering his lines. The gangster character was probably the most annoying character I have seen in a movie this year; he rants on and on, essentially telling everyone his life story where a couple sentences would be perfectly adequate. His attack on his girlfriend was totally out of place and didn't mark him so much as a lose cannon so much as it just seemed like sloppy story writing. It made me angry to see, yet it contributed NOTHING to the progression of the story. One could argue that Altman attempted to a naturalistic style, as most things in real life don't all come together into one neat storyline, but he truly managed to show things that just weren't worth filming. Because so many events were out of place and without any clear motivation, instead of seeming realistic it seems aimless and meandering. I'm not sure what compelled me to even finish it. "},{"Title":"Hands down my favorite movie of all-time","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is like nothing you've ever seen. Robert Altman was at his creative piece when he made this masterwork. Elliot Gould is brilliant as the mumbling, idiosyncratic detective Philip Marlowe. He seems to glide through the story, unaffected and indifferent to the machinations around him. He keeps a running, wry commentary going throughout the movie, punctuated with his catch-phrase It's all right by me. Whether it's being roughed up by thugs, or being sent on a brownie run by the stoned (and topless) yoga girls next door, Marlowe seems to take it all in stride. It's only in the final scene that we get a true glimpse into his soul.The collaboration of Leigh Brackett's brilliant screenplay with Altman's improvisation style works to perfection. This was Brackett's second to last feature script. Her final script was the first draft of The Empire Strikes Back, which this site has ranked as one of the greatest movies of all time, so you get an idea of her talent (One of her first scripts, nearly 30 years earlier, was The Big Sleep).The movie has several brilliant touches and scenes that will surprise and delight the viewer throughout. The movie's theme song is entwined throughout the movie, whether as a doorbell chime, or in the Muzak at the grocery store. Gov. Arnold Schwartzenegger makes an early California appearance (as a goon). The movie opens with a five minute scene of Marlowe trying to feed his cat. Honest to god.Definitely track this movie down if you can find it. Watch the first scene. You'll know instantly whether or not this is your cup of tea. By the time the cat disappeared out his cat door, I knew I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"HELP! Would like plot's scheme explained!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.OK, I can't figure out the Terry-Eileen scheme. (I've read other  Chandler novels but not The Long Goodbye. Apparently the movie doesn't follow the book anyway.) Why do Terry and Eileen need Marlowe to find hubby at the Doc's place? They don't know hubby will kill himself and can then get the murder pinned on him. Anyway, why would they need to pin it on him when Terry has supposedly suicided anyway. Why did they need to hang onto the money in the first place and then finally return it? I get that Terry screwed Marlowe over, but I don't get what advantage they got out of having Eileen call him in. "},{"Title":"A true misfire on a legendary character and a ground breaking style of cinema.","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For some reason, there are a lot of old Hollywood references in The Long Goodbye, an updated view of the old private detective film noir genre with none other than Elliot Gould cast in the role of Raymond Chandler's P.I. Philip Marlowe. The opening scene has an extended sequence of Gould dealing with his hungry cat's quest for a certain brand of cat food, picking up brownie mix for the pothead women next door and finally taking an old pal to Tijuana. All this in the middle of the night. If the lack of sleep is going to be his excuse for the stupid dialog he is forced to recite for the next two hours, then he has my forgiveness.But when he finds himself in jail for questioning in regards to his pal's alleged murder of his wife, then after three days ends up searching for the aging writer husband (Sterling Hayden) of the film's femme fatal (Nina Van Pallandt) whom he locates in a wacky mental institution run by none other than Henry Gibson. That is certainly no Laugh-Inn that Hayden is stuck in, and for the rest of the film, every type of red herring character comes on, including mobsters who make everybody in a room take off their clothes for no apparent reason other than to stress naked truth. Among those in the room is the future Governator himself, Arnold Schwartznegger, who fortunately has no lines to recite so he has more time to flex. Somehow, all this is tied to the murder of the pal's wife, and the suicide/confession found by him in Mexico which has allegedly closed the case.Film Noir is probably my favorite genre in classic movies, so when Hollywood occasionally (to this day) turns them out, I am looking forward to the twists and turns they take, and don't always expect reality. I love the hard, sometimes silly dialog and the femme fatals and the red herrings and certainly the dark photography and twists and turns of whatever city they happen to be in. But in the case of The Long Goodbye, I couldn't buy any of it, even though it does feature some excellent camera work by the legendary Vilmos Zsigmond. It seemed that the screenplay was patchwork from the worst of the film noirs, and that the acting was as high as the neighbors next to where Gould lives. It is a sad statement to make that the cat who runs away got the best deal here. If the old Hollywood references were a love letter from director Robert Altman, it never resonates. The inclusion of Horray For Hollywood as the song over the opening credits also makes absolutely no sense. "},{"Title":"Altman spits on Marlowe's grave in neo-noir gem","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No review of Robert Altman's interpretation of Raymond Chandler's The Long Goodbye can be made independently of the extent by which he has re-interpreted not only the novel but also the very essence of its main character.This dilemma has long posed problems for film reviewers. The film was issued at a time when Altman was flavour of the month but yet many critics/reviewers also happened to be Philip Marlowe fans and so a definite dilemma was posed.I am a Marlowe fan in fact I consider The Long Goodbye to be by far the best of the series. Yet while I am an admirer of Altman's attempt of re-interpretation I am saddened at his total distortion of the Marlowe character.Philip Marlowe, particularly in his Goodbye variant always seemed to be at odds with the world of 1940's LA which he inhabitated.He was an almost hopelessly chivalrous character in that seedy world, who might have been better suited to the era of King Arthur. What Altman was saying, when he updated Marlowe to 70's LA was that because he was totally at odds with the city with its free love, hippies, and weird health nuts he eventually became so disorientated that he flipped and acted beyond all the moral code his creator had set for him. It was almost as if he had travelled in TV's Time Tunnel so at odds was he with his environment That whole premise just doesn't ring true for me and undoubtedly it would have been better for Altman to devise his own character for his revisionism of film noir. The key climactic moment which, in the book, so defines the Marlowe character, Altman and more specifically, scriptwriter Leigh Brackett,subvert to re-define their Marlowe. (And I also thought it interesting that Altman seemed to be subverting a key moment of The Third Man in his closing shot).If you ignore its source, as a film and as a character study it works quite well. The improvisational style, its views of LA, its use of non-actors, the sudden shocking violent scenes all contribute to fresh and modern re-workings of the private eye myth. As Marlowe Elliot Gould,at a time when he, was attempting to re-scale the heights of Altman's earlier MASH, is perfect as the fish-out-of-water shambolic private eye . He cares more for his cat than his free-love practising health-conscious (if that would not be considered a contradiction in terms in today's safe-sex environment)neighbours. He lacks the guile to outwit the cops use and his low-life contacts. He is almost apathetic about his career. Until he sees the light. Realises what a sap he's been.I envy all those viewers lucky enough not to have read a Philip Marlowe novel, let alone this movie's novel source as you can appreciate it on its own merits. But my Jekyll and Hyde conclusion on this modern-noir great movie, but it spits on Marlowe's grave. "},{"Title":"It's okay with me","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this movie for the first time a couple years ago, I can' help but be amazed by it. I remember reading Chandler's novel The Long Goodbye, and I never actually thought it could be put to film. The story was so convoluted ... philosophical, even. Also I couldn't fathom gangly actor Elliott Gould playing Philip Marlowe, a character whom I've always associated with the late-great Humphrey Bogart. In my mind, The Long Goodbye is the best film adaptation of any Raymond Chandler novel. The essence of Marlowe's character has been preserved in Gould's performance. I read that Robert Altman's intention was that Marlowe had been comatose for many, many years. I think that shows very clearly in the movie. Marlowe sort of stumbles around, mumbling to himself all throughout. Beyond what I'm sure is the popular consensus, Gould's Marlowe isn't stupid, and the end very clearly illustrates this. Sterling Hayden's performance as Roger Wade is possibly brilliant. I couldn't imagine anyone else in that role. It's obvious that much of this movie was improvised, and Hayden adds so much depth to his character through impromptu, incomprehensible speeches. When we see him marching into the ocean, there's an almost harrowing quality to it. Last but certainly not least, Leigh Brackett's script was absolutely flawless. This lady has given us so much, and I'd hate to see her forgotten in the annals of filmmaking and crime/sci-fi fiction history. In my mind, her next best work was on the script from Rio Bravo ... another perfect work from a master storyteller. Lest we forget that she also wrote a draft of The Big Sleep, the film that everyone remembers as one of Bogart's finest moments. I loved the soundtrack, too. Pity it can't be found anywhere. Johnny Mercer's vocals to the theme song could never be replicated. But I believe it's Elliott Gould that's the brightest star in this movie. He's everything that I used to believe Phillip Marlowe was not. But it works in a way that I really don't know how to explain. His recurring line It's okay with me typifies Marlowe's personality to the letter. Perhaps the reason this film never reached the critical and box-office acclaim that it deserved is because of ... well, people like me. Gould isn't Bogart, so why bother? And you know what? The entire movie is predicated on Gould being the anti-Bogart, if you will. If James Garner or Steve McQueen were cast, no one would remember this movie. I've found a respect for Gould that I never had before. After this, I wanted to see more of his earlier work. While everyone remembers M*A*S*H, what about Little Murders? It comes on the Fox Movie Channel every once in a while, and it's certainly worthy of note. I wasn't alive when Long Goodbye was made, and it makes me nostalgic for the better, more creative days of Hollywood. Few really memorable movies are made today. Many of them are good, but ultimately forgettable. I wish I could have had that feeling of watching The Long Goodbye on the big screen. Doubtless I'd have been even more smitten than I am now. I suggest that you watch this movie along side Five Easy Pieces with Jack Nicholson and Karen Black. Five Easy Pieces is another film that sort of lingers in the shadows. Not forgotten, but not really appreciated either.  "},{"Title":"The Wrong Goodbye","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movies got around to adapting Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novels fairly early. The first in the series, The Big Sleep, was published in 1939 followed fairly quickly by Farewell, My Lovely, The High Window and The Lady In The Lake and by 1947 all four had been filmed - twice each in the case of the latter two. By common consensus George Montgomery was the worst Marlowe and the film in which he took the role, The High Window the worst adaptation. That held good until Robert Altman decided he was qualified to reinvent Chandler and Boy! did he get a wrong number. I can't name one single aspect that says 'Chandler' in this piece of crap. Elliot Gould resembles Chandler's Philip Marlowe a tad less than Tom Cruise resembles Shakespeare's King Lear. Not that this is necessarily Gould's fault. Presumably he played the role as directed just as equally presumably Leigh Brackett - who had, of course, co-written the screenplay for the Bogie/Hawks version of The Big Sleep - wrote this Marlowe as instructed by Altman. I don't object to any director for whatever reason making a travesty of an accepted genre but I do object when a director acquires the rights of a well-known, well-loved novel and throws out virtually everything that made it great in the first place. Why not simply write and/or commission an Original Screenplay and have done with it. This Marlowe is phony from shot #1. Clearly inspired by Paul Newman's Harper, who was shown as a slob from the off, this Marlowe is portrayed hungover, chain-smoking and living in something one level up from a rat hole. Chandler's Marlowe on the other hand always maintained a tidy apartment and cooked real meals. It's a small point I agree but, as John O'Hara once said if you get the small things right you'll get the big things right. The very first line of the novel reads The first time I saw Terry Lennox he was drunk in a Rolls Royce outside the Players restaurant. From this Chandler explores the growing friendship between the two men. Here, Lennox turns up at Marlowe's apartment out of the blue about two reels in, displaying nothing of the breeding and raffish charm that made Marlowe invest time in him. The link between Lennox and the Wades is clumsy and inept here where it was subtle in the novel. Lennox' military past in which he was one of three men on a wartime mission is omitted and a gangster who wasn't in the book is substituted for the two that were. Neither is there any mention of Lennox' father-in-law, Harlan Potter, to say nothing of his other daughter who Marlowe would actually marry in a later novel. The final insult is, of course, to have Marlowe, conceived and written as a modern day knight, doing his best to right the world's wrongs, kill Lennox in cold blood. The sooner this is turned into banjo pics the better. "},{"Title":"This is the kind of movie that made the 70's special","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Director Robert Altman was at his all time best here, directing the then hot Elliot Gould. Small-time Private Eye, Marlowe, tracks down a missing persons case in modern day Los Angeles. Altman's revisionist take on the old Raymond Chandler mysteries is both funny and very well done. Lots of cameos, and excellent music score. Altman followed this with the excellent California Split (with Gould again) and the dream-like 3 Women.  "}{"Title":"Subverting a Genre","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" During a documentary extra on the DVD version of The Long Goodbye, director Robert Altman says they called Elliott Gould's version of Phillip Marlowe Rip Van Marlowe because it's like the iconic 1940's detective character fell asleep for 30 years and awoke in the 1970s.True to form, the opening scene shows Marlowe being jolted out of a deep sleep. Gould plays Marlowe like he has stumbled out of hibernation and is completely baffled by everything going on around him. He does, however, take it with a 70's stoned indifference.The film opens with interconnecting scenes between Phillip Marlowe and Terry Lennox (Jim Bouton). The soundtrack plays the same song through both scenes, but in completely different styles. Over Marlowe's scenes the music is soft and jazz like, while when Lennox is on screen it becomes more edgy, more rock influenced. It is a brilliant way to introduce characters and give us a sense of who they are.This is not Howard Hawk's Raymond Chandler. Gone are the dark shadows, and production code of film noir. The sex and violence is no longer hidden under innuendo and suggestion. Here Marlowe's neighbors are drug ingesting nudists. This is Altman's subversion of a genre.This is definitely a Robert Altman picture. There are plenty of trademark long shots, and overlapping dialogue. He is less interested in the Chandler story, than in a sense of style and the juxtaposition of classically moral 1930's detective in the amoral times of the swinging 1970s.The story loosely follows Raymond Chandler's novel. Marlowe drives his friend, Lennox, to the Tijuana border only to return home to an apartment full of cops ready to arrest him for aiding and abetting Lennox, who is suspected of murdering his wife. Meanwhile Eileen Wade (Nina Van Pallandt) hires Marlowe to find her alcoholic husband who has disappeared. Between the cops and the missing husband Marlowe is accosted by local gangsters who want the money Lennox owes them. The three stories meet and interconnect in an ending that is vastly different from the novel.There is a wonderful scene after the cops arrest Marlowe and are interrogating him. It begins as the standard interrogation scene with Marlowe in a small room being slapped around by tough cops, while others watch through a two way mirror. Altman invigorates the scene by inter-cutting the two rooms together. While the camera is in the interrogation room, the two way mirror is always in sight. When the scene moves into the outer room, we see through the mirror and can hear the Marlowe conversation as it overlaps with what the watching cops are saying.Elliott Gould is brilliant as Phillip Marlowe. He seems completely amiss from his surroundings, oblivious to all the things going on all around him. He keeps the Chandler wisecracks going, but sends the tough guy gumshoe routine packing.Though not a film for noir or even Chandler purists, it is a brilliant piece of cinema. In subverting a genre Altman has created a new kind of detective drama. One that is humorous, thrilling and cinematic.Like this review? Go to www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com for more "},{"Title":"Looking for Morris the Cat's brand at the 24-hr Ralph's","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Failing to fool the selective (oddly familiar) cat Marlowe is trying tofeed) substituting a can from the food he does like filled with theunsatisfactory brand places our hero in the above describedunlikely setting. This is Altman's love note to the real loyal noir styledetective. The moving, out of place juxtaposition of everythingabout Gould's Marlowe is difficult to appreciate at first glimpse. Ifound this a film worthy of repeated viewings. This Philip Marlowein the 1974 L.A. is like Lenny Bruce trying to make a 1966 hippiechick. I believe the (essence of the) quote was, I just can't get inthe right mood if they aren't wearing a bra for me to unhitch. Givethis one a chance. "},{"Title":"A really poor-quality film","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm actually in a little bit of shock as to how bad this movie was. It's stunning to me that - supposedly capable - people could make such a turkey.The casting of just about every roll was simply awful. Elliot Gould has no more Philop Marlowe in him than does Don Knotts. It's just a WRONG mix. As was Sterling Hayden, who was downright painful to watch. And none of the other characters ever came to life being portrayed by whatever character actor they were either.And then there was the (usually topless) young, hip, uninhibited girls who Marlowe had for neighbors. They added absolutely ZERO to the plot, but were mere eye candy to show how really cool the new Marlowe was.And Marlowe always attempted to be cool, no matter what the situation. A totally insane young mobster is seconds away from having one of his henchmen amputate Marlowe's penis with a table knife? No problem, Marlowe can keep cracking not very funny wisecracks up until the last possible moment, when he's inexplicably rescued from his fate by a divine benefactor.And in the end, after Marlowe has summarily executed his former friend in some obscure little Mexican town, what does he do? Well, he dances a little jig in town to celebrate.Every detail of this movie screams that it was a slapdash effort of cobbled together (inappropriate) actors, poorly executed screen writing, and unconcerned direction. Nobody gave a damn about this film and it shows.Just really bad... "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Movie in unexpected ways","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  People think of Film Noir and Raymond Chandler together, but make no mistake, Altman's The Long Goodbye is NOT Film Noir.  You can't really do Film Noir in color, because the genre is all about things (places, people, loyalties, good & evil) being divided up by hard shadows, and color film has no real hard shadows because the color dyes are transparent.But where Chandler's Marlowe was the last good man in a corrupt world, Altman's Marlowe is the last sane man in an insane world.  That is the translation from the 1940's to the 1970's.  And instead of shadows dividing good from evil, Altman has made a film full of sliding, dissolving images and harsh white burn-outs, dissolving the line between sanity and insanity. Instead of Film Noir, it's Film Blanche.  The height of this is Sterling Hayden's death scene, which we see through a succession of POV shots and reflections in plate glass doors, until we can't tell for sure what we are seeing, or whose POV it is anymore.Altman once told me that he shot this movie using a counter-moving camera. He explained that every time the action was just about to show you something you really wanted to know, the camera turned away.The movie is delightfully wacky and anarchic.  Mark Rydell's performance as the gangster, shocking in its day, probably doesn't have quite the punch it once did because it's been imitated so much.But overall, this film is a broad and scathing comment on the state of society, and goes a good deal deeper than anything Chandler ever did. Truly not to be missed. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE ALL TIME GREATS!!!!! A cool and slick depiction of a colorful world with a Rebellious Elliott Gould as 1940's Phillip Marlowe in 1970's Los Angeles. My Favorite Film","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A thrilling and offbeat adaption of Raymond Chandler's 1954 NovelThe Long GoodbyeElliott Gould is amazing. His rebellious interpretation of Raymond Chandler's Phillip Marlowe character is brilliant, charismatic and compelling. I absolutely loved the characters in this movie SO MANY OF THEM.  Marlowe's lovely,Hippie neighbors, The Big haired Cashier and Black Stockboy at the Supermarket,Ken Sansom as the Colony guard who liked to do impressions for the visitors was CLASSIC. I am shocked we have not heard more from this man over the years.Mark Rydell was INSANE as the villainous Marty Augustine, The late and lamented David Arkin as Augustine's flunky, David Carradine in a nice cameo as a jailed pothead, Arnold Schwarzenegger as one of Augustine's Hoods, Yankees pitcher Jim Bouton as the scheming Terry Lennox, Henry Gibson as a controlling Quack Nina Van Pallandt is the femme fatale, and last but not least Sterling Hayden as the alcoholic, anachronistic Roger Wade.What made this movie for me were the relationships and contact between Elliott Gould as he passed through what seemed to be an endless parade of unusual people. Each with their own unique take on reality and all of them get along fine with Phillip Marlowe even the villians. The most striking of all of these relationships was with Roger Wadewho resembled an aging Sea Captain more than a writer.The chemistry here is between 2 men from a more civilized time, that has long since passed.  They are 2 Anachronisms sharing a drink and stories as the sea gently washes the beach and time awayRoger Wade - Marlboro what are you drinking?  I'm having AqavitMarlowe- I'm drinkin what you're drinkingRoger Wade - Well God Bless ya, I'm tired of people saying (contortsface) I want THIS or I want THATMarlowe- It's OK with meThe most compelling thing about The Long Goodbye is how they bridged the scenes with music. Diagetic music I believe this is called. The story flows with the music. The opening scene alone has 4 or 5 different versions of John Williams score. For example, A piano is played while a cat wakes Marlowe up, Then a jazzy version is played when Terry Lennox exits the Colony, Marlowe goes outside his apartment and a different version plays as his Hippie neighbors greet him, As he gets in his car, another version plays, when he gets to the supermarket the song is a MUZAK version over the PA system. BRILLIANT!!!!!! The whole soundtrack, which by the way is unreleased, is the same song, just different arrangements and performances by different artists.  It is a crime that this soundtrack is not released. It is a shame that this great movie is not more widely knownThis movie is my favorite, I give it my highest possible recommendationLets get John Williams to release this score!!!!!!!!!Tell your friends, get this ball rolling I want this film to be a cult film.  This film is too good to be buried in someone's collection. It should be up there in the Pantheon of the great films of the 70's like the Godfather, The Conversation, Annie Hall, The French Connection.....Phillip Marlowe - It's OK with me "},{"Title":"if you don't like this movie (or just kinda like it), then you don't get it!!!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this is one of those movies, either you get it or you don't. to watch it one time isn't enough. this movie takes a great many number of times to really get the jist of what is going on. not only that but the direction is so intense and spontaneous that certain shots will fly by without you noticing them, or care to notice them. every shot in the movie means something, whether it be a closeup on some trophy ducks on a famous writer's wall, a maid sweeping outside of a beach house, or a certain nod of the head Sterling Hayden's character gives to his wife. Hayden is my favorite character. there is one scene where he and Elliot Gould are talking, having a drink together on Hayden's patio facing the beach. i can't go into describing this scene without you having viewed the movie a couple of times. there is something so amazing between the discourse, esp. when Hayden refers to Gould as a Ding-a-ling, adding You don't always mean what you say. and this is how Gould's character survives thru the movie, sort of roaming, floating his way from lead to lead. in my reviews i write them as if the person reading has seen the movie, i write fiction, not reviews, so i will not mention any plot 'cept that Gould is basically trying to prove that his buddy, who is blamed for killing his wife and stealing from a local mobster, is innocent. that's an important part of the movie, that Gould assumes from the beginning that everyone is guilty except for his friend. we only see his friend in the beginning of the movie... well, that's all i'll say about that. but you can see from the acting in the one scene that they are both very close. and, well, Gould is pretty doomed from the start since he has such a set opinion on what the outcome of the case will be - that is friend is innocent, or rather, that he isn't guilty. there are some great performances, of course by Gould - this is the best role for him ever, even better than M*A*S*H, also Henry Gibson is great, the main girl, a beautiful blonde - can't get her name in my head right now - is very mysterious but subtly so, Mark Rydell as the gangster is surprisingly effective (he's short and kinda wimpish looking but oh man does he deliver one of the most brutal hood scenes ever), and keep your eye out for two cameos, one from David Carradine who plays a rambling drunk in Gould's jail cell, and (gov.) Arnold the Terminator (i cant spell that last name for the life of me) as one of Rydell's hoods. this is a great movie and i watch it twice a week sometimes, and is my favorite movie of all time, is directed incredibly, should be in the top 100 of all time, and each time you'll see something new. there is a whole lot within this picture, and anyone who just sees the outside of it, like Gould's character does - as he should, he's a gumshoe - than it's time to watch it again; and again and again... "},{"Title":"Altman's masterpiece","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Altman was accused of bastardizing Chandler's best novel, but I think he actually captures more about Chandler and Philip Marlowe than anyone else did before. Hawks made a masterpiece with THE BIG SLEEP, THE LADY IN THE LAKE is interesting if highly flawed, and MURDER MY SWEET is a great film, but THE LONG GOODBYE is absolutely perfect. I've seen this film a half dozen times, and enjoyed it more with each viewing. I think about it on a daily basis (how many films can you say that about?).The always-underrated Elliot Gould is the perfect Marlowe, lazier and ostensibly more apathetic than Bogie, he's the quintessential Southern Californian, only he's got bodies piling up and a cat to feed all at the same time.Fans of Tarantino should see this film, as they'll see many of their hero's tricks pulled from Altman. There's nothing wrong with that of course, I love PULP FICTION, but after seeing THE LONG GOODBYE fans might no longer think that PULP was as groundbreaking as they might believe it to be.Gould gives his best performance as Marlowe, and Altman proclaims the death of film noir and detective films (if you've got any question about that, see the THIRD MAN-esque ending which kicks into the strains of Hooray for Hollywood). Altman knew an era of filmmaking was over, and this is his valentine to that era, but it's a valentine that also serves as a eulogy. But it's beautiful. Oh, so beautiful. "},{"Title":"I even lost my cat.","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Long Goodbye (1973), Robert Altman's deconstruction of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe by placing him in a strange, bizarre environment, LA of the seventies, is an excellent film, probably the best that I've seen from Altman. As an adaptation of the source novel, it of course fails, as it intends to, for as ever with this director, character takes precedence over plot. While on paper, apart from the updated setting, it might sound fairly faithful, the elimination of characters, the reducing in importance of others, and the final inversion of the novel's original climax serves to underline that the now much reduced, actually quite straightforward plotting is really only there so Altman can explore this man Marlowe. Aided by a superb Elliot Gould in his best performance, he gets under the skin of him, the mess of contradictions that define him and his resolute refusal to change with the times, leading him ultimately to failure (it's hard to see the finale as a triumph for him). His other time characterisation results him in being the only moral person in the film, Altman using Marlowe's utter disbelief at what the world has become to also transform into a critical commentary of America during this time period, a world populated by Terry Lennoxes and Marty Augustines (Mark Rydell whose shocking That's someone I love. You, I don't even like. scene is the most powerful in the picture).Vilmos Zsigmond's unique cinematographic appearance, all diffuse, soft lighting, that looks blown out is incredible and gives it a haze of the past, as if it were Marlowe's sleepy, laidback It's okay with me view of life that we're seeing. Yet it would be wrong to deny that it's a perfect film; the friendship with Lennox that the film pivots is never established very convincingly. It's hard to see this Marlowe liking the sleazy Californian charm of Terry Lennox (Jim Boulton) here, and Nina Van Pallandt, while not as bad as I feared, doesn't stand up to roaring Sterling Hayden as the alcoholic writer Roger Wade or Gould himself. Still, these unbalances don't sabotage the film, and while I'm far from an Altman fan, this is certainly one of the essential American films from the seventies, a decade full of them. "},{"Title":"Too long ....and  too cute for it's own good ......","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For Elliott Gould fans, The Long Goodbye is a must see. His quirky performance is quite good. Unfortunately the murder mystery that private eye Gould is pursuing is rather bloated and somewhat confusing. Too many long takes grind the film to a halt. For example, the endless death by drowning of Sterling Hayden. The amusing beginning scene between Gould and his cat could have easily been trimmed. The movie is a conglomeration of mostly boorish characters that at the time might have seemed quirky. While Elliott Gould's character is wise cracking and disarming suspects, you will be wishing that the story would move along, which it does not. Other than Elliott Gould's performance, the film is vastly overrated. - MERK "},{"Title":"I wanted to give 6.5 actually","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The long goodbye is supposed to be one of the best works of classic mystery writer Raymond Chandler. The feel of the movie was supposed to be if not better but at par with Chinatown or the likes. The novel has so many great stylish, witty dialogs but the movie almost falls flat on the face. One of the major problems with the plot adaptation is that relationship between Marlowe and Terry is not developed at all except for one single scene when Terry shows up at Marlowe's house. Marlowe is talking about Terry every now and then but it is never shown in the movie that how they became such good friends. Something like this happened in another classic Third Man but their the character is developed like that, that at the end you can accept that OK this guy can do so much for his near and dear ones. In this movie however instead developing character in that fashion, we see a long sequence where Marlowe is trying to feed his cat. Whosoever cameup with that idea should know that this is not the way to film a classic. The casting is also stale, does not have that kind of energy. All in all the more I compare the book and the movie, the worse I feel. So that's about it.. "}{"Title":"And it happens every day.","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Who is Marlowe? Marlowe is down to earth in a crazy world - his reaction to what goes on opposite his apartment and in the jail cell with David Caradine show that.Marlowe cares - his search for cat food and his search for Terry Lennox after the 'story' has ended, show that.Marlowe is pure steel under all that clowning and loose walk - the ending shows that.But the sound of the doorbell at the Wade's house is the sweetest sound.Accept this film for the rapier it is; leave all conceptions of what detective stories should be like, behind. Sit back and enjoy. It is a hugely memorable film. "},{"Title":"The Simple Art of Storytelling","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Recommended. As was famously expounded by Steven Marcus, the hard-boiled detective story is basically a morality tale. In a world robbed of all formal honor, the lone PI must mete out justice as best (s)he can. Robert Altman's take on this twice-told-tale is unique, as always, and mostly successful. The rumpled world of Elliot Gould's Phillip Marlowe, is not the one of Bogart, Powell, or even Mitchem and reeks of 70's ambiguity. Overlapping dialogue, with accentuated background sounds -- Altman's signature -- contributes a distracting, edgy jabber. Sterling Hayden, in a splendidly incoherent take on Hemingway, further muddies the water. The final scene nicely quotes The Third Man, the best movie ever on the morality of friendship. My main quarrel, a serious one, is the ending, where Altman lost the scent. The art of murder may sometimes be baroque -- but the intent must be simple. "},{"Title":"a very good film, with music of the same quality","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is Altmans best film- I think and Elliott Gould's absolutebest performance.For the classic and fine detective story of Raymond Chandler; it has nothing to be ashamed for.The end of the film is as good as if Chandler could have wrote it. The photographer Vilmos Zsigmond is lifting the film to fascinating heights. The only trouble is that I can not find the music anywhere else-I mean on CD. Can anyone help me to find it ?? "},{"Title":"Best Noir of the 70s...","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The 70's are looked back upon with a fondness reserved for light-hearted, whimsical times. While there was certainly a smiley-face attribute to the era, there was also a great deal of social turmoil. Anti-war demonstrations, sexual awakening, revolutionary ideas, and the resultant delusion of an entire generation. During this period Elliott Gould's work personified and paralleled the social constructs of the times (Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice, M*A*S*H, Little Murders). In many ways his rumpled, sleepy-eyed portrayal could not have been more appropriate. In a recent interview with Film Monthly, Mr. Gould stated that it was director Robert Altman's insistence that Marlowe was the only character in the film with a conscience. In this single, clear realization lies the simplest and most effective of character motivation factors. How can a man of conscience not act when so much foul and corruption is happening all around him? And that is the essence of Gould's Marlowe in this updated version of Chandler's classic detective story.Altman had been enjoying the notoriety won from his growing fame as a maverick filmmaker. His work continues to reveal the flavor of the independent while offering new levels in terms of character and story, elevating his work to something I have best heard described as visual literature. His relationship with Gould would continue with M*A*S*H and California Split. Always the auteur, Altman is exceptional at his craft. "},{"Title":"Funny Crime/Noir","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie up until tonight. And after watching it I wonder, how it comes that I hadn't seen it yet? It's a wonderful crime noir thriller with your typical (smart-*ss) detective, played here by the wonderful Elliot Gould! At the beginning of the movie, you can't hardly hear him talking, he's too quiet. But that's Altman. Overlapping Dialogue is also Altman-esquire, so you better get used to that too, if you want to watch this movie.What I really like is that the movie doesn't take itself to seriously. It also knows the noir ingredients. Some crazy characters (if I'm not mistaken, even an uncredited appearance/cameo by Arnold Schwarzenegger) and even a Mc Guffin! Although you might find that the movie has a few plot holes (you could explain everything that happens), it is an enjoyable ride, if you're willing to take it. "},{"Title":"Spot on Gould","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gould was top notch in this update of Raymond Chandler's Long Goodbye.  He was perfect as a casual wise a** trying to find out what exactly happened to his friends.  The movie, while it has some seemingly random plotlines ties up nicely in the end.  Personally, I think that this is Altman's best film next to MASH. "},{"Title":"one of those movies that won't age","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although not an Altman fan at all, I was pleasantly surprised by seeing this movie. First of all, it did not look as if it was made decades ago at all; it could just have been made yesterday. Much of the credit must go to Gould, who really is astonishing, I never knew he could be this good. Finally I must say that the discussion whether this movie is a film noir or not, seems totally irrelevant. It is a really well made film which does not need to rely on genre cliche's, except for providing many references and comments upon the past Marlowes, Chandlers, Hawks and in general private eye movies of the film history.  "},{"Title":"Updated Marlowe ages perfectly.","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman's The Long Goodbye is one of the jewels in the crown that was the last Golden age of American film (67-77). With pantheon cinematographer Vilmos Zsigmonds breaking rules and Elliot Gould taking iconic fictional detective Philip Marlowe in another direction Goodbye is as original and audacious as any major production from its period blending past with present parodying a variety of subjects along the way while delivering an absorbingly tangled and multi layered plot involving corruption, murder, money, a missing cat and the state of 70s LA.At 3 AM Marlowe's cat wakes him up for some food. He has to out to an all night to get some but it's not the right brand and the cat walks. Shortly after close friend Terry Lennox ( Jim Boutin) shows up at his place in need of a lift to the Mexican border. This attracts the attention of opposite sides of the law and Marlowe gets a roughing up from both. In the meantime he works a case locating the volcanic tempered author Roger Wade (Sterling Hayden) a neighbor of Lennox's whose wife he may he may have been having an affair with.Goodbye literally flows from start to finish as Zsigmond's camera never takes a breather, incessantly zooming and moving through the three sharply drawn worlds of Malibu Colony, a Mexican backwater and the LA night with Marlowe as our confused guide living an outdated coda that disallows him from getting up to speed or from focusing long enough to fit all the pieces into to the puzzle and avert further tragedy. Altman's construction and presentation ripples with fresh originality as he imbues the film with copious amounts of irony, and ambiguity. With inspired casting, unique minor players and telling incidentals such as the versatile musical leitmotif weaving it's way through the film in a variety of styles Altman subtly disguises and misleads intent as the story builds.Gould's droll Marlowe is an anachronism right down to the antique Lincoln he tools around in. More confused than titillated by the topless hippies next door his antiquated principles regarding honor and friendship only hinder his investigation creating a dangerous blindspot. Hayden is excellent as the Hemingway like writer, all sound and fury bluster, while folksinger Nina Van Pallandt, former major league baseball player Jim Boutin and especially director Mark Rydell as a multi lingual gangster acquit themselves well in key supporting roles. Comfortably paced, brimming with sardonic levity, but interspersed with acts of violence that both sobers and gives gravity to the storyline The Long Goodbye is an outstanding an unique example of the pulp detective genre updated in a way that avoids wallowing in nostalgia. Instead it seamlessly combines two eras in a casual fashion, free of heavy hand with a benign matter of fact subversiveness that makes it a worthy successor to Hawk's The Big Sleep. "},{"Title":"good stuff","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I happened upon The Long Goodbye on IFC last night, and was delightfully surprised. It had been a while since I'd seen Elliot Gould in anything except Friends re-runs, and I'd forgotten how good he could be (I guess that Time magazine cover wasn't accidental). The bringing-forward of this story into the 70's was perfectly written, and Gould was the right guy to portray the modernized Marlowe. Sterling Hayden was in top form as the alcoholic writer, putting in what I think is one of his best performances. The supporting cast was excellent, and I nearly laughed myself off the sofa when I recognized the non-speaking Arnold Schwarzenegger as a bodyguard. He must've been fresh off the boat, as this came out before Stay Hungry. An early effort by the versatile character actor George Wyner is another small gem.This film is kind of Chinatown-like, in that it's going to take a few viewings before I can grasp everything which went on. It's going to be a pleasure to see it again (gotta check NetFlix!). "},{"Title":"top five private eye films","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Here are the top five private eye films in my opinion.  The Maltese Falcon, The Big Sleep, Chinatown, Harper and The Long Goodbye.  Two of them are based on Raymond Chandler novels.  If you are a fan of the books then you might not appreciate this film.  Instead of the tough, wisecracking P.I. we get a bewildered, chainsmoking detective who never seems to understand what is going on.  The characterization is great.  Robert Mitchum had just played Marlowe in Farewell My Lovely as a period piece, he was good, but seemed too tired.  Gould is perfect.  The film is more about him being an outsider in a modern world.  He drives an old car, and his values seem out of step in the 1970's.  Marlowe is lost in the LA of the seventies among hippies and all night supermarkets.  He is a lonely man and the film captures that perfectly.  Towards the end of the film we see that Gould is just as tough as Bogart, Mitchum and all of the other famous detectives.  This is a great film.  Check it out.   "}{"Title":"I Don't Know Why You Say Goodbye, I Say Hello","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This shambling, rambling, occasionally brilliant film noir update places Chandler's rumpled shamus Philip Marlowe in the drugged-up swirl of 1970's Hollywood.  Elliott Gould does some of his best work here, be-bopping and shuffling to his own ragged moral rhythms, rolling off Marlowe's internal soliloquies as a perpetually half-stoned mumble.  The missing-person plot is even less essential here than it was in The Big Lebowski, but Altman and Gould (as well as Sterling Hayden, raging into a paper bag as a washed-up writer) provide a perfectly ragged atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Two Things Wrong","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are two main problems with this movie Elliott Gould and Robert Altman. Gould is a ridiculous choice as Philip Marlowe. Altman's considerable strengths are ill-suited for the works of Raymond Chandler. Philip Marlowe is the classic hard-boiled detective; a book noir character made for film noir. Elliott Gould is okay as a comic character, never much better than okay. He doesn't play hard-boiled with any conviction or flair. In his natural setting, Altman is a certified genius. I can't imagine why he directed The Long Goodbye. Altman seems like a visitor from another planet, encountering alien life forms in Philip Marlowe and Raymond Chandler. I can think of several thousand actors living and dead who would have been better as Marlowe, and a great many directors who would have been better than Altman at handling this particular material. "},{"Title":"The Long Goodbye - Redux","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all lets get this out of the way. Who cares if its not the same as the book? I just recently re-read the book after just re-viewing the movie several weeks again. They're different - so what,end of story. Thebook is filled with wonderful language and interesting dialogue. The movie is filled with wonderful images and great images. I think it is certainly Gould's best work and one of Altman's best movies.. after Nashville. The music is great.. in fact I've been singing the theme song for the last two months and it is beginning to get tiresome. But that's another matter.Altman and the script have pulled Marlowe kicking and screaming into the eighties but just because Marlowe has pulled his ethics with him does not mean he hasn't learned to adapt. Those people who have commented that Marlowe hasn't adapted are no better or worse than Lennox who derisively calls Marlowe a loser. I think that is where people are missing the point. I don't think of Marlowe as a loser. I look at him much as Chandler did. Of course the Chandler Marlowe would never have killed Lennox. Alman's Chandler does. Even he, Marlowe, can only be pushed so far.Hurrah for Hollywood. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Movie!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An annoying night with a finicky cat and a simple favor for an old friend sends the anachronistic Phillip Marlowe into an unpleasant trail of deceit. Lucky for us. We can follow Marlowe (perfectly played by Elliot Gould) as he sorts through a wonderful cast of eccentrics, always to the ever-changing jazz score, and resolves things for us and himself. Enjoy Marlowe's often hysterical banter, enjoy the constant references to the 1940's and enjoy the whole wonderful cast of characters. Superbly scripted by Leigh Brackett, perfectly performed by all, The Long Goodbye is not only one of the best films of the 1970's, but of all time. "},{"Title":"Good compression of a complex plot","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was prepared to not like this film. I wasn't sure Elliott Gould could pull off the restrained complexity necessary to portray a man like Marlowe, but he is excellent at balancing smart-ass sardonicism with Marlowe's need to see the job through- a man's gotta do what a man's gotta do. I do like the song by John Williams that keeps showing up all through the film as a constant theme. The casting is very interesting, too- lots of unusual actors in supporting roles. One hole in the plot is just how the suitcase full of money shows up, but that's no real shame in a Chandler plot. Convoluted is putting it mildly. All in all, a very good film, but I would still like to see a faithful version of the book. "},{"Title":"Altman's best film.","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Director Robert Altman was praised his whole career for doing great things with very large casts, which is strange to me because I've found that his best films are instead the ones where he focuses on one character. Whether it's Richard Nixon in Secret Honor, Millie Lammoreaux in 3 Women or Philip Marlowe in The Long Goodbye, when Altman keeps the lens on one protagonist he feels so much more focused and precise. As someone who isn't a big fan of his ensemble pieces, it feels like a drastic change and I wish he had done all of his films this way. The Long Goodbye gets special attention from me, because as of now I'd say it's my favorite of his work and it features one of the most interesting and unique protagonists I've ever seen.The detective genre is one that I hold near and dear to my heart, but it's also one that unfortunately features a lot of the same ideas and narrative structures. In The Long Goodbye, Marlowe innocently helps his friend by driving him to Tijuana and is rewarded for his good deed by swarms of men on both side of the law breaking down his door and roughing him up. It's a slightly standard plot, but what writer Leigh Brackett (going off a novel by Raymond Chandler) does to set this apart is create a main character so interesting that all of these experiences feel like something brand new.Marlowe is overcome with his disdain for society and it bleeds through every frame. He has this running internal monologue of cynicism and sarcasm, but he's so given up that he has lost his filter and the words just pour out of his mouth at all times. Whether he's being interrogated by the police or feeding his cat, he can't keep his thoughts in anymore and they all become externalized. It's a remarkable technique and something I've never seen done before, used to great effect here.Special attention needs to be given to Elliott Gould who gives a performance I never knew he was capable of. He nails this technique, making it feel effortless and authentic, which is maybe the most impressive thing of all here because it could have derailed the entire picture if the wrong actor were playing the part. Sterling Hayden also leaves a large impression as a terrifying alcoholic, but it's Gould's show and he makes it something remarkable.Altman here creates something that somehow feels ripped out of the '40s, yet also completely modern. There's a '70s noir tone going through the whole thing, but the social commentary and themes feel distinctly of our era. It's quite impressive. "},{"Title":"An interesting update","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Writer Raymond Chandler's greatest creation was the tough talking detective Marlowe, a disappointed romantic who refuses to concede to cynical despair, although you'd never know it to listen to him speak. He comes alive on the page, but not all cinematic representations have been wholly effective for example, Robert Mitchum was too old and had insufficient swagger when he took on the part in the early 1970s. In Robert Altman's film of 'The Long Goodbye', Ellit Gould plays a very Altmanesque Marlowe, a shambling figure, but in spite of the seeming mismatch with the book, the trick works well in capturing the spirit of the plot of the novel, that of one man stubbornly stumbling around a puzzle of labyrinthine complexity for no apparent motive than a vague commitment to truth. If the mood of the plot is well-handled, the details less so there's some (almost inevitable) simplification, but it's the ending that really lets the story down. Not only does it provide an over-easy way to bring things to a conclusion but it also doesn't fit with the character of the Marlowe as originally written. The one inspired touch in this movie was the decision to commission a theme song, which accompanies us at various stages of the proceedings, but sung by different artists, according to the mood. It makes for an atmospheric update to Chandler's world but it's still not as vivid as the picture you form in your own mind when reading the books. "},{"Title":"THE LONG GOODBYE (Robert Altman, 1973) ***","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having only previously watched this controversial Raymond Chandler adaptation via a trimmed, Italian-dubbed print several years ago, I was keen to reacquaint myself with it through MGM's SE DVD especially since it's generally thought of as one of Altman's major films; it's a shame, though, that after having had it in my collection for a couple of months, I was finally prompted to give it a spin following the sad news of Altman's death.Anyway, the character of Philip Marlowe is one of my favorites in all of literature and film so I'm always on the lookout for fresher perspectives on the private investigator. Still, Elliott Gould's characterization could hardly be any more different to Chandler's original vision or to Humphrey Bogart's definitive film portrayal in Howard Hawks' THE BIG SLEEP (1946) which, incidentally, is the greatest Film Noir ever in my book. Since a maverick like Altman was helming the film, one hardly expected him to stick to a conventional portrait but, understandably, having Marlowe inexplicably displaced to the liberalized 1970s era swarming with long-haired guys, pot-smoking chicks, slickly-dressed heels and vicious mobsters with body-builder thugs (one of them an uncredited Arnold Schwarzenegger!) was too much to take for 1940s Marlowe fans...which is all the more incredible when one realizes that the screenplay for this film was written by none other than THE BIG SLEEP's co-writer, Leigh Brackett! Having said that, however, Gould is clearly in top form here and further confirms that very few directors made more inspired use of him in their films, witness the amusing opening sequence where he tries to pass off a different brand of cat food to his feline pet because he is all out of its favorite Courry brand! Altman even introduces a parking lot attendant adept at mimicry and his Barbara Stanwyck impersonation from, appropriately enough, Billy Wilder's DOUBLE INDEMNITY (1944), is a hoot.While the film has a few other notable qualities - Vilmos Zsigmond's inventive camera-work, John Williams' playful score and remarkable performances from Hollywood veteran Sterling Hayden (as an alcoholic writer on the skids) and film director Mark Rydell (as a mobster who thinks nothing of shattering a glass bottle on his girlfriend's face to prove to Marlowe that he means business) - eventually the film is far less entertaining than previous Marlowe outings which might well be the result of a much weaker storyline, the relative lack of the trademark hard-boiled dialogue and the glacial presence of Nina Van Pallandt which oozes very little of the sensuality so vital in a supposed femme fatale.Ultimately, the film is much more rewarding for Altman fans than the casual viewer especially when taking into account the director's other ingenious genre revisits of the 1970s - IMAGES (1972; the Horror film), THIEVES LIKE US (1974; Gangster), BUFFALO BILL AND THE INDIANS OR, SITTING BULL'S HISTORY LESSON (1976; Western) and QUINTET (1979; Sci-Fi) - which, despite all being worthwhile or interesting works at the very least, merely served to alienate him further from the Hollywood establishment for a prolonged period of time until that early 1990s renaissance came about. "},{"Title":"Hello to The Long Goodbye","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Elliott Gould probably wouldn't usually seem like the choice to play a detective made famous by Humphrey Bogart, but he does a reasonable job with the role. Phillip Marlowe (Gould) tries to help friend Roger Wade (Sterling Hayden) accused of murdering his wife. Needless to say, things aren't as they seem.The obvious change is that this version of a Raymond Chandler story is updated to the 1970s, a far cry from the noir-ish world of the 1940s. And, as always, director Robert Altman lets the actors make their own characters. Maybe this wasn't Altman's best movie ever, but he does a respectable job with it. Watch for a very young Arnold Schwarzenegger in a small role. "},{"Title":"Elliot At His Best","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Los Angeles.  A private investigator.  Robert Altman juggles these elements like the mastermind he is, combining wit and  intelligence and making the viewing experience quite the enjoyable.This film also showcases the amazing Elliot Gould.  For people that wonder what this guy was like in his hey day, The Long Goodbye is your vehicle.   "}{"Title":"One of my favorite Altman films, though it goes without saying...","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this film on TV several times now, and it is one of the best treatments of a Raymond Chandler novel to date. Mostly because of its filmmaker, the unconventional-by-necessity Robert Altman, who brings a much more spontaneous feeling to Chandler's trademark wit and cynical character Philip Marlowe. Like with MASH or some of his other key 70's films, Altman breaks through expectations, making Marlowe in present day of the time, and in a way it works better this way. There is an anti-establishment feel to Marlowe, this gum-shoe who is more of a law unto himself. Elliot Gould, who plays him sometimes as a little aloof but really on the ball most of the time (and with a sarcasm that out-ranks other actors who have played Marlowe), is terrific in the role. Sterling Hayden, who has a supporting role as the Ernest Hemingway-type novelist connected with the investigation Marlowe's in, and it's definitely his most unconventional performance (not the same manly tough guy of Asphalt Jungle and the Killing), with some more emotion and substance. In a way it's a very quirky kind of treatment of Chandler at times, and also still very funny, which is what it needs (like the neighboring pot-head girls of Marlowe's, whom I'm sure was an addition on Altman's part). So with this combination- Altman, Chandler, Gould, and the great writer Leigh Brackett- it's hard to not at least like it a little, if not a lot. It also has a topper of an ending, almost applause worthy. "},{"Title":"Very good but not great film.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big admirer of Robert Altman's movies. Unlike other by-the-book directors, the maverick Altman will break barriers and change the way we watch cinema.The Long Goodbye was one of the movies that Siskel and Ebert talked about on a special edition of their show, where they talked about their favorite films of the last Golden Age for Hollywood (1970-74). While it's good and compelling, it's a bit slow at times. I'm not a Raymond Chandler fan, so it was a little harder for me to judge.Elliot Gould plays the chain-smoking, cussing P.I. Phillip Marlowe superbly. Gould does a good job of masking his usual voice to sound different. A friend of Marlowe's, played by ex-baseball pitcher Jim Bouton, requests to be driven to Tijuana. He does so, then the next day, Marlowe is arrested for accessory to murder. Bouton's character's wife has been murdered. After he is released, he finds out that Bouton has committed suicide. Marlowe decides to solve this case, and it then leads him into a hard-boiled story of marital affairs, alcoholism, and loan sharks.Still, the movie, despite a bit of tedium here and there, is very good. Gould's terrific performance, as well as Sterling Hayden's role as a drunken author who's behavior has been questionable of late, are standouts. The whole cast is uniformly good. The violence is a bit nasty; Mark Rydell's Sonny Augustine, a Jewish mobster who is also looking for Marlowe's friend because of money, hits his fiance in the face with a bottle to express his anger. It's groundbreaking because of how the characters have been updated from the 1940's to the 70's, as well as the content. It's a bit dated today, but it's still a good film. A lot better than what we're seeing now. "}]