[{"Title":"It's the Mount Everest of haunted houses...","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"63 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You've just got to love this 70's classic. It has everything a haunted house tale should have. Unlike most of the haunted house tales, this one manages to keep things a little bit more believable. The time and date stamps are particularly effective here.All the players do a great job with their roles, especially Roddy McDowall. I love Mrs. Barrett's erotic fixations. Unfortunately, they'll probably get the bright idea of remaking this into a horrible piece of crap.This movie relies mostly on atmosphere, not on gore or other special effects. If thats what you are looking for, you'd better try somewhere else.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"First rate haunted house movie","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Haunted house movies generally don't deliver the goods. There are a few exceptions; the original The Haunting (1963) is the best example. That was a truly terrifying film. The Legend of Hell House is one these exceptions 'cause it really serves up some decent scares and maintains a very creepy atmosphere throughout.The plot is similar to The Haunting. Various people spend time in a supposedly haunted house, each of them with different background and experience, one of whom has already spent time there and was the only one to come out alive. Needless to say the house is indeed very haunted and pretty soon these people are fighting for their lives.Featuring excellent performances by all, first rate direction and production values, a solid script; The Legend of Hell House is really a first rate horror film in most respects. "},{"Title":"No Chicken Exits","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Under-rated, unduly over-shadowed, and quite rightly the most notoriously scary and deadly place (billed by American author, Richard Matheson, as The Mt. Everest of all Haunted Houses in his novel on which this British interpretation is based).  The Author, in his attempt to write the be-all and get-all of all Gothic adventures, threw everything conceivable into the mix; cannibalism, sexual deviance, drug induced homicidal and suicidal tendencies, and a walloping ending which explains the mystery of this heretofore unsolved monster of a puzzle.  Even in Hough's film, with a serviceable Matheson script, the basic formula remains intact; the smug para-psychologist, the traumatised evangelist, the cautionary medium and 'smug's' sexually frustrated wife, all come to the doorstep of Belasco House, and enter at their own risk. If you read the novel first, then the film will come to mean much more, and is better appreciated. "},{"Title":"GREAT little horror film","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"43 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is an outstanding example of what you can achieve in a horror film without resorting to special effects trickery. Legend Of Hell House is everything that turkeys like The Haunting tried to be.Kudos to everyone in the cast, especially Roddy McDowall as Fisher, the only man to survive a previous expedition.There is also some interesting dialogue regarding combatting the supernatural with science, a topic that popped up in later films such as Ghostbusters.MANY horror movies have been made on much larger budgets than Legend Of Hell House, but very few can match it for pure psychological terror.  I give this film a 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Haunting Story","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have heard this movie be described as menacing and that is a great way to describe it. This has to be one of the darkest of the haunted house movies out there. With an extremely creepy soundtrack and an equally creepy storyline, throw in actors that can play there parts well, and you have a classic film.Four people must go to a house known as Hell House and must exorcise the ghosts that torment and murder all that have gone in prior. Roddy McDowell plays as the one surviving group members from an earlier trip.A simple storyline, yes, but the way it holds itself up is amazing. The acting is just excellent and convincing. Also, this movie has virtually no special effects at all. This actually works to the movies advantage as we, the audience, must rely on the atmosphere to terrorize us. And it works very well.One of the all time best haunted house movies ever, this one is definitely worth buying. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hoorah for stuffed cats!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What a pity that today's films rely so heavily on special effects.Here is a perfect example of how what you don't see is much more unnerving than what you do.  Do not watch this film alone at night unless you are already in bed and have the remote control to hand. "},{"Title":"if only for a couple of scenes ...","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For one or two reasons, this film (despite the flaws others have pointed out) stands as a perfect example of what is scary as opposed to what ... just isn't. At least for me, of course. Here's what I mean ...When I first saw this film, I was working as a Security Dispatcher at a small college in Northeastern Ohio, making a few dollars over the very long (6 week) winter break. Because I worked for Security, I was allowed to remain in my single room in my usual dormitory rather than be herded into another dorm along with the foreign students and others who stayed on campus over the long break. So there I was, all alone in a very big building during a long, dark and very snowy winter ...I saw THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE at a friend's place in town, and enjoyed it greatly. I found the brief scene where Florence sees the awful shadow of, well, something _dead_ sort of ... dancing in the shower stall particularly creepy. But then I went back uphill to the silent dorm ...Since it was winter and there was no one (but me!) in the building, the Security guards would sort of wander through on autopilot and make sure all the lights were out. So I was returning, night after night, to a _dark_, deserted dormitory.In a nutshell, let's just say that after seeing this film, I found committing to showering very, VERY difficult ... and I tried to do it very QUICKLY, all winter long! I was 20 years old, by the way. You may argue that this is all due to my peculiar living situation -- but it is THIS, for me, that is the essence of effective horror. This is what good horror DOES to you it comes back into your head, makes you look over your shoulder and causes the hairs on the back of your neck to stand up when you remember it ... whether you remember it because of where you are, because it comes up in conversation, or what have you. No amount of liquid plastics, animated goo or CGI can replace -- or increase -- the shudder-power of one blasting, ghostly image. And THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE has at least one of those. "},{"Title":"One of the best haunted house films ever!","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four psychic investigators (Roddy McDowall, Pamela Franklin, Clive Revill, Gayle Hunnicutt) are to spend a week in the Mount Everest of haunted houses to see if life does exist after death. They are given only a week and, in that time, have all the ghosts attack full force.Next to the 1962 version of The Haunting this is the best haunted house flick ever made. It starts up and never stops. There's no humor and it's beautifully atmospheric. Also creepy sound effects and eerie music help keep up the mood and director John Hough shoots the film from weird angles keeping you off balance. Good performances help especially by Franklin and there's one harrowing sequence in which she offers herself to the spirits of the house. Not for the blood and guts crowd (this is PG rated). A very scary movie.The book is much better and a LOT more graphic but there was no way they could have shot the book faithfully--it would have had an X rating! For instance when Franklin has sex with a ghost--in the movie she looks into the camera and screams. In the book she finds a rotting corpse forcing itself on her! This seems to have disappeared off the radar--even the 2003 DVD release is pretty bad. The colors are faded, there's only a trailer as an extra and there was no big publicity campaign for it. Still you should seek it out if you haven't seen in--it's worth it. I give it a rare 10! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece! When is it released on DVD?","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece! The strange music, the wonderful setting, the superb photography...The actors are great, too, I especially love Pamela Franklin and Gayle Hunnicutt. When she acts sex-driven it is one of the best scenes of the movie. But, is she really possessed or does she just act this way so she can satisfy her sexual needs with everybody thinking she is just possessed by a ghost..? Also this odd, quit atmosphere the movie has I've never experienced in another movie. John Hough is one of the best directors! But when is this masterpiece released on DVD? "},{"Title":"Nice and creepy","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Now that it's spooky time again, one should plug this in at night and watch during windy weather, eventho' the timeline of the story unwinds around Christmas. Was this intentional? Imagine spending the holidays in this place!Yes, the highlight is the possessed stuffed black cat but the real big scene that will leave you breathless is the haunted sequence at the dinner table, with the table itself going nuts and the dishes slamming about, the chair tipping backwards, the fireplace burping out a huge fireball, etc. I always look forward to that moment everytime I re-view this, since it is a great movie to watch again. Probably Mcdowall's best role, until he camped it up in Fright Night. And Pamela Franlkin? Well, she's just ducky.  ... wait until that ghost machine explodes. Dynamite stuff. "}{"Title":"Creepy and Atmospheric","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The wealthy Mr. Rudolph Deutsch (Roland Culver) promises a small fortune to the physicist Dr. Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill); to the mental medium Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin); and to the physical parapsychologist Benjamin Franklin Fischer (Roddy McDowall) to investigate survival after death in the notorious Belasco House, a.k.a. Hell House. The house belonged to Roaring Giant Emeric Belasco that promoted orgies in the house and had mysteriously disappeared after a massacre. Fischer is the only survival of a previous investigation and the Dr. Barrett goes with his wife Ann Barrett (Gayle Hunnicutt). Along the days, Florence believes that there are entities in the house, including Belasco's son Daniel; Fischer keeps his mind closed expecting only to earn the promised money, and the skeptical Dr. Barrett brings a machine to drain the energy in the house. Will they be successful in their intent? The Legend of Hell House is a creepy and atmospheric horror movie with a good story of haunted house. The ghost story is supported in lighting, make-up and camera work and only few special effects and is effective. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) A Casa da Noite Eterna (The House of the Eternal Night) "},{"Title":"Suspenseful  , frightening and ghastly classic about haunted mansions","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This eerie movie starts when a multi-millionaire enlists a team of subjects formed by a medium (Pamela Franklyn) and parapsychologist scientists (Clive Revill , his wife Gayle Hunnicutt and Roddy McDowall) to stay for a study and resolve weird deeds into his newly acquired house . It seems which the eerie mansion has been the place of several killing deaths . 'Although the story of this film is fictitious , the events depicted involving psychic phenomenon are not only very much within the bounds of possibility but could well be true' , as explain on film prologue a clairvoyant and psychic consultant to European Royalty named Corbett .This is a chilling adaptation from Richard Matheson's novel based on an assortment of ghouls and ghosts . Innovation theme about possession posteriorly taken by ¨The Exorcist¨ . Middling budget makes for big scary scream-feast and frights . Splendid Pamela Franklyn as a fragile youth who results to have unexpected ties to creepy ghost . Furthermore , it appears briefly Michael Gough . Magnificent cinematography by Alan Hume accompanied by an electronic and rare musical score . Writer Richard Matheson toned down the graphic violence and more intense sexual scenes of his novel to give the screenplay for the film a more brooding atmosphere . The original novel was set in New England, with an American team of psychic investigators . The storyline was changed, to fit the movie's production in England, with British actors playing the investigators . While the film was released in the US with a P.G. rating, in the UK it curiously received an X rating at first. The picture was very well directed by John Hough . He often uses visual and sound recourses , echos , zooms and imaginative camera movements . He's a craftsman with eclectic and long directing career . Beginning in television series (Avengers, Protectors) , making Hammer films (Twins of Evil) , Adventures (Island treasure, Black arrow) , wholesome Disney fare (Return and escape to witch mountain) , regency romantic drama (Duel of hearts , Ghost in Montecarlo , Hazard of hearts , The lady and the highwayman) and Horror movies (Howling , American Gothic , Bad karma) and his best film , Legend of Hell House . Other movies about ¨haunted mansions¨ genre are the followings  The innocents (Jack Clayton , 1961), ¨Haunting¨ (Robert Wise , 1963) , ¨Amytiville Horror¨ (Stuart Rosemberg,1979), Changeling(Peter Medak,180), ¨House¨ (Steve Miner).. among others . "},{"Title":"The haunting mood and setting is exceptional--the ending isn't.","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House does an exceptional job of setting a scary and haunting mood. However, while it is worth watching, the ending did very little for me--as if they'd created this wonderful mood but weren't exactly sure what to do about it.The film begins with a very old rich guy meeting with a physicist and amateur parapsychologist. He offers the man 100,000 pounds to investigate the most haunted house in the world--a death house nicknamed 'Hell House'. It seems that of the last 9 people who investigated this place, only one came out alive! Now, the physicist/parapsychologist will take a team into the bricked out house to determine the secret of this god-forsaken house. Once inside, weird things start happening--and the malevolent spirits in the house begin to possess various members of the group. What happens next? Tune in and see.Overall, this is worth seeing, as it's creepy as can be. The ending you might like--I wasn't all that impresses--especially since I don't know how lead would cause the least bit of difference. I would, however, say that this is among Michael Gough's best performances--far more subtle and less shrill than most. "},{"Title":"A must for horror fans","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In spite of some  questionable motivations and a fairly silly ending,this horror drama has become a real favorite.       The excellent cast has a field day with the talky script; anddirector John Hough (best known for The Avengers) does an imaginativejob using fresh, distorted set ups that keep you off center. And Themovie looks great.       High praise must also go to the score and use of sound effects. Ifthe ending was a little better, this would be a real classic. But forhorror fans, it's a nine out of ten. Roddy, you were enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Effective Haunted House Tale.","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" John Hough directed this adaptation of the Richard Matheson novel about four people; a physicist named Dr. Barrett(Clive Revill) his wife Ann(Gayle Hunnicutt) Florence Tanner(Pamela Franklin) and Benjamin Fischer(Roddy McDowall) sole survivor from the previous expedition. They are investigating the haunted home(nicknamed Hell House) of an evil man named Belasco, who conducted unspeakable and degenerate acts decades earlier. Dr. Barrett does not believe in the supernatural at all, and has brought with him scientific equipment to cleanse the home of the negative residual energy, but not everything is as he believes, and not all of them will leave the house alive...Effective and scary film creates a real atmospheric mood of dread, with good direction and acting. Toned down a bit from the novel, and final reveal is a bit underwhelming, but otherwise a first-rate thriller. "},{"Title":"May you find the answer that you seek. It is here, I promise you.","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House is directed by John Hough and adapted to screenplay by Richard Matheson from his own novel Hell House. It stars Roddy McDowall, Pamela Franklin, Clive Revill and Gayle Hunnicutt. Music is by Electrophon Ltd and cinematography by Alan Hume.The Belasco Mansion, the Mount Everest of Haunted Houses, a place where many have stayed and never made it out alive or escaped with sanity in tact. Now four more people are challenged to enter it and investigate if survival after death exists...In many ways it is a film that has been unlucky over the years, for it has consistently been dogged with association with Robert Wise's similar themed, and excellent, The Haunting from 1963. Not only that but it was also released in the same year as The Exorcist, William Friedkin's behemoth that continues to cast a shadow over many a supernatural based horror movie. While the fact that it was toned down sexually from the book has proved to be irksome to some fans of Matheson's page turner. Oh definitely John Hough's film has a sturdy fan base and reputation, but it still comes under fire from first time viewers who will not judge it on its own terms. A shame because although it may indeed not be in the same league as The Haunting, or as sexually charged as the book, it does sit worthily in the top draw of haunted house pictures.The back story to the house sets the scene. It was run as a place of complete debauchery, a sort of Buck Whaley and the Hellfire Club type of place, the master of ceremonies was the owner Emeric Balasco, a man with a fearsome reputation, that of a roaring giant. When one day the sins and violence overspill, all inside are finalised from the planet, only Belasco was never found, and ever since that day the house is believed to be haunted by numerous spirits. Enter our four protagonists (a physicist and his wife, a mental medium and a physical medium who was the sole survivor of the last Hell House carnage), who under a financially dangled carrot set about unearthing the truth. They are opposites in beliefs, and for the next 90 minutes they will be haunted whilst having their respective fears, desires and repressions born out.What unfolds is a lesson in how to get the maximum scary atmosphere with so little to hand. Following the brilliant example set by Robert Wise back in 63, special effects are kept to an absolute minimum as Hough lets our minds eye fill in the blanks. We don't need to see the horror up front, it's better when we can just feel or hear it. Little incidents help fuel the fire, a mad cat, a séance, ectoplasm (put a specimen in the jar please, ooh Matron), suspicious noises, eroticism and a little possession. The mansion itself is suitably eerie (exteriors are the wonderfully Gothic designed Wykehurst Place in Bolney, West Sussex) and drifting in and out of the story is Electrophon Ltd's rumbling sinister score. The direction is tight, the cast work exceptionally well to bear out the interpersonal conflicts before the final battle against the paranormal kills or defines them?Working well as a haunted house spooker of some considerable substance, and intelligent and interesting with its themes of paranormal psychology and investigation of such, The Legend of Hell House is a classical supernatural thriller. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I've loved this movie for over 30 years","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" No spoilers here. I had seen Pamela Franklin in The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie several times, so I knew she was a good actress, and I had always loved Roddy McDowall. This movie scared me and still has the power to do so. The music, as many have stated, is absolutely essential to the horror. And from the first moment you begin to watch, you are captivated. I recommended this movie to some friends just a couple of months ago, and now they can't quit talking about it...rather like I was back in the 70's. So far, I have only rented it from the local video store, but I may have to break down and purchase the DVD. I hope the quality is good. If you want a good old-fashioned scare, watch The Legend of Hell House. "},{"Title":"How to make a horror film...","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Take four people, isolate them, add some history (not too much), pinch of scepticism, and there you have it!I first saw this film when I was pre 10 yrs old. One of those cushion holding nights, where your folks fall asleep (obviously bored with another Hammer film) and you're left to keep watch.....20 years on it doesn't seem quite as scary, but forgive me for leaving on the light and watching it in company.I've not seen any of the other films mentioned in the other reviews here, but I'll keep an eye out for em, so I can form my opinion. For now I have to say that with the exception of Poltergeist III (mirrors were never the same after that) and The Shining (wiggly fingers), I've never quite been as entertained, from the peeking over the cushion point of view.Even now I want to go and watch it, but it's 3am and I'm the only one awake. Naaaaaaaah! "},{"Title":"STILL scares me","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  By far the scariest movie I have EVER seen, bar none; the synthesized score just creeps me to the bone every time, VERY effective, much more than a music score would have been; totally ahead of its time in 1973.I first saw it around age 15, now at 41 I STILL have to look away from the screen during the ectoplasm scene (leave a sah-mple in the jah, please) -- but over the last quarter century I've worked up to where I can watch the rest of the flick without flinching (too much).Roddy McDowall is brilliant, as is Pamela Franklin.Yeah, the ending is a bit hokey, but everything else more than makes up for it.  My opinion, of course.Speaking of sah-mpling, Orbital fans will appreciate Florence's first Sitting (I don't know you people...).  Skinny Puppy fans, you'll find a few familiar bits as well -) "},{"Title":"An intelligent horror story","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was a teenager and I remembered it all those years until I recently rented it on DVD. It was everything I remembered.The plot is a fascinating twist on the stock haunted house movie that was so prevalent in the 60s and 70s.The basic plot is 4 people trying to determine the reality behind Hell House, a nickname for a mansion once owned by Emeric Belasco who disappeared in 1929 leaving 27 dead and mutilated bodies in the mansion to be discovered.The group consists of a physicist, his wife and 2 mediums including the only sane survivor of a previous attempt at the house 20 years before.The suspense is built up slowly and in my opinion effectively. The first half of the movie follows the usual plot lines fairly closely and is marked by above averge acting on the part of all concerned but especially Franklin.The second half is where the twist occurs. The physicist has a theory that a massive electromagnetic field exists and can be countered by an artificially generated one resulting in a dissipation of any residual ghost activity. Of course he sees the ghosts as simply mindless energy given form by the minds of the living that interact with the field. The field is impressed on locations by the people living in them and dying in them.SPOILERS AHEADRight before he uses the equipment to clear the house Franklin's character is killed by the haunting. The field is then generated leaving the house apparently clear of any spirit activity. Everything looks good for a few minutes but then the activity starts up and immediately kills the physicist in an interesting manner.As the survivors, McDowell and Hunnicut decide what to do McDowell takes on Belasco's spirit in the chapel where it seems to be centered. Based on the manner of the deaths of the other two combined with information from the previous deaths 20 years before McDowell figures out that Belasco was tormented while alive by being a relative dwarf along with being an illegitimate bastard. After a confrontation scene they discover a hidden room in the chapel containing Belasco's preserved body, ably played by Michael Gough. McDowell then reveals that Belasco had had his legs cut off and used artificial legs to give himself height, apparently he was well under 5 feet tall originally. I found this interesting in that it indicated the extreme ego and, to be honest, will power of Belasco. That explained a lot of what had happened and why his spirit was still around.Another twist was that the hidden room was lined with lead, which meant that Belasco had predicted the energy theory and field generator used to destroy the energy in the house. It also explains why the generator didn't work. The ending of course is McDowell and Hunnicutt leaving the house after turning the machine on with the door open to the hidden room thereby ending Belasco's spirit forever.All in all and interesting movie and well worth watching.  "}{"Title":"A Most Satisfying Bump in the Night","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House was released the same year as the grand-daddy of horror films, The Exorcist, so it quietly slipped through the cracks. But it should not be overlooked as a most effective and entertaining movie that combines suspense, bumps in the night and eroticism without overdoing the gore. It also features fine performances, especially that of Pamela Franklin, and an above-average haunted-house story line. Hell House will keep you guessing all the way to the end. Something interesting to note is that apparently the MPAA hasn't reviewed the film since its release when it was given a PG rating. By today's standards, Hell House would definitely be rated PG-13. "},{"Title":"First Rate Haunted House Thriller","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I had the pleasure of seeing this film in the theater 40 years ago this summer, and I must say that it still packs a wallop! I won't go into the storyline much, but I will say this; The Legend of Hell House  is a classic film of the genre, thats been rarely matched to date. The performances by Roddy McDowell, Clive Revill, Gayle Hunnicut and Pamela Franklin were flawless, and therefore a key to this films success. The film drips with atmosphere and a sense of foreboding dread. The special effects, considered archaic by todays standards, hold up surprisingly well. It has everything a movie fan could ask for sexually provocative scenes, an eerie setting, a thrilling séance sequence and lots of scary surprises along the way! The film is impeccably directed by John Hough, with a very mature perspective. It never succumbs to cheesy tactics.  The Legend of Hell House  is an intelligent and very satisfying haunted house thriller. "},{"Title":"horror mystery","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A very creepy tale of a haunted house. Not only was the film creepy and scary it was also a mystery. You sit there and try to pay attention so you don't miss any clues, but then something creepy comes up and you get side tracked. This made the film a really good horror flick. The cast was pretty good. I am not too sure if I liked Gayle Hunnicutt in the film though. My favorite character was played by Roddy McDowall. He really brought out the feeling in his character. There were some interesting camera shots in this film which I think brought it more to life. The film was not that gory at all. It focuses on scaring the viewer mentally and I believe it does a pretty decent job. So see if you can figure out the mystery of Hell House. "},{"Title":"horror you don't see often these days !","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was happy to see this movie. Personally I think that these days we are confronted by a very physical direction within the horror-genre and from this perspective Legend of Hell House is a terrific example for a different, a more psychological kind of horror ! Supposedly decades ago producers, directors and writers were more interested in creating fear than showing it in every detail. I won't say one way is better. Both - physical and the psychological horror - have their justification. However too much of the same will never be the key. As far as I'm concerned this psychological horror is something you can experience different every time you see it. On the other side the more physical kind is triggering very basic emotions, very strong emotions but therefore less differentiated, less complex and less subtle (revenge, hate...). One reason for a change within the genre could be that some of its representatives tend to move towards extremes. And the more extreme something gets the less space is left for complexity.Director John Hough did a good job and he did not refrain from visual experiments while adapting Matheson's novel. Some work excellent, a few others don't but on the whole he created a very unique, frightening atmosphere (since many newer productions prefer a more conservative way of visualization this could offer an interesting source for inspiration to any film-maker). I highlight cinematography and the setting of light. These elements form a thrilling experience while showing the importance of shadow and darkness for this media !In a short Good story, excellent cinematography and interesting use of light make the legend of hell house a fine example for well done horror. Worth watching ! "},{"Title":"Classic Haunted House Movie","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Both this and The Haunting, to me, are the epitome of great haunted house movies. Unfortunately TLOHH seem to have been left behind a bit compared to The Haunting (there's not even a remake!!).I am bringing the movie up as I've just finished reading the book and was impressed by how much the movie stayed true to it (well I believe Richard Matheson also wrote the screenplay which would explain a lot).The premise is very similar to The Haunting...a scientist, his wife, and two pychics go to investigate the possibility of ghosts at the bequest of an aging millionaire who wants to know if there is life after death. The direction is sharp and the acting is good (with the exception of Roddy McDowall who is outstanding).It is very creepy and intelligently written. You're never quite sure what will happen next.I won't delve into the plot any farther, its better to discover it yourself.TTKK's Bottom Line - Hopefully it stays a somewhat hidden classic....I don't want another remake a la The Haunting. "},{"Title":"The Grand-Daddy of all Haunted House Movies !","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  WARNINGSOME SPOILERS MAY BE INHERENT.    A lot of people will want you to believe that The Haunted from 1963 is the best ghost movie in the history of the movies but this movie will scare you with a ghost you will never see or even rarely hear. That's the appeal of this movie and it's way of scaring you with psychological suspense without the blood, gore and special effects overused in so many other films. Pamela Franklin is sexy and virginal as the chaste Florence Tanner and Clive Revill is wonderful as the ghost-hunter who is so full on himself that he ignores her opinions. Roddy McDowall gives the movie his own special brand of gothic unrest and Gail Hunnicutt tries her best in a role severely diminished from the original novel. In fact, much of the sexual pretext and scientific mumbo-jumbo has been removed from the original novel this film is based on in order to make this above-par movie. Kudos also have to go to Michael Gough now the new Batman's Alfred who has to become the house's original owner (no spoilers there I hope). The house or the set that it is is the real star with its bricked up windows and eerie atmosphere. I wish it was real so I could walk the halls for myself and explore it. In the end, we have a great intellectual ghost story that was made the way all ghost movies should be made. This movie gets 10 stars out of 10, I only wish I could make it a hundred. I hope no one tries to remake this one,not that all remakes are bad. "},{"Title":"My two bits, and an extra bit of clarity...","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First off let me deal with a VERY IMPORTANT issue I just read all the other comments IMDB users have left regarding this film, and a number of them said that the movie 'THE HAUNTING' is much better. It is CRITICAL that nobody, BUT NOBODY, think that they are talking about last year's Liam Neeson/Catherine Zeta-Jones super-budget crap-o-rama from Dreamworks. That movie sucked (forgive me for using the vernacular, but it really is the best word here). Don't watch it. What they are talking about is The Haunting circa 1963, which is almost universally regarded as the best haunted-house film ever made. Which means you should see it. It probably means I should see it, too...Anyhow, on to The Legend of Hell House, which I HAVE seen, and which I absolutely love (which makes me wonder how in Sam Hill any movie could be better). Now, let's look at what makes Hell House so darn good...1) Every actor and actress in this film puts in a solid performance, and therefore every character has an appropriate effect on the audience. For example, a panicky character will start to annoy the heck out of you, as well it should.2) The film is, for the most part, visually simple. Watch both versions of 'The House on Haunted Hill' (1958 and 1999) and you'll appreciate how the KISS ('keep it simple, stupid') principle applies just as well to haunted-house movies as it does to other things in life. The original is every bit as scary, but far more believable. It makes sense, then, that The Legend of Hell House, a movie which relies very little on high-tech special effects, is, I must say, the scariest movie I've ever seen.3) Hell House has probably the most bizarre and unpredictable ending you will ever see in a haunted-house movie. Some people don't like it, but when I watched 1999's 'The Haunting', I found myself hoping it had a similar ending. The ending is more satisfying than many endings in the horror genre, and, in a weird way, is more believable than most - instead of the evil spirit finally manifesting itself as an oversized, quasi-corporeal, loud and violent spectre which the surviving heroes somehow deal with or flee from, the entity behind Hell House ... well ... you'll have to watch it for yourself, I'm afraid.4) The interior of the house itself it perfect. The colours are simple and dulled from age, the place is full of dust and cobwebs, and, remarkably, there are plenty of moments where the old house is actually silent - remember it well, friends, because silence is not something you're likely to hear in the cinema nowadays, now is it? Sometimes silence really is golden; like a calm before a storm, nothing is more frightening than some well-placed silence, causing you to bite your nails and shift to the edge of your seat because you just know something is about to happen. Ahh, what fun!So there you have it. I love Hell House. It's scary, it's fun, it's BETTER THAN 'GHOST STORY' (ahem!), and it's definitely worth watching. Some say The Haunting (**circa 1963!**) is better, but I wouldn't know. What I do know is that I can't get enough of The Legend of Hell House. So watch both. "},{"Title":"Darker, spookier, and better than The Haunting.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's amazing how this film has seemed to slip through the cracks into the realm of the forgotten. It is the best of its kind, better than The Haunting (I'll probably get guff for that remark, but I don't care).John Hough better established a dark and utterly cold atmosphere for the house in this film. The musical score certainly added to that. And Richard Matheson, I think, did a better job on the screenplay for this film than his original novel Hell House (which is a rareity).The actors all performed excellently as well. All the actors, Roddy McDowall, Pamela Franklin, Clive Revill, and Gayle Hunnicutt, played their parts well. Their grim visages and soft British accents really fit well with the cold, dark scenery of the film. Heck, even Roland Culver (who had a very small part) did an all right job with his character, Rudolph Deustch (the old rich guy). And yes, let us not forget Michael Gough's performance (which consisted of a spoken part that was cut on a record and played back on a victrola and a cameo appearance at the end). And while I'm at it, I even commend Peter Bowles for his role, even though it was nothing special. Well, that takes care of the entire cast.That was another thing I liked about this film, a small cast of characters. It let you focus more on the dark scenery. It let you absorb all the spooky elements. All the horror. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films of the 70s.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Easily the best of all haunted house movies, this movie has a good story, surprise twists, a good cast (including the gorgeous Pamela Franklin), and most importantly - a high visual quality and atmosphere without which almost any horror film is doomed. LOH has that early 70s look which is perfectly suited to this kind of story. British horror films are rather weak, as far as I'm concerned; the modern ones are somewhat dull and ineffective (The Descent comes to mind), while the old 60s Hammer films have a nice visual quality but are far too naive to provide any kind of chills. Hence, this may be the best British horror film ever made. LOH is written by one of the best writers of the old 50s/60s Twilight Zone series, Richard Matheson. LOH is also as intelligent as a haunted house movie can be. The scientific gobbledegook's us presented in such a well thought-out manner that doesn't annoy in any way. "},{"Title":"Before POLTERGEIST, there was...","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film did pretty good box office back in '73, but it might be a little too slow for today's ADD crowd that can't sit still beyond five minutes unless bodies are spurting blood and MTV-like camera-work is dancing all over the place. Everything nowadays has to be instantaneous so 'we' throw out things little things like plot & character development and a gradual suspense buildup. This movie is full of things like that which makes it a classic in my book.Rich multi-millionaire Rudolph Deutsch (Roland Culver) hires Lionel Barrett and his wife (Clive Revill & Gayle Hunnicutt) to investigate the hauntings that are taking place at the notorious Belasco manor. It seems plenty of atrocities took place in the mansion some 50 years previously by Emeric Belasco and their spirits are not at peace. Barrett takes along Benjamin Fisher (Roddy McDowell) and Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin) as mediums to flesh out the spirits and find out how to dispel them from the property.What THE HAUNTING was for the 60s, and POLTERGEIST was for the 80s, THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE is what I consider one of the definitive ghost stories (it ties with THE CHANGELING) of the 1970s. If you like a good story on top of some shocks that come from out of nowhere, then I would suggest you check this one out. The Fox DVD looks good for a film of this age in widescreen anamorphic vivid color. The black levels look clean and there's no digital artifacts to be found. The DVD has no extras beyond a scratchy looking trailer and some previews for other Fox DVD releases.Even so, it sends chills up my spine and the ending is a kicker. Recommended!8 out of 10-  "}{"Title":"Oh what a great movie!","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked this one, it reminded me of Burnt Offerings a little bit with the creepy house story and the acting was amazing, especially Roddy McDowell in his strange demented character.  The erie music added alot to it as well, it added to that suspense and creepiness to the film.  The plot was a good plot with the house being haunted and the phycics willing to stay and examine it. I found the method of useing a machine to vent out the ghosts was a little out of context though.  And the ending was astounding and well worth the wait.  There are alot of twists and turns in the film that makes one guessing but watching this film is well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"A great film!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This a great film. It's a great horror and a great ghost story.Four people go into a house to see if there are evil spirits in the house. There is one evil spirit belonging to a man called Belasco. Mrs Tanner is convinced that the evil spirit belongs not to Belasco but his son Daniel.This film has great use of suspense and should not be missed by any horror fan.The acting The performances are great but Roddy McDowall's performance is outstanding. Pamela Franklin's performance was also very good.The suspense The suspense made this film great. It's the main reason why this film was scary. The black cats scenes and the church scene will leave a lot of chills down your back.If you like this film then you will like The Changeling (1980). Both are well acted with lots of suspense and scary scenes. It's better than crap like The Haunting (1999), What lies beneath (2000) and The Sixth Sense (1999). Another film I would recommend to people who liked this is Stir of Echoes (1999).Overall The Legend of Hell house is a must see. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Spooky Haunted House Film,With Quite A Few Scares, And Great Performances!, However The Ending Was Disappointing","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Spooky haunted house film, with quite a few scares and great performances!. Granted it is not your typical haunted house film, however, it hasn't dated a bit, and managed to shock and give me the creeps at certain times, plus Roddy McDowall is simply fantastic in this!. Although as usual, the characters refusing to believe the house is haunted got on my nerves, and the ending was pretty disappointing,plus it did take a little while to get going. It's extremely well made, and the film is constantly unpredictable, plus you never knew who was gonna die!. It has a couple of cool death scenes, and the film really keeps you guessing, plus the finale was very good!. This is a spooky haunted house flick, with quite a few scares and great performances, however the ending was disappointing!. The Direction is very good. John Hough does a very good job here, with good camera work, using creepy noises, adding tension to the film constantly and keeping it an engaging pace!. There is a tiny bit of blood. We get a gory dead cat, bloody corpses,impaling (ATF),bloody cut on hand, minor wounds, and random blood here and there. The Acting is excellent!. Roddy McDowall is fantastic here, he really added a lot of class, was very likable, creepy, had good chemistry with all involved and had some classic lines at the end!, he was simply fantastic!. Clive Revill annoyed me here, and was too stuck up for my tastes as the Doctor.Gayle Hunnicutt is beautiful and does great here, with what she had to do i liked her. Pamela Franklin gives a memorable performance as the Psychic, and did her job extremely well. Michael Gough shows up for a cameo. Overall highly recommended. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Not spectacular but really good.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What I liked mostly about this movie were its characters. You have the skeptic scientist Dr. Barrett who thinks he can prove anything with his modern machinery and theories. Of course he was going to get in a conflict with Ms Tanner wonderfully played by Pamela Franklin. I'm glad that little Flora from the Innocents actually grew up in a beautiful young woman and a good actress (well I already liked her cute and creepiness in the Innocents too). I was really impressed with her here. I liked how the tension builds and how that evil spirit in the house handily uses the conflicts between the 4 people and strikes a few times. The scientist thinks the medium is manipulating things (the dining scene, the ectoplasm, her constant talking about the poor son of Belaski). Ms Tanner thinks it's Belaski's son who cries for help, the prudish Ms Barrett is suddenly captivated by erotic thoughts. And than there is Fischer who tries to stay invisible but his presence and input proves in fact to be vital. A few really strong spectacular scenes without overdoing it. Especially those which involved Ms Tanner captured me (the cat scenes, the visits from Belaski's spirit leaving her bed and room, when the invisible spirit makes love to her, the cross scene and of course the discovery of Belaski's son rotten body). No wonder she was my favorite character. That she died was sad. Nevertheless a great movie which I really would give a solid 8/10! "},{"Title":"One of director John Houghs' best.","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Emeric Belasco mansion, otherwise known as Hell House, has proved to be a hotbed of paranormal activity. In fact, it's referred to as the Mount Everest of haunted houses. Into this domain come a team, hired by the aged Rudolph Deutsch (Roland Culver). They consist of scientist Dr. Barrett (Clive Revill), mental medium Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin), Dr. Barretts' tag along wife Ann (Gayle Hunnicutt), and physical medium Benjamin Franklin Fischer (Roddy McDowall), the only person to survive previous investigations of Hell House.Richard Matheson scripted, from his own novel Hell House. He gives us a classic Old Dark House type of horror film with a bit of a difference. In this instance, it is fascinating to see whatever practical methods there may be for dealing with spirits. Also, the air in this story is thick with sexual tension. As Ann comes under the influence of the mansion, she becomes markedly seductive. The pacing is just right, never hurrying but not dawdling either. The atmosphere is perfect, with a nice low key music score credited to Delia Derbyshire and Brian Hodgson. There is a bit of gore, especially as poor Florence is violently victimized by spiritual forces more than once, but never a whole lot of it. Mathesons' script is intelligent and provocative, and those people unfamiliar with the novel won't be guessing where things are going before they're supposed to.There's an absolute minimum of characters here, and the actors all do wonderful jobs. Top billed Franklin is appealing and impassioned, Revill is solid as a man who's not that much of a believer, Hunnicutt is equal parts alluring and sympathetic, and McDowall is superb as the man who's given the task of purveying the necessary exposition. It's neat to watch him as he comes to his climactic realizations. Michael Gough has a quick, uncredited cameo at the conclusion.The Legend of Hell House is very well done and is worthy of ones' attention, whether they see it for the first time or rediscover it.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Extremely atmospheric, effective Chiller... Blu-ray Excellent (especially for it's age) A8 V9","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'll keep this REAL simple because many others here have already described the excellent qualities of this classic Horror film. I will mention again that the Blu-ray Restoration that they did is truly stunning. It looks beautiful.Atmospheric as Hell!Creepy-@ss Scary...Absolutely LOVELY cinematography.Effective, taut direction.Excellent acting.Very beautiful lighting and set design.And, the soundtrack REALLY helps rack up the tension.If you like Supernatural Retro-Horror films, especially effective ones about Haunted Houses, and ones that are taken DEAD seriously... then you should really enjoy this excellent, haunting, and chilling classic. "},{"Title":"Isn't it just another so-called haunted house?","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An eccentric aging millionaire wants to be assured of the existence of life after death, so he has a physicist interested in the paranormal assemble a team to investigate a haunted mansion known as Hell House. The team consists of the physicist's wife and two psychic mediums, one of which was the sole surviving member of a previous team that investigated the house. The group plans to last a week inside and scientifically prove the existence of the after-life. Hell House, however, has other plans. Brilliant haunted house movie directed by John Hough and penned by the great Richard Matheson, who adapted his own novel for the screenplay. The novel and film bear some similarities to Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House which was itself made into the classic movie The Haunting. Hough's stylish direction is excellent. He creates a tense atmosphere with eerie music and sound effects, off-kilter camera angles, and effective scary moments throughout the film. Roddy McDowall and Pamela Franklin are standouts in the cast but Clive Revill and Gayle Hunnicutt are good, too. Michael Gough appears as part of the film's memorable climax. It's an exceptional horror film from a decade full of them. One of the best haunted house movies ever made. Best seen at night with all the lights out, of course. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was filmed in the UK and consciously done so in black and white. I think it was a good choice. The directing is well done, the acting is very good, and the special effects are kept to a minimum and are basic. Two psychics, one the only survivor of a previous attempt to find out about the house, the other young woman. There is also a scientist and his wife. The scientist has brought a machine that is suppose to remove any ghostly presence. As things progress the evil of the house manifests itself in various ways. It attacks the woman psychic a couple of times and goes after the wife. They find a shackled, dessicated body at one point. The malevolent spirit fools them into believing it is the ghost of his son. The scientist eventually runs his machine and it doesn't work. The scientist is killed in a bizarre ethereal attack. Roddy McDowall is the survivor from the first time and he finally has it figured out. He turned the on again and this time it gets rid of the badness. "},{"Title":"Almost great","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ah, the haunted house sub-genre... there are quite a number of movies in it, but I can't think of any memorable or definitive one. Maybe that's why Hell House is more or less considered the best of the lot. Now, I don't want to attack the film gratuitously, but I have some problems with it. Generally speaking, Hell house is a creepy, well made little film, but the script by Richard Matheson -and his novel, which shares the same problems- is just smoke and mirrors.My main issue with the film is that it seems to promise a scientific approach to the haunted house cliché. After all, the main character is a physicist, and there's a lot of dialogue about his theories and the inner workings of a machine of his invention he plans to use to de-haunt the mansion. However, when the supernatural phenomena start to appear, they seem practically to occur at random, and he barely investigates them. The whole thing then seems to take a different path, only to deliver an explanation of sorts at the very end, one that nobody could have guessed, although it is true that there are clues here and there. But come on, how are we supposed to connect the final explanation with stuff like a character being attacked by a black cat, or the increased sexual drive of others? It makes zero sense.On the other hand, as I said, there are many things to like about Hell house it's never boring, the acting all around is competent -although I kept asking myself if Roddy McDowall was wearing a bad wig or not- and, specially, British director John Hough managed to infuse it with a great deal of atmosphere. Part of it is due to the electronic score and the immaculate set design, true, but now and then Hough manages to create a pervasive sense of unease only through his eccentric directing choices. For instance, he makes a very creative use of unusual techniques like low angles or deformant lenses, and he often frames faces in extreme close ups while keeping the background out of focus, which makes a very effective way of letting us now of the malignant influence of the house on its inhabitants. "},{"Title":"You Do Not Fight This House!","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although a certain Wiki site lists the existence of 135 haunted-house films--and I'm sure there must be more, with a new one being released, it seems, every few months--the Big 3, for this viewer, have long been 1958's The House on Haunted Hill, 1963's The Haunting and 1973's The Legend of Hell House. The first, a William Castle-directed picture that has long been a baby-boomer favorite, is undeniably scary, although much of the picture's ghoulish occurrences, as it turns out, are man-made machinations in the furtherance of a sinister scheme. Robert Wise's 1963 film is considered by many (including myself) the single most frightening film ever made, although nothing blatantly horrible is ever shown, and the film's ubercreepy happenings just might all be the product of Eleanor Vance's (Julie Harris') deranged mind. And then there is the '73 film, which, I get the feeling, is often dismissed as a poor cousin of its 1963 forebear, but which a recent viewing has once again demonstrated, to this viewer, to be the most harrowing, nerve-racking and possibly edgiest of the bunch. In TLOHH, which Richard Matheson scripted and which was based on his 1971 novel Hell House (Matheson had already written a very scary haunted-house short story called Slaughter House in 1953, as a sort of warm-up), not only are the hauntings incontrovertibly genuine, but bloody, horrifying and murderous, as well. As it's referred to in the film, the Belasco House, aka Hell House, is the Mt. Everest of haunted houses...and for good reason, as it turns out!In TLOHH, as in The Haunting, a quartet of investigators goes to an abode with a very bad reputation to investigate the paranormal. Here, dying millionaire Deutsch (Roland Culver) sends the team off to ascertain if there really is such a thing as survival after death. The team consists of a physicist, Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill), who is accompanied by his beautiful wife, Anne (Gayle Hunnicutt); a mental medium, Florence Tanner (former child actress Pamela Franklin, top billed here); and a physical medium, Ben Fischer, the only survivor of a previous Hell House investigation (Roddy McDowall). Barrett believes that the house's spectral manifestations are the result of mindless, directionless energy forces that can be dissipated with a new scientific gizmo of his, whereas Tanner is very much a proponent of the theory of multiple surviving personalities being responsible for all the terror. But whose theory is correct?I've got to tell you, TLOHH is, quite simply, everything I think a great horror movie should be. Director John Hough, who had already helmed Twins of Evil and would go on to create such psychotronic favorites as (the Disney horror films) The Watcher in the Woods and Escape to Witch Mountain, here utilizes off-kilter camera angles, extreme close-ups and moody lighting to engender a decidedly menacing atmosphere, while the great lensing of DOP Alan Hume and the wonderfully eerie, mostly electronic score from Brian Hodgson and Delia Derbyshire only add to the deliciously nasty feel. All four leads are just marvelous, and are given ample opportunities to shine. British actress Franklin, who had previously pleased viewers in such spooky films as The Innocents, The Nanny and Our Mother's House, is just terrific in her ectoplasmic scene, and when fighting a demon-possessed cat, and when having sex with an invisible spirit; just try to NOT feel chilled when you see her giggling face, postcoitus. New Zealander Clive Revill is fine throughout, and never better than when reacting to a particularly violent dinnertime poltergeist attack. Gorgeous Gayle Hunnicutt, the only American in the cast, gets to have a few lustfully possessed, somnambulent interludes that should just amaze you, and Brit Roddy McDowall...well, he just about steals the show, for this viewer. Just look at how excellent he is while chiding scientist Barrett from atop the staircase--You do not fight this house!--and while engaged in mortal combat with the Belasco spirit. This is some kind of Oscar-calibre work here, at least of the Supporting Actor category. Just remarkable, really. As for Matheson's screenplay, yes, it does excise much of the sex and violence from his horrifying novel, but even still, is grimly effective. And as for Hell House itself, it just might be the most convincingly scary, from an architectural standpoint, of any of the houses in my Big 3. House on Haunted Hill's modernist abode (actually the Ennis House, in the Los Feliz section of Los Angeles) was certainly striking, as was The Haunting's Hill House (actually Ettington Hall, now the Ettington Park Hotel, in Stratford-upon-Avon), but Hell House, with its carved gates, gargoyled pillars and Gothic towers, really does look like the real deal (Hell House is actually Wykehurst Place, in Bolney, West Sussex). This is a house that tells you, at first glimpse, that all visitors will certainly be in for a rough ride!Two words of advice for all prospective viewers of this splendid horror film, one of my all-time faves. First, turn up the volume, as there is a LOT of almost subliminal mishegas transpiring on the soundtrack. And second, have a nice, hot cup of herbal tea at your side, both to calm you down and to fight off the chills that will assuredly be coursing down your spine. Trust me, you're gonna need it! "}{"Title":"Don't Go Into The House","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I consider this film to be a modern classic of psychological horror. Much is left to the imagination, obviously a tact that should be used more often.The Legend of Hell House is a twist on a classic plot a house that is the scene of repetitive evil acts including murder. Matheson's script (based upon his novel) is literate and sharp. His knowledge of science comes across in a fascinating way.Great performances by a veritable ensemble cast. However, I'm biased. I tend to love British film. Great tension between characters. A few erotic scenes as well. Many scares! The first time I saw this film, it really got to me. I almost jumped out of my chair.Several mediums and scientists are hired to investigate the Bellasco house, which is located in the English countryside. The house has been closed for years; the team gathers there for a week during the Christmas season. The Roddy McDowall character previously survived an encounter with the house. His investigative cohorts are however skeptical of his experiences in the house; they cannot begin to imagine the power of malignant spirits within.The tension builds slowly as the characters fight, regarding what investigatory route to take. Mediums communicate with an entity. The credibility of a parapsychologist is questioned.My suspension of disbelief kicked right in. The house fights back. Who, if anyone, will survive?You will not be able to predict the psychologically driven, quirky ending - nor will you be able to predict many scenes prior. "},{"Title":"Maybe Classic...","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love this film. It has a weird atmosphere that is uniquely its own and although I've seen it numerous times over the years every so often I'm drawn back to it for a repeat fix.The cast list consists of only seven people (if the uncredited Michael Gough is counted) &#x96; and two of those are virtual walk-ons &#x96; even though one is in a wheelchair, but you know what I mean. It is unashamedly low-budget, it has minimal special effects; it is shot from some jarring and off-kilter camera angles and always looked grainy, especially on the big screen; plus the script (by the usually reliable Richard Matheson and based on his own novel) comes over as somewhat hokey and overwrought in places.So why do I rate it?From the moment I first watched it I found it compelling and attention-grabbing. The electronic score by Delia Derbyshire and Brian Hodgson (they worked on the original Dr Who theme) is nerve-jangling eerie &#x96; all rumbling electronica and groaning, whispering synth chords. The central cast of four represent remarkably human characters with well defined personalities that, although they border on parody occasionally, are never clichéd. Most notable is Roddy McDowall as an initially creepy, nerdy and seemingly mentally damaged physical medium who gradually hits notes of sympathy and turns out to be the unexpected hero of the piece.It packs a lot into it running time, does HELL HOUSE, and doesn't rely on buckets of gore or cheap jump-scares for its thrills and chills, instead managing to be quietly and insidiously unnerving &#x96; setting up an intriguing scenario populated by flawed and believable individuals. Finally, two of the hottest women ever to grace a film of this ilk (Pamela Franklin and Gayle Hunnicutt) are right there before your eyes, absolutely radiating sexuality from the screen. If for no other reason, guys...Plotwise, dying millionaire Rudolph Deutsch offers £100.000 a pop to a physicist, his wife and two mediums if they can reassure him that there is life after death. Deutsch has bought the Belasco House (the Mount Everest of haunted houses) and intends it as the ideal stamping ground to find the proof he needs. He packs the gang of four off there for a week (just before Christmas, as it happens &#x96; nice festive break).As events play out, each character's personality flaws start to become the instruments of their own fate. Florence Tanner (Franklin) is a mental medium and virginal religious nut whose self-righteous self-belief is both rigid and arrogant. She thinks she's right when she's waaayyy off target. Barrett (Clive Revill) is a remote, brusque and clinically blinkered scientist who is closeted by cynical single-minded scepticism. His wife (Hunnicutt) is trapped in a sexless marriage and struggling to suppress her erotic urges beneath a cool exterior facade. Fischer (McDowall) has been here before &#x96; the only survivor of the last expedition to the Belasco House &#x96; and has no intention of letting his guard down, mentally shutting himself off and with a plan to just wait it out and collect the dough come payday.Ghostly manifestations, possessions and violent poltergeist activity kick in early on, and the house itself seems to have a personality of its own &#x96; with a deadly agenda to boot.If you've read Matheson's book, you'll perhaps find the movie version tame and watered down &#x96; the sexual elements and depravity factor de-intensified to a much lower setting. And the script isn't the author's most polished work. This isn't helped by some of the isolated pockets of overacting going on. McDowall comes off best, but even he does crank up the histrionics once in a while. That said, he has the most interesting character to portray and the scene where he delivers a verbal shopping-list of the depraved activities that went on in the house is an absolute joy to behold.I tend towards labelling HELL HOUSE as not quite classic, but then again, maybe it is. It holds something of a cult status, the long-deleted soundtrack album is a much sought after rarity in certain circles, a handful of rock bands (including Orbital) have been influenced by or sampled the audio from the movie for their tracks and Marvel once adapted the story for one of its comics.Not that it matters, but as I said at the outset, I love this film &#x96; for some reasons I'm fully conscious of, and for some, I suspect, I'm not. "},{"Title":"Not entirely original, but fun all the same","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Coming out in the same year as The Exorcist, The Legend of Hell House is a haunted house movie that comes across as a more adult version of House on Haunted Hill (1959)- a rich guy pays strangers to stay at a haunted house, one of them being a man who previously survived the house and expects death to come to the group. But besides this, The Legend of Hell House is a real ghost story and manages to be a creepier work.There are some tense moments, including when some psychic force attacks the physicist and nearly kills him, or the cat attack. There's also some frightening sexuality, like when the physicist's wife is sleepwalking, or rather possessed, and takes off her clothes (regrettably, no nudity seen), and when the female psychic is naked in bed and is attacked. Seeing her grinning with her body scratched up is creepy. It turns out the female psychic is played by the same actress as Flora in The Innocents (1961), now grown up.The Legend of Hell House works as a guilty pleasure, but it's not as relentlessly frightening or as brilliantly atmospheric as The Shining a few years later. It certainly has its moments, and for that it's worth checking out. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining, unusual Ghost Story movie.","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four Psychic Investigators (The late Roddy McDowall, Gayle Hunnicutt, Clive Revill and Pamela Franklin) are hired by an eccentric millionaire Mr. Deutsch (The late Ronald Culver) to investigate The Mt. Everest of haunted houses, It's the Legend of Hell House at the Belasco residence. Which they only have one week to solve the mystery, which this house claims to have plenty of unrested spirits as well. 20 years earlier, the house destroyed one team of researchers. Each member of the team goes to different hellish situations. This house is trying hard to make the four psychic investigators insane and trying to destroy them as well.Directed by John Hough (Escape to Witch Mountain, Return from Witch Mountain, The Watcher in the Woods) made an entertaining, stylish but flawed occasionally creepy Ghost movie. The leads gives interesting performances, especially the late McDowell and Franklin. Some unusual creative camera work by the late Alan Hume (Star Wars Episode SixReturn of the Jedi, A Fish Called Wanda, Lifeforce). The Legend of Hell House has an original, unusual premise, which it is based on a novel by Richard Matheson (I Am Legend, Somewhere in Time, Stir of Echoes). But i am sure, the novel was far more coherent and more sexuality in the story. But since the screenplay is written by Matheson, i am sure, he was forced to toned his story down.DVD has an fine if occasionally grainy anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an digitally remastered Dolby Digital 4.0 Surround Sound (The original Mono soundtrack included). DVD also includes the original theatrical trailer. The Legend of Hell House was probably an much scarier movie back in the 1970's. While the story is still intriguing, the movie (sadly) didn't scare me. Scary Movie 2 actually did parodied this movie! For all it's flaws, it is still worth a look. Michael Gough appears uncredited in a important plot moment. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"A haunted house film worth seeing.","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House isn't your average horror film about paranormal activity. I'll be up front with you right now, I'm not a big fan of movies about ghosts. I'm just not. I've come across a few that were decent, but I didn't think they were anything special or I just wound up not liking them at all. I actually liked this a lot more than I thought I would. The film isn't heavy on blood, gore, or cheap scares. In fact, more often than not, the scares come from what you don't see rather than what you actually do.The acting is definitely a strong point in the film. The entire cast has their moments of brilliance during the insanity Hell House is putting them through, but Roddy McDowall is the actor who stands out amongst the rest. His performance just seems to outshine everyone else and he steals just about every scene he's in. There's a scene in the film where he starts screaming and falls to the floor in a seizure like maneuver that reminded me a lot of some of the scenes with Bruce Campbell in Evil Dead. The explanation was that he was blocking himself off from the house since he had been there before. As a physical medium, he was basically putting up walls to defend himself from the house this time around. And in this scene, I guess he tried lowering his guard for a bit and...this happened. The speeches he gives though, his facial expressions and body language, and cold tone. It's weird, but a guy that you look at at the beginning of the film and say to yourself that you're going to hate him because he looks smarmy and only really cares about himself winds up being the highlight of the film.Another aspect of the film I really enjoyed were the special effects of the film. There's no CGI or anything, but the effects in the film are done very well. There's a scene where Ms. Tanner looks into her bedroom and sees someone lying under the covers in her bed and when she lifts up the covers, you can't see anyone but the door opens and slams like someone was getting up and leaving. It was just done very well. The effects like that were done very well. There are a few that look cheesy(cat in the shower scene, anyone?), but overall they look very good given how old the film is.The plot was surprising, as well. I wasn't expecting anything really original or anything, but the fact that science is involved so heavily in trying rid the house of its supernatural presence was not only interesting, but a breath of fresh air compared to other methods I would've expected based on other films.I think it's safe to say that The Legend of Hell House is one of the best haunted house films ever made and the best one I've seen as of this review. It probably isn't the type of horror film for gorehounds or if you're looking for a bloodfest. It's more of a paranormal film with a slight psychological twist. The acting is top notch and the story is a bit more clever than you may give it credit for at first glance. I'd recommend it to just about anyone. "},{"Title":"A Classic Haunted Theme","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House is a 1973 film adapted from a story entitled Hell House written by Richard Matheson (a mid-century Sci-Fi and Horror fiction writer who was responsible for the popular title I am Legend and also the short story Prey that was later used in Trilogy of Terror I & II, 1975 and 1996 respectively). Featured in this film is the seasoned (and now deceased) British actor, Roddy McDowall, who plays the part of Benjamin Fischer - a physical medium sent back into a mysterious mansion; a vast estate that slowly drives its inhabitants insane or issues bodily harm among them. As the sole survivor of a previous debacle involving Hell House, Benjamin is compensated monetarily to accept a second investigation, along-side a new team of experts; all of which are eager to uncover its mystery.The environment chosen for this movie is absolutely perfect. I was surprised to learn that this was not a movie produced under the Amicus Production label, as it seemed to match their formula so closely. If you are familiar with the works created by Amicus in the late 60's and 70's, then you can appreciate this comparison. A title like this is precisely why I enjoy a haunted house tale from the 1970s - perhaps it is largely due to the use of Technicolor that creates such a rich composition of colors suitable for this sub-genre.The advantage that a UK-based production company has lies within it's prime choice for actors, a trove of considerable talent. I must admit, other than acclaimed actor Roddy McDowall, I was unfamiliar with the others who were cast into this film; this lack of knowledge was irrelevant, however. Each individual provided a more than adequate performance, which left me constantly thinking ahead. Since this film was released before the days of high end special effects and computer generated graphics, they had to rely more on subtlety to get their message across. I find this highly appropriate, especially considering the subject matter because anything too over the top would have been silly and contrived. If I could draw an accurate comparison to an existing medium, I would say techniques such as these are more commonly found in theater...elements that are sometimes lost in translation when converting things from the stage to a full motion picture.I chose to omit specific plot details about this movie. Normally, I save that practice for z-grade features that I criticize rather than praise; this fine piece of story-telling has certainly won my approval. If you are a fan of a more classic and intelligent approach to Gothic horror, look no further than The Legend of Hell House. It wonderfully executes themes of mystery, suspense, and English horror at its finest -if only they worked Vincent Price into it somehow... "},{"Title":"This one will leave you afraid to turn off the lights.","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was 13 and I have seen it many times since. The terror does not lessen with multiple viewings.  Even as an adult it leaves me unnerved.  There is very little gore.  The frights play on everyone's fear of the unknown and the unseen. "},{"Title":"Not the usual ghost story","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'The Legend of Hell House'(1973)Four researchers agree to spend one week in house known to be inhabited by evil spirits and the scene of many murders in the past. This is a very different type of 'haunted house' movie with an excellent cast including Roddy McDowall and Clive Revill. Story and script by Richard Matheson. "},{"Title":"A classic haunted house film","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is not overly scarry by any means, but it's a well acted, well written film that never goes over the top. It is certainly one of the better haunted house flicks made (though none can top The Changeling). I only wish Hollywood would stop putting out the trash horror films they continuously spew out and would watch some of the classics and get back to basics. "},{"Title":"Richard Matheson masterpiece...","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Coming, as it does, from one of the 20th century's greatest fantasists, THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE (based, ostensibly, on the same case that inspired Shirley Jackson's brilliant novel, THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE), does not disappoint. I saw it in 1973 and promptly hunted down a copy of the book upon which it was based, HELL HOUSE (which only added to my appreciation of the film, as well as Matheson's amazing storytelling ability). A recent viewing reinforced my initial impressions. Beautifully directed, with a superb synthetic score that only enhances the chill one gets from the eerie goings-on, THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE rates a 10 on a scale of 1 to. Matheson's particular blend of science fiction and fantasy with spiritualism is as subtle here- and as strong- as in most of his work (I AM LEGEND, which inspired George Romero's NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD, THE SHRINKING MAN, A STIR OF ECHOES, BID TIME RETURN- the book that became the movie SOMEWHERE IN TIME, rightfully hailed as one of the greatest love stories of all time-, WHAT DREAMS MAY COME, etc.). A must-see, must-read.    "}{"Title":"Not quite a classic, but good of it's type","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Haunted house films aren't what they used to be. Today they're about spirits reaching the living through modern technology or ones with long black hair that make funny noises. Some, like the American remake of 'The Ring' and the 2001 film 'The Others,' are a couple of the better examples of modern horror films dealing with the supernatural. But like the makers of a lot of other genre films, the people behind some of these types of films seem more interested in using visual effects and sometimes even gore to scare the audience. I mean sure, you have to keep up to date on things, but when did suspense, visceral scares, minimal effects, and psychological scares start becoming so underused? Let's face it, mainstream audiences would rather sit through the new 'The Amityville Horror' again than the original 'The Haunting.' This 1973 film isn't as good as the latter, but is well worth your time if you enjoyed said film.Pros Dripping with spooky atmosphere. Good strong performances from the cast. The house is one of the darkest and scariest locations in the movies. Plus it's a treat for the eyes due to it's beautiful architecture and interior decoration. A subtle and creepy music score. Plenty moments and images that'll give you the chills. Despite being made at a time when many horror movies featured visual effects and gore to shock, this one is more like the old fashioned haunted house flicks. Moves at a good pace once it gets going.Cons Looks very dated. Some typical haunted house clichés. Ending is a bit of a letdown.Final thoughts Not really that scary, but a competently made and still pretty chilling film from a long gone era of film-making. If you need lots of action to keep you interested I suggest looking elsewhere, but if you're in the mood for a slow descent into hell then this is a pretty good choice. Wanna bet they'll remake it within the next year or two? My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"'So you don't belive in ghosts.....","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The best ghost story I have ever seen. Not to be confused with Hill House or House on Haunted Hill There is very little swearing, very little nudity, very little blood, it's not a 90's remake, it's not full of garbage music, it's not full of bad actors who have to depend on C.G.I. to get through the story. It is a fast paced, under you skin, look in the closet, watch a comedy when its over, ghost story that is still very erie today. It has been thirty years almost since 20th Centery Fox released this film, but it stil gives me the creeps. Better than any other ghost story made in the last 15 years (Aside from The Others, and The Sixth Sense or Stir of Echos) This film has solid perfromances by great actors, great sound and visuals, great direction, and a house that can only be compared to that of the 1963 film The Haunting Hill House. Turn out the lights, snuggle with your partner, and be prepared to get the Balsco scared right out of you. HIGHLY RECOMENDED. "},{"Title":"Ignore my other message, but still BEWARE THE EVIL CAT PUPPET!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Summary Beware the evil cat puppet!My favorite scene involves the attack of the young female psychic by a killer cat puppet. Each shot of her batting away the evil stuffed cat toy (obviously hurled haphazardly at her by a stage-hand off-screen) is followed by a scene of a real cat hissing at the camera from the floor.This sequence, in addition to the fulsome, pedantic scientific explanations of the paranormal and an inexplicably massive ghost-killer machine (that looks more like one of those ice-boxes outside convenient stores), makes this movie a complete howl.The secret to the film is obvious Hell House is haunted by Merry Maids, Inc. Notice how the house gets cleaner--dust bunnies and spider webs disappearing left and right--as the film progresses.The film definitely would have been livened up by an unmanned Hoover chase or two.Saved by fine, earnest performances, especially from the Dowall(as always). Definitely worth of a look. A strong 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One scary movie!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is by far one of the scariest movies I have ever seen. I have it on VHS and only watch it when I really need a good scare. The atmosphere and music really get you in the mood, and the acting is outstanding. As for the ending, why do people think of it as a letdown? I found it intriguing and interesting. Hard to tell what people are looking to watch nowadays. Maybe they ought to stick to Scooby Doo or Ghostbusters.10 out of 10. If you want a good, creepy ghost movie, watch this one by all means. "},{"Title":"Moderately suspenseful haunted tale","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just picked this up at a flea market this morning because i had heard that it was similar to The Haunting. After rushing home and putting the tape in the vcr, i was a little disappointed. It was only slightly scary, although i did like the atmospheric cinematography. This was my first look at Pamela Franklin and i thought she did a credible job in the lead role. In general though, it is not near as well done as The Haunting.  "},{"Title":"I agree with Marky Waters","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you haven't yet read Marky Waters' review, it would serve you well to do so. He has outlined the problems with movies bearing similar titles and was rather hard on remakes. I read his review and I was amazed at how close his opinions are to mine. The Legend of Hell House is a dorky movie that unfortunately attached itself to The Haunting based on Shirley Jackson's novel, Haunting of Hill House. To me, The Haunting was and still is, the best ghost movie made. There is nothing more frightening than the unseen. Anyway, The Legend of Hell House is worth an evening's viewing. Not particularly scary but it's entertaining in a dated way. However...if you have not had the pleasure of seeing The Haunting, do yourself a favor. Find it and savor it with the lights out. "},{"Title":"Sublime","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've always found THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE rather strange . I first saw it round about 1982 when it was broadcast on ITV and discussing it with my school mates the next day we all thought it was rubbish . However it still still stuck out in my mind for some reason and I still watch it when it's broadcast on television and my opinion is that it's still a very disappointing film even though I get the instinct to watch it againThe opening is very effective with scientist Barret being paid a massive amount of money ( In those days ) to spend a week in a haunted house . What makes the opening so effective is the way director John Hough shoots the pre title sequence - Moody and atmospheric are very understated adjectives and having one of the characters being collected from a train station does give the movie some credibility . A character hanging around a cold and dreary train station ! Cinema doesn't get more realistic than this . However as soon as the characters arrive at the house things start going awry , not only to the characters but for a critical audience .First of all how many people do you know that are allowed to take their spouse to work ? I can't really get my head around this for some reason . I also couldn't take Florence Tanner seriously either , I mean she's so young I thought she'd need permission from her parents to stay out late never mind spend a week at a haunted house . It also doesn't help that Ms Tanner is known as a  Mental medium  since the word  Mental  means in British slang a violent looney . And isn't there something illogical about  Physical medium  Ben Fisher ? He survived the previous events at Hell House but has no qualms about going back . He must be insanely brave , or insanely greedy for 100 grand , or it could be that he's an obvious literary device used by the screenwriter for exposition purposes That's probably my main gripe with the movie - the screenplay . I do know that writer Richard Matheson is a legend and I have the deepest respect for most of his output but THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE seems underdeveloped . The characters arrive at the house but with the exception of a dinner table scene nothing that can be described as really nasty takes place . This also ties in with internal continuity and logic . Eight people that Ben Fisher was with died previously at the house but apart from the dinner scene previously mentioned the characters never look like they're going to be in mortal peril from the ghostly spectre . It should also be pointed out that if a bunch of people had come to a sticky end in the house they'd be gangs of policemen , forensic scientists , newspaper hounds and ghoulish members of the public swarming all over the location but for plot convenience the house and grounds are completely deserted , too deserted to be taken seriously for a mass murder site So for the most part THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE is slow , dull and full of plot holes . There are a small number of massive positives like the early scenes and Delia Derbyshire and Brian Hodgson's bone chilling muzak ( Ms Derbyshire composed the DOCTOR WHO theme . Enough said ) which do linger in the mind and gives this movie a sublime reputation as a moody spine chiller when memory brings it up . But to be honest it's a disappointing film when re-watched "},{"Title":"Not That Legendary","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's always interesting to watch older movies. This movie probably predates the majority of IMDb users including myself.Hell House, as it's dubbed, is a mansion haunted by the spirit of Emeric Belasco. Four people have gone there to draw out this spirit and solve the mystery of Hell House.The movie is more of an erotic horror. The spirit seems absorbed with cohabitating with the medium, Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin), and causing Mrs. Barrett to philander with the male medium, Ben Fisher (Roddy McDowall). When Belasco's spirit isn't behind some sexually charged event he is trying to hurt people. Some real S&M stuff. And this from a man that was born in 1879 England; you'd think he'd be more enlightened and sophisticated.For a 1973 movie it provided a few scares--mostly in the jump scare form. The movie was more mysterious than scary. I see how it paved the way for a very similar movie titled The Entity which came out in the early 80's. The Legend of Hell House wasn't that legendary after all. "},{"Title":"An honest review","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay so the main guy is an annoying brute who really doesn't care if anyone else dies as long as he can keep preaching his all mighty opinion. The other guy is an annoying constant philosophy of the matter spouting idiot who shouldn't even be there because everyone died during his last visit and the other medium knows she could be killed in this house but insists on slowly accepting and naively succumbing to its evil... even going so low as to have sex with a demon in her guest bedroom. The smartest person in this movie is the wife and she is just in the house supporting her husband with no knowledge of the supernatural at all like the others.. yet and still with all of that being said they just do not make many good, original haunted house films so the setting and unique sequences in the movie alone make it a must watch and an unforgettable experience... the question is was it really a good one. "},{"Title":"Spooky atmospherics, but the story's not very compelling","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Released in 1973, The Legend of Hell House details the experiences of four investigators of a haunted mansion in England over the course of five days. It's a risky endeavor because there was only one survivor of past investigators (20 years earlier), the character played by Roddy McDowall. In other words, the house killed 'em all! The other cast members are Pamela Franklin, Clive Revill and Gayle Hunnicutt. I saw 1959's House on Haunted Hill earlier this summer and was struck by its lameness. The Legend of Hell House came out a mere 14 years later and it's a significant improvement, as far as creepy ambiance and realism go. If you appreciate movies with spooky atmospherics you'll want to check it out. Unfortunately, the screenplay by Richard Matheson (from his book), turns the story into a series of disjointed vignettes over the course of five days in the mysterious house, which prevents the movie from creating momentum. You might be wondering how this is a flaw because, after all, how else would you chronicle such a story? But there's a way to do it where there's a sense of cohesion, like 1971's The Devil Walks at Midnight (aka The Devil's Nightmare). Nevertheless, the movie has undeniable positive elements and is worth checking out if you like haunted house movies or the cast.The movie runs 95 minutes and was shot in England.GRADE C+ "}{"Title":"Superb Cast In A Standard But Good Haunted House Movie","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Generally speaking, I find haunted house movies rather disappointing. They're pretty standard - I mean, how much can you do with them that's unique original? The Legend Of Hell House doesn't really rise above that in most ways. It IS, after all, a haunted house movie. Most of what happens in it isn't especially fresh or original or surprising. At least the movie is honest in acknowledging that it's not based on a true story, although it tries to establish some credibility right off the top with a caption saying that the things in this movie could happen, with the words attributed to a clairvoyant and psychic adviser to European royalty. Right. That seals the deal for me!Having said all that, I do want to say that this is one of the more effective haunted house movies I've seen. Director John Hough made absolutely superb use of the setting of the house. After a brief introduction to the story, the whole thing is set inside the house and that works very well. Interestingly, I found the movie far more effective when there was nothing happening. Once tables start shaking and objects start flying and doors start opening and closing you're just into the typical genre. It doesn't really hit home. But when nothing unusual was happening, you're dealing with the setting and with the cast - and that was the other strong point of this movie.The cast was superb and the characters are interesting. There's a physicist who dabbles in parapsychology (Clive Revill) and his wife (Gayle Hunnicutt), and a couple of mediums - Florence (Pamela Franklin) and Benjamin (Roddy McDowall), who is supposedly the only one who escaped the house alive and sane after a previous attempt to figure out what was going on many years before. They all did very well in these parts. They kept my attention, and when the focus was on them and not on the unusual goings on, this was an even more effective movie. They don't get along well, they don't trust each other. They're interesting, and their relationship was interesting.The weakest part of the movie was the purpose of investigating the house. I never really understood it. A wealthy man has hired all of them to spend a week (only and specifically a week) to supposedly prove that there's life after death. How are they going to do that? How are they going to come up with objective, indisputable proof? I didn't really get that. And even if they figure out a way to do that and get close to doing it, why, then, only a week? So this man, who wants proof of life after death, is going to pull the plug after seven days, even if another 24 hours would make the difference? That seemed silly and self-defeating on his part.That is a weakness, and it is, in many ways, pretty cliché and standard for the genre. But the directing and acting make up for those weaknesses. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Richard Matheson's LOW point","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Richard Matheson is a GOD when it comes to horror/sci-fi stories. He wrote the scripts to some of the best Twilight Zone episodes, his screenplays for movies and other TV shows never disappoint. His novels are in high acclaim. But it all comes sliding straight down into a dumpster with this movie adaptation of his novel, Hell House.For one thing the plot of the movie or at least the exact mission of the people who are investigating Hell house isn't really sure. This dying old rich man hires a physicist, a spiritual medium, and a physical medium to go investigate this old supposedly haunted house with the expressed purpose of finding out if there's life after death. Okay, that's fine, but could you please follow up on it ? They stay in the house while the physicist conducts experiments using the mediums. Stupid experiments like testing one of the medium's blood pressure and pulse rate. I had no idea that whenever I went to the doctors they were testing for evidence of the after life ! The whole point of their mission gets buried up when the female medium begins saying that the owner of the house had a son. Okay ? So ? They have lengthy discussions and even quarrels over whether or not the owner had a son. Who cares that's not even the point of them being there ! Do you want to know why the house is haunted by demonic spirits in the first place ? Roddy McDowall's character says why in one of the most stupidest monologues in a horror film which amounts to sex, drugs, alcohol, and vampirism being responsible for the evilness. May as well throw in Rock 'N' Roll too. Couldn't Matheson have just not have told us why so it would seem possibly more mysterious and perhaps a bit more scary ? Could the answer have been more cliché ? That could be any American household for all we know. The investigation then winds down into trying to rid the house of its evil spirits. I thought this was about finding out about if the after life exists or not. Or no wait, I thought it was about the owner's son ?The physicist isn't really a strong character. He always has a perplexed look on his face and spends a lot of scenes lying on a bed talking or sleeping. And how does he test for the spirit life ? He hooks the female medium up to a machine that measures her pulse rate. I guess everyone in a hospital is part of an experiment to see if the afterlife exists as well. His wife comes along for the ride and is a totally throwaway character who does nothing. The only legitimate performances are Roddy McDowall's and Pamela Frankin. They're at least interesting. The film does have a decent chilling atmosphere, but nothing too scary happens. There are however good special effects such as when the furniture in the dining room gets thrown around at them, but other than that nothing too exciting. They find a skeleton in the basement with (insert dramatic music for the Puritans watching this) what looks like to be a bottle that once held .... alcohol (insert thunder and lightening here). Blood seeps out of a shower, but its revealed to be a dead cat, a perfectly natural occurrence. And an embalmed dead guy in a chair who was the owner of the house (who is Michael Gough in a surprising uncredited appearance) . That's the only way I can really discuss this movie as isolated occurrences. The narrative of this movie is set up as a journal almost. Each scene gives the date and time written across the screen. Just a minor complaint, but sometimes it'll say Dec. 23 730 AM. Then the next time will be something like Dec. 23 830 PM. What did they do in between ? Aren't you curious too ? Sometimes the scenes will go on with only one character or two characters. Where are the other two ? There's only four people in this house are the others off investigating or still sleeping ? It's never followed up on. And in the end they bring in a huge machine that sucks out all of the spirit life. What ??? So this entire time the physicist knew spirits existed ? I mean they have a machine that gets rid of them. He could've just told the old man at the beginning that yes spirits exist and there most likely is an afterlife. This is really a low point for such a great writer. In contrast the TV movie, The Night Strangler, with a Matheson original script, came out the same exact year as this and it almost seems like when compared that they were written by two different writers. "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now this is a bit weird. After reading a rather good piece in the latest issue of, We Belong Dead, on the Lust for a Vampire/Vampire Lovers/Twins of Evil trilogy I discovered that I had probably been wrong to dismiss the last with the Collinson twins. So, I ordered it and it arrived today. All set to watch it, I suddenly decided to watch The Legend of Hell House instead. Impressed afterwards i checked to see if the Hell House director had done anything else. Not much else, but you are ahead of me, he did make Twins of Evil! Anyway, this film is even more spooky and a great example of what can be done with a great story (Richard Matheson) and a good set and score plus director with some imagination. Not as graphic as the book but otherwise follows this haunted house investigation story faithfully enough although I'm pretty sure the very end is changed. For me all that spoiled this a bit was what I considered overacting by Roddy McDowall in the final scenes, but others have enjoyed them, so there you are. Probably best to see this before reading the book but whatever you do, read the book. "},{"Title":"Haunted House Freaky Deakiness","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hill House tells a familiar story to anyone who has watched a haunted house flick or the SyFy channel over the last decade or so a group of intrepid paranormal investigators sets up shop in a house rumored to be very dangerously haunted, hoping to at last record proof of life after death. Of course they get more than they bargained for. So why see this one? Mainly for some great performances. Roddy McDowell in particular turns in some spectacular acting as the survivor who returns for another round of terror. Although some of the special effects are dated (there is a scene with a possessed cat that might make some audience members titter) overall the production values are top notch for the era. The score is one of the spookiest I've ever heard. And the villain - you always need a great villain - is the freakiest freak that ever freaked. This movie is not safe for children! However (spoiler!) you are not going to believe this ghost's reason for being a super freak. It made me laugh out loud. If you like high camp you're going to love the revelation scene. If you don't, you might want to pretend the movie ended right before that scene. I have no reservations about recommending this movie regardless. It's a classic of the genre. "},{"Title":"Pamela and Roddy Shine","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this film when it was first released in the movie theaters. I enjoyed it way back then and have seen it several times since then. It still holds up well, though perhaps a bit dated compared to more recent horror/ghost films. The two performances that stand out are of Pamela Franklin and Roddy McDowell. Both shine quite well in this film, especially Mr. McDowell. He is missed as he always brought an element of class to a film, whether it be good or bad. Ms. Franklin (The Innocents, Our Mother's House, The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie) is especially appealing. I believe she started making films at the age of 11 and by the time this movie came out she had blossomed into a very beautiful young woman. As always she gives an excellent performance. It is a pity she gave up acting sometime in the late 70s to raise a family, never to return film or television again.I read the original novel on which this film is based on after seeing it in the theater. The movie is very much toned down compared to the book. I have never been fond of remakes, but this is one I would like to see made again as long as it follows the novel more closely and is done well. So much is left out in the film version, probably due to the time period and culture of the day. It would have received an R rating if it was more faithful to the book. Nevertheless, this is a decent celluloid version of it. It is sufficiently creepy, even today. It's scariness is not as intense as the original version of The Haunting (which scared me silly), my all time favorite ghost film but still is very suspenseful, with a very interesting storyline. What I don't like is how this film has been marketed; ie. the photo on the cover of the DVD. This is not really a violent film, yet they chose the one scene that shows blood for the DVD cover. That is very tacky. "},{"Title":"A house that was born bad..","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" How I wish I could like this one more. The ending is notoriously stupid and the movie seems to be playing it serious. We get there via a 'de-haunting' machine built to rid a place of ghostly presence via an electromagnetic blast. The science behind it almost makes sense, but can you imagine an Exorcist where Father Carras rids Megan of the Devil by pressing buttons on a remote-control/Ipod type device? Adapted by a Richard Matheson novel that purposely updates the same haunted house idea behind Robert Wise's The Haunting, those are the ways it fails to. As though in trying to be too radical, it forgets to make basic amenities to common movie sense. Even in a supernatural horror movie, some things are pushing it too far. The ways it succeeds though make my mouth water just thinking of them.Whereas The Haunting was stuffy and spinstery, like a chaste old woman sipping tea on her verandah, this one is a sexual deviant, in turns angry and amused by its own personality. It is distorted faces filmed in closeups with widescreen lenses, nightmare literally lurking in space receeding in the distance, faces distorted in grotesque intimacy, it is rooms filled with tappestries colored fire-engine red, it is Roddy McDowal writhing in catalepsy on the floor before a fireplace, no explanations given or asked. This is more than things that go bump in the night, unlike The Haunting, this one has a visual imagination. It becomes silly in the end, but getting there is some of the most interesting horror cinema of the 70's. Viewers who like the immediacy with which Polanski or Lynch attack space will have a field day here. "},{"Title":"Academy Pictures hammers out Matheson's ghost","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the film that introduced me to the works Richard Matheson. Believe it or not, when I had first seen this film at the old Fortway Theater in Brooklyn NY (upon its original theatrical release), I was not aware that Matheson had such a body of work. From his work on the original Twilight Zone series to The Omega Man (a screenplay of his I am Legend) and his many wonderful, claustrophobic novels I was hooked. There are few modern (ish) ghost stories that are worthy to be included with the works of Dickens, Henry James and Shirley Jackson; perhaps King and Ann Rivers Siddons The House Next Door, but before them Matheson with this novel and certainly A Stir of Echos. It was from Matheson that I learned to love the Horror Novel and through him became a fan of Poe and all the other wonderful works in that genre.The film, itself, is visually produced in the style of the Hammer Films that had become so popular in the United Kingdom and the United States. With many establishing shots of an English manor house, Gothic looking scenery and large cavernous sets. The sets themselves are masterfully decorated with many easter eggs if one was to look for them (pay attention to the titles of the books on the books shelves). At the time the Major American film distributors were crying our for pictures like the Dracula Series from Hammer and it provided a chance for independents to get in on the Horror wave of the 1960's and early 1970's. Even Hammer, was never, quite able to catch the nuance of the ghost story, but here, television director John Hough, shows some style and pathos ( I have to admit thought that at times it resembles a television production instead of a film, similar to the Dark Shadows films, which were also directed by a television veteran Dan Curtis, that were released during the same time period). It doesn't quite achieve the claustrophobia of the novel, even Matheson himself is not able to translate his visual descriptions to screenplays (except perhaps in his teleplay for the Twilight Zone episode Nightmare at 2000 Feet), but there is a certain feeling of dread that builds up throughout the film and has a fine pay off in the end. Roddy McDowall was in the post period of his Planet of the Apes films and was giving some pretty desperate performances at the time (mostly on television), but gives a wonderful performance here. As corny as the ending may appear now, with Mr. McDowall confronting the evil spirit of Emeric Belasco, it was thrilling at its time.I hope you give the film a chance and enjoy it for its place in cinema history and take a chance to read the Matheson works. If you love horror (or are just horror-curious) you will be happy you did. "},{"Title":"You wouldn't want to stay in this house.....","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Directed by John Hough and featuring a brilliant screenplay by Richard Matheson(upon who's novel the film is based),1973's The Legend of Hell House is perhaps the ultimate haunted house film.Filled with images of a fog covered Gothic mansion,strange noises,a frightening back story concerning the previous occupants and disembodied voices.Dr Lionel Barrett(Clive Revill)is given the task of proving that there is life after death by wealthy Mr Deutsch(Roland Culver).The experiment takes place over a week at the notorious Balasko house.Lionel is accompanied by his wife Ann(Gayle Hunnicutt),top medium Florence Tanner(Pamela Franklin)and the only survivor from the last experiment-which left eight people dead and seriously injured-psychic Benjamin Franklin Fischer(Roddy McDowall.They are no sooner in and settled when the evil in the house begins to manifest itself.Strange noises,temperature drops and Florence is visited by the spirit of Balaskos dead son and during a sitting manifests ectoplasm.Fischer has his mind closed to any spiritual intrusions due to what happened last time and he warns the group to leave,advice which we know they should pay heed to but they don't.Despite a good first half filled with some decent scares,the film loses it's way in the last ten minutes with an unsatisfactory ending.However what presides it is worth watching and seeing McDowall shout a ghost into submission is well worth the price of the DVD anyway.With a creepy electronic score by Brian Hodgson and Delia Derbyshire which adds greatly to the atmosphere.The Legend of Hell House is a classic British horror which gets away giving us more on screen scares than 1963's The Haunting ever could.With excellent performances especially McDowall's and Franklin's and great special effects,this is a must for fans of the horror genre. "},{"Title":"Haunted house movie that doesn't age that well","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie over twenty years ago and remember it being quite intense, with suspense and the unseen causing cold dread and shivers up the spine.But that was over twenty years ago.Since then, it has been rendered somewhat insipid by more modern movies in the horror genre (not all of them good but many providing more shocks, jumps and suspense than this one).Watching this movie again was enjoyably nostalgic but did nothing to raise the hairs on the back of my neck. I give it a score of 6/10, as it's not a bad film and, in it's day, it was a more formidable viewing experience. "},{"Title":"An extremely creepy & well thought-out ghost story","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Based on the novel by Richard Matheson (I Am Legend), The Legend of Hell House tells the tale of an investigation team that heads to the famous Hell House in order to discover the secret to life after death. Among the group is skeptic physicist Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill); his witch-looking wife Ann (Gayle Hunnicutt); cute psychic Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin); and traumatised Ben Fischer (Roddy McDowall), the only surviving member of the last team that previously attempted to investigate the evil house. Two previous attempts were made to rid the house of its evil. Can this team succeed and solve the mystery? Or will Hell House claim more victims and keep its secrets safe?As a big fan of haunted houses (both in horror films and in the 'real world'), it may be a surprise that I never picked up this classic British ghost story. With such films as The Haunting, El Orfanato, and Kill, Baby... Kill! high up on my list of favourite horrors, I knew that The Legend of Hell House would be right up my alley.To start, I suppose it's best to speak of the titled house. From first look, the house is a brilliantly chosen and monumentally frightening building. Spires and towers break the sky. And, what gave me a bit of a chill, the windows are bricked up so that no one can see in. Once the story begins, it seems like a basic haunted house flick without much straying from the typical. You have your séances and moving furniture and black cats and disembodied voices and such. . . but, things change as the people within become more & more affected by the house and spirits. Fischer, who should be the most insane, is a nice play against the formerly sane Ann, whose sexual frustration takes an alarming leap as her madness forces her to try to hook up with anything she sees. The characters play well against one another, illuminating each other's strengths and weaknesses.Technically speaking, the film is superb. The script is very good and uses a nice, slow burn to deliver the fascinating story. The acting is good, though occasionally over-the-top (but fitting for those occasions). The direction and cinematography outdoes even the script as it perfectly captures the Gothic architecture of the decaying Hell House (though we might blame the laughable stuffed cat on the direction). Another mark to commend is the cinematography, which makes for quite a beautiful look.In the end, The Legend of Hell House stands tall against some of the best haunted-house horrors around and deserves much more recognition than the mere 2,700 IMDb votes would suggest. If you like films like those I mentioned in the first paragraph, definitely give this film a look.Final Verdict 9/10.-AP3- "}{"Title":"Not An Absolute Original, But Still Great On Its Own","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After he ended his longtime collaboration with Sam Arkoff at American International Pictures, Jim Nicholson started up his own company, Academy Pictures, to develop some high-quality horror projects. THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE was to be the first of many films he would be producing; unfortunately, he died soon after the release of HELL HOUSE.Based on the bestseller by Richard Matheson, he adapted it (with a great debt owed to Shirley Jackson) and pretty much put it up on-screen intact with the able assist from director John Hough (WATCHER IN THE WOODS). What resulted is yet another entry into the Top Ten Ghost Stories of All Time.The Belasco House is the Mount Everest of haunted houses a repository of unlimited psychic energy and an evil so powerful and unrelenting that it seems to have physical substance. Can it be destroyed, contained or at least studied? Physicist Dr. Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill) intends to find out. Accompanying him are three psychic mediums with different skills his wife, Ann (Gayle Hunnicutt), the virginal Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin), and Benjamin Fischer (Roddy McDowall). Fischer is the only member of the team who participated in an earlier attempt to deconstruct the mystery of the house. He had a complete nervous breakdown, and every member of THAT party wound up dead.So why would he come back? The same reason why a man almost killed climbing Mt. Everest would try it again...because it's THERE. And he's determined not to let it beat him a second time.To prevent leaking any spoilers, I only want to add that if you want to be scared half out of your wits by something more than having fake blood literally dripping off your TV screen, turn off all the lights in the house and pop this one in...ALONE. And no matter how much you want to do it, don't turn them back on until the very end.For a movie made over thirty years ago, this still holds up surprisingly well. It makes one sadly wonder what great genre flicks Nicholson could've added to his company's slate, had he lived a little longer.Oh, yeah! Just to pique your curiosity even more, watch for a great cameo by one of the great British horror legends in HELL HOUSE. I won't say who it is, but if you know your classic horror, you'll recognize him right off the bat. "},{"Title":"A first rate Haunted House Film that will make you shiver.","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film with it's very limited casting is a triumph in its genre. Along with The Haunting is is one of the most unsettling haunted house stories there is. Clive Revill, Pamela Brown, Roddy McDowell, and Michael Gough (remember Alfred from the Bat Man movies) make it happen. The incredible thing is Michael Gough is terrifying as Emeric Belasco, and he is already dead. His character radiates that much force. But it takes excellent acting by the others to bring that across. The sound score, an electric score, sets the tone as the fog hovers and the very structure of England's most haunted house takes on yet another group of psychic researchers, only one of which (played by a suitably ironic McDowell) survived the last research group. Good dialogue, but the atmosphere is what makes the film. "},{"Title":"Extremes and Limits","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The outline of this small-scale picture, as so often, is the confrontation of supernatural forces and science (rather, it's superficial caricature). In many aspects, the plot is strikingly similar to Robert Wise' Haunting (where instead of a Hell, a Hill House is in focus!). Four people stay in a haunted mansion a few days before Christmas, trying to solve it's riddles with the measures of physics and parapsychology, and finding themselves entangled in a maelstrom of madness, mystery and murder. Some plot-holes give the impression as if more scenes were filmed, or at least planned, than are actually included. The ending, however, is &#150; hm, interesting. Hell House still has too many clichés and to few original ideas, except for a handful of intriguing moments. The scenes with Pamela Franklin's character speaking in different tongue are particularly effective. Sexual connotations are surprisingly strong. The film has a charming 70s feel to it, something that alone makes it worth watching. Most of the professional critique available is utterly negative, but in this genre, it is very easy to find films less entertaining and with a worse direction. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Haunted House Films","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House easily makes it into my personal top few haunted house film list. It doesn't quite top The Haunting (1963 version), but it runs it pretty close.Firstly the plot is great. Like The Haunting, a group of paranormal investigators are paid to stay in the Belasco House, the Mount Everest of haunted houses. Belasco was a pervert and general deviant in many ways, and his spirit lives on in the house. The cast is also universally excellent, Roddy Mcdowell is very good as the only survivor of a previous stay in the house, Pamela Franklin is also great as the young medium.The Legend of Hell House almost has too much action. It lays the ghostly sightings and other paranormal activity on very thick, with one scare after another and very few lulls. This is great because it keeps the atmosphere going at all times, I can't think of another film that has so much content from start to finish. Also we know from early on that the house is very much haunted, no ambiguous insanity option in this film.The Legend of Hell House is a very well made film, the house looks excellent, the cast is very good, the atmosphere is nice and dark, the plot meanders around well and there is a really unexpected finish. To top it all there is also a possessed cat, you can't ask for much more than that. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Subtle horror film probably lost on today's audiences.","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Having seen this film as a kid, it very much scared the hell(no pun intended) out of me. Watching it in adulthood, I expected it to lose a lot of impact. Surprisingly, it held up very well indeed. Yes, the acting is a bit over the top at times, but it helps to sell the implied horrors much better than hordes of phony-looking CGI concoctions aimed at a preteen crowd. What is not seen is always scarier. A basic horror film concept utterly lost on the blood/guts/torture-fest makers of today. This film actually takes the supernatural seriously. With Clive Revill's Dr. Barrett being the voice of science, and Pamela Franklin's Florence Tanner being the 'mental medium.' Roddy McDowell's Ben Fisher is the spent, traumatized 'physical medium' who barely survived the last attempt to investigate the Mt. Everest of haunted houses 20 yrs. earlier. Some critics have called the movie slow; well, if you want kids to get chainsawed every three minutes...don't bother. The body count(yes, there are deaths in the film) is low, but since we get to know these characters as flawed, realistic people, there is a sense of loss when they die. Personally, I felt the pace to be very measured, and it built up the suspense well. Okay, Roddy McDowell chomps down scenery here and there, but it is a sincere performance. His character is just that high-strung, so it works. The cat-attacks are very well-shot(i.e. the rolling lamp on the floor, the dizzying camera work) and the séances are more than a little hair raising. The best mood builder of the film is the electronic music score. Reminiscent of TV's NIGHT GALLERY. The tones produced are truly unearthly. If you like more suspense in your horror, buy the DVD, wait for a cool night or an overcast day and enjoy! "},{"Title":"The house always wins","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I hate to get all out of sequence with this review(so don't think I get my kicks out of it or something)but I just have to mention the great theme with the black cat first.He or she is scary as hell. The rest of this is not particularly scary like some say,but what horror movie is?No really,I understand horror movies can be full of tension and have a lot of shock moments,but I'll have to try really hard to actually be afraid of one.Anyway,the movie itself is about a bunch of people who go to check out if a haunted house is still haunted and sure enough,it is.Next upcheck if white sharks still like blood.The investigators then just walk around trying to figure out why the house and whatever's in it wants to kill everyone while getting the occasional silverware thrown at them.You know I really didn't see the reason coming.To say it with a terrible cliché,they don't make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite horrors","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was 15 or so.My friends and I watched it late one night while we were in an old dilapidated farmhouse in the middle of nowhere.And yes, it was storming and howling out. Couldn't ask for a better setting.All of us stayed up all night after the movie was over because we were terrified to go to bed. We were all spooked from the movie.I've seen the movie a couple times since the first viewing and it still gives me the chills.As others have mentioned it's not a movie for those with ADD MTV disorder. It requires more than two functional brain cells to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Everything a Horror Movie Should Be","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Though at first glance The Legend of Hell House (based on Richard Matheson's book) is shamelessly similar to Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House it is in some respects superior to film versions of Jackson's story. Jackson's haunting is open to a plethora of explanations, some of them not supernatural. This may be fine for literature but doesn't work in a horror flick.The Legend of Hell House has much going for it -- the best of which is its superb cast. Only seven characters appear, and all are filled with solid secondary players. In three blink-and-you'll-miss-'em roles are Roland Culver (Dead of Night, The Pallisers), Peter Bowles (To the Manor Born, The Irish R.M.), and in a very thankless part, Michael Gough (Man in the White Suit, Batman). Culver's character gets the ball rolling by offering to pay each of the members of this expedition one hundred thousand pounds to get to the bottom of the hauntings of the Belasco mansion, which has recently become one of his assets.The meat of the movie is carried by an fine four-piece ensemble. Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill) is the scientist who has long examined paranormal phenomena and has never seen a supernatural explanation proved. He believes in some sort of natural residual human energy. To suck the energy out of the atmosphere he lugs along an enormous machine (whose workings are never quite explained), and his wife (Gayle Hunnicutt). Two psychics accompany the Barretts. Miss Tanner (lovely Pamela Franklin, who had an impressive movie career until she dropped utterly from sight around 1980) channels spirits of the dead. Ben Fischer (Roddy McDowall) is a medium who manifests physical phenomena. All the actors approach their roles earnestly. Whatever nonsense they rattle off, there's nary a twinkle in their eyes.The movie is pervaded by a wonderful sense of paranoia. Fischer, the sole survivor of the previous expedition twenty years earlier, believes Hell House is evil and he shuts himself off (apparently being a medium is like being a water tap). He'll sign off on any suitable explanation that will get him out of the house alive to collect the loot. Miss Tanner is all empathetic goodness, hoping to lay the spirits peacefully to rest. All the spirits want, she believes, is understanding (even when the spirits seem to be trying to rip her apart piece by piece). The scientist remains grumpily skeptical while plates and fireplaces explode all around him. He dismisses the dropping of occasional chandeliers (the house is as hung with handy chandeliers as an apple tree is with fruit) by suspecting one medium or the other of making it happen via their energy fields. And the scientist's wife is utterly frustrated as her husband caresses his machine more affectionately than her.The script is thick with veiled comments. Everyone seems to mean more than they're saying. And they're all lousy with distrust -- except gullible Miss Tanner, who will apparently believe any line any spirit feeds her (but won't believe any of the warnings the others give her to leave the house pronto). There are homicidal cats, empty sheets that adopt human forms, disembodied voices, mummified bodies in chains, possessions, ghost sex. The only thing lacking is an old servant making cryptic comments as he/she ladles out the soup, but McDowall's character provides cryptic comments about things that happened twenty years earlier (he makes the previous expedition sound like it would make an even better movie).The often wacky photography (such as two people talking in profile in extreme close-up on opposite ends of the wide-screen) heightens a mood of claustrophobia in the enormous Belasco mansion, which is only slightly smaller than Citizen Kane's. The ending, when it's discovered which of old Mister Belasco's shortcomings leads to a haunting that slays just about anyone who crosses the threshold, seems a bit silly, but don't take it as a disappointment. It's like the end of a roller-coaster ride when the cars have to go along a flat stretch to pull into the station. Everything before that is a lot of fun. Merry Christmas. "},{"Title":"A Faithful Adaptation of the Book","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House remains true to Richard Matheson's horror ghost novel and captures the eerie, background tension and the creepy sound track lends riveting and haunting mystery surrounding the Bolasco House. Roddy McDowell shakes off his Planet of the Apes role to perform well. The direction and photographic technique heighten the old time horror genre impact with stylish and ghoulish surprises. Somewhat dated, certain scenes are now exaggerated and gimmicky, but the core of the movie and many of its finer touches are classic horror and makes for a more educated, cultured version of the ghost story. Even the sensual backdrop is kept, surprising considering the restriction of the times the movie came out. This is a serious movie that never falls into mediocrity. Seven out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is an older movie, based upon the novel by Richard Matheson Hell House (and his screenplay). It is essentially a harsher look into Shirley Jackson's timid The Haunting of Hill House and the overrated 1963 The Haunting and it's unmentionable 1999 remake.The story is simple psychic investigators set up in a spooky house allegedly filled with outrageous disturbances based upon cannibalism, sexual vice, substance abuse, vampirism. They are hired by an eccentric billionaire afraid of dying and whom wishes to ascertain that there is indeed surviving intelligence.I've seen Roddy McDowell in a variety of trashy and silly nonsense over the years, but his earlier work is greatly admired; he makes a strong performance here as a shattered physical medium who is frightened of the house and only joins the others because of the money.An excellent ghost story with a morbid darkness, LoHH is something to be afraid of. The first time I watched it I thought it was interesting. Subsequent times I now believe it is possibly one of the BEST haunted house movies ever made.Don't see it alone. "}{"Title":"Good 70's chiller","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw this film as a teenager and its always been one of those ghost films that sticks in the mind.Its only ever been shown on UK TV very late at night,and this is probably why so many people have never seen it.Made in 1973 and apart from the actors clothes the film hasn't dated at all,its still as atmospheric and creepy as ever.And because the film is done in a diary form from day to day it makes the film more realistic.I was lucky enough to find it on DVD yesterday in a second hand shop so there must be other copies out there.I watched it last night and found it was just as good as i remembered it to be,the DVD is of good quality, and it only cost me £2.The film is also quite ahead of its time as in this era paranormal investigation programmes are at their height in popularity,when you have programmes like Most Haunted,Ghost Hunters,Dead Famous,etc,this film was made long before any of these programmes were thought of,and sort of paves the way for things to come,well apart from the horror aspect of it.When i was watching this film last night i had to laugh to myself,as i was wondering if the Most Haunted Team would ever stay in a place like that. No,I don't think so. "},{"Title":"Horror meets Sci-Fi","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I always think about H.P. Lovecraft whenever I view movies mixing the genres of horror and sci-fi. I'm not saying that this movie is based on or directly influenced by a Loveraftian tale. However, I'm sure that he would have been highly entertained.**May contain spoilers** The movie begins by offering what appears to be a standard spook tale of a group of paranormal investigators attempting to research (and survive) the haunted happenings of an old mansion (aka Hell House). The first character appearing, a respected physicist, is put forth as the lead and the research skeptic. Other members of the team include two clairvoyants, both representing the metaphysical/spiritual side of the continuum. The physicist's wife is a neutral member and gives the group its balance.The traditional spooky-house-survival-team plot eventually begins to take some unpredictable twists and turns. This element is the movie's greatest strength. Predictions made upon early characterizations and introductory discussions fly out the window. All of the characters are presented as insightful, but flawed personalities. The different takes on the causes of the haunting are all creative and given convincing arguments by each proponent. One cannot help but think about Hell House being a precursor to the Shinning story when discussions of possessions and poltergeists caused by residual spiritual energies arise.The atmosphere of Hell House is given the traditional haunted house treatment billowing drapes, ceiling candelabras dropping, and the periodic bassoon accompaniment. These effects are a set up for the viewer and amplify the effect of the surprise twists and gear shifts.Again&#133;.the movie's blend of spirituality and hard science will allow for great debates and wet one's appetite for a reading of Lovecraft. "},{"Title":"A Diseased Ghost Story","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked the book better, but the movie is decent.  It's basically a retelling of Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House.  Four investigators (two psychics, a scientist and his wife) show up at the Mount Everest of haunted houses in an attempt to prove the existence of ghosts.  The house has an amazing history; in the early 20th century, it was the site of amazing depravity and decadence, overseen by the lord of the manor Emeric Belasco, a sick and perverted man who encouraged drug use, orgies, bestiality, vampirism, cannibalism and other assorted goodies amongst his guests, whom he virtually imprisoned in his mansion until every last one of them was dead.  However, the body of Mr. Belasco himself was never found.  Is it the tortured houseguests who are haunting the house in legion?  Or is it Belasco himself?  You'll find out soon enough, but not before the investigators themselves are attacked, possessed, raped, beaten and some of them killed.There are rotting bodies in basement prisons, ectoplasm floating around, nasty black cats and a spooky old chapel.  There's also Michael Gough in an uncredited cameo.  It's nowhere near as good as The Haunting but it tries, and it has its moments.  The ending seems a bit silly, and more than a little rushed, but it's not a total waste of an hour and a half.  I've seen a lot worse. "},{"Title":"70s Ghost Story","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I like this movie. It's pretty good. A creepy little ghost story - perfect Halloween flick. 1973 was a good year for horror. Roddy McDowall is young and wonderful in this also. I watch this everytime it's on TV.  "},{"Title":"The legend continues","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Chris Carter of the X-Files must have been inspired by this downright creepy film. The little touches like dates and exact times flashing along the bottom of the screen can be seen in any X-files ep. This movie seems to continue the story started in The Haunting that director Robert Wise made into such an effectively creepy and realistic haunted house movie. In Hell House the director takes that level of realism to a new and frightening level. Even though it looks dated at the beginning by the end of the movie you're squirming, that's why I was so disappointed with the 1999 remake of The Haunting, which turned into a CGI nightmare that'd really scare the ghosts out of Hell House (the mount Everest of haunted houses) "},{"Title":"Spooky and frightening haunted house chiller.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There's only one thing I can really fault about 'The Legend Of Hell House', and that is the anti-climactic and slightly silly reason why the house in question is haunted. This is only revealed at the climax of the movie, and as I'm not planning on any spoilers you can wait till you watch it for yourself and see if you also find it to be a bit of a let down. Even that one weak point wasn't enough to spoil my enjoyment of this superior haunted house thriller, a scary movie that makes very effective use out of atmosphere and suspense rather than explicit gore and special effects, something that was forgotten in such recent big budget disappointments as 'The Haunting' and 'House On Haunted Hill'. Those two movies and much of Hollywood's current horror output could take a lesson or two from this overlooked chiller. 'The Legend Of Hell House' is tautly directed by John Hough ('Twins Of Evil') and features an above average script written by Richard Matheson ('House Of Usher', 'The Last Man On Earth') who adapts his own novel. The movie obviously owes a debt to Shirley Jackson's 'The Haunting' (book and original movie - both classics), but is by no means an unoriginal retread or blatant rip off. The cast are all excellent and include Clive Revill ('Chud II'), Pamela Franklin ('Satan's School For Girls'), Roddy McDowell ('Planet Of The Apes') and Gayle Hunnicut ('Dallas') as the four psychic investigators who agree to investigate the Mount Everest of haunted houses. This is a very strong horror movie that is rarely given the kudos it deserves. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Spooky as it was meant to be...","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As a child, I can recall nights I stayed up later than I ought have, watching movies late at night...  After McMillan & Wife on the CBS Late-Late movie...    I remember this film.   As a child, the bits and pieces of this film I remember seeing were absolutely horrifying.   Years later, at 32, I still find it intriguing, and suspense-filled.It's suspense as it was meant to be...  Spooky as it was meant to be. Chandeliers swaying, glasses chittering on tables, mediums possessed by demons, unknown evil that one is required to imagine.The story isn't the strongest; the plot is a bit predictable.  A modern-day fan of the horror genre is probably so jaded as to miss the classic fear factor of films from yesterday.  The cast isn't drenched in blood, or dismembered, or eaten.  Nonetheless, this is a classic thriller in the original sense.   Check it out if ever you can, preferably late at night, alone.   That's when the suspense has most of its power.Also, if you value traditional suspense/horror flicks, DO NOT miss The Haunting (the original), based on Shirley Jackson's book, The Haunting of Hill House -   The recent version had SPECTACULAR special effects (and took ENORMOUS liberties with Ms. Jackson's book), but for those of us that prefer to be prodded to use our own imaginations, the original film is loaded with psychological suspense.   Enjoy!   "},{"Title":"Great Atmospheric Movie","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched the 1999 Dreamworks move The Haunting the other night as I was told it was as good as The Legend of Hell House. What toilet. The Haunting relies on special effects that are corny and just plain funny some times. Hell House comes from a genre we call Hammer Horrors in the UK after the 1960's Hammer Film Company. Those movies, typically starring Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee were pretty cheesy but useful for adolescent, back row shenanigans with a girl from your school class. I saw The Legend of Hell House when I was 13, it frightened the socks off me, I even ignored the lovely Susan from 5A next to me (who was equally petrified!). This film has good performances, particularly Roddy McDowell, a few frights plus a disturbing ending (unlike Hollywood's usual safe they all live happily ever after endings). But what makes it for me is the primitive, Moog Synth noises that they give the house and the various scientific equipment. These effects were also used in Science Fiction stuff of the same era but in a horror setting it can build up and relieve tense moments. This is a masterpiece of horror, that doesn't rely on massive budgets or special effects, and The Haunting is not even in the same ballpark. "},{"Title":"Scariest movie I ever saw!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first saw it when I was about 13 too and it scared the daylights out of me.  I was on the edge of my seat for most of the movie and the cat attack scene freaked me out the most.  I've also seen this movie many times (most recently when we rented it on Halloween) and it still scares me even though I know what is going to happen.  I remember first seeing it with a friend and her family and spent the night at her house.  She used to snore pretty bad so I slept on the living room couch . . . their black cat kept creeping me out all night and I could barely get to sleep -- and I love cats too! "},{"Title":"One of the top 5 haunted house movies ever made.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although some might have different lists The Legend of Hell House is on of the top five. Along with The Haunting(the '60 film), The Uninvited, The Changeling, and the Shining(the original one) Hell House does belong on that list.  Some say it does resemble the haunting, but that was only to my knowledge because the haunting came first.  The main difference I would have to say is the houses.  The haunting's house seems bigger, with elaborate rooms and grand beauty.  Hell houses rooms seem smaller more claustrophobic with tons of spider webs and dust.  Really comparing the two movies is like comparing Halloween(the Haunting) to The Texas Chainsaw Massacre(Hell House).  As for the acting Franklin and McDowell are the only two believable characters(and that's only because I have never met a psychic in my lifetime), Revill plays a good wooden board and his wife is a bit hammy and over-frightened but she's o.k.  Best Quote Ann What did he do to make this house so evil, Mr. Fisher?  Fisher (pause as he walks over to her) Drug addiction, alcoholism, sadism, beastiality, mutalation, murder, vampireism, nechropillia, cannibalism(all sic), not to mention a gambit of sexual goodies. Shall I go on?   The direction is good, but didn't need much. I could of done a good job directing a scary story like this .  The true strength of the movie lies with the story, except for the ending which is a let down.  It is a lot of fun up until that part, however.  "}{"Title":"The Mount Everest of haunted-house stories!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one frightening tale from the pen of Richard Matheson!  (He wrote the chilling novel Hell House on which he based the screenplay, and that book is a must-get if you've read this far.)  Yes, I know the plot has been done before and since, but The Legend of Hell House puts it all together with great style.  The Belasco house, with its monstrous history, is ready to welcome more visitors........... "},{"Title":"Flawed But Memorable","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" All roads lead to Rome--or in the case of haunted house stories to Shirley Jackson's THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE. Published in 1959 and then memorably filmed by Robert Wise with Julie Harris in 1963, both book and film have exerted a powerful influence over the years, and this was particularly true where author Richard Matheson was concerned although he added a number of original ideas and created a memorable chiller, his popular novel HELL HOUSE was so similar to the Jackson blueprint that it is a wonder her estate did not contemplate legal action.The novel's film version, THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE, inevitably suffers in the comparison to both Jackson's novel and its own film version. But while it is not a great film, it is a very good one--and it has a number of assets that ghost story connoisseurs will relish. As in Jackson's story, the plot concerns four individuals sent to investigate a house of very unsavory reputation two men and two women. Here the expedition is led by a skeptic, Dr. Barrett (Clive Revill), who believes that hauntings are manifestations of residual energy rather than of surviving personalities--and who considers the Belasco house an ideal opportunity to put his theory to a practical test.He is accompanied by his wife Ann (Gayle Hunnicutt) and two mediums Benjamin Fischer (Roddy McDowall), who has the distinction of being one of the few individuals to have previously visited Belasco House and lived to tell about it, and Christian spiritualist Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin), who soon clashes with Dr. Barrett over his skepticism. And although Dr. Barrett has meticulously planned this investigation into Belasco House, from the moment the party enters the doors nothing turns out the way any of them expect.The great thing about the film is Pamela Franklin, who was one of the most interesting actresses of the 1960s and early 1970s, first making her mark as a child in the memorable thriller THE INNOCENTS and then giving a devastating turn as one of her teacher's pets in THE PRIME OF MISS JEAN BRODIE. While THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE is hardly on the same level as these other films, Franklin herself is--and she is quite extraordinary from start to finish. (It is a tremendous pity her career faltered not long after the release of this film.) McDowell also offers a memorable turn as Mr. Fischer, and Revill and Hunnicutt offer superior performances as well.The fact that it was filmed on a low budget is actually an asset to the movie, for instead of elaborate set-ups the film emerges as visually lean and clean, relying on its performances to create a very effective mounting sense of unease. Where it falls down--and more than a little--is in the script, which was written by Matheson himself. There are too many loose ends here, and while in some hands this might result in a sense of mystery, here it gives the feeling of sloppiness. Perversely, it also suffers from a determination to explain away everything it can, and the result is often somewhat anti-climatic.Due to Franklin's performance and McDowell's strong support, THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE will likely satisfy viewers who prefer their ghost stories strong on atmosphere and psychology. For all its flaws it is a memorable film, and well worth having.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Legend of Hell House","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A millionaire wishes to know if their are surviving spirits after death and will pay scientist Lionel Barrett(Clive Revill)a hefty sum to record any possible facts from a supposedly haunted house once owned by a recluse named Bolasco. There was a similar excursion into the Hell House in 1953 with all but one suffering terrible ills including paralysis and dementia. The one survivor from that stay was physical medium Ben Fischer(Roddy McDowall)who will once again brave to enter that house that left so much carnage to such esteemed intellectuals. Along with Fischer and Lionel is mental medium Florence Tanner(Pamela Franklin)who has the ability to communicate with spirits and transfer their words to others. Lionel's wife Ann(Gayle Hunnicutt), who has been with her husband on similar events such as this, will tag along. These four characters will enter the Bolasco house and encounter strange ghostly, benevolent manifestations..mainly through Florence who believes Daniel, the possible son of Bolasco, wishes to be freed from his slumber inside his spiritual imprisoned tomb of the Hell House.Great haunted house thriller, is quite adult and intelligent. It's also a developing mystery as we watch as the attempts to understand what Daniel wants leads to Lionel and Florence coming into conflict. He, a man of science, and she, a person with deeply felt religious feelings, often have quarrels regarding if there is actually a ghost that haunts inside this house or merely built-up energy. In an interesting angle, Lionel has this machine that he plans to use to de-energize the house, exorcising it of energy that he believes is the actual culprit causing such disturbances as objects moving and ectoplasm emitting from humans themselves not spirits. Thankfully, I decided to purchase this film before Walmart pulled them from their shelves! If anything, the film has a great cast, and some spooky atmosphere such as the fog engulfed exteriors of the house and the hidden secrets within the house that come to light as characters venture within. Some interesting sequences regarding attacks both physically on Florence(including a cat attack)and mentally on Ann(she becomes this sexually charged deviant desiring to pleasure herself with Ben!). McDowall emits a lot of different types of emotion behind those thick-lensed glasses, as circumstances occur around him such as Florence's dealings with whatever is inside this house, Lionel's disbelief that anything spiritual is taking place, and Ann's outrageous behavior obviously being influenced by another. But, this is mostly Franklin's show as her character is hit by so many different types of terrifying ordeals..and not getting anyone to believe her only adds to her ultimate fate at the end. "},{"Title":"Still scary after all these years...","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format MonoA group of psychic researchers are hired by a wealthy invalid (Roland Culver) to prove the theory of life after death by spending time in Belasco Mansion - 'the Mt. Everest of haunted houses' - but their investigation prompts a series of violent supernatural manifestations.Scripted by Richard Matheson from his novel 'Hell House', and produced at a time when Hammer's influence on the horror genre was being challenged by a new breed of spine-chillers emerging from the US and mainland Europe - spearheaded, of course, by THE EXORCIST (1973) and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974) - THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE employs the familiar trappings of Gothic melodrama - it's set mostly in a fog-shrouded country mansion - but takes a very modern, scientific approach to its subject.The film's potency has been diluted over time, but individual scenes are as vivid as ever The first 'sitting', in which medium Pamela Franklin (cast in tribute to her appearance in THE INNOCENTS 1961) becomes possessed by a former occupant of the house; the all-out supernatural assault on scientist Clive Revill as he sits at the dining-room table; and the unforgettable moment when Franklin pulls the covers from a writhing figure on her bed to reveal... well, I'll leave first time viewers to find out for themselves, and to wonder (as we've all done) How'd they DO that?!! But the film is restricted by good intentions The investigation and the various ghostly phenomena are all scientifically accurate, but director John Hough's moody, low-key approach allows few opportunities for crowd-pleasing set-pieces. As such, there's no real plot, just a succession of incidents which fail to cohere, and the climactic pay-off is very poor indeed. However, these same weaknesses may be perceived as strengths by those who appreciate subtlety over bombast, and while THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE may not scale the heights of genuine horror, it sustains a mood which has endeared the film to generations of viewers impressed by its many virtues. "},{"Title":"Weaker than the book","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie does try to be faithful to the book, and most of the story is here. But it censors itself (to PG) so much that most of the horror and disgust of the book is lost. Also, the characters hold themselves together much better; in the book, they are all out of control by the end, similar to a King or Koontz novel. I started out reading the book, which partially biases me, of course.What I did like about the movie is the flatness of the atmosphere. It's like a comedy without a laugh track. There is no creepy music, just creepy sound here and there. Maybe the real reason for lack of music was budget or time. But it has an effect on you, similar to the effect of the focused lighting. You feel suffocated, sort of the power of the haunted house.The medium's interaction with Daniel is pretty much as in the book, though as I said, everyone isn't slowly losing their mind.If you haven't read the book, the movie isn't good enough for me to recommend. Even if you've read the book, I'd only recommend it to see one of the few movie screenplays written by Mattheson himself.The book is not as focused as a King or Koontz novel, so is less intense. But the characters are all different and well-developed (reminds me of Card's _The Abyss_); you understand and respect their opposing viewpoints. And so feel for them more as the House attacks them. The characters are the best part of the book.The story may have been stolen from Shirley Jackson's _Haunting of Hill House_. I've seen the 1963 version of the film; very similar.** Spoiler section **I wanted to give some examples of how the characters are falling apart more in the book. The physicist is what we'd call a parapsychologist (maybe they didn't have the term when the book was written?). His thumb is cut deeply, maybe to the bone, and his hand is badly infected; it may even need partial amputation. As I recall, his leg was injured as well and he'd lost a lot of blood through that wound. When they telephone for help, they are told that none is coming, and there will be no reward for their efforts. His wife is almost completely insane at this point. When she comes out of induced sedation, she begs her husband to get her away from the house. If Lionel were anywhere near in his right mind, he would try to limp out (the car was destroyed in a crash, I think) and save what is left of his hand and his wife's mind. He sedates her again partially to keep her from interfering with his plans, which shows you the depth of his obsession.Pride and obsession are also the medium's downfall. As in the movie, she believes she can prove everyone else wrong by freeing Daniel. She is the leader of a Spiritualist church; a charismatic figure like Aimee McPherson. Her pride causes her to believe that her new powers as a physical medium are a gift from God. With this, the money, and the reputation for clearing this most haunted of houses, she will be God's instrument of good for those she leads. It may have just been my impression, but she cannot let herself be violated in order to retain her powers. Also, her conscience would require stepping down from leadership. Like Lionel, she is set up to lose everything precious to her.Fischer goes from being a coward to something of a hero by the end. But still, the House has him moments away from accidental suicide before he is rescued. There are waves of insanity hitting him. Delusions, visions, he's not sure what is real. His emotions and environment in turmoil, he uses what little is left of his reason in order to survive. His bravery doesn't come entirely from himself, but his friendship with Florence, his respect for Lionel, and empathy for Mrs. Barrett.I happened across a wikipedia article on Aleister Crowley. Belasco (the antagonist) was likely based on him; both were evil and thought developing one's will as the greatest virtue. "},{"Title":"Spooky mansion madness","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Interesting haunted house film finds a small group of investigators spending a week in a notoriously haunted house in order to prove the existence of life after death for a wealthy benefactor. They discover that not only is the house haunted, the force that resides there is determined to kill them before their week is up.The screenplay is written by Richard Matheson from his book Hell House, and it is not one of the best I've seen from him. The idea is a little muddled, especially during the conclusion of the film, which offers a dubious explanation for the events that have come before. The script also has its contrivances, the most notable of which is the fact that the house's windows have been bricked up. This, of course, explains the fact that the movie is obviously filmed on a constructed set and not in a real house with real windows. I also couldn't help wonder who did most of the housekeeping at Hell House. Aside from some random cobwebs, the place seemed to be in rather good condition for an abandoned old mansion.The sets themselves, however, are delightfully bizarre, and the film has a great sense of foreboding.The tone is very 70s, and at times the sets made it seem like I was watching one of Hammer's horror productions. The movie's shocks are somewhat diluted by the passage of time, and if this is all The Legend of Hell House had going for it, then I doubt anybody would talk about it much today. But certain elements of the film stick with you long after it's over, particularly the scene where one of the characters appears to be raped by a ghost. There are also some great scenes where something horrible seems like it's about to happen, and then suddenly it doesn't. These moments work especially well, as it's the dread of the moment that delivers the goods, and not a monster jumping out of the shadows to grab someone. For instance, at one point there appears to be somebody in a shower. Then we see that whatever's in there is clearly not human, and it's not in good shape either. A character rips open the curtain to discover...nothing inside but a dead cat.The somewhat silly explanation for the haunting brings it down a little, and there was something else I found to be unintentionally amusing too since the lack of windows makes it difficult to note the passage of time, the director resorts to repeated subtitles that give the date and time of the scenes. After the tenth time these appeared, I started giggling whenever they showed up...sometimes within minutes of each other!Still, this apparently made quite an impression at the time of its release, and it does push the envelope a little for horror movies of its day. There are a few mild expletives delivered by a demonic sounding voice, and an important element of the haunting involves an ominous sexual undercurrent. Recommended mostly for fans of 70s horror, and those who appreciate elements of subtle horror along with more obvious shocks. "},{"Title":"Let's Clear The Air Around Here.","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is a mansion that appears to be haunted. The owner sends a team to spend a week there and investigate. Is the fortress-like structure actually haunted? If so, by whom? And how do I get rid of it so I can use it as a time share? The team consists of a scientist (Clive Revill), his wife (Gayle Hunnicut), a spiritual medium (Pamela Franklin), and the only survivor of the previous investigative team (Roddy McDowell).They aren't there long before strange things begin happening, and not little things either. The table jumps up and down, chandeliers fall, cats attack humans, Revill's electromagnetic sensors go ape, there is are constant moaning sounds sometimes coalescing into something resembling speech, people walk in their sleep, and who knows what all. Not that any of these potentially lethal goings on especially bother the team. When a poltergeist turns the dining room into a shambles, they treat it like a minor irritation, and blame each other. There are arguments among the team members. Is it one restless spirit causing the commotion, or is it a case of multiple hauntings? Revill decides it's one power and that the electromagnetic radiation of the house is behind everything. It needs cleansing by having its polarity reversed by Revill's imported electronic junk.The junk fails to dispel the spirit and Pamela Franklin is offed by a toppling crucifix. Revill himself is perforated by candles. Gayle Hunnicut and Roddy McDowall huddle together in fear but McDowall decides to face the power mano a mano, or pneuma a pneuma, in the chapel, the most profane room in the palace. The power belongs to just one man, known to history as the roaring giant because he was six and a half feet tall.It's a brutal encounter. Hunnicut cowers against the chapel wall while McDowall is overwhelmed by shrieking noises and blasts of wind that slam him against the pillars. Still, McDowall wins. And here's how he wins -- he insults the spirit to death by screaming that the so-called roaring giant was really SHORT! The spirit departs in low dudgeon. I swear I'm not making that up.Richard Matheson was a fine writer but serious stories of spooky mansions weren't his forte. This is Shirley Jackson territory. Her novel, The Haunting of Hill House, was published in 1959 and several films were so closely modeled on it that it's no surprise Matheson followed the trend. Even a dog walks for salsa.But, in truth, as much as I respect Matheson, and have always held this cast in high regard, the movie is spooky only in the most shallow way. Cliché follows cliché. And the logic behind the story is recondite, lost in the ominous shadows that lurk just beyond the range of the candelabras. (The lights go out early on.) The movie is relentlessly gloomy and weighty. Every single scene is underlighted -- and only a few minutes are spent outdoors under a lowering sky. Extensive use is made of the fish eye lens, turning human faces into gargoyles during the numerous close ups. When one of the ladies screams, a dentist would be interested in the revealed fillings in her lower left quadrant. McDowall throws a spastic fit in front of the fireplace at one point for no discernible reason except that nothing dramatic has happened for a while.The film is in desperate need of comic relief -- maybe a drunken butler -- but there is none. On the plus side, at least for the males, there is Pamela Franklin, young and soft, with tender teen-aged breast, sensibly mauled by one of the spirits. Franklin also yields to the importunities of the spirit and allows him or it to become intimate with her after a brief nude scene. But don't get your spirits up. It's about as dignified as simulated intercourse and a fake orgasm with an invisible spirit can get.Gayle Hunnicut isn't a teen ager. She doesn't have to be. Her wickedly thin nose alone compels veneration. At one point, possessed by whoever is doing all this nasty stuff, she reads a book on self eroticism, glides downstairs like a vampire, and puts moves on Roddy McDowall -- You, me, and Florence; together, drunk, naked... -- and what does McDowall do? He removes his hand from her breast, where she'd placed it, and slaps her into consciousness. It's not the house that needs treatment, if you ask me.Anyway, it was a little disappointing. The fact is, there are too many movies out there about teams investigating haunted houses. The Haunting (1963) was one of the more successful. It doesn't overwhelm a viewer with special effects but it's scarier than this one. "},{"Title":"Short on scares.","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In order to discover the facts about survival after death, aged millionaire Rudolph Deutsch (Roland Culver) hires physicist Dr. Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill) to investigate the notorious Belasco house, a supposedly haunted mansion that was originally home to infamous sexual deviant Emeric Belasco, who hosted orgies that reputedly involved acts of cannibalism, vampirism, bestiality and necrophilia.Accompanied by his wife Ann (Gayle Hunnicutt), mental medium Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin) and physical medium Ben Fischer (Roddy McDowell), Barrett sets about trying to prove that there are no malevolent spirits at work in the house, and that any spooky happenings are merely due to a build up of negative energy over the years that can be dissipated via the use of a massive metal contraption with assorted dials and twiddly knobs. Of course, it ain't as simple as that&#x85;Adapted for the screen by Richard Matheson (from his novel 'Hell House'), and directed by John Hough, The Legend of Hell House is an undeniably atmospheric film (an incredibly moody score helping immensely), with a cool set-up and a great collection of characters, but it is sorely in need of a lot more scares. Much of the action is unnecessarily talky, making the film something of a bore rather than the thrilling spook-fest the wonderful title promises.Even the film's creepiest scene&#x97;a shadowy figure lurking in Tanner's shower cubicle while blood runs from under the glass&#x97;somehow manages to disappoint. The film's silly climax reveals the real reason for Belasco's supernatural rage, and it's a howler; I imagine that laughter was probably not the intended reaction.To be honest, the scariest thing about the whole film is just how yellow Tanner's teeth are doesn't she own a toothbrush? "},{"Title":"Spirits are real and they materialize from navel lint . . .","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" . . . THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE postulates. The characters in this movie toss around a lot of big words such as sadism and necrophilia, but it's a classic case of bait and switch. When push comes to shove, an audience propelled onto the edge of their seats by an effectively creepy music score and multiple fog machines is left with no bigger thrill than the sticky gross-out of the mummified used gum of yesteryear lurking at their fingertips on the bottom of their theater pews. The nudity here is always implied, never real. Violent deaths may occur by the dozen in HELL HOUSE, but they're all off-camera, usually described in exposition of long-ago events. When the curtain is finally pulled away to reveal HELL HOUSE's Wizrd of Ahhhs, we get a hapless stiff instead of what should be an eerily spry 94-year-old (after all, that's the age someone born in 1879 such as Emerick Belasco would actually be in 1973, when this flick is set). Talk about a let-down. Had Emerick simply wriggled his little finger, it would have out-weighed all the pseudo-scientific Mumbo Jumbo thrown at us in this DULL HOUSE. "},{"Title":"Short Running Time & Clunky Conclusion Hamper Scary Sex Story","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are Three Haunted House Movies from the Pre-CGI Era that are Usually Mentioned as Favorites. The House on Haunted Hill (1959), The Haunting (1963), and This One. All are Solid Entries on Anyones List, but Here, Richard Matheson's Screenplay from His Book Hell House is an Abbreviated Version and the Movie Suffers with its Condensed Composite. Things Seem Rushed and Not Fully Fleshed Out and this is One of those Movies where if Opened Up a Bit and was Longer would have Made it a Much More Satisfying Experience. As it is the Film is just too Short and Nothing has Time to Settle and Make its Mark Endellable.As is, the Movie is a Very Good Ghost Story with a Heavy Dose of Sex and Debauchery that Emerges Quite Often and Adds to the Creepiness. Pamela Franklin's Young Medium Endures the Brunt of it but Everyone Must Deal with the Sinister Sensuality. There is a Good Soundtrack and a Willing Cast, Including a Very Creepy Roddy McDowell, and Gayle Hunnicutt is Along and Suffers Some Humiliation. The Atmosphere is Appropriately Ominous, but the Ending is a Letdown. What with the Scientific Box and a Good Deal of Shouting Explanations, the Movie Comes to a Clunky Conclusion. "}{"Title":"This was a real template . . .","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" . . . for scads of very cheap-looking, low-budget horror flicks (many would say, bad movies) which continue to plague us to this day. THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE people only paid six actors, two of which have on-screen cameos at the beginning of the film lasting mere seconds. The script writer substitutes pseudo-scientific Mumbo Jumbo for special effects, and the director tries to foist off quick cuts to black cats as real scares. The thinking behind THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE is that you can eat up about half the audience's expectation of a 90-minute film running time by inserting on-screen time stamps lasting five seconds each EVERY THREE MINUTES of your movie's brief duration, and couple that time-wasting device with the clumsy exposition of a constantly changing and internally inconsistent back story. All the violence here happens off-screen, so your horror budget is out the cost of a bottle of Catsup for special effects. One of the two HELL HOUSE actresses gets naked, but the lighting is so poor that the producers probably escaped paying her the standard nudity premium. That's the REAL horror of HELL HOUSE. "},{"Title":"One Hell of a nasty good ghost story","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Here for our enjoyment is a ghost story. The premise is that a very rich man wants proof of life after death and the best place to spend your money on such a endeavor is in a supposedly haunted house. Well, they got one. It is a house with a colorful story and history that has not been thoroughly explored by anyone. You see, years ago...a group was sent into this same house and well...they didn't do so well. Now, a new group will re-visit and try to access the secret via proof as to whether there is life after death. All involved are professionals with an exception making this a leisurely excursion into the subject matter until they start to discover there is more going on here that can easily be explained away. Breakthroughs follow with some really genuine moments that can terrify and literally haunt you...the theme of the movie. If the adventure is not enough, there is a mystery involved as well and lots energy being put forth to keep it so...but by whom? This is a nail biter at times, so get something to do with your hands like eating popcorn one kernel at a time less you chew a nail down to the nub. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this movie for the very first time just last night on the Fox Movie Channel. I liked it so much that I just ordered the DVD on amazon.This is probably the best Haunted House movie I have seen in years. I am a long time fan of the horror genre and I don't know how I had completely over-looked this gem.The plot centers around a group of paranormal researchers sent, during the Christmas Holiday, to investigate an old Gothic mansion that is believed to be haunted. One of the group is a scientist who believes all the supernatural activity is really a subconscious manifestation of will tapping into a well of electromagnetic energy in the house. A female medium is convinced that it's actually a multiple haunting of several ghosts. The actual ghost haunting the house preys on each member's insecurities and beliefs about the haunting.The one character I worried the most for and feared the most for was Roddy McDowall's character. Despite the strangeness of the reveal (which had a subtle double meaning if you pay close attention) it had a surprisingly satisfying ending. This was the best Haunted House film I had seen in a long time. It's script and original novel (that the film is based on) is from Richard Matheson, the same author as I am Legend, What Dreams may come, The (incredible) shrinking man and Stir of Echoes. He is also the writer of at least sixteen classic episodes of The Twilight Zone and almost all the truly great Vincent Price Horror movies. I highly recommend this film to anyone who loves the Gothic Horror genre. The Legend of Hell House is very under-rated. I am so glad I finally saw this movie. "},{"Title":"Be afraid, be very afraid","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A very underrated horror film that was a staple of late night ITV horror seasons in the eighties, but which seems to have fallen off the radar since. For those who want gore and gallons of blood, look elsewhere as the amount of blood and gore is fairly limited, but those who want a very disturbing horror with an excellent cast led by Roddy Mac Dowell and Pamela Franklin should try out The Legend of Hell House.Think on the lines of The Haunting when or if you decide to buy the DVD. Basically the film concerns a party of mediums and scientists who have been given £ 100,000 each, a fortune in 1973, to try and exorcise a mansion once owned by a perverted millionaire in the twenties who massacred his guests at an orgy before disappearing in 1929. A previous attempt to exorcise the house in 1953, which Mac Dowell's character Fischer was part of, saw all the other members of the party either die on the house or go insane. Fischer, tempted by the money offered by an elderly aristocrat who wants to sell the mansion, decides to go back to try and exorcise the house with a Christian medium, played by Pamela Franklin, and a scientist and his wife, played by Clive Revill and Gail Hunnicutt.For those who haven't seen The Legend of Hell House, I'll not spoil the plot for you after the foursome enter the mansion as it really is a good film if you haven't seen it before and the twists and turns in the film are fantastic. The haunting, electronic music composed by the person who composed the theme tune to Doctor Who is an added bonus and adds to the whole sense of menace of the haunted house. Also try not to watch it on your own if it's late at night, I had nightmares for days afterwards. However, it still hasn't stopped it being my second favourite horror after The Omen. "},{"Title":"Spooky British Chiller","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Just finished watching this obscure British gem and it came off as a very pleasant surprise. The film oozes atmosphere from start to finish, and it's extremely creepy and intense throughout. The cinematography is just amazing, with some innovative camera-work, and John Hough was clearly inspired by the works of Mario Bava with the film's rich color palette, which adds to the film's Gothic tone. The acting is great and the script is quite solid, even if it is a lot like The Haunting (1963). I've heard somewhere that Richard Matheson's Hell House is like a re-imagining of Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House, and I wouldn't be surprised if it was. Speaking of which, I was much surprised as how the film is very similar in tone and spirit to the inferior 1999 remake of The Haunting. It feels as if the latter is a remake of this film masquerading as a remake of the 1963 film. My only complaints are that the whole ghost-machine thing seemed a little bit out of place and much too Poltergeist-ish for my tastes, and the ending did induce some unintentional giggles, but regardless, it is still well worth a watch, and as I've said before - a definite classic of it's kind. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Atmospheric and Creepy","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This has long been one of my favorite horror films delightfully dark and creepy right from the first, a moody atmosphere achieved in part by skilled cinematography and understated yet quite striking electronic musical effects, some intriguing characters, the sense of evil lurking, a bit of lurid melodrama (I mean that in the nicest possible way), and a revelatory finale.The cast is all pretty great. Hunnicut and McDowell turn in especially appealing performances sexy and vulnerable in the former case and quietly tortured in the latter.Anyone who hankers for a good haunted house yarn should make an effort to see this movie. "},{"Title":"The Music....","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The music.. ah......Brian Hodgson and Delia Derbyshire recorded the music for this 1973 horror movie at Electrophon in London... taken from the site http//www.delia-derbyshire.orgDelia Derbyshire is foremost welknown as the producer of the famous original DR Who theme!!Only using tape-recorders, tape-loops, valve oscillators.. such a great job... i love the eerie sounds.. the drone's.. please visit the site about Delia Derbyshire at http//www.delia-derbyshire.orgshe deserves our respectgreets Richard "},{"Title":"Possibly the Greatest Classic Ghost Story","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As a sort of dying wish, an old and wealthy man hires a scientist (Clive Revill), his wife (Gayle Hunnicutt), and two paranormal investigators to spend a week in Belasco House and determine if there is such a thing as life after death, and if the rumors of spiritual hauntings in the house are true.The film's star is likely Roddy McDowall, who plays investigator Benjamin Franklin Fischer. His character has a rich history that I feel is ignored. He was the only surviving medium of Hell House in 1953, and they imply that he was only fifteen at the time. A professional medium at fifteen who can withstand the power of Belasco? That deserves more background.But for me, the real star was Pamela Franklin, the medium Florence Tanner. She was beautiful and effectively commanded the plot from a position of subversion. Looked down on by her peers, Tanner takes a proactive approach, sensing the dangers and tracking down the clues. The others do not take her seriously, and Franklin plays this part effortlessly.Clive Revell's physicist role is interesting, even for a straight man character. He does not discount the paranormal completely as most scientists would, but instead searches for physical explanations to supernatural events. I give Matheson credit for making a character who does not call these things parlor tricks but instead seeks out ways to reduce them to mere material manifestations.Stephen King has praised the original novel, saying it may be the scariest haunted house novel ever written. Peter Straub, likewise, calls it one of the absolute best contemporary horror novels, which if you know Richard Matheson's talent is no surprise.I have not read the novel yet, but heard the main difference is that the sexuality and violence is toned down from the book, with the film rated a mere PG. The sexuality still exists, as do many disturbing scenes, but they're presented in a way that really does so subtly. There are tricks of horror films that they can make you think you saw things you really did not, and this film is full of those -- you can be scared just as much by what you do not see as what you do.Mike Mayo points out the effectiveness of Matheson's script based on his own work, calling it a model of efficiency that has no single wasted motion. He claims the film is comparatively inoffensive (compared to The Exorcist, for example), but this in no way reduces the scare power. Mayo also points out that he watched it on a tape taken from a faded print. I cannot say if the DVD transfer is any better -- I personally did not notice anything lacking in the picture. Howard Maxford also praises the film, saying it has just the right style and atmosphere.The film stands strong almost forty years after its original release. I would love to see a special edition release with deleted scenes (if any exist), a commentary and more. Of all the so-called classic horror films, this one seems to have been largely forgotten. And I think that is a tragedy... perhaps the most overlooked film of its time, even more so than The Beast Must Die. "},{"Title":"The quintessential ghost story!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Eerie, well-crafted horror-thriller about four people who investigate a dark, brooding mansion that is said to be the Mt. Everest of Haunted Houses. Solid direction by John Hough. Pamela Franklin as a sexually repressed psychic is a definite standout. "},{"Title":"Still creeps me out!!!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Considering the age of the film, the limited special effects of the era and the obvious haunted house cliches, I found myself not only engrossed in the story but still creeped out by this childhood favorite. The music, the murky skewered camera work and the down right unnerving performance from Pamila Franklin adds new touches on an old theme and bests several recent haunted house flicks, the Haunting for one. The fact that it takes itself so seriously makes a lot of what happens acceptable.  They believe.  I believe.  I turned on the lights. Roddy McDowell was wonderful too.  Rent it.  It's the story and the actors that make it worth it all. We don't pay attention to story details like this anymore -- we've become lazy horror fans, sad to say. "}{"Title":"A true Classic","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Since the beginning of the film, I was captured for its very good photography. Like in The Shining, the long shots and effective lighting gives a creepy feel. There's not much I can add about the performances. Mc Dowall is great and everyone plays its roles with conviction. But you couldn't believe how much I enjoy this movie only by seeing those memorable and magic shots. By the way, the ghost-cleaning machine is pretty cool "},{"Title":"A shocking paranormal yarn","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I read the book  Hell House  by Richard Matheson, I really enjoyed the book and I was not sure what to expect with the movie.  The movie did the book all the justice it deserved and more. It tells the tale of a parapsychologist who is hired to check out this house with an evil past and rid it's evil if any, he goes to the house along with his wife and two mediums.  The movie is quite eerie and entertaining to watch, it provides lots of suspense and chills.  I actually felt my heart beating as to what would happen next.  This movie is definitely worth a watching! "},{"Title":"Tremendously entertaining fun","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Made in the early 70's, Hell House screams hammer horror B-movie. From the gloriously overdone fog to the exaggerated screaming, everything about this film was designed to accentuate everything that is good about this type of movie.Hell House is set in a haunted mansion/castle, with 4 intrepid investigators attempting to solve the mystery of the building's history and rid the place of all evil spirits. Roddy McDowell, in a role far removed from Cornelius, is Mr Fisher, a physical medium who survived the last expedition to the castle where all his peers suffered either death or some other appalling ailment. He doesn't want to be there again but the £100,000 on offer is too good to refuse. Clive Revill is the stereotypical skeptical Lionel who's also brought his wife. He's there to disprove the legend,  Lastly is Ann Tanner, a 'mental medium' who's in tune with the mansion and who believes she holds the key to the hauntings.Directed with panache while keeping the story going along at a solid pace, Hell House really is quite gripping. Sure, if you scoff at old horror because you're too used to Freddy V Jason this one may go over your head, but if you're not and fancy some cracking entertainment from a movie which shamelessly flaunts its roots, check this one out.Great fun. "},{"Title":"Classic horror ambience vs. remake The Haunting's FX","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This horror movie classic was remade into 1999's The Haunting (starring the pre-Chicago Catherine Zeta-Jones). I have seen the remake so comparisons are inevitable. The plots are similar though not identical. Four people stay at Hell House to investigate the paranormal phenomena occurrences within. You'd think a name like Hell House would be enough to discourage even the most foolhardy.The characters in The Legend of Hell House are more relevant than The Haunting's clueless victims, though less logical. They include a surprisingly close-minded paranormal physicist who refuses to acknowledge the mental medium's readings, and a physical medium who was the sole survivor of a previous Hell House exploration team and yet is back for more.What it all boils down to, when comparing the two horror movies, is obviously, how scary they are. Whereas The Haunting was comprised largely of special effects shockers, The Legend of Hell House had only sufficient technology (or budget) in 1973 to create poltergeist effects (i.e. things flying around), which means the latter had to work harder on peripherals for its chills. The set/art direction is lovely - opulent yet dark and creepy. The soundtrack sneaks up on you, wafting quietly in the background before blaring suddenly during scare scenes. And most importantly, the four actors play their parts well, though in a horror movie the line between good, convincing acting and campy over-acting is blurred. It's really up to the viewer as to which they prefer in a horror movie - special effects or classic creepy ambience. Personally I like the former. Classicist as I am when it comes to movies, horrors are the exception. I believe I've been spoiled by the many FX-laden horrors that I've seen, so much so that just relying on creepy ambience with little visual pay-offs isn't enough. I want to be shocked, not chilled. It's just like being an alcoholic... when you're used to hard liquor, drinking a glass of wine, no matter how vintage it is, won't give you the kick you want.  "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Nicely mounted haunted house film about a group of supernatural experts who visit a house in which no one has escaped alive. Their mission is discover the source of the hauntings and to put an end to it all. Handsome looking flick has plenty of atmosphere. It's scary and intense and the music score is used to perfect effect. Exceptional cast adds to the fun.Rated PG; Violence and Adult Themes. "},{"Title":"Middle of the road horror movie ...","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie until I stumbled upon it on this web site. When I saw some of the other user's reviews, I felt compelled to rush out and rent it. I won't do THAT again.  Folks, this was a mildly entertaining movie.  As far as scary goes, there are simply far too many better ones. I respect my fellow movie crtic's opinions but I felt the responsibility to post a more realistic review.It simply doesn't hold water as far as the creepy, fright factor goes.  Sure go ahead, turn down the lights, light a few candles, it still won't make your skin crawl or make you pull up the covers.I described it to a friend this morning and didn't realize how ridiculous the ending was until I heard the words coming out of my mouth.Go ahead and rent it for a laugh, but don't say you weren't warned. "},{"Title":"Explains itself into hokeyness","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The storyline had some interesting moments and the acting was generally good, but it was less scary than kitschy with the black cat and EMR and something nasty in the woodshed elements.  The final scenes were a complete letdown.  The Haunting, Ghost Story, and the psychological drama The Vanishing (Spoorlos) are in a different league entirely.  It would have been better without the big machine and the pseudoscientific explanations. "},{"Title":"Forget The Haunting","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THIS was a very moody and disquieting story that always left you ill at ease, even though there was little gore. A great ghost movie. The ending was especially bizarre. "},{"Title":"This movie haunted me for 20 years.","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is excellent. I remember seeing it for the first time as a child and getting the chills. It really stayed with me, even though I never knew the title. Years later, I saw it as an adult and could really appreciate all the nuances that made it such an effective horror movie.I compare this movie to The Exorcist because as someone else mentioned, the script is tight, there is minimal dialog and special effects, but what there is, serves to drive the narrative. It's played straight, no overacting, and nothing over the top. Too many movies try too hard to be scary, with too much dialog, way too much hyperbole, over the top special effects, and gross out scenes. Just because you can digitize the walls morphing, doesn't mean you need to. The directors of every classic horror flick, especially Hitchcock, knew that what you see on screen is rarely as terrifying as what you imagine is happening. The freaky camera angles combined with the eery soundtrack of some scenes still creeps me out to this day. On that note, this movie has terrific cinematography. There is plenty of atmosphere, and the music equally unsettling. I agree that the time stamping was a nice touch. For me, that made it seem more like a documentary than a movie, like Blair Witch.The acting was very good. The women were as sexy as they could be at that time, and some of their scenes were surprisingly erotic and taboo. Roddy McDowell was excellent as the disconnected psychic who knows the deal and just wants to collect his paycheck. Despite being huge, the house itself, was as dark and claustrophobic as you'd expect. The ending was satisfying, yet I'm still scared of that house.I'd love to have this movie on DVD. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, Unrecognized Haunted House Film From The '70s.","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend Of Hell House is about a group of four people assigned to investigate paranormal occurrences at the notoriously haunted Belasco mansion, from December 20th through Christmas Eve. Among them are Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin of The Innocents), a young psychic medium; Benjamin Fischer (Roddy McDowall of The Planet Of The Apes), a psychic who previously visited the mansion; Mr. Barrett (Clive Revill), a scientist; and his wife, Ann (Gayle Hunnicutt). The four of them arrive at the house and paranormal things begin to happen almost instantly, and they become increasingly violent as Florence believes to be in contact with Emeric Belasco, the house's owner. But Hell House, as the locals like to call it, has already claimed lives in the past. And will these four be its next victims?After watching this movie, I was dumbfounded as to why I hadn't seen it before, because it's just my perfect cup of tea. Ghosts, old Victorian mansions, psychics, séances - I love stuff like this. And despite its age, this early 1970s horror film really delivers. It's a genuinely scary film that seemed to have slipped through the cracks and was never really recognized much from fans of the genre or regular film goers. The script, which was written by Richard Matheson, who was the writer of the novel that the film was based upon as well, is solid and is a well-told story. At first I thought it was another rendition of Robert Wise's The Haunting, but as the story progressed, I rid myself of that initial thought, because while the films are similar, they are also very, very different. This is nonetheless a very frightening flick, and it achieves this through its tense and eerie atmosphere rather than any extreme gore or bloodshed (although there are a few minimally bloody moments, which are hardly considered anything by today's standards, though).Atmospheric is probably one of the strongest words to describe this movie, because that it is. It's also quite claustrophobic, because while the Belasco Mansion setting is large, our characters never really do explore more than a handful of rooms. The interiors of the house are very Victorian and old-fashioned, which is perfect for this kind of haunted house story. It's dark as well, because the home's windows have been all bricked in - the only light is from the few lamps to be found and candles. But one of the scariest elements of this film is how it plays on our fears of what cannot be seen - the ghosts are presented through poltergeist activity so we never see them, and those things-that-go-bump-in-the-night scares are very effective here. The psychic sittings with Florence are also very frightening and the possession scenes with Emeric speaking through her sent a chill down my spine, as did the possessions of Ann and the sudden, unexpected flying-around of objects in the home. There are plenty more spooky moments in this film, but I won't name them all.John Hough, who later directed a personal favorite of mine, The Watcher In The Woods, directs this film, and does very well. It's filmed in a similar style to Watcher and the angles and close-ups are effective. Strong performances here from Roddy McDowall as our intelligent psychic who is trying to keep himself desensitized to the spirits to avoid trouble. Pamela Franklin is also very good as the young psychic who is in contact with Emeric and is the main key into the spirit world for the group. Clive Revill is good as the skeptic scientist, and Gayle Hunnicutt shines as his lovely wife who ends up in a few altercations with the spirits herself. I felt all of the cast had good chemistry together, and carried the movie well, especially considering our cast is only made up of essentially four people. The film's shuddering conclusion in the chapel room is a bit strange, and the revelation of the secret room and whatnot, while a little bit out there, is fitting and stands as a strange but nonetheless creepy plot revelation. It was an odd ending, but I still liked it quite a bit.Overall, The Legend Of Hell House is a superior haunted house film (with a prime focus on psychic activity) that seems to be unrecognized by horror fans. It's a very frightening movie with plenty of suspense and tension, some genuinely creepy moments, and an atmosphere to die for. I'd say this was probably one of the best, if not the best haunted house film of the 1970s decade. Also recommended is Robert Wise's classic The Haunting, which is similar in style and story. In fact, if paired with this movie, it would be the perfect double feature. 9/10. "}{"Title":"Supernatural Forces Dominate Windowless Mansion","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director John Hough masterfully presents the screen version of Richard Matheson's novel Hell House with a perfect cast to bring the ghost tale to terrifying life. The Belasco house sits ominously in the mist, foreboding, dark, and with no light save for occasional sun rays.Dr. Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill), his mentally delicate wife, Anne (Gayle Hunnicutt), along with two psychics, physical medium Ben Fisher (Roddy McDowall), who just barely survived the last time to investigate the infamous abode, and young, religious, sexually-repressed mental medium, Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin) arrive to once again find out what the hell is going on. Inevitably, things go awry not long after their arrival - Lionel and Florence constantly clash on their theories, Ben closes himself off from the mysterious, evil forces while Anne becomes increasingly nervous and victimized by the ghastly entity.The obvious tension between Florence and Ben is very apparent from the beginning; I don't know if it can be considered sexual tension, but there is a definite electricity between them, particularly whenever Florence is injured and blamed by the doctor for all the poltergeist attacks. The house itself is decorated with a lot of reds, dark oaks and unmistakably suggestive furnishings, statues and books. The girl believes that there is more than one spirit in the house (she has made its acquaintance), while Dr. Barrett just believes that it is only leftover energy. The clashing of wills only gives the spirit more power. If these folks had any horror movie knowledge, they'd have run for the hills long before this!Hough's directing style that would come to dominate his later sci-fi films is very much in evidence here - the high, dark camera angles, the strong, mysterious winds, the black cat, music, and even Roddy McDowall's gestures as he puts his hands to his temples.As the mystery unravels before the viewer's eyes, the story becomes more taut and terrifying. If there ever was an evil place haunted by an angry, malicious specter, this is the place! "},{"Title":"Banned During 7 Years In Peru","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The fact that the plot main figure,Emeric Belasco,have had a phonetically second name equivalent to that of Peruvian's Leftist Dictator Velasco(who's State Coup covered the 1968-1980 period)led to the prohibition of this film exhibition and distribution on this country,beyond the Premiere Date. The thing get complicated with more similarities of fiction with reality,since Velasco lost both legs as a consequence of being shooted by a gunner at Government's Palace. The ban over this film in Peru was extinguished by 1980,when an Elected Government arise. Beyond this political curiosity,I loved Pamela Franklin's work along this film along with Clive Revill's serious accent over the Paranormal Phenomena.Gayle Hunnicut failed in putting more dramatic component to the film. "},{"Title":"Now Here's a Haunted House!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The book always is better than the movie, but since Richard Matheson also wrote the screenplay, the movie has been condensed very nicely. I must also admit that I've read the book over and over about 10 times in the last three decades. With what I knew from having read the book, I could blend my thoughts in with what I saw, giving me a pretty darned good movie viewing experience.The story itself had me scared out of my wits, what with the atmosphere, the characters with their external and internal conflicts, the subtlety, meaning that special effects were at a minimum, and fabulous acting. In addition to this, the film is timeless. Needless cliché from the 1970's was totally absent, and the costuming also was also generic to a point where the time frame could be almost indistinguishable, save for Roddy McDowall's glasses, but oh well...The in-depth references to psychic phenomena were also thought provoking, with a statement at the beginning warranting the possibility that incidents such as what were seen in the movie might actually have some truth behind them. My thought is that parapsychology, though it has yet to be totally proved, might indeed have merit.All in all, it's a good bit of entertainment for fans of the darker side of literature and cinema. "},{"Title":"Under-rated chiller","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First, I must admit to finding early 70's British horror (especially early 70's British horror in which American actors are needlessly brought in to play the lead) generally silly and tiresome. But this little known horror flick is a cut above the average of the genre and has moments of inventiveness. Not that this is totally without some of the silliness and cheap exploitation that mars so much British cinema of the period, and a certain pervertiness inflicts the females (the men remain sensible throughout); one becomes a vamp and the other had a bizarre sexual encounter with a ghost. The plot concerns four people who enter what is described as 'the everest of haunted houses'. They do so, having been offered a cash prize by a mysterious benefactor who wishes to know the truth about the afterlife. This gives them a reason to stay, in spite of the strange and dangerous happenings that occur. The house was owned by a certain mister Belasco, a sadistic pervert in life, and equally so in death. The fame of the haunted house had brought a gathering of psychics there in the 50's, where they had all but one died or been driven insane. The one survivor was Roddy Mcdowell. He returns to Hellhouse with Gayle Hunnicut, who is another psychic, and the skeptical professor and his wife. The usual kinds of unusual things occur ('god moves in mysterious ways' says the professor. 'so does this house' replies MacDowell) but the delightful miss Hunnicut seems to be the haunter's focus, and I got a distinct notion early on that there would be an erotic connection between them. This proves true. At Breakfast, Gayle argues with the professor and the ghost attacks him. She believes it is Belasco's son, Daniel, and this is apparently confirmed when they find the gruesome remains of aman in the crypt. Even after burial, however, the ghost of Daniel keeps tormenting her. She is led down to the chapel for a grisly scene. Meanwhile the professor's wife succumbs to a spirit of carnality and comes on to Roddy McDowell. He spurns he as her husband watches. The professor is then eager to conclude his investigation of the building and turns on a device that electrically sweeps the place and eradicates spirits. After this the house is apparently clear, but the professor had reckoned without the ingenuity of Belasco. The ending is more original than most, but is not entirely convincing. It is also rather too subdued. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best haunted house movie!","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I recently purchased this on DVD and first thing I did after work was watch it. This, in my opinion, is possibly one of the greatest haunted house movies in history. Not just dealing with a haunting, also dealing with possession and spiritual interaction this film really is a must watch.The plot is based around an infamous house and an old mans wish to know whether it is possible for a human to continue being after death. He hires three people to investigate a house that he has just purchased (cutely nicknamed Hell House). In 1951 a team of physicists and psychics had visited the house, only one of which came out alive - Ben Fischer, a physical medium. He, of course, was hired to investigate along with Florence Tanner (a mental medium) and Dr Barratt, a renowned physicist (Dr Barratt's wife also comes along). Once they get to the house, they begin to experience the bizarre and inexplicable phenomena that has been associated with the house. This is where the films true beauty shows through. It's brutal in some respects, it's not willing to give away too much of what is going on or when it's going to happen. A fairly tight screenplay and good direction makes it unnerving at some points and relaxing at others. There is little indication as to what the outcome would be and the ending, I have to say, is one of the few times when it was something I would have never even thought of.This film also does a good job at allowing the viewer to build up feelings for the characters. We are shown what they are going through and their different reactions to what is going on around them, we are also allowed (to a certain extent) to get to know them. Like I say, I think this is a very good (if not one of the best) haunted house films ever. There is so much to this film that it really is worth watching by anybody who hasn't yet seen it.   "},{"Title":"use your imagination....","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'The Legend of Hell House' is fairly good.  There are some scenes that are laughable, at least to me.  What the movie does well is use camera angles(and imagery) as well as sound effects to enhance the fear.  We never get a computer generated monster to look at, and that works well for the movie.  The acting is very good, as we have to believe that the characters could go crazy in such a situation.  It is mildly suspenseful, and thats fine.  It didn't terrify me though.  My generation is a little jaded when it comes to horror films and its hard to scare us.  I like that there is little to no gore in the movie as well.  It is good because it doesn't detract from the great atmosphere that is created with the camera work and sound effects.  This movie probably won't terrify you, but as a haunted house story, it is pretty good, and technically well done.  It should keep you interested and might be worth a look.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I rather liked it actually.","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Legend of Hell House starts as ageing millionaire Rudolph Deutsch (Roland Culver) hires a physicist named Lionel Barrett (Clive Revill) to investigate the spooky goings on in the notorious Belasco mansion dubbed by many Hell House in an attempt to prove the existence of an after life since he'll be there soon, Deutsch also hires a couple of spiritual mediums named Florence Tanner (Pamela Franklin) & Benjamin Franklin Fischer (Roddy McDowall) the only survivor of the previous expedition into the house several years prior. Deutsch will pay each of them £100,000 if they can prove the existence of the after life so they get right on with the job at hand & judging by the first 24 hours they spend there proving the existence of ghosts & spirits isn't going to be a problem, what might be a problem though is the fact that might not live to collect their cash...This British production was directed by John Hough & I have to admit that I rather liked it, I didn't think I would because I'm not a big fan of the haunted house genre, I don't even like The Haunting (1963) that much, but The Legend of Hell House impressed me. The script by Richard Matheson was based on his own novel 'Hell House' & takes itself very seriously which just about works & it's more than just a clone of House on Haunted Hill (1959) or The Haunting which it bears more than a passing resemblance to, it moves along like a rocket with all the main character's introduced, who they are & what they do & inside Hell House ready for action within the first ten minutes & while that might seem rushed it's done very well. Spooky things start to happen straight away as the house begins to affect it's new tenant's in different ways with some nice set pieces which are thankfully more imaginative than just a door opening & closing on it's own or a light switching on & off. I also liked the minimalist dialogue here & they way the film is broken up into segments as there are constant captions which tell us the date & time even if it's an hour or so since the last one, it actually fees like a scientist's note book with the entries of all the major incidents in chronological order timed & documented precisely & nothing else is of any importance. The character's are standard for this type of film with the scientist who has a logical explanation for everything & the spiritualists who believe in the supernatural, the dialogue between them is good as they argue the point with pretty reasonable arguments on both sides. The ending is pretty good as well even if it's a bit silly, overall I really liked this film although I could see why many might not.Director Hough does a great job here & the film looks fantastic with wonderful sets & a terrific English stately home as it's primary location, it was actually Wykehurst Park House in East Sussex that was used as the constant fog enshrouded exterior. There's a great atmosphere throughout, it's not that scary but it's sort of eerie at times. The film has a real style to it with some gorgeous cinematography, colour & use of light & shadow, this is a great looking film throughout. There's not much blood or gore, there's a dead cat in a shower, someones back is scratched, a chandelier falls on someone & there's a bit of blood but nothing excessive.Technically the film is top notch & probably had a fair amount of money behind it, it has high production values, a creepy musical score & is very well made. The acting is very good from a small cast.The Legend of Hell House may not be for everyone but I liked it a lot, I thought it was very well made with good acting & a spooky atmosphere which is a lot more than can be said for many haunted house horror flicks out there. Personally I think it's well worth a watch especially for those who have a particular interest in the horror genre. "},{"Title":"People, WHAT movie did you see??","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Somehow, this flick had escaped me until today. Of course, I have heard its title mentioned most of my life, and as a fan of Robert Wise's The Haunting, and Jackson's novel on which it is based, the similarities intrigued me.Well, the comparisons are merely superficial. This ridiculous film is basically one of those hokey 60s/70s British horror films, with a bit of nudity and R-rated language thrown into the mix. The scares are almost non-existent, although the acting is, for the most part, adequate.The plot has been discussed ad nauseam in here, but I must comment on the COMICAL explanation for the angry ghost/spirit. HOW ridiculous! I thought that certainly the scenario would not end with such a howler of a conclusion. BUT IT DID! Folks, I actually laughed.The set design, while colorful, is not remotely discomforting. It looks like a set, and a brightly lighted one, at that. (For you Haunting fans, it is interesting to note that in Shirley Jackson's novel, the rooms are described as being a variety of rich colors. Fortunately, I think, the black and white of Wise's celluloid version elevates the fears/horror of the plot.)I'm a fan of Matheson, and perhaps his original novel is a bit less campy. However, he did write this screenplay.Frankly, I can't recommend this film. Stick with The Haunting of the 60s - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"HA HA HA!!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS--Was this a joke? Am I to understand that the spirit that haunted this house, this Mt.Everest of haunted houses, was the spirit of a man who was p***ed off in life because he was short? Was that the upshot of it all? Maybe something got lost in the translation from book to screen. I know that Richard Matheson on whose book this movie was based was the same author that wrote The Shrinking Man and that his books supposedly touch on themes of man's loss of stature and control in these modern times (at least that's what I've heard) but LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE just seems to tack this theme on at the very end in order to achieve a quick resolution or a cheap and corny punchline. I'm not sure which one they were going for. Oh yeah, and the rest of the movie was about as scary a dwarf.* out of *****. "},{"Title":"Spooky atmospherics in place of genuine thrills...","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Screenwriter Richard Matheson, adapting his own book Hell House, knows instinctively how to create an intense and shuddery atmosphere, but what he lacks in versatility he makes up for in unoriginality. This film, though with effective scenes, makes no new headway from 1963's The Haunting. A (rather skeptical) doctor of parapsychology is paid to spend a week inside the Mount Everest of haunted houses, the Belasco House, where he is to determine if there's survival after death; he is joined by his wife and two mediums, one of whom survived a bloody similar investigation some years ago and the other, a woman, who is used as a sexual conduit to the unnerving energy. The doctor plans to dissipate the manor's negative power using Electro-Magnetic Radiation (the old E.M.R. trick!), but the woman warns him there's more to it than that (naturally he doesn't listen, which is standard in all these house-that-wouldn't-die pictures). Matheson keeps a timeline of the proceedings, which is useless, while director John Hough tries spiking the film's visual sense with bizarre camera angles and gimmicks. That may work on the gullible, but Hough isn't very adept with his actors. Roddy McDowall does his usual freak-out thing, Pamela Franklin floats about alternating smugness with terror, while Clive Revill as the no-nonsense doctor shrugs off a poltergeist attack as if it were early morning traffic. Some moderately strong moments, but the final solution is a little lax and the editing is disappointing (particularly concerning the doctor's fate). ** from **** "}{"Title":"Spooky, moody ghost story destroyed by silly ending","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE is one of those movie with everything going for it fascinating story, believable acting, some good fx and some truly spooky scenes peppered here and there. The haunting scenes are some of the best ever made for a ghost/haunted house film. I've seen this film a couple of times and the tension and scares add-up beautifully, that is up until the final revelation, which is so silly and underwhelming that it actually made me angry (and still makes me angry).Why would they go through the trouble of creating such a meticulously spooky film only to be negated by the unconvincing revelation? I expected something truly unique and mind-blowing for the explanation for the creepy stuff, instead we have to deal with an explanation that wouldn't even make it in a Scooby-Doo episode. There's nothing legendary about this haunted house. It's a shame because the majority of the film is so close to perfection.Watch the first hour and when they're about to reveal the reason for the hauntings, stop the film and leave the explanation up to your imagination, which would be 1000 times better than the ending they created here. "},{"Title":"a HUGE disappointment (spoilers)","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Like several of the other reviewers on this site, who were disappointed in this film, I too read many rave reviews on how scary this movie is so I went out and bought it and watched it, BIG mistake.  Not only is this movie not scary but the mystery of the house is paper thin and the revelation as to the reason of the house's haunting is a joke.Apparently the house is so haunted that anyone who goes into it is either killed or driven insane but apart from a couple of doors opening and closing and a little bit of phantom wind nothing much happens. Aside from a couple of brief (very brief) creepy moments The Legend of Hell House is a big bore and a utter disappointment.  I watched it alone late at night and I have only one thing to say, this movie should have been called The Legend of Harmless House.  The Legend of Hell House rates a 3 out of 10 as it does have fine performances and a couple of okay moments. "},{"Title":"estate of fear","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Roddy McDowall gets an unusual role as a man accompanying some people into a possibly haunted house. The Legend of Hell House uses sounds and sudden movements for its horror rather than special effects for cheap shocks. The scenes where the movie identified the date and time reminded me a bit of The Shining. I will admit that some of the scenes look so much like what we expect in haunted house movies that they came across as a little silly. Even so, the clever parts made up for that. It was a pleasant surprise that Michael Gough (Alfred in the 1989-97 Batman movies) also appeared. The point is that while this isn't a particularly scary movie, the content makes it worth seeing. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best haunted house movie of all time!","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The headline says it all. This is possibly the best haunted house movie of all time. It is everything THE HAUNTING tried to be but simply wasn't. In short, THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE demonstrates to us how THE HAUNTING should have been done.The plot is very simple - an eccentric millionaire commissions three people (parapsychologist, spiritual medium and physical medium) to investigate whether life after death is possible. He chooses a house known simply as Hell House as their location where they will study. If they succeed in their investigations, he will give each of them £100,000 (that's around £1 million today!).Instead of the nonsensical background creation surrounding the house and the investigators that we had to sit through in THE HAUNTING (and what a chore it was!), THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE gets straight down to business without wasting any time at all. The characters arrive at the house literally less than 10 minutes into the movie.Once the investigators arrive, a series of supernatural occurrences begin to occur - flying objects, possession of the human body by wicked spirits and vicious physical attacks. There are no buckets of blood or gore here. No actors in silly costumes passing themselves off as spirits. This is not an episode of Scooby Doo, it is the real deal in horror. And all violence and horror is suggested, making this a movie I'm sure Alfred Hitchcock would have been proud to have his name attached to.The atmosphere is simply the best. The fog outside, the creepy black cat roaming around, the use of dates and times at regular intervals to create the illusion of an actual account of events, strange camera angles (that almost gives the viewer the impression they have taken hallucinogenic drugs!), the illusion of the claustrophobic setting (caused by only a few rooms of the large house being shown) and some amazing ectoplasm effects make this an unnerving yet highly entertaining experience. Some viewers are likely to find the movie unbearable due to its powerful effect of discomfort.From the get-go, there is incredible tension caused by the conflicting views of the three investigators. Roddy McDowall's character takes a back seat in the first half of the movie (an important part of the plot), allowing Pamela Franklin and Clive Revill to deliver superb performances as medium and scientist respectively. McDowall's character, Ben Fischer, apparently took part in two previous investigations at this house and witnessed the deaths of all his colleagues he worked with.Initially, despite the conflicting views between the characters, they work together to try to find answers to the supernatural occurrences at Hell House. As the days transpire, the tension between them ratchets up to extreme proportions, the investigators start turning against each other, refusing to work with one another and then start their own personal investigations. Added to this, sexual tension involving Gayle Hunnicutt's character gives the movie a very strong middle section (something rarely found even in great movies). All of this not only sounds good on paper, it's even better on the screen! The movie builds up to a superb crescendo where Roddy McDowall delivers the most moving performance of his career as he recounts the ways in which his colleagues died. The tears almost came out of my eyes at the same time as they did out of his, this gives you an idea of just how believable his performance was.Even better than all of this is the fact that all four main characters in THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE are given virtually equal screen time so there's no main star with a bunch of co-stars like with THE HAUNTING.Kudos to the actors Pamela Franklin, Roddy McDowall, Clive Revill and Gayle Hunnicutt, you all gave amongst the best (if not the best) performances of your careers. You can be truly proud of your achievement. Thank you for providing me with such great entertainment.Special kudos to the director John Hough as well. His direction of this movie far surpasses the bland direction of THE HAUNTING by Robert Wise.And let's not forget the late great James H. Nicholson, the producer, who worked for many years with the great AIP production company. This was his only post-AIP production. It's a pity his life was taken from him so soon. Just imagine what other classics he could have produced to entertain us with had he lived longer.It's a pity the writer, Richard Matheson, didn't like this movie. I've liked plenty of work with his name attached to it so I will certainly be tempted to buy his novel the movie adapted!Overall, this is probably the best haunted house movie of all time and is a serious contender for being the best British horror movie of all time (ranking very well next to the likes of PEEPING TOM, REPULSION and so on). So forget the sub-par THE HAUNTING and see THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE instead. It is a must for fans of haunted house movies! "},{"Title":"'The Haunting' a turkey!!!???","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While you are entitled to your opinion, I cannot believe you think 'The Haunting' is a turkey..it is still one of the most frightening movies EVER released..from the superior acting of Julie Harris and Claire Bloom, Russ Tamblyn, Lois Maxwell (during her Miss Moneypenny period) and Richard Johnson, the visual style of the film, Davis Boulton's cinematography, and the eerie score by Humphrey Searle, it stands as one of the most disturbing and unsettling movies ever released. Most critics hail this movie as a masterpiece, and while you never see the spirits, you feel their presence, and the slow breakdown of Eleanor's psyche only adds to the already crumbling emotions of the players as the horror increases. This movie is what most horror films strive to be, but rarely do...this one truly scares..and while I loved 'The Haunting of Hell House', it was released at the same time as 'The Exorcist', and the moment where Pamela Franklin starts to spout off profanity was a lame attempt at aping Linda Blair's performance...so both have their merits as haunted house films..but give 'The Haunting' another chance..watch it in a dark unlit room..see how far you get.. "},{"Title":"The haunted Belasco house.............","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  `The legend of Hell House'A story about the `Belasco' house, a search for re-establishes the facts of the survival after dead. A team of three specialists;- Doctor Barret (and his wife), specialist in parapsychology. - Florence Tanner, medium - Franklin Fisher Tanner, the only survivor of the last time they tried to some research on the house. 2 attempts did fail with 8 people died on those two attempts.Are getting this assignment to do so. If they survive and bring within the week a report from what they found out (still alive) they get each payed 100.000 pounds.From the start of when they enter the house, the house reveals his mysterious powers immediately. Furniture, plates, glasses, picture, candles,... everything you can imagine flies round in the so-called sick haunted place. There is a real dark negative atmosphere created in the movie. This atmosphere gets even stronger by the use of the conversations of the actors. The dialogues contain some brilliant statements and questions that add a certain power to the sphere of the movie. The acting is some of the higher and better performances, and certainly a strong acting Roddy McDowall. In the film when the physical phenomena's are taking place, the voice of Daniel Belasco is a little disappointing. Even as the script doesn't go into depth about the research they do are wanted to do. The 4 of them are sitting around in a haunted house in a certain way doing nothing. Except waiting for a machine who can reverse negative energy. That will arrive a few days later. Meanwhile there is in the movie no real depth into the ghosts story about who and why. So this makes the movie a little slow and sometimes boring. But the magnificent camera work and this done in a very org. way. Example, the camera shot taken when the four of them are in front of the house. Kinda `frog perspective shot'!!! Also the idea from the director to let the shadows of a statue make a love play on the ceiling. Even as the fact that this is a movie without any music. This is something in the first place not that conspicuous but after a while you will get there is no music at all in the movie. Only dark creepy sounds and noises that create definitely moments off creepy atmospheres. So this will counter the `getting bored feeling. The last ten-minute you get some story in who and why the ghost manifested him, into the house. A lot of gore and blood we don't find in this movie. There are some but these are negligible. ' The movie is enjoyable also because of his `Hammer feel' he has. But not really what I would call a collector must. But every vision is different so decide for yourself.The end. Dario/ skull  "},{"Title":"Always seemed poorly edited","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've always felt this film was poorly edited. None of the charcters are introduced -- you'd think there'd be a scene where  Roddy would refuse to return to the house, but there isn't. He just arrives with  the others.And after every event scene, the story just moves on with little reaction. It  keeps going and going, which is great, but I've felt it was poorly edited... "},{"Title":"Comedy ending mars moderately watchable tripe (spoiler)","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Be warned, this review contains a spoiler of the plot.A scientist and his wife join two entirely unconvincing psychics to investigate a haunted house. Cue lots of bumps in the night and various spooky goings on. This is all fairly good, somehow keeping your attention despite the really shoddy acting. Roddy McDowall is especially good in this, giving his speeches (including the fantastic I bet you weren't even five foot tall one) with all the enthusiasm of a railway platform announcer. I like a spooky movie and it doesn't have to have much by way of special effects to interest me. Unfortunately I do like my movies to have some grounding in reality. Therefore I feel the following points must be made;1) If you find a body in the house it is not cool to just dump it in the garden in a shallow grave. This kind of thing doesn't go down well with the authorities. If one of your party happens to a be a doctor he should probably know better than to do this.2) When one of your party dies crushed to death by a falling cross the audience will be more convinced if it has some kind of impact on the remaining people. The rest of the party treat this shock, and a subsequent death, with all the emotion they would show were they to find themselves low on margarine.3) Patent anti-ghost machines that look like they are made out of cardboard and a coke vending machine don't penetrate lead it seems. If you are going to use such a machine be careful to open all the doors fully and perhaps also throw in some special effects more dramatic than a bit of smoke from a poorly concealed smoke machine. The audience are unlikely to buy that this machine has done anything to the house as, quite honestly, nothing can be seen to happen.Anyway, leaving aside this - and the patently silly cat attack which ends with a shot of a cat about as convincing as bagpuss and with at least half the menace - the ending of this film is absolutely absurd.You see, this unquiet spirit is hanging around because he is decidedly unhappy about the fact that he is a short-arse. Yes, as Fischer yells He isn't even 5ft tall. No indeed. This 'roaring giant' was so short he cut off his own legs and had them replaced with long ones. Before of course lining a room full of lead so that the patent ghost buster machine can't get rid of his spirit.You will laugh, but for the wrong reasons. All in all this movie is a turkey with fully formed legs with only Peter Bowles leaving with any dignity intact by doing a runner in the first few minutes of the film. "},{"Title":"Truly eerie and atmospheric horror film.","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Roddy McDowall heads the cast of this extremely creepy chiller about four psychic investigators and the dark,brooding mansion called Hell House.It's already destroyed one team of researchers.Now this brave quartet ventures in for another try at unraveling its ghastly secret.With a screenplay by Richard Matheson,adapting his own novel Hell House,The Legend of Hell House is a very creepy piece of horror that contains enough shocks and surprises for the dedicated horror buffs.The film has strong characters and a compelling story.The acting is excellent and the atmosphere of dread and fear is simply overwhelming.The house itself is a truly scary place filled with dark shadows,creepy corridors and spider webs.The Legend of Hell House contains almost no gore,but it scared the hell out of me.Highly recommended.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great build up...","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...that sort of fails with an ending that doesn't do justice to the rest of the film.  It seems as if they just ran out of room for a decent resolution and shot the first thing that came to mind. That aside, it's pretty much essential viewing for anyone interested in building suspense in any genre.  In terms of atmosphere for horror films I'd place it second only to The Haunting (which is one of the best ghost stories ever). "}{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a classic haunted house plot line executed with quite some style. Four people are sent to a spooky mansion to determine whether the afterlife exists - if they spend a week there they'll each be rewarded with £100,000. The group consists of a psychic investigator and his wife plus two mediums, one of whom barely escaped the house with his life 20 years previously.The tale unfolds in a cliched way - fog, leering statues and a malevolent cat, but it's tempered by a minimalist edge. There's little music and when it is used, it's very effective (in a similar vein to Philip Kaufman's 1978 version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers.) We're given the time and date at the start of some scenes, as if it's a scientific journal of events or a documentary. The cinematography is perfect with judicious use of unusual angles and lenses to create a surreal off beat effect.Unfortunately, this film doesn't quite reach the heights of other classics like 'The Wicker Man', 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers,' 'The Haunting' or 'The Others' because of it's ending. I won't spoil it here but suffice it to say that it's unsatisfactory. It could have been fine if clues had been given throughout the movie - perhaps flashbacks to the tormented life of Belasco to help us understand the suffering and eventual madness he went through. As it stands, it seems pretty lame which is a shame as the rest of the movie is almost perfect.If you like the films mentioned above or are a fan of 70's movies - this is a flawed classic. It comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"excellent, intelligent horror","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This British-made film about a group of psychic investigators visiting a haunted house and encountering psychic phenomena is harrowing and tense, a great and gripping film. As the various people settle into the house, the spirits within play off of their respective fears and insecurities. One quibble, though Roddy McDowell's possession scene comes off as a little ham-fisted. Otherwise a great, atmospheric romp. "},{"Title":"As bad as the book","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Run of the mill ghostbusters visit old house bore. The usual spooky hijinks - banging noises, moving objects, eerie manifestations, screaming women, gasps, groans, slamming doors, blah, blah, blah. Can't take this crap seriously and unable to laugh at it either. Where is Anton Phibes when he is needed? "},{"Title":"HUGE disappointment","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I read the reviews on this site before renting the movie. I wanted a really scary/suspenseful/creepy movie for Halloween that wasn't R rated and full of smut. To my HUGE disappointment, this movie did not fulfill any of the reasons I rented it. It was a lame movie from the 70's with unnecessary swearing and a really gross bedroom scene. PLUS, the ending sucks. I guess I just can't trust the reviews of other people. This is seriously one of the worst movies I have ever seen. My recommendation avoid it at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film ever","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I read the reviews of this film and was quite excited to see it as everyone had said it was brilliant, i wanted to settle down with some friends in the dark to watch a really scary edge of your seat film that wasn't a slasher, and all i got was crap.the acting was over the top and i was falling asleep, if anything that was supposed to be scary happened i just laughed because it was corny and laughable.in the end we had to fast forward over half of the film because me and my friends couldn't stand watching it, i don't know why everyone liked it so much.in my opinion you should avoid this movie at ALL costs! "},{"Title":"Classic Haunting Story !","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Legend of Hell House is a feast for everyone who enjoys classic horror. Aged movies that don't need bloody or gory special effects to be exceptional. This is story driven horror that messes with your mind and makes you feel uncomfortable. It contains a solid plot, amazingly good performances and - above all - an unsettling atmosphere and tension.Many tales of haunted houses were told back in the old days as it was a favorite horror topic. The Legend of Hell House surely belongs to the top of this subgenre along with The Haunting (1963), The Old Dark House (1932) and even The Changeling (1980). All of these are intriguing stories you keep staring at with your eyes and mouth wide open because you don't want to miss anything of it. Okay, The Legend of Hell House becomes predictable rather quick and some sequences are just plain silly, but those minor disadvantages are largely made up by the flawless directing and the terrific acting performances. Especially Roddy McDowall gets himself noticed. Hell House was shot in the same period as all the 'Planet of the Apes'-movies and The 'Poseidon Adventure'...in other words, the golden years of McDowell.If you have the same luck I had, you'll find a copy of the Legend of Hell House on DVD for a very cheap price. In that case, I advise you to buy it and enjoy this creepy experience with all your senses.   "}]