[{"Title":"Woody's Funniest","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A futuristic comedy from Woody Allen in 1973 has him waking up from an operation 200 years later (in 2173) to find society has gone berserk.Clever, witty, and very funny. Allen is hysterically funny as the sleeper who gets to give history lessons on the 1970s, pose as a robot, and become a revolutionary to be near Diane Keaton.Filled with sight gags galore and great one-liners. The giant vegetables and chicken are funny. And so is the 1984 political humor that fits the Bush era better than it did the Nixon era. Also very funny is Allen's extended Blanche du Bois speech.Allen is excellent as is Keaton. John Beck plays a revolutionary. Mary Gregory is the doctor. George Furth is a party guest. Jackie Mason does the voice of the Jewish tailor.A must see. "},{"Title":"A treasure among other comedies because of its wit and charm.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Woody Allen's films are generally treasured among other comedies because of their wit and charm. Many critics would agree, though, that Allen's earlier films were among his best. One of those movies was a lighthearted film called `Sleeper,' which starred a younger version of Allen and a younger, but always beautiful Diane Keaton. Although `Sleeper' leaves a person in stitches from laughter, its one flaw is that it lacks an ending. But don't let that stop you from seeing this comedy classic. In the end, who cares where it goes because it's just flat out funny.  	`Sleeper' is the story of Miles Monroe (Allen), who is cryogenically frozen in 1973 after having a procedure in a hospital. He is awoken nearly 200 years later by a group of scientists who want Monroe to help them defeat the leader of their society, as America's future consists of a totalitarian state. While on his adventure through this futuristic world, Monroe meets a beautiful woman named Luna Schlosser (Keaton) who he begins to have a love interest in. The two team up to try to oust their tyrannical government and bring about freedom and prosperity.  	`Sleeper' was hysterical from beginning to end. The very opening scene shows Monroe covered in tin foil-clearly scientists in 1973 found new and amazing uses for this wonderful kitchen product. As soon as Monroe awakens, he is disoriented, smiling aimlessly into space and walking backwards and into people.  	Allen's comical blend of intellect and charm shows up soon after. The futuristic society is comprised of people who have no historical references for the events of the past 200 years, as their leader has undoubtedly outlawed certain forms of knowledge that could lead to rebellion. They use Monroe to fill in the historical gaps by showing him pictures of famous twentieth century individuals, such as Joseph Stalin. Monroe provides his own synopsis of their contributions to the world in his own clever way, as he does also for former President Nixon.  	Allen's writing, direction and performance were hilarious. Rarely do we see writing as clever and sidesplitting in today's comedies. The only other comic director today that could even compare to Allen would be Christopher Guest, whose mockumentary films such as `Best In Show,' and the recent `A Mighty Wind,' have a real source of comedy. Most present comedies are trivial, filled with rehashed jokes that depend more on toilet humor than any form of real wittiness. 	The film's only problem is that after an hour and a half, it doesn't seem to know what to do with itself. It ends on a clever note about love with the protagonists somehow managing to save themselves, but not really the day. They realize that perhaps the only thing worth fighting for, in the end is love.  	All in all, `Sleeper' was a very funny farce on science fiction stories, and it cemented Allen's ability to be an engaging and funny in his films. ***  "},{"Title":"very stupid, well-polished fun","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen's previous efforts, BANANAS and TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN, were exceptionally funny but very uneven films. His being a bit of an amateur in the film business is pretty obvious in these movies. However, by the time he created SLEEPER, he was a lot more polished and consistent film maker. While this is still a very stupid and sophomoric film, it is very funny nevertheless. While there are occasionally bad moments (such as the giant chicken), they are very few and the humor just keeps hitting you again and again. I particularly liked the Orgazmatron and the history lesson he gives the futuristic professors. This film is slapstick and dopey--exactly the type of film that intellectuals (the audience for most later Allen films) will probably hate. This is Allen for the common man--back when he used to be very funny. "},{"Title":"early Woody is the best Woody","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No question that Woody Allen's earliest films were the most unpretentiously humorous, and Sleeper stands out among them. The conception of a frozen Allen waking up centuries in the future allows for plenty of biting satire on America in the 70's, not that we don't have plenty of good old-fashioned slapstick to boot. The bit with the Jewish robot tailors knocks me out no matter how many times I see it (o-KAY, ve'll take it IN). "},{"Title":"True Comic Genius","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is a comedy with one of the wittiest premises I've ever seen. It is a comedy about life in the 22nd century through a neurotic Jewish Brooklynite's cynical eyes. No matter how different things are in the future, his perspective doesn't change, his wry sense of humor stays the same, happily misplaced ragtime music plays over the movie, and old-fashioned sight gags are employed complete with the occasional stepped-up film speed.Allen has always done well playing virtually the same character in all of his movies, but his talent as an on screen comedian is milestoned in this performance. He has the brilliance to mock even the most elusive and unnoticed physical conventions of screen acting, for instance his whispering to Diane Keaton while they pose as doctors in the presence of several people close by. It's a nitpicky sense of humor that contributes greatly to the intelligence behind all of his manic goofiness.Diane Keaton is his match, however, whereas most of his leading ladies usually aren't. In fact, I hold Diane Keaton's performance in Sleeper as her crowning achievement so far that I've seen of her, even beyond her work in the Godfather films. She delivers great laughs. Her highlight is in what is possibly the funniest scene in the entire film, which eventually involves her doing an impression of Marlon Brando. Who would think that Diane Keaton would deliver the most convincing and dead-on Brando impression one has ever seen. While we're on the subject of that particular part of that hysterical scene that I will preserve for you to see for yourself, I must say that most people, even some of the most talented comedians and office/class clowns can hardly come close to mimicking Brando's voice, expressions and mannerisms. Diane Keaton somehow nails it. In Sleeper, she gives one of the funniest performances I've ever seen from an actress. She and Allen are truly one of the funniest comic pairs I've ever seen in a movie.What makes Sleeper so funny is not just the physical comedy but the out-of-the-box, completely unorthodox creativity behind all of the physical comedy. There is a scene where someone slips on a banana peel. But the banana peel is the size of a canoe, as is the banana and all of the electronically preserved fruits and vegetables in this particular place, and Allen is being chased by a futuristic cop and both of them are slipping repeatedly on the peel. The film has robot butlers and maids of the future, and gradually throughout the film some are introduced as robots programmed to act and speak like effeminate gay men and Brooklyn Jewish stereotypes. There is also a great amount of intellectualism and cultural knowledge in even the zaniest of humorous moments in Sleeper, and that is what makes it one of Woody Allen's funniest films and a work of true comic genius. "},{"Title":"Successful Combination of Physical and Verbal Humour","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this early comedy, Woody Allen plays Miles Monroe, a twentieth century healthfood restaurant owner and jazz clarinettist who is cryogenically frozen after surgery and awoken two centuries later. The America of 2173 is a totalitarian state ruled by an oppressive dictator, and Miles has been reanimated by a group of rebels fighting to overthrow the government. For reasons too complex to set out here, Miles is forced to go on the run disguised as a robot and finds himself falling in love with his new owner, an attractive but intellectually vacant young woman named Luna. The film recounts how Miles wins Luna over to the rebel cause and tells the story of their fight against the regime.Unlike some of Woody's later films, this is a pure comedy. It does not try to explore philosophical issues or to analyse the human condition in the same way as, say, Hannah and her Sisters or Crimes and Misdemeanours. Although I normally think of Woody as a master of verbal wit, much of the humour in Sleeper is physical slapstick, based upon (and no doubt deliberate homage to) the comedians of the silent era such as Charlie Chaplin or Buster Keaton. (I particularly liked the scenes where Woody is disguised as a robot and those where the villains are attempting to clone the dictator, killed in a bomb explosion, from his nose). The links with that era are reinforced by the musical score, composed by Woody himself, in a jazz/ragtime style reminiscent of the 1910s and 1920s. The sets, by contrast, are very futuristic, with the clinical glass-and-chromium look of many science-fiction films. The combination of a futuristic theme with a traditional style of comedy is doubtless why the film was advertised under the slogan Woody Allen takes a nostalgic look at the future.This is not, however, simply a pastiche of silent humour like the one Mel Brooks was to attempt a few years later in Silent Movie. This being a Woody Allen film, there is also a good deal of verbal humour, particularly one-liners along the lines of I haven't seen my analyst in 200 years. He was a strict Freudian. If I'd been going all this time, I'd probably almost be cured by now. (As that line suggests, Miles is the typical, neurotically insecure Woody Allen character). As is often the case with humorous science-fiction (such as Douglas Adams's Hitchhiker books), the humour is frequently used to make satirical points about twentieth-century society as seen from the viewpoint of an imagined future. Contemporary worries about our diet are neatly satirised by a joke about how the science of two hundred years hence has proved that fatty foods and smoking are actually beneficial to health whereas what we now think of as healthfoods are regarded as unhealthy. This joke has remained topical because anxiety about what we eat is, if anything,even greater today than it was in 1973. There is perhaps also a dig at seventies radical chic as the vacuous conformist Luna becomes an equally vacuous revolutionary. (The plot of Sleeper seems to owe something to another tongue-in-cheek science-fiction film from a few years earlier, Barbarella, which also dealt with rebellion against a dictator and even featured similar orgasmatron machines; the star of that film, Jane Fonda, had by 1973 become Hollywood's most famous radical chic actress).The humour of Sleeper is often directed against figures from the sixties and seventies- perhaps too much so, as this type of humour tends to date very quickly. Some of it is still funny (such as Diane Keaton's Marlon Brando impersonation), but some can now be difficult to understand, particularly for non-Americans. (I had no idea, for example, who Howard Cosell was- apparently he was a sports commentator). That is, however, a minor quibble. Overall, this is an entertaining film and, in places, very funny, combining successfully two very different styles of humour. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Second Best Movie After Annie Hall","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think I am going to have to rank this as Woody Allen's second-best (and second-funniest) movie... after the unbeatable Annie Hall. Even after having seen the movie 3 or 4 times I still find myself amused by some of Allen's shtick... and his rarely-demonstrated adeptness at physical comedy. So many classic physical bits riding around in the wheelchair... eating the rubber glove... the future scientists trying to force his slack body into a futuristic vehicle. After this movie Woody started to get a little too cerebral... this was his last attempt at a just-plain-funny movie... and probably his most satisfying of his early comedies... only because there was a sort-of storyline. Woody is cryogenically frozen after a botched operation in the 1970s and is awoken 200 years later to find himself in a repressive Orwellian future. He meets up with a spoiled rich chick (Diane Keaton) and influences her (not really intentionally) into becoming a revolutionary activist. "},{"Title":"This is one of my all time favourites","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"26 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although i was only 1yr when this film was made, its still one that i can watch again and again. Woody Allens physical slap stick is brilliant, the scene of him waking up and getting in the wheelchair makes me cry with laughter. I'm not a big Woody Allen fan so i cant compare it to his other movies, but i would strongly recommend this film. Anyone wanting a good laugh should definitely see this movie. It has that innocent feel you get from older movies that still had some standards of censorship. If the film was made today it would probably be crude and crass like American pie. I'm no prude but i feel that this film was made during the best time of movie making, when plot and good acting were more important than special effects and shock tactics. "},{"Title":"Perfect comedy","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Slapstick combined with razor sharp dialogue.The film is pure magic, its my favourite comedy and I think it is in my top three Allen films of all time.See it if you like the Marx brothers, Woody is all of them rolled into one in this film, it's utter genius. Woody also plays the jazz music which scores the film, and you know you're in for a treat when hearing the first few bars makes you smile. There aren't many comedies out there which could top this in terms of low budget, gags-per-second ratio, music, and sheer quality.If a film could save your life (as in Hannah and her sisters), it's this one. "},{"Title":"Silent","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"27 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" We are blessed that Woody was around, making movies as interesting as this when he was.Already with this one, he began his vast exploration of movie techniques and devices that would last 25 years or so.The idea is simple in this one he wanted to use film slapstick from a bygone era. How better to situate that than to move the whole picture into a future era?We have some truly classic stuff here. The banana joke, The mirror joke. The robot pantomime. The acting out of the Jewish dinner (done in later movies too). The inflated man joke. You can find all these in any number of Keaton. Marx, Laurel & Hardy movies.The unifying string of time travel, a romance, the leader and his nose is too weak to make this a solidly recommended outing. And it wouldn't be for a couple years until Woody cared about the cinematography at all.I had forgotten how pretty Diane Keaton was. Very.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "}{"Title":"Allen's simple tribute to sci-fi and slapstick","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSWoody Allen is a genius, few people will deny that. However, in recent years it's been well reported of his decline in success. Skipping back to 1973 and Allen created arguably his second greatest feature (After Annie Hall) with Sleeper.In this film, Allen plays Miles Monroe, health food shop owner from the mid 70s. Awoken two hundred years later, Monroe is roped into helping an underground movement to overthrow a totalitarian government. Aided by the originally unwilling, talentless poet Luna (Diane Keaton), Allen is placed in all manner of scrapes as he attempts to acclimatise to his new surroundings.Sleeper is brilliant. Never a film to be taken seriously, it has all the elements of a cult film, with the exception being that because it's a Woody Allen film, it's been pushed more into the mainstream. With a brilliant story which is actually relatively short on dialogue, Allen shows us an obscure future where freedoms are limited, but everyone is happy due to a combination of orgasm creating machines and a healthy diet of cigarettes and fudge cake.The reasoning behind the limitations of dialogue is that they just aren't necessary. Forever the master of quick witted, social commentary, in Sleeper Allen has created a tribute to the silent slapstick of the Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin era. One early scene in particular with Allen in a wheelchair causing trouble is excellent as the audience find themselves laughing at something which really shouldn't be funny, but ultimately is.Perhaps the one criticism of this film is the suddenness of it's ending. At the very end, Sleeper might conclude with a happy ending, but it concludes with a very sudden one. In comparison though with a world today where endings seem to never come (Lord Of The Rings taking a particularly long time to finish), it feels quite a nice change.Therefore to summarise, Allen's Sleepers is a brilliant film. With some cracking slapstick humour and some equally good witty comments, Allen has created a gem. Whilst not as good as some of his other work, who cares. This film is a fun film designed to make people laugh and it succeeds with this in tons. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"I don't know what the hell I'm doing here. I'm 237 years old; I should be collecting social security.","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before he became a serious filmmaker and gained the respect and admiration of film critics, Woody Allen was already entertaining millions of fans with such unashamedly silly comedies as 1973's 'Sleeper.' The science-fiction story concerns an unfortunate Miles Monroe (Allen), the 1970s owner of the Happy Carrot health-food store, who goes into St. Vincent's Hospital for a routine peptic ulcer operation and wakes up 200 years later in a terrifying police state. He is revived by a subversive underground rebel organisation to help uncover the secrets of the dreaded Aries Project, and to overthrow the tyrannical government and its dictator. Along the way, Miles enlists the help of the neurotic and exuberant Luna Schlosser (Diane Keaton, who collaborated with Allen on multiple occasions, most notably in 'Annie Hall (1977)' and 'Manhattan (1979)').A chaotic blend of razor-sharp satire and slapstick humour, 'Sleeper' contains enough of Allen's and co-writer Marshall Brickmann's trademark wit to remind us of what makes their later collaborations so brilliant. Of course, as Allen had yet to reach his creative peak, some of the jokes in the film work (the infamous Orgasmatron; the Volkswagen Beetle that starts up immediately after 200 years of neglect), whilst others aren't pulled off quite so well (the giant chicken; the mock Miss America pageant). In one memorable sequence, year 2173 historians show Miles a collection of historical items and photographs, and he idly gives off ridiculous explanations which they accept as fact. For example, yes, Howard Cosell's sporting reports were used as punishment for criminals who had committed a crime against the state!The promotional posters for the film proclaimed Woody Allen Takes A Nostalgic Look At The Future. This, more than likely, refers to the style of comedy, which, aside from Allen's witty observations, very much evokes memories of the silent slapstick comedies of Lloyd, Keaton and Chaplin. Much like the latter did with most of his films, Allen wrote, directed, starred in and composed the score for 'Sleeper.' The score itself, which is very upbeat, New Orleans-style traditional jazz, was performed by the Preservation Hall Jazz Band with Allen sitting in on clarinet. 'Sleeper' may have been inspired by H.G. Wells' classic novel, 'The Sleeper Awakes,' which recounts the tale of a man who awakes from a 203-year sleep to find himself in a horrifyingly-transformed futuristic London.Aside from including a wealth of instantly-quotable one-liners (I'm not really the heroic type. I was beat up by Quakers), Allen also has a lot of fun in his disorganised futuristic dystopia. After pouring too much Instant Pudding into a bowl, the overdone dessert practically comes to life and has to be beaten into submission with a broom; it is also revealed that, contrary to popular agreement in 1973, such substances as deep fat, tobacco and hot fudge are not only not unhealthy, but probably the best thing for your body! When Miles happens upon a garden of human-size fruit and vegetables, we just know that the giant banana peel is going to come into play somewhere, and, sure enough, Miles inevitably takes a tumble. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Stupidly Hilarious and Never Just Stupid","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper (1973)Hilarious and Stupidly Hilarious and Never Just StupidLaughter is its own best defense, and so if you find early Woody Allen films funny, you'll love laughing here. But an hour and a half of good laughs is one thing, and a cinematic masterpiece is another. Not that Allen's goal was the stars, not yet. I know, to not go gaga over early Woody Allen is announcing that I'm a brick, a philistine, or just a humorless aesthete. Well, maybe not. Woody Allen can be uproariously funny and also deeply funny at the same time, and that might happen here now and then, but it happens more in Love and Death (his next film, in the same silly early vein) and of course in his next film after that, Annie Hall, which is a terrible pinnacle to compare any of his films against. I won't even mention (not) later films where humor is more consistently layered with high drama (Hannah) or high art (Stardust). The concept in Sleeper is funny to start with, of course, and that's ninety percent of the game. The funny ploys depend, often, on that single 200 year misalignment. But the slapstick, and the schtick, are uneven. I suppose you might love the idea, and the characters, and the actors, so much you can laugh at Diane Keaton doing a bad New York accent (is that what it was?). But either way you have to admit these kinds of ploys are fresh in Allen's hands, and the movie never gets dull. Allen himself will make reference to earlier directors, and usually talks about them with a reverence he doesn't offer for his own films--part humility, part truth. Following that lead, it's fair to at least look at the prototypical kinds of humor in Chaplin and Keaton (Buster, not Diane) films, or even Peter Sellers vehicles that are closer to Allen's time (and of some obvious influence). And we can sometimes see a gift for transcendence or timelessness in those other films that Sleeper, itself, doesn't have, even when it might be making reference to them.Funniest scenes? See for yourself. I laugh just thinking about them. "},{"Title":"A classic example of surreal `early Woody'","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A health food store owner is cryogenically frozen and brought back in the year 2174 by anti-government radicals in order to assist them in their attempts to overthrow their oppressive government.  With the help of his guide Luna Schlosser he finds that the world has changed significantly from the one he once knew.When one speaks of Woody Allen films, it is common to talk of his `early, funnier films' and his later serious work (although that is beginning to change back recently).  Love and Death falls easily into the period of `early funnier films'.  The plot here is very loose and is simply an excuse of a series of observations, one liners and set pieces.  The comedy is a wonderful mix - there is plenty of slapstick, physical comedy.  This is complimented by a huge amount of one liners and witty monologues and a great banana skin joke!Again Allen is great in his standup persona and Keaton is comfortable and familiar despite not having a great character.  The imagination of the script gives plenty of room for Allen's surreal humour - the orgasmatronic booths are good and the robot scene allows him to pay a slight homage to Keaton.Overall this is yet another example of an `early, funnier' Woody Allen film.  It is an excellent comedy on so many levels. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, this movie was really a step forward from Woody Allen' s previous work. It's much funnier than Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex and is a great satire. The best parts are definitely the ones where Woody is dressed up as a robot. They're just hilarious. Diane Keaton is also very funny when she tries to speak like a jew. A good comedy that ends too soon. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sleeper","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Miles Monroe (director Allen), a health food store owner and jazz clarinetist, goes to a hospital for a routine operation, but something goes wrong and he is put to cryogenic sleep for over 200 years. When he is woken up in the 22nd century, the society has changed into a pleasure-addicted dictatorship. Miles is immediately pulled into revolutionary activity and soon has to flee the state police on his way to the mysterious ruler of the society. He also finds himself teaming up with an initially reluctant woman called Luna (Diane Keaton) and together they adventure through the futuristic society.The comedic style of Sleeper is an entertaining combination of over-the-top farce and Allen's usual verbal jabs at the society of the 20th century. The silly jazz music accompanying the bumbling chase scenes evokes memories from the silent era (some scenes are even sped-up), and the old masters of slapstick have clearly been a major influence to the style. There are also many references to more modern works of science fiction, such as 2001 A Space Odyssey and Nineteen Eight-Four. Besides the funny farcical scenes, Allen gets to perform his classic neurotic worrying routine that works fine and will amuse fans of his on-screen persona.A very notable aspect of the film is its visual style the sets and props all look excellent. The futuristic houses, round vehicles, stiff servant robots, gigantic fruits and even an unruly pudding look hilarious and the many details of the society provide chances to comment on how things are advancing in our times. Be it an orgasm-machine or nonsensical poetry, they seem to suggest we are moving towards times where ignorance revels and empty pleasure-hunting is celebrated as the only correct form of bliss; it can be said that the underlying themes of Sleeper are not unlike those of Aldous Huxley's classic novel Brave New World.Social commentary aside, Sleeper is also a very funny comedy that appeals not only to friends of Allen's neurotic shtick but also to slapstick fans and admirers of creative production design. Diane Keaton also deserves praise for her performance that features all the necessary comical energy and makes a good pairing for the protagonist Miles. In brief, I laughed out loud several times and would rank the film highly among the handful of Allen films I've seen so far. As far as sci-fi comedies go, Sleeper is a definite winner. "},{"Title":"Light and amusing, coherent vision, but a little dull","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a Woody Allen take on the sci-fi genre. Like Allen's other early films, there's a lot of clowning around going on as well as his trademark banter-like dialog style. Perhaps taking a cue from a couple vignettes from his previous film, Everything You Wanted to Know about Sex * But Were Afraid to Ask, Allen develops an exploration of an other world, notably the future, and brings us into it using his protagonist character, Miles Monroe.Like Bananas, Sleeper has a bit of a rambling quality to it, almost seeming to haphazardly wander from one incident to the next incident. But Allen's overall directing capacity was clearly gaining skill, which you can see in both his use of the camera to mimic the stark future worlds that he must've seen in countless science fiction films as well as how he positions himself and his actors in front of the camera. Of course, everything still looks Allen, especially his close-ups and wandering hand-held camera shots.One impressive element of Sleeper is how thought out (including the ironic comedic bits) the future is, both visually and theoretically. Another impressive element is Diane Keaton, who was certainly an absolute find as a silly comic charmer.Unfortunately, even though there's some amusing bickering and setups throughout the film, Sleeper doesn't sustain strong comic energy throughout the film. At times, I got bored, even though Sleeper is a rather short film. Even though the exposition in the film is dressed up humorously, the wit present is rather broad and not quite incisive on a whole and while still amusing enough to break a smirk, Allen doesn't really engage in strong truthful irony, but rather in light-hearted silliness. Without something to ground the silliness present, like a strong dramatic or comic through-line, Sleeper tends to float away as inconsequential.That's not to say that there isn't anything to enjoy in Sleeper. Allen's sensibilities are fully present here, from his clowning to his neurotic monologuing to his trademark banter, it's all there. But like his body of work up to this point, there is still a lack of grounding in his story that keeps his work from being particularly outstanding. This would happen later, of course. So, if you like Allen's other films and don't require the depth he develops later, you will probably get some enjoyment out of this. It's light-hearted, sometimes fun and mildly funny. And it actually demonstrates a coherent vision. But because of its lack of consequence, I can't say that it's for everyone. 7/10. "},{"Title":"One of his best comedies","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sleeper was a very interesting project for Allen.  He had spent time doing stand up, and up until this, his movies had been written around the jokes. With the exception of Play it Again, Sam, they were a series of sketches loosely tied into a weak plot.  Sleeper was the beginning of the end of this.  While the plot is somewhat sit-com-ish, it was still there, and viewers always kept it in mind.  It was also loose enough that Allen could incorporate scenes paying homage to the early silent film stars (the scene with the flying suits is my personal favorite).  Miles Monroe was also a rip off from Bob Hope's cowardly hero personalities, but Allen gave it his own twist, and, in my opinion, made it much better.  All in all, Allen achieved the perfect blend of slapstick and substance for those in need of a simple comedy.  It lacks the depth of some of his better films, but if you want to laugh, this is for you.Oh, and if you find it somewhat intellectually devoid, try Love and Death. It was his next film, and he added less slapstick and more highbrow comedy, as well as a little more real drama and substance.   "},{"Title":"Never Gets Old","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Along with Take The Money And Run, I have watched this so many times over the years, always laughing again. Although I totally admire his more serious, later films, for out and out laughs, these two can't be beat.Plus, Sleeper will make you think, too. We get the clear sense that Woody both distrusts government and the attempts to replace it as well.So many funny lines, funny visuals. The ultimate spoof of sci-fi.Great jazz score(as is often the case with Woody).The replication of HAL as the evil computer during the cloning scene! Diane makes Buster Keaton himself proud in this.Only seen Annie Hall and want to see more Woody/Diane magic? SEE THIS! "},{"Title":"a snore!","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this early Woody, most of his shtick is already in evidence. And, for quite a while, the jokes are funny. But after a while, the jokes start repeating and the film just lies there, a noisy unwieldy mess with Woody and Diane arguing repeatedly and noisily. It seems to me that Woody here is rather strongly influenced by Chaplin's Modern Times which I'm also not a fan of. But Chaplin had an undeniable gift for physical humor which Woody does not. Later on, Woody became more pretentious in an effort to be profound, especially when he was trying to channel Bergman. I have found it typical of all the Woodies I've seen more than once, that I can't really watch it again. If you think I'm not a fan, you are right!6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Likable, but overly self-indulgent","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had the reaction to this movie that I usually have had to Woody Allen flicks in the past. It's funny, filled with interesting jokes and ideas, but in the end I felt like Woody had more fun than I did.The scenes where he has petty arguments with Diane Keaton just didn't strike me as funny. To be more specific, I don't think she's funny. Woody Allen is on screen, inducing laughs from his Jewish sense of humor, while she tags along and does a pretty bad job of playing along with it. This is a comedic routine with a long and time-honored tradition the joker and the straight man. The problem is she can't play a good straight (wo)man-- she's just not fit to act the role. If Woody would choose actresses that can act better, rather than choosing ones on the basis of his relationships off film, his movies would be twice as good. "},{"Title":"Not a sleeper at all, in fact it's quite brilliant","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not among my favourites of Woody Allen's films, but among his better ones and a contender for his best and most polished film pre-Annie Hall. The last third is not quite as good as the rest, not as fun and the pace is a little draggy in spots. However if you love Woody Allen you will love Sleeper, it is one of his funniest films and along with The Purple Rose of Cairo one of his most accessible too, non-fans even might like it too. Visually it is perhaps his most polished pre-Annie Hall film and unlike some of his earlier films like What's Up Tiger Lily? there is a sense he was finding his voice(which he properly found in Annie Hall). The jazz score is wonderfully soulful and seductive, the story goes at a very brisk pace(if there is any Woody Allen film that you'd call boring, a word I hate using when reviewing films, Sleeper would definitely not be it), and the surrealistic quality it adopts is hypnotic and is not misplaced at all. The script and gags are among Allen's funniest(laugh-a-minute quality) and to the point, the part where Allen disguises himself as a robot is definitely a stand-out and ranks among the funniest he's ever done. The dialogue is brilliantly witty and very quotable. Viewers will also enjoy the homages to past great comedians like Chaplin and Keaton as well. Allen directs assuredly and gives a great comedic performances that ranks among his best, and Diane Keaton's is one of her most alluring and charming, her comic timing not disappointing either. Overall, quite brilliant, not quite among Allen's masterpieces but it does ranks among the better end of his filmography. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Woody Allen + Diane Keaton = Magic","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is packed with visual (at times it's almost like a tribute to silent comedy) and verbal gags, but personally I don't think it is quite as funny as Bananas, or quite as imaginative as the best sketch (the closing one) of Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex (But Were Afraid To Ask) (although the orgasmatron and the shaving-mirror scene come close), and the ending feels rushed. However, it is a very important part in Woody Allen's evolution up to that point, his films were mostly Woody against the world; here, he's dancing (metaphorically, but sometimes also literally!) with a partner - and what a partner! Diane Keaton, at her sexiest and fastest, is almost like a female Woody Allen at times - that's how well-synchronized their teamwork is. Woody is so confident of Keaton's abilities that he even gives her a couple of wild comic scenes all to herself, like her Tarzan imitation, and he sometimes lets himself become the butt of her jokes (You're dealing with one of the greatest minds you've ever encountered - Yeah, and his isn't so bad either!). Apart from their heavenly pairing, the strongest asset of Sleeper is its wonderful jazz score. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Sleeper (1973) ***","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the outrageously funny slapstick comedies from Woody Allen's early career, and a good place to start for Allen newcomers looking for fun. Woody was becoming a much more polished director by this time. He plays the lead role of a health food store owner who went into the hospital for minor surgery in the 20th Century, but wakes up in the futuristic world of 2173 where technology is way over his head and the state is engaged in a revolution. He is reluctantly befriended by a skeptical Diane Keaton who first fears him as an alien before joining his mission to foil a major government plot. Keaton and Allen were teamed previously in PLAY IT AGAIN, SAM but they really have a strong comical team chemistry here and would go on to make several other films together, including the award winning ANNIE HALL. In SLEEPER you can easily see where Woody was influenced by great classic comedians he's idolized like Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin, and The Marx Brothers. The film seems to slow down just a bit in the last act, but overall this is a delightful and crazy hodgepodge of silliness. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's vision of the future.","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A brief interlude that depicts what a neurotic, self-loathing, Jewish man thinks of the future of our existence in 200 years. The plot is as simplistic as possible Woody Allen is Miles Monroe, his typical neurotic self who is cryptically frozen for 200 years and discovered in the future by doctors. He soon finds out that the world is a dystopian society ruled by a single leader, where people have robot servants, get pleasure from a machine called the orgasmatron and the totalitarian police capture anyone suspect of being an alien and wipe their memory.Along the way of trying to defeat this evil plan, he runs into a self-important poet, Luna, played by the beautiful and charming Diane Keaton. This gives an opportunity for Allen to inject some of his famous banter, and fortunately there are some terrific one-liners in this film. Allen has always attempted to combine his love of stand-up and more deeper themes such as Freudian analysis and philosophical discussion in his films and he does here as well, although it feels a bit out of place. He also paces the film so fast that we hardly have time to react to his jokes, be they verbal or physical.The main thing to take from this is the sheer ambition and bravery Allen shows in attempting to take comedy to a different level and direction. Certainly, he would modify and perfect his style and writing, but his early experiments still prove funny today and much better than nearly all comedies produced in the last ten years. "},{"Title":"Rise and shine","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not quite the best of Woody Allen's early 70's comedies, before he got all serious and all, but there's still plenty here to amuse. A frothy cocktail of sometimes surreal, sometimes slapstick humour, the latter in particular accentuated by Allen's own perky Dixie jazz soundtrack.The gags roll (mostly) merrily along and besides Allen's usual foibles on sex and Jewishness, slipping occasionally, as he often did in his earlier work, to sexism, he still lands a good number of bulls-eyes, nailing life in Beverly Hills and even outing yet-to-be-disgraced Tricky Dicky Nixon before his soon-come Watergate Waterloo.Diane Keaton gets to amply demonstrate her kookiness but also shows her worth in some fast-patter exchanges with Allen. Once the movie settles down to its extended chase sequence, one hardly notices any other supporting parts.The sets are surprisingly good, particularly the vehicular creations and the interior sets depicting modern living in the 22nd century. There are just about more hits than misses in the humour stakes - I chuckled most at the pithy attack on health foods and the Streetcar Named Desire spoof and wonder if the closing lines were a planned lead in to Allen's next project, the wonderful Love and Death.Anyway, I'll close by relating that Sleeper kept a smile on or near my face for its 90-odd minute duration. Not quite as good as Love And Death or Bananas in my estimation though. "},{"Title":"A Favorite","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forgive me for giving this film a ten, but it is one of my all-time favorites. I'm no Allen fan, but this movie is funny. Just thinking about it brings a smile to my face. It may help that I grew up in the seventies and eighties. You get a lot of jokes and gags for your money, and most of them are funny. I thought the giant chicken was very funny, especially with the farmer leading it on a leash. What a way to go to be pecked to death. The beauty pageant and the Jewish dinner reverting to 'A Streetcar Named Desire', eh... but tolerable. The look on Miles' face when Luna and her boyfriend emerge from the orgasmatron is priceless.I still use the word 'nostrilectomy' all the time.A younger audience may not appreciate it; humor has changed since then when it was still somewhat Vaudevillian and the one liner was king. Also, the theme is dated--a dark view of the future--the rule back then with titles like Planet of the Apes, Dr. Strangelove, Soylent Green, Logan's Run, Silent Running, and A Clockwork Orange. In such company, Sleeper was a refreshing and much-needed laugh at just about everything and everyone. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's funniest movie, a classic comedy","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film hasn't aged a bit even though it is now over 30 years old. It is a hilarious romp and the funniest take-off on movies about the future ever made.The orb, the orgasmatron, cloning, and It's Cougat! will forever bring a smile to your face after seeing this film. Allen's sense of humor was truly ahead of its time here... every scene is hilarious! Sleeper is also a reminder of how much more intelligent people were in 1973 than we are in the 21st Century. Fact is, no one could make a more spot-on spoof on the future TODAY than Woody Allen did back in 1973.Diane Keaton is at her absolute best in the film, too. Young men are among the demographic who enjoy this film most, and it is a great film for all young people in search of a very original laugh. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen slapstick is wacky but takes some disappointing turns...","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen is such a staple of New York and city-living that it's a hoot to see him at the center of the far-out futuristic surroundings in Sleeper. His nuttiness isn't tempered by the visual gimmicks, and the movie is both recklessly daffy and wonderful to look at (it's great eye-candy, one of his best designed pictures). Allen's screenplay, about a modern-day man frozen and thawed out many years later, is a doodle that desperately has to work up new sub-plots just to keep going, and the entire brainwashing thread is wearing (although it does allow Diane Keaton to do an impersonation of Brando which is very funny). The film is extremely shrill, and the neurotic one-liners (mostly about sex) seem to come from nowhere. Still, the movie has a lunatic decadence to it, and a kind of nostalgic abandon, which makes it both silly and edgy at the same time. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Hello, I'm Rags...Woof, woof","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My personal fav of Woody Allen's vast array of excursions into psychotic lunacy. It's a biting satire of modern day culture and its endless absurdities, mocked from a futuristic viewpoint.Allen's routine comic shtick fits like a glove here. His one-liners rattle off like a machine gun; you'll need multiple viewings to catch them all. The stranger-in-a-strange-land motif is a perfect venue for Allen to do his confused, nervous, eccentric wimp guy bit, a man who has catapulted 200 years into the future through cryogenics. The cultural icon sight gags are endless the McDonald's over x million sold sign is a classic, as is Rags the loyal toy dog.Allen's robot disguise sequence is masterfully done; he reminded me of Buster Keaton's silent movie mime gyrations (maybe he modeled this scene after the master). The Miss America sequence had me in stitches, too. The frantic music punctuated the madness effectively as there were numerous slapstick exaggerated chase scenes, a tribute once again to the silents.There is a plot mostly a satire of negative utopia sci-fi's popular at the time, but it's just a vehicle for this mad ride through the world of the future; a universe of organized chaos abstracted from the uniquely warped perspective of Woody Allen. "}{"Title":"This Sleeper's A Hit!!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sleeper (1973) Dir Woody Allen Diane Keaton's second co-starring vehicle with Allen, who also directs and writes the screenplay. The plot concerns life in the future and Diane plays a whacked-out suburban chick slowly realizing that her robotic home helper is really a living human, a.k.a. Woody. A handheld orgasm-inducing object known as an orb is a well-remembered bit. And yet another hit for Diane--the film that is, not the orb. "},{"Title":"Visual humor is the key","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie relies much more strongly on visual humor than many of Woody Allen's other works.  It draws heavily on the tradition of silent film. Unfortunately, it never achieves the level of true genius that Allen is capable of; although better than the average comedy, it is far below the average quality of a Woody Allen work.  I guess there must be something wrong with me, since most people I know really like this movie, but somehow it just falls a little flat. "},{"Title":"Sleeper","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew that film was written by, directed by and starred Woody Allen, I didn't know anything about the concept or the reason for the title, but was definitely interested because of it featuring in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically Miles Monroe (Allen) is a health food store owner and jazz musician who has woken up in the year 2173, he was cryogenically frozen in 1973 unintentionally during a minor surgery, scientists Dr. Melik (Mary Gregory) and Dr. Orva (Bartlett Robinson) who revived him are part of a rebellion. Miles is eventually fully recovered, and because his history and records being destroyed he is an unknown, and therefore the rebels want his help in infiltrating and uncovering a 22nd Century police state plot called the Aires Project, but before they can make plans the authorities arrest the scientists, with only Miles escaping. He manages to get away undetected disguising himself as one of the many servant robots in a small storage space, to be sent off to a home where one is required, he ends up as a robot butler in the house of socialite Luna Schlosser (Diane Keaton), and he only reveals his true identity when she wants to have his head changed. She initially wants to turn Miles over to the authorities, so he kidnaps her and take her on the run with him as they make their way to the location of the Aires Project, slowly they fall in love with each other, but then he is captured and brainwashed to become a happy member of society, while Lunsa joins the rebellion. The rebellion manage to get Miles back and reverse his brainwashing, he remembers all of his past and joins them, but he becomes jealous seeing Luna kissing rebellion member Erno Windt (John Beck), she believes in free love, and in the world sex is done with machines, but they do reconcile. They reach the place where the Aires Project, they find out the dictator that rules the police state was actually killed in a bomb blast ten months ago, all that remains of his body is his nose, the plan is to clone a new body for the leader using the DNA of this nose. Miles and Luna disguise themselves as doctors and manage to sneak unnoticed into the operating and cloning facility where the nose is being held, they steal it and Miles assassinates the dictator throwing the nose under a steamroller, and in the end the couple question their future together, Luna thinks people cannot have relationships due to chemical incompatibilities, but he dismisses this, he believes in sex and death, the two embrace. Also starring Marya Small as Dr. Nero, Chris Forbes as Rainer Krebs and Douglas Rain as Evil Computer. Allen gives both a goofy and as usual neurotic performance as the man from the past trying to fit and change the future, Keaton four years before her Oscar winning role in Annie Hall is a great relatively eccentric love interest. There are terrific homages to Sir Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton, with fantastic slapstick, and the script is witty as well, it is silly, but in a hilarious way, the highlight is absolutely Allen disguised as a robot with the silver head and his glasses contrasting brilliantly, a wonderfully funny science-fiction comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"Mr.Cinema Delivers A Winner Once Again!","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen aka Mr.Cinema Delivers A Winner Once Again in his 1973 cult-classic 'Sleeper'. A Terrific Sci-Fi Comedy, that comes in-tact with a host of good laughs.'Sleeper' Synopsis A nerdish store owner is revived out of cryostasis into a future world to fight an oppressive government.'Sleeper' is amazing work. Allen & Marshall Brickman's Screenplay is a work of genius. They come up with a terrific concept, which translates into an equally terrific film. Each & Everything works! Allen's Direction, As Always, is Awe-Inspiring. Cinematography by David M. Walsh is good. Editing & Art Design, are wonderful.Performance-Wise Allen delivers a marvelous performance in the central role. He embodies the character & delivers one of his finest performances. He's a treat to watch from start to finish. Diane Keaton is ever-dependable. John Beck is first-rate. Susan Miller leaves a mark. Others lend support.On the whole, 'Sleeper' is simply, unmissable. Mr.Cinema RULES! "},{"Title":"Buildings featured in Sleeper","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The buildings featured in Sleeper were from around the Denver area and were architectural jewels in their own right.Many of the buildings, such as the Denver Botanical Gardens Greenhouse were designed by Victor Hornbein, a local architect who had been a student of Frank Lloyd Wright.Of interest was what I called the Flying Saucer House which could be seen on one of the hills at the entry of I-40 into Mount Vernon Canyon.I think that the use of these local architectural landmarks was ingenious and is one of the charms of this wonderful film. If nothing else, the film is worth viewing just for these. "},{"Title":"Still Hysterically Funny","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched Sleeper dozens of times and use in my English class as contrast to Brave New World and 1984. Still holds up after 40 years.Cloning is now a possibility and the condemnation of health food beliefs is classic.There are too many outstanding scenes to count,but the computerized robotic confessional and forgiveness of sins resonates with all Roman Catholics. This is a film I would like to see on TCM or other classic movie channel. I believe Woody Allen is a modern Charlie Chaplin-I don't appreciate his contemporary films,but this one is a hoot. I would like to see it recognized as a comedy classic. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen as a sleeper on a giant leap ... or slipper on a giant peel ...","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since I've used up all my superlatives to describe Allen's comical genius in my ecstatic review of Love and Death, I would start this review with a comparison Woody Allen is the Stanley Kubrick of comedy.Let me explain this. Allen explored as many areas as Kubrick at the dawn of his glorious and so prolific career. He made a political pamphlet like Paths of Glory, a film set in an oppressive dystopian future like A Clockwork Orange and a picaresque war epic  la Barry Lyndon. Granted Bananas, Sleeper or Love and Death don't compete in the same categories than the movies I mentioned, yet they all make speak some significant truths about our own humanity. Kubrick denounced the danger of technology, greed, power, politics, from their dehumanization effect, Allen uses humor to highlight their inner absurdity when put in the same equations than what matters most in life sex, love, life itself and naturally, death.Allen's intelligence has nothing to envy on Kubrick except it's more appealing in the way it subtly lies underneath the cream-pie humor. And after watching, I mean, experiencing Sleeper Woody Allen's take on the Sci-fi genre, I knew that Allen was the greatest comical director of his generation, standing above Mel Brooks, Benny Hill and Monty Python for his unique capability to enthrall us with the simple process of thinking. You could tell that all the Bananas, Sleepers and Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex were all leading to a much higher summit of intelligent craziness (or crazy intelligence). And Sleeper is only one little step below Love and Death, which doesn't make it any less enjoyable.So, Woody Allen is Miles Monroe, a jazz clarinetist and sympathetic owner of Happy Carrot Health Food shop, subjected to an unwanted cryopreservation, he's awakened 200 years later, in 2173 in the kind of future that would make anyone miss a year like 1973. One hilarious moment involves a scientist who concluded after watching footage of Howard Cosell's TV program that it was used as penal punishment. The laughs go on when Miles is asked to give some insights about such distinguished gentleman as Charles De Gaull, Joseph Stalin and Tchangaitchek, the comments were so funny I was almost disappointed that it didn't include a picture of Hitler. Maybe that was too risky but how about that guest in the socialite party wearing an outfit with a Swastika, that called for a reaction &#x85; never mind. Stranded in an unwanted but so existent future, Monroe's comments on his 200-year lethargy provide some of the most delightful pieces of verbal humor. When Diane Keaton, as Luna, a socialite girl, asked him how is it feels to have had 200 years without sex, he specifies 204, if you count my marriage, he also assumes he should be collecting social security at that time, this is how so 70's, he's still hooked up in his mind. But he has to deal with a police state, where not only he's alone, but he's the only one without a biometric record, hence his choice by a group of doctors to join an underground rebellious group and prevent a secret plan known as 'Aries Project'. Allen is an average schmuck who ran a rather purposeless life and gets caught in the middle of a rebellion where he becomes the chosen one. That's the core of most comedies an ordinary guy in an extraordinary situation, but the Allenian twist changes everything, the guy is more exceptional than any other around him. At a time where sex has become ensured by a convenient machine named orgasmitron, when joints have been replaced by a weird ball with inexplicable sexual effects, when men and women believe in free love, Monroe's all intellectual material is getting shaken up, but resists nonetheless. And after admitting that he didn't believe in God, because it's too distracting, or in science because it's too restricting, he reaffirms his attachment to the only real things that count in life sex and death, death even has an edge because it's rarely followed by nausea. If the conclusion seems sentimental, it's still the wisest response to the whole non-sense brought-up by the world and the proof that besides comedy, Allen has also a talent to create great romances.And beyond the undeniable 'makes-you-think' merit of the film, it's also an opportunity to enjoy pure Allen's slapstick, something that goes on the same level than the pioneers such as Buster Keaton or Charlie Chaplin, with a daringness that only he can get way. His catatonic state in the beginning might only inspire some timid chuckles but it goes on and on, until it gets desperately funny. From him trying to pass for a robot in a van full of other robots, trying to disguise as one, but can't do without his trademark glasses, hence Luna's desire to have a 'more aesthetically pleasing' one. Allen's robot-walk and his struggle with a giant pudding with a broom is, no pun intended, the icing on the cake. The rest involves a chase on the air, and on-the-water where he still find the opportunity of a good joke I hate you, screams a hysterical Luna, don't get too upset, calmly retorts Monroe. And of course, there's the great reinvention of the banana peel gag, you can see it coming but the way he exploits it only belongs to him. By the way, Allen has unique talent to find the right comical word, the 'banana the size of a canoe' foreshadows some classic Buick line (not surprising that comedic screenwriters advises to use words with the sound 'k', for their humorous impact).So between the sleeper over 2 centuries of dehumanization or the slipper over a giant banana peel gag, you have the two polar facets of Woody Allen between which he's able to express his comical talent to its fullest. "},{"Title":"The best film from Woody Allen's 'funny period'","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is probably the best of Woody Allen's early 'funny' films. It tells the tale of a health food shop owner from 1973 waking up in 2173 after being cryogenically frozen after a botched hospital operation. The set-up is ideal for Allen to incorporate both slapstick humour and satire. It also has a strong enough central story-line to hold everything together cohesively. Not only that but its sci-fi trappings allow for a visually inventive aesthetic which adds a further dimension. More than probably any of his other movies this one gives Allen equal opportunity to show his skills at physical, as well as verbal, comedy. I suppose because its a sci-fi comedy in addition to its lower-brow elements, Sleeper is one of the most accessible of Allen's works to many. But having said that, its hardly an unintelligent film, the future setting allows for a lot of satirical content, while the script is as sharp and funny as you would expect. Once again the chemistry between Allen and Diane Keaton is excellent. In this movie, the latter plays a spoilt, vacuous upper-class pseudo-intellectual. This character allows for a lot of verbal sparring with Allen's angsty New Yorker.There are many individual funny moments. Too many to list really. What the film as a whole represents is the peak of Allen's full-on funny films. In addition, its one of those rare sci-fi films in which the dated look of the 'futuristic' sets and costumes actually works to its advantage; they add to the overall humour. The very fact that its a genre picture though adds considerable interest in itself, as it allows the director to play around with a few conventions. And, most importantly, it remains one of his funniest films too, which counts for a lot. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen in the future","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen goes Sci-Fi! This neurotic little man wakes up in the future 200 years from his own time, which is 1973.He's cryonically frozen without his consent.The year 2073 is slightly different from his own time.It is ruled by a totalitarian government and sex isn't done manually anymore.This man, who was the owner of the Happy Carrot Healt-Food store in Manhattan in his own time, now gets a new job as a spy.The underground movement uses him as one to infiltrate the Aires project.He also falls for a socialite girl called Luna Schlosser.The movie is a great parody of known works of science fiction, like H.G. Wells The Sleeper Awakes and George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four.Woody Allen's Sleeper (1973) does the greatest job mixing Sci-Fi with comedy.Allen and Diane Keaton also make a great comedy team.John Beck is great as Erno Windt.Mary Gregory is terrific as Dr. Melik.I saw this movie back in 1993 and now I saw it again last thursday (Sep 2).I remembered it being funny but I didn't remember it being this funny! There are lots of scenes to knock your socks off! Woody as a robot is something you won't forget.When they're about to replace his head...Oh man! Rags the dog, who keeps saying Hello, I'm Rags is quite amusing.When Allen and Keaton pretend to be doctors who have to clone the dictator from a nose is absolutely hilarious.Sometimes the movie seems like a silent picture with the fast paced jazz music being played.Woody Allen shows us the future you've never seen before! "},{"Title":"Woody's Comedy masterpiece","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen rose to prominence as a maker of comedies that rely on witty neurotic dialogue and hilarious one-liners. Its still what we associate him with and love him for. In Sleeper, he was stepping out of his comfort zone and making much more physical comedy, inspired more by Charlie Chaplin than his hero Groucho Marx. The result was probably his most balanced really funny film. His other truly hilarious films are often rather crazy, with a sense of total loss of control on his part, scenes being in place purely for their humour rather than adding to a well thought out story. But here, despite still being a truly silly film, he is in total control of every element. The parody of the modern New York society that he usually inhabits which he manages to construct in the future is so perfect that it still feels like we are in his world. His interplay with muse no.1 Diane Keaton is at a high point, and his own performance is possibly his greatest, with his physical comedy timing up there with the silent movie greats. Shelve next to Annie Hall, Manhatten and the Purple Rose of Cairo right at the front of your collection. A classic. "}{"Title":"Outrageous Misfortune.","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is arguably Woody's funniest comedy and perhaps his second best film, after Annie Hall. It doesn't take long to describe the plot because there is so little of it. Woody enters a hospital for minor surgery in 1973, is cryogenically preserved, and is brought back to the real world two hundred years later -- without having had any sex during that time, or two hundred and four years, if you count my marriage. It's a largely rural world run by some kind of Great Leader. With a few exceptions, everybody is practically brainless, giving Woody and Marshall Brickman, the co-writers, a chance to get in some left jabs at current intellectual fads and icons. Asked who Normal Mailer was, Woody replies that he was a writer who left his ego to Harvard Medical School. Charles DeGaulle was a famous chef. The models in Playboy were made of plastic and needed to be blown up. The highest tribute that can be paid to a painting is that it's very Keane. Keane -- I'm telling you this in case you don't know -- Keane, or rather his wife, painted these big eye children with tears running down their cheeks. Utterly revolting stuff. A poem is magnificent to the extent that it sounds like a Hallmark greeting card. Modern decor includes over-sized versions of those plastic birds that bob up and down over a bowl of water in perpetual motion.I'm going to quit before I give away too many gags.For me, the most amusing scenes involve Woody's impersonation of a white-faced mechanical robot, especially when he passes around the metallic soccer-sized orb that gets everyone who touches it high as a kite. As the robotic butler it's his job to pass the orb from one party guest to another. By the time he's finished he refuses to give up the orb, begins tearing at women's dresses, and does a crazy dance, but everyone is too stoned to notice the robot's queer behavior. In that context I must mention that there are gay robots and Jewish robots who serve as tailors, both of them so stereotypical that they transcend stereotypes.What impresses me about his stuff is that Allen began as a stand-up comedian, cracking high-brow jokes, and in his films he displays an extraordinary talent for physical comedy. Some of the action scenes, the chases and so forth, are accompanied only by the ragtime musical score, reminiscent of Chaplin in their imaginative qualities.Not everything works, of course. A few clunkers here and there. Threatened by a giant chicken, Allen comments, What a way to go -- to be pecked to death. He might at least have worked in some pun on henpecked. If you're in the mood for laughs, this should do the job. It won't cure the heartbreak of psoriasis but it will amuse. "},{"Title":"Allen goes pure comedy.","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, as far as Woody Allen films go, not his finest but far from his worsted. Definitely more physical comedy then I have seen from Allen before, some of those moments are big hits and some big misses. The image of Allen running form the police trying to get his jet pack to work by flapping his arms will stick with me forever, I was laughing so hard and then just when I thought it couldn't be any funnier a classic Woody Allen line cheap Japanese flying packs. Its great lines like that, that keep this movie at least entertaining from start to finish. Diane Keaton, is really not given much to work with here but the chemistry between her and Allen works well, maybe that's because of Annie Hall though. It's always interesting to me to see how older movie portray the future and then to compare that to life now, by movies standards shouldn't we all have flying cars by now or at least a robot or two? One thing I have to know, was the fact that he was wrapped in aluminum foil meant to be funny or was it just for a futuristic look, cause I found it hilarious. The aluminum foil companies are selling their product way to cheap if it can maintain your body in cryostasis for 200 years. Over all a funny film as expected but don't expect any of his deeper stuff on this one, it's just good for a few laughs and a fun time. Don't take another step or the president gets it between the eyes "},{"Title":"I Think We Should All Have Orgasmatrons","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite of Woody Allen's zany 1970s comedies, and it's probably no coincidence that it's also the one to first pair him with one of his film muses, Diane Keaton.Allen plays a man who has been cryogenically frozen and wakes up years later in a much-altered future world. Of course, much of the fun in watching this movie now comes from seeing a guess at what a future world would look like from a 1973 perspective (dig that Orgasmatron!) But aside from that, the film is filled with hilarious sight gags and one-liners. Highlights include Allen's attempts to drive a wheel chair, giant carrots, and a hysterical chase scene in which Keaton puts on a gigantic inflatable suit and Allen rides her across a pond.Grade A "},{"Title":"A classic comedy from the prolific Allen","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is Woody Allen's chance to pay homage to some of film's greatest comics. You'll see his take on Harpo Marx's famous mirror scene and many references to the films of Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd. The film has a silent movie feel with Allen's Dixieland music and various parts sped-up so they play like something from the Keystone Cops.The plot is simple. Allen is frozen in the 20th century and revived 200 years later. The film is full of sight gags, one liners, sex jokes and sophisticated satire. Allen manages to choose locations that have a futuristic look, even 30 years after the film was made. Nothing at all serious in this film but enough laughs to make it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"A Slip on a Banana Peel and a Bonk on the Head with a Mallet","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a bit disappointed with Sleeper in comparison to other early Woody Allen films. This is most likely due the amount of slapstick comedy, which I found to be a little too alien for a Woody Allen picture. This is not to say that the slapstick was not funny at times, just that Woody Allen really excels at plot/dialog driven comedy and the slapstick became redundant and the humor was lost. However, this should not detract from how funny this film is especially in comparison to most of today's silver screen comedies, even recent Woody Allen contributions. Putting the slapstick aside, Sleeper employed a lot of Sci-Fi archetypes the sleeper, an American dystopia with an Orwellian Leader, androids and machine living, cloning, and so on. Unfortunately, Woody Allen doesn't really joke on these Sci-Fi conventions, instead the film mocked American pop culture up to 1973. This dates the film more so than the antiquated look of the futuristic computers, and in my opinion, a missed opportunity to give some really good jabs to the Sci-Fi genre. "},{"Title":"One move and he gets it between the eyes!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie four times on a flight to Bangkok. I couldn't sleep and this was the free movie. I had seen it a couple of times in the past as well. There is something so endearing about these early Allen films. He didn't take himself so seriously. He wasn't afraid to issue social commentary. I doubt he wanted to change things, but he was even handed in dishing out criticism for our messed up culture. The sad thing is that given a little more time, MacDonalds will serve up those trillion or so hamburgers. This film is a stitch. The fact that the main character was wrapped in aluminum foil like the leftovers of a rib roast starts it off. Because he is a curiosity, he is probed and investigated. His commentary is hilarious. When he blames the destruction on the head of the New York teacher's union getting the bomb, it is delightful. Then there are commentaries on their artifacts--everyday items that have been discovered. Allen takes each of them and makes absurd pronouncements that are part his musings and part truth. When that Volkswagen started after all those centuries, that was enough for me. I hurt all over. Add to that lines like It's very McKuen and you have a little masterpiece. He had the pulse of the country firmly implanted in his brain. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a goofy and weird movie. It was really funny to watch Woody Allen do his physical comedy for a change. I agree with other reviews, this is NOT LIKE Crimes and Misdemeanors at all. This is just a 1973 movie filled with a ton of one liners and funny scenes. The best was where he was in the balloon suit and running all over the place and bouncing. Also, where he was dressed as a robot and had that shower head thing in his mouth. I laughed so hard at that scene. I loved the scene where he had a helicopter gadget and was running all over the place. Diane Keaton must be a huge fan and friend of Woody Allen because she seems to be in all of his movies. I liked Sleeper and would see it again. "},{"Title":"Why I  loved the movie Sleeper 30 years after 1973...","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Funny Way That Woody Allen's Sleeper Defines Some Forms of Modern Day American Culture-John D. Ella.When I first viewed Woody Allen and Diane Keaton in the movie Sleeper, I knew that the movie's premise was a valid one, and repeatable. By that I mean the idea that a government that practiced certain styles of behavior modification involving the treatment of its citizenry that ultimately required the help of rebels in order to set the records straight about the past and possible futures is a funny one, and apt, simply because of writer and director Woody Allen's comedic way of expressing the future's need for comic relief and societal criticism, by becoming the suffering resurrected or reawakened sleeper who needs nobody to tell him what is right and wrong about the society he wakes up in.His fellow actors, Diane Keaton and the assorted, gifted and hilariously funny crew that he leads through the turbulence of a society gone to machine and dictatorial control and the means to effect his capture and possible destruction if he does not comply with the new society's views are excellent in depicting a future that has inexplicably lost human-centered reasoning and common sense, and his addition of funny statements and movie scenes involving large vegetables and robots (including himself dressed up as one to escape authorities) who are created and dismantled in high-rise office buildings can be seen as nothing short of brilliant social awareness and pointed and timely expressions of dismay, doom and gloom.The scenes involving Diane Keaton as a guerilla fighter who takes the side of an anarchistic assistant to Woody Allen's character after he kidnaps her in a forest setting are on par with some of the newer Woody Allen and Diane Keaton comedy movies that came after Sleeper - notably Annie Hall. While Sleeper depicted the finding of a Volkswagon(C) Beetle(C) fossil in a cave by the beach that the two characters are forced to throw into the sea, that same type of car and origin reference is used in other movies with both actors in a positive, although questionable light...Some of my favorite and most saddening scenes in Sleeper involve the chase scene where Woody Allen's character is trying to fly using a backpack helicopter device that doesn't work properly and also the scenes where he comes upon his previous reawakening doctor's house which has been vandalized and searched while he was escaping with the doctors involved in his reawakening/resurrection under house arrest...An anthology of movies by this movie couple are more than enough to satisfy the inquisitive minds who really have problems in societies where a machine level mentality can overtake a human one. Congratulations for the intuitive and beautifully produced Sleeper are overdue for Woody Allen, Diane Keaton and their friends and fellow artists in the making and producing of this timeless classic. "},{"Title":"woody allen and dianne keaton at their bests.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  woody allen designed a fantastic movie here. woody allen and diane keaton at their best. the colorado home featured in this movie was on a mountain viewed from denver. i used to see it from the university of denver, johnny mac dormitory. house provided unique views and great panagraphic shots. woody allen's imagination going wild. you should see this one more than once. "},{"Title":"First great Woody Allen comedy","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Woody Allen first comedies, less critically acclaimed than his latest more introspective films, were made to make people laugh. Slapstick, sketches, fast jokes. That was the big formula. Or so it seems with Bananas (1971) and the ironically funny Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (1972). But with Sleeper Woody took a step further the satire is great, it's still slapsticky, but in a more intelligent way. I consider Sleeper as Woody's transition from pure comedy to his own style of comedy. And from there to the moon. Diane Keaton is excellent in this film, as well as Woody himself. Three stars and a half out of four. "}{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever Made; The Definitive Slapstick; Allen's Finest; etc...","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be Woody Allen's best. It is absolutely the  funniest thing I have ever seen. When I did a report in the sixth grade about Woody Allen I was allowed to show an excerpt from one of his films in class. In my thorough viewing of Allen's films this was the film I chose. Every single person in the room fell off their chairs during the scene where he escapes the police. In my opinion it is also the definitive slapstick film. The movie Buster Keaton would of killed to make. "},{"Title":"A Great Sci-fi Comedy Treat","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best sci-fi satires ever done. Woody Allen is in top form combining sharp one liners, physical comedy and right on jabs at our view of science, sci-fi stories, politics and shallow pop culture.Starting out with making fun of the desire to freeze one's body to prolong life, Woody takes direct aim at health food fads and an oppressive police state as well as Marxist revolutionaries. Best of all, Woody predicts that sex and drugs in the future will change in a big way.The comedy ideas flow non stop and drift off to beauty pageants and chattering teeth! Allen's dry wit and sarcasm serve him well. Diane Keaton is a terrific ditzy counterpart. Her Marlon Brando impression was great.  The sets and special effects are minimal but adequate. The quality of the film making is often basic but it show cases the comedy routines very well.Sleeper is great fun because of Woody Allen's brilliant comedy talent. This is a film treat you should not miss.  "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi Slapstick!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm suprised the vote isn't higher for this movie - I guess it shows that not everybody enjoys slapstick.  Woody Allen has once again done a great slapstick job in this movie, though perhaps not quite as perfect as in Take the Money and Run.If you like slapstick and Woody Allen, you'll love this. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Finest!","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be Woody Allen's best movie ever.  Better than Annie Hall or any of the others.  They are also great, but this movie is the best of them all. There has never been a movie that has elicited so many laughs from me. The humor is just so incredible!  I recommend this to anyone, even if you hate Woody Allen, you will love this. "},{"Title":"Hilarious isn't a strong enough word!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Woody Allen tries his talents at a futuristic world and succeeds.  I think I may have laughed this hard for Take The Money And Run as well, but not for any other Woody movie.  This was absolutely hysterical.  Woody's writing and directing talents really shine in this futuristic spoof.  I think even non-Woody fans can enjoy this one.  I recommend it for all. "},{"Title":"What is that typeface used in the doctor's presentation?","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is a profoundly stylized movie. There are a couple of things that are brilliantly styled. Such as Woody's hairstyle but that's his problem! I realize that this is a long shot, but I'm a graphic designer and I absolutely love the typeface that was used in the scene Led By the Nose where the doctors are seeing a presentation about attaching the nose back onto the leader's face. I have to know the name of that great 70's looking font. Help please. By the way, my three year old daughter asks to watch Sleeper on a daily basis. She loves the scene where Woody eats the surgical glove. Diana Keaton is perfect in her role. "},{"Title":"A look into the grim future, and it's hysterical!","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would go into hysterics if I were to have aluminum foil pulled off my face and find out that I was no longer in Greenwich Village 1973 and in a civilization run by a nose some 200 years later. That's the plight that Woody Allen faces in this science fiction farce where he is seen waking up from a two century nap as if he was a combination of Stan Laurel and Buster Keaton. Slowly snapping out of his Rip Van Winkle sleep, he finds himself at the mercy of rebel force scientists and the army protecting the commander who presents God like messages at the end of the television airing day yet has taken away most of the world's freedoms. In Woody Allen's hands, this is science fiction satire at its darkest and funniest, and what happens in the next 90 minutes will either have you shaking your head in annoyance over the silliness or laughing your head off.I am in the party of the second part, chuckling hysterically at the antics surrounding Woody and his kidnapping victim, Diane Keaton, whom he abducted after she discovered that he was wanted by the military for scientific study. Woody ultimately gets under her skin, not creep-crawly like a bug, but winning her favor by showing her how things used to be, that sex didn't have to take place in a tube and last a mere 30 seconds. Posing as a robot butler in their initial sequence, Woody beats up a blob of some kind in her kitchen, later brings her giant celery sticks, strawberries and bananas, and a big piece of cheese the size of a semi truck tire. He ends up in a tree thanks to a non-working jet pack, ends up floating around in a huge rubber suit that seems to defy him of gravity, and ultimately has an ingenious way of disposing of the leader's nose.This has just the slightest of stories, but the sight gags that help it move briskly along are often tear enducingly funny. Robots equipped with Jewish accents (provided by Jackie Mason), ultra feminine gay mannerisms and those idle simply bumping into walls or even having their heads ripped off show from Woody's mind what our future could be like. Woody is hysterical as he goes through pictures of several 19th and 20th century figures and describes what he recalls them to be. But as I mentioned, this is not a comedy for every taste. Growing up, I recall my father laughing hysterically at this when first shown on TV and my mother shaking her head and rolling her eyes in disgust. The film really isn't dirty at all other than several minor references to sexual activity and perhaps some of Woody's Jewish New York references might go above the heads of those unfamiliar with that culture. But for a Goy like me with experience dealing with Jewish New Yorkers professionally and socially, the references are more than familiar, and that made it all the more funny. "},{"Title":"An often hilarious sci-fi comedy","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Taking place in a dystopian 2173, this is an often hilarious sci-fi comedy. This is the first of Woody Allen's early funny ones that I have seen and I very much enjoyed it, though it did some pacing problems in spite of its short length. It is also the first of his films that I have seen with one frequent collaborator, Diane Keaton, and without another, Mia Farrow. The film has a strong script by Allen and Marshall Brickman and Allen's direction is good, if not on the same level as in the later films of his that I have seen. The film stars Allen as Miles Monroe, a neurotic jazz musician and health food store owner in Greenburg...no, Greenwich Village who was placed in suspended animation after a failed operation in 1973. Needless to say, he is in for quite a shock when he awakens to find that it is 200 years later and America is ruled by the brutal Federation - no, that one...or that one - and Our Leader who bears an uncanny resemblance to LSD enthusiast Timothy Leary. One of the reasons why the film is so funny is that Miles Monroe is a very unlikely hero. He is no Buck Rogers or Flash Gordon. This contrast is helped in the early part of the film by the fact that Don Keefer, Mary Gregory and Bartlett Robinson are very effective in playing their respective roles of Doctors Tyron, Melik and Orva entirely straight. They resemble characters from more serious sci-fi films of the period and often do not realise that Miles is joking such as when he claims that Bela Lugosi was the Mayor of New York City and that Charles de Gaulle was a souffl chef. Allen, who gave himself all of the best bits, is extremely funny as the wisecracking defrostee. Over the course of the film, he proves to be made of sterner stuff that he thought. He uses his keen 20th Century intelligence and sharp wit to get him out of many a tricky situation.The always wonderful Diane Keaton is very funny in the role of Luna Schlosser, an artist and socialite who finds herself mixed up with Miles when he is forced to pose as her new household robot when he goes on the run from Federation Security. There is some very nice satire on privilege when Luna is first introduced as she and her friends represent the idle rich who can think of no reason why anyone would rebel and find the whole idea rather distasteful. Not only that but Luna is a very good parody of the overly sensitive, pretentious and not very talented artistic type. In a very funny scene, she practically has a nervous breakdown when she is informed that caterpillars turn into butterflies, not vice versa as she wrote in her poem. Although she and Miles get off to a shaky start, they eventually develop a sweet, understated romance which is very well acted by both Allen and Keaton. There is a great role reversal of a sort when Luna sheds her previous bourgeoisie existence and joins the rebellion after Miles is captured and brainwashed into being a good little citizen of the American Federation. John Beck has a nice small role as the rebellion's leader Erno Windt, of whom Miles becomes rather jealous because he does resemble the kind of hero that you would find in old fashioned sci-fi stories.The film has many great one liners from Allen, my favourites probably being the ones about Nixon and the NRA. It also features some great parodies of notable works of science fiction. Given its premise of a man being awoken after hundreds of years in suspended animation, the most obvious one is the aforementioned Buck Rogers. However, Allen also turned his parodist's eye to Nineteen Eighty Four, Brave New World and 2001 A Space Odyssey, among others. Although it predates the film adaptation of Logan's Run by three years, that was the first film that sprang to mind in the early scenes, for some reason. There is also a great visual reference to Modern Times. The silent film- inspired slapstick sequences are enormous fun. I particularly enjoyed the scene in which Miles slips on a giant banana peel. The joke is older than the movies themselves but it still make people laugh if it is executed properly. The robot tailors Ginsberg & Cohen deserve their own sitcom and possibly even a series of films. The sequence in which Miles pretended to be the robot started off rather slowly but I could not stop laughing when he got on his hands on the Orb sex toy.Overall, this is an extremely funny film which features many great examples of sharp writing and first rate comic timing. "},{"Title":"Predictive","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently watched this film again, in this futuristic year 2015. (My mind is comprised of its own original thinking parts).This film has all kinds of current themes about time travel, artificial humanoids, synthetic intelligence, worldwide corporate/government control, identity, media influence, cultural change, and so on and on.Much of it resembles recent sci-fi tropes in movies and TV... mixed with Woody Allen's satiric and slapstick comedy, and Diane Keaton's wonderful acting.I wonder if Philip K. Dick ever saw this film.I wonder what is meant by sexual nightmares... And what is Aries Day?? Could it be the actuation of fast CLONING of the Great Leader himself? Along with his nose? "},{"Title":"Hello, I'm Rags","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper was originally conceived as a modern silent film, in which the inhabitants of the future are forbidden from talking. The studio didn't fancy that much, so Allen instead turned Sleeper into a tribute to cinema past; Chaplin, Keaton, Laurel & Hardy, the Marx Brothers. Woody is a recognisable film icon by this time, and his opening appearance takes full advantage. The film begins with conversations and movements of other characters, building our anticipation of Woody's entrance. A body is awaiting reanimation after being cryogenically frozen, and we are told that he was a clarinet player and the owner of a health food restaurant called 'The Happy Carrot'. Already we can piece together that this is Woody's entrance; he is in real life a clarinet player, and the choice of health food restaurant already puts us in mind of his neurotic film persona. The body is still covered over with tinfoil, which is slowly peeled back to reveal the famous glasses. Woody will now steal the show without saying a word, putting on a silly expression and wandering around semi-conscious causing chaos. The seriousness of an impromptu visit from security is played off against Woody staggering around, pushing food into people's faces and turning circles in a wheelchair in the middle of the tense conversation.The dystopian future setting allows plenty more opportunity for juxtaposing the deadly serious with the farcical. A doctor asks Woody to assist in identifying various artifacts they have recovered from the 20th century (he identifies Charles De Gaulle as a famous French chef and Bela Lugosi as the mayor of New York City) which ends with the placing of a pair of clockwork chattering teeth onto the desk. None of these scenes are better than the appearances of Rags, a robotic dog awarded to our hero when he is being rehabilitated into society. Its attempts to subdue a kidnap attempt from the underground is right up there with Chaplin's lunch machine from Modern Times in its ability to reduce me to tears of laughter every time.Much of Sleeper is a riot of timeless physical and visual comedy and silly one-liners, along with a few references to contemporary 1973 society which don't travel so well down the years. It's the small touches that make all the difference; the Jewish tailors, the gay robot butler, the giant chicken. Some pieces feel inserted, a sketch placing Woody as Miss Montana doesn't work quite so well, but a sketch where Allen plays Blanche Dubois to Keaton's Marlon Brando as Stanley Kowalski does. My favourite recurring gag is the government troops with the rocket launcher.I've heard it commented that in 1973 Woody Allen is still just a slapstick comedian, and that cinematography was not even a concern for him for another few years. A quick glance at Sleeper tells you that is clearly not true. Sets and costumes are stunning, from the little light-up bubble cars, to the way-out dress of Luna's friends, and most obviously of all in the silhouette scene. Allen and Keaton are silhouetted behind the middle of three screen panels, discussing what to do next. They break apart to each occupy the end panels and then reunite in the left. It's a moment of real art cinema.Towards the end the laughs move around to domestic squabbling between Allen and Keaton, who emerges as equally talented in the slapstick stakes. Her empty-headed histrionics give way to a sweet double-act as they find themselves in the operating theatre tasked with cloning the dead leader from his nose. She puts in a fair bit of physical comedy too, letting go of the wrong end of a bow in the forest and drowning herself in tape during yet another botched part of the mission. The pair had already separated by this stage, which conversely led into the golden era of their screen partnership. There's an easy camaraderie between them, like a pair glad to remember the fun parts of a relationship without the pressure of everyday lives and tensions.Sleeper is one of those special films that makes you feel like you belong to a club the more times that you watch it. On first viewing the volume of jokes is almost overwhelming, you're not sure whether you should be paying attention to the physical humour, the one-liners or the serious plot stuff (such as there is). Repeat viewings help you bring out all of these aspects and really fall in love with the film. "}{"Title":"An Early Woody Allen Classic","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's easy to forget that there was a time in which Woody Allen was strictly silly. For years, he made effortlessly funny screwball comedies that combined his standup skills and witty writing. His comedy never necessarily died, he just slowly got more mature as he aged, beginning with 1977's Annie Hall. Sleeper was made in 1973 and is one of his earliest and finest films. Allen's only foray into the sci-fi genre, Sleeper is ingeniously funny while also creating a razor-sharp satire of other science fiction films of the era.The film opens in 2173. The colors of the architecture are strictly metallic grays and whites. The cars are pod-like and look straight out of a pulp fiction novel. The people are ignorant and dependent on technology. Imagine the shock Miles Monroe (Allen) feels when he wakes up. An owner of an unsuccessful health food store, Miles was cryogenically frozen in 1973. His awakening is illegal in the eyes of the Big Brother-like leader of the world, and in response, the scientists who thawed him are killed. In just a short time, Miles becomes the most wanted man in the nation, dubbed The Alien by the citizens. He goes on the run, kidnapping a buffoon named Luna (Diane Keaton) on the way, and so begins a series of antics that rival the physical comedy mania of Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton.Sleeper works so well because it is so self-aware and confident in its delivery. Many of the jokes are broad &#x97; in one sequence, Miles makes fun of the future's ignorance by telling curious scientists that Bela Lugosi was the mayor of New York and that Charles de Gaulle was a famous chef &#x97; but all are done so with a straight face and sure-fire timing.Allen's writing is impeccable. Excellent comedy scenes come right after the other, never losing their focus and never losing their punch. There isn't a moment where we even get the opportunity to stop laughing, albeit stop smiling. Allen's films have endured so long because they tie- together modern self-deprecation with vintage appreciation. Miles Monroe feels like an autobiographical character as his neuroses are so distinctly Allen's; the loud jazz music, which plays with a frenzied buzz throughout every screwball sequence, is obviously a throwback to the days of Carole Lombard and Bob Hope.The pairing of Allen and Keaton is, of course, a delight no other woman has ever matched Allen's nutty personality so perfectly. Keaton as Luna is simply gold she is forced to say some ridiculous lines, but she possesses the kind of timing that Lucille Ball and Katharine Hepburn portrayed with such manic clarity.I've seen Sleeper about five times now, and each time it's even more enjoyable. As the computer age thickens and we become more reliable on Google, it's more relevant than ever, even funnier because it seems to mirror Generation Y's cultural ignorance. And while critics may have not been smitten with Allen's Magic in the Moonlight this year, Sleeper is a reminder he's at his most fun when he's at his least self-serious.Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"rambunctious early Woody Allen","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper, an early film co-written and directed by Woody Allen is a science-fiction spoof that follows Miles Monroe, a health food store owner/jazz clarinetist who is cryogenically frozen for two hundred years during routine surgery and is woken up by future scientists after which much hilarity ensues. I didn't find the film particularly funny, though I enjoyed the slapstick gags like Miles trying to use a ridiculous jet pack that just consists of a backpack with a propeller attached to it, in order to escape pursuers. It is also fun to see Woody and Diane Keaton act together in their pre-Annie Hall days, and the chemistry is already palpable in this film. "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's best films","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen's Sleeper is one of the funniest science- fiction movies that I have ever seen before, but it is a movie that I think of considering to be a science fiction movie satire spoofing classics that were made before it such as Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968), or maybe the original version of Planet of the Apes (1968). Allen's film tells the story of a nerdish store owner named Miles Monroe (played by Woody Allen) who is going to go on a hospital checkup in the year 1973 (which is coincidentally the same year that this movie was made) and all of the sudden after a huge mistake happens he is awakened 200 years later in the year 2173 and after that he finds out he is in the future and also has become a wanted fugitive as well as being considered an illegal alien and thane after a small getaway from the police he meets up with this untalented poet named Luna (played by Diane Keaton) who end up falling in love with one another. Then Miles gets captured and brainwashed into thinking he is Miss America and it is up to Luna to save him, get rid of their leader's nose, as well as to trick rebels. this movie is funny as can be as well as one of the funniest movies of the 1970s, and it is a very well made movie that not only belongs on a list of the best science fiction movies ever made it also belongs on a list of the best comedic movies ever made. "},{"Title":"If you've never seen a (FUNNY) Woody Allen film - THIS is the one you SHOULD see","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I grew up here in NYC. When I was a kid, my dad took me to see this. I laughed then, and, watching it years later, I still laugh.200 years from now, Miles - owner of The Happy Carrot health food store in 'Green-witch village' is revived (well, they peel the tin foil off him - including his glasses).What happens next is what can best be described as George Orwell's future in 1984, meets Buster Keaton, Slapstick,and more - all encapsulated by the very funny Woody Allen.Co-starring a young, lovely Diane Keaton, Woody is revived as part of a futuristic underground's plot to overthrow their sedentary but dictatorial life.Keaton plays Luna Schlosser - poet, creator of greeting cards (she got a '...PhD in oral sex....', who Miles captures to help him when the security forces try to capture/reprogramme him.The movie's look - blacks & whites predominate the sets & wardrobes (including one gentleman at Luna's party, who's wearing a bowler hat reminiscent of Clockwork Orange, and a (backward) swastika - 'fashion'), make the film view of tomorrow see dated, but, hysterical too.Most of the film plays with little dialogue - just the jazz music of Woody Allen & Co.This - along with Annie Hall, are - to me - the bookends of Woody at his funniest (and best). "},{"Title":"One of Allen's very best early films, and a step on his way to greatness","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While all of Allen's early comedies are pretty wonderful, this film represents a big leap in technical proficiency. For the first time you sense him really thinking about how the camera is telling the story. And in finding Diane Keaton, Allen was finally paired with an actress who's comedic strengths were a great match for his. This film relies less on verbal jokes (although there are brilliant lines) and more on visual gags. It almost feels like you're watching a classic silent comedy at times. . Better music too, with jazz taking over from traditional score the first time in Allen's films. A funny, inventive, sophisticated if sometimes wonderfully silly comedy, with almost no dead moments. This marked the beginning of the move for Allen from brilliantly funny man who happened to make films, towards being a great filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Classic Woody Allen, The Wit That Makes Him Great","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Miles Monroe (Woody Allen), a jazz musician and health-food store owner living in Manhattan in 1973, is cryogenically frozen without his consent, and not revived for 200 years. The scientists who revive him are members of an underground movement 22nd-century America seems to be a police state ruled by a dictator, about to implement a secret plan known as the Aries Project. The underground movement hopes to use Miles as a spy to infiltrate the Aries Project, because he is the only member of this society without a known biometric identity.This film is funny, very funny. Allen puts the strong emphasis on slapstick, making this more like a Buster Keaton film in many scenes. But his wit is also there, with sharp jabs at contemporary society (as reflected from the future) and his thick dialogue. I have found that with other pictures, I had to have a dictionary on hand to fully understand him. I didn't have that problem here, but it came close with his espousal that he was a teleological, existential atheist.But the cultural critiques are what makes this golden, with shots at politics, religion, Howard Cosell... Mike Judge's Idiocracy covers a similar ground, but Allen does it with more finesse and less stupidity (despite both being rooted in the idea people of the future are dumb). Idiocracy pushes more the idea that corporations take over society, but Allen brushes with broader strokes.If you have only a basic knowledge of Woody Allen, check out Sleeper. It was one of his films I was not really aware of, and it was a pleasant surprise. From what I hear, you can skip the H. G. Wells book it's based on, because very little was used. But then again, why pass on a chance to read Wells? "},{"Title":"This movie beats many, many other comedies and does so by a nose.","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen plays yet another poor schmuck, this time around he's gone into hospital for an operation on a peptic ulcer and been frozen only to be woken up about 200 years later. It's a bizarre future landscape where cigarettes are good for you, most households have a robotic servant, fruit can be grown to enormous size and people have sex without actually having intercourse (thanks to the Orgasmatron). An untraceable alien, Allen ends up disrupting Diane Keaton's ordered, idyllic lifestyle and forcing her to wake up and see the problems with the current system, run by an apparently benevolent leader.It's a standard fish-out-of-water situation with numerous gags about technology and sci-fi thrown in there. Oh, and a smattering of political rebellion too. It's also very funny and remains one of my favourite Allen movies.This film is simply filled with priceless moments, whether it's Allen hiding inside an Orgasmatron, the effect of a hand-held sphere that gets the person holding it high, a man thinking he's a character from A Streetcar Named Desire or even just the whole finale that brilliantly veers in between the sublime and the ridiculous. Absolutely fantastic.See this if you like Bananas, Demolition Man, Austin Powers International Man Of Mystery. "},{"Title":"Funny, funny flick!!","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not a fan of Woody Allen's, but his role in this movie cracks me up BIG TIME. I first saw it on TCM some years ago on TV, and was amazed at what I saw. Woody plays Miles Monroe, who worked as a health food store worker. He became ill and was scheduled for an ulcer operation at a hospital, but was mistakenly put in cryogenics and was revived.....200 years later (in the year 2173, being in the 22nd century)! When he regains consciousness, he is told by the people who revived him that all of his relatives and friends had passed away long ago. He then learns of life in the era he wakes up in. He is then told to find the Aries Project. A lot of the props were quite funny, such as the flying helicopter (that Miles had no success working with), and is known as an alien that the security police are looking for. Numerous sight gags are funny as well, such as Orgasmatrons, confessional robots, robot tailors, a mechanical dog that talks. Diane Keaton played a wonderful role in the movie. This movie takes place during an era that none of us are going to see, but then again, the physicality of what we see (the devices, props, etc.) are also things that I don't think will be used at that time. "},{"Title":"When Woody Woke Up In The Future","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Along with 'Monty Python' and Mel Brooks, Woody Allen was the dominant force in movie comedy in the '70's. He made a string of hilarious Marx Brothers-influenced pictures, of which 'Sleeper' is one.It is basically a send-up of 'Buck Rogers'. Woody plays 'Miles Monroe', a nerdy jazz trumpeter who in 1973 ( the year the film was made ) goes into hospital for a minor operation, only to be cryogenically frozen, and thawed out some two hundred years in the future. He befriends avant-garde poet Luna Schlosser ( Diane Keaton ) and they are pursued by agents of the totalitarian government currently running the country. Its dictator has been blown up by a terrorist bomb, all that remains of him is his nose. In the finale, Miles and Luna invade an operating theatre to stop a clone being created from the nasal tissue.Woody and Marshall Brickman's script pokes fun at the dysfunctional futuristic movies of the period, and even has a pop at '2001 A Space Odyssey'. Intellectuals are made fun of too. Luna's poems are rubbish, but she does not seem to realise it. One of the best scenes has Miles being shown photographs of 20th century figures and asked to identify them. Looking at a picture of Bela Lugosi in his 'Dracula' guise, Miles says He was Mayor of New York. You can see what it did to him!. Of novelist Norman Mailer, he says He donated his ego to Harvard University!.'Sleeper' is packed with wonderful visual gags, such as Miles' impersonation of a robot, his battle with an 'instant pudding' and attempts to escape from the security police using mechanical devices such as a jet-pack and inflatable suit. Later on, he is assimilated into society and measured for new clothes by two Jewish-sounding robot tailors ( one is voiced by Jackie Mason ). And how can one forget the Orgasmatron? I won't spoil it for you by describing its purpose but if anyone builds it for real it will make him a millionaire overnight! Ditto the Orb! The only bit that falls flat is the 'Streetcar Named Desire' scene which annoys more than amuses. The 'rebels are we, born to be free' song was first heard in 'Bananas', incidentally.Woody also provided the jazz soundtrack, eschewing traditional sci-fi electronic music purely on the grounds that he did not like it. He may have directed more critically acclaimed films, but for my money 'Sleeper' is amongst his best. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Creative, and Inspired","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is about a man who's been cryogenically frozen (in tin-foil) and thawed out 200 years in the future. Woody Allen gives us a goofy, surreal look into a time period where junk food and tobacco are known to be healthy and every non-Italian man is impotent. The plot is generally throwaway, intentionally stupid and an excuse for inspired gags and slapstick, but the movie works well enough since the story takes a backseat to the humor. Many of the jokes are brilliant, with only a few flat ones, including Allen, dressed as a robotic butler, fending off growing instant pudding with a broom. The structure does fall apart in the third act, unfortunately, and brings fewer laughs.Contains Mild Sexual Discussion, Sexually Suggestive Humor, Infrequent Mild Profanity "}{"Title":"A Chaplin-style satirical comedy on the future mixed with Woody jokes","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Woody Allen's string of self-examining romantic dramas in the late 70s came Sleeper, a straight up slapstick satire about a man who is frozen in 1973 and awoken 200 years later. It's Allen's signature side note banter only in Sleeper it is applied almost strictly for comedic purposes.Taking a Distopian premise from the likes of George Orwell's 1984, Allen uses a hypothetical future to humorously comment on society's neurotic beliefs and practices in 1970 and where they might head if extrapolated (and exaggerated) into the future. Using Keystone Cop or Chaplin-esquire physical comedy sequences set to ragtime music, Sleeper becomes quite a lively, amusing and unique comedy. It's sort of Woody Allen's take on Chaplin's Modern Times, applying similar theatricality to make a similar point about society. One of the first tactics Allen uses is to establish that fats and tobacco are incredibly healthy in this society, contrary to what research in our time tells us.In the film, Allen plays Miles Munroe who was New York clarinetist that ran a health food store in the 1970s. In 2173, he is illegally woken and thrust into the beginnings of a revolution in which the Underground wishes to overtake The Leader and his fascist regime that promotes frigidity as Diane Keaton's character Luna would call it. People in this world turn to shiny silver balls for a drug-induced state and Orgasmitrons to satisfy sexual desires. Not only does Allen humorously work these things into the film, but they do simultaneously speak to a potential future.What makes the film really funny is Allen being Allen, because the premise really gives him a lot to work with. One scene has a man showing Miles pictures of famous people from our time because the man knows nothing about them. Miles lies about every one of them, using the educationally opportunity to really call it as he sees it and say what he really thinks about our society back then. He also goes for all out hilarity at times--in one scene Keaton and another member of the Underground try and reenact memories of his past by pretending they're his old Jewish relatives at a family dinner, to which he responds by launching into a Blanche DuBois monologue. It interrupts what the film is doing but it doesn't hurt the pacing and certainly provides a lot of great laughs.Though it rarely seems like the film's focus, the love story underneath the plot between Miles and Luna is particularly important to the film and to Allen. While his next few works will really establish his quest for understanding love, he purposefully wants to show how a relationship still has problems even 200 years into the future and how love is still just as much a mystery.Sleeper, however, will and should be remembered for some great comedic fodder. We'll have to see 200 years from now if that's true.~Steven CVisit my site http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Typical Allen","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a funny comedy, but since it was a Woody Allen movie, I did expect a whole lot more. It also doesn't stand the test of time, now looking antiquated and meaningless.But the jokes compensate these shortcomings. The film is a satire to the direction the world is going to. There are a lot of funny quotes, but the one I loved the most was when Diane Keaton asked Woody Allen you don't believe in science, you don't believe in political systems and you don't believe in God. What do you believe in? Sex and death. And after death you don't feel nauseous..But if you don't like the Woddy Allen humour, then this is a waste of time for you. The sci-fi bit is just enough to support the satire, with plastic glowing cars and inept security guards with exploding weapons and the oppressive government that keeps everyone brain washed with beauty pageants and making them all behave like spoiled pseudo-artists.Bottom line do it for Woody. "},{"Title":"One of the most overlooked comedies of all time.","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the most overlooked comedies of all time. Though fans of woody may contest that statement. Any comedy should have at its basic foundation, a Woody Allen screenplay. No writer has come close to what Woody has accomplished. Sleeper, is by far one of the greatest comedies ever produced. From its gags to intellectual jokes, to giant vegetables and orgasmatrons. Sleeper is what a comedy should be. It is true, The best Woody Allen is the early Woody Allen.Sex and death - two things that come once in a lifetime... but at least after death, you're not nauseous. "},{"Title":"Sleeper","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen is Miles Monroe, the owner of a health food store. He is frozen 200 years after entering the hospital for a routine operation. He awakens in a brave new world and must overthrow the repressive government. He is hilarious as he is in all his early films. Woody's comedy derives from his willingness to laugh at himself. He was the Graucho Marx of his era. He defines comedy as tragedy plus time. Comedy being relative, different generations laugh at different things. I wonder whether today's audiences would laugh at the robot bit. Diane Keaton co-stars. She went on to become his female counterpart. Woody prefers jazz to rock 'n' roll. On that, we disagree. "},{"Title":"The orgasmatron","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is a typical Woody Allen film wacky, wild and totally insane. In 1973, Miles Monroe(Allen), a jazz musician from Grenach Village and health food store proprietor goes into hospital for a minor surgery on a peptic ulcer. Two hundred years later, the surgeons of the future take him out of the deep-freeze, unwrap the thin foil, and heat him back to life. This timid new world of 2173 is a total dictatorship, ruled by a big brother figure seen only on television. I got to mention that this film is bursting with spoofs of other sci-fi classics. The surgeons belong to a revolutionary party, and they want Miles to help them overthrow the Government. But He escapes and finds himself in the home of a beautiful young artist-poet woman named Luna(Diane Keaton). After a hilarious stint of masquerading as a robot, owner Luna wants to return him to the factory to have a new head installed on her robot. An experimental flight with a flying belt, a romp with a ten foot chicken and overgrown vegetables, Monroe finally joins the revolutionary forces. Together with Luna, he is assigned the task of destroying the great leader's nose, the only part of him remaining after an attempted assassination. Penetrating the headquarters of the government, where an operation to clone the nose into the full sized replica of the dictator is about to take place. Allen poses as the surgeon until his disguise is uncovered, he grabs the nose and escapes. Nearby several workmen are repairing a street, he tosses the nose under a steamroller and the world is saved. Funny huh? This is genuine science-fictional comedy, although most of Allen's humour is very necessarily directed at the world. I find it most interesting how the ray guns of the security police, for example, never quite seem to work right and blowing up in their faces. "},{"Title":"Ahead Of Its Time","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody predicted in 1973 that in the future, we'd have 1200 TV channels, mechanized orgasms, cloning from noses, giant genetically engineered vegetables, and all-fat diets -- long before the zenith in popularity of Atkins...and people worship Warhol for his '15 minutes of fame' trope?But seriously, what makes this fun is how Allen uses the silent movie slapstick language of Chaplin and transports it 'into the future'. In the talking portions, he plays his trademark take on Groucho, i.e., Groucho minus his self-assuredness (as he does in 'Bananas', 'Love and Death', etc.) There's even a bit of Harpo and Lucy in the mirror scene. He surrounds himself with goyim to heighten the he's in his own movie effect.When referencing pop culture in a movie, this is the way to do it - skewer it good. Think of this as Woody striking back against Hollywood for outlawing the values of the classics, while squarely delivering a pie in the face to the Aquarian/'Future Shock' generation. "},{"Title":"Orgasmatronic!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After what seems like a thousand tired comedies about the love-lives of neurotic New Yorkers, Woody Allen's star is certainly in decline. Many think his first semi-serious films ('Annie Hall', 'Manhattan') were his greatest; but I would go back further. Allen's very earliest movies were little more than collections of sketches, heavy on visual as well as verbal humour; but in 'Sleeper', he also made a film with a (reasonably) coherent narrative, and the result is a hoot, a blend of sublime silliness and brilliant dialogue (my favourite exchange They're going to reprogramme your brain! My brain? That's my second favourite organ!) I've seen this movie several times, and it still makes me laugh out loud repeatedly. In my opinion, it's one of the funniest movies of any era, and (philistine though this view may seem), easily the best thing that Woody ever did. "},{"Title":"Future shock","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this during it's initial theatrical release and have seen it a several times. A funny movie from Woody Allen early in his career after he had left writing for television and stand up comedy and went into directing and writing. This is one of his sketch-comedy movies like his earlier Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex, Take The Money and Run and Bananas which were all good comedies but before he began his sophisticated comedy career a couple years later beginning with Annie Hall. Audiences loved Allen in his bumbling slapstick comedic roles and this may be the best of his early series of comedies with him as a modern Charlie Chaplin like star of those films. David Walsh is the cinematographer who worked photographing a lot of great comedies like Private Benjamin, California Suite, The Goodbye Girl, Sivler Streak and had worked on Allen's Everything You Always Wanted to Know. Diane Keaton is in her fourth theatrical film early in her career here and had been involved with a couple of Allen projects in the film Play it Again Sam that Allen wrote the screenplay for and had a small role in Allen short film Men of Crisis but she was hot property here recently coming off her role in the big film The Godfather. Allen plays a health food store owner who finds himself 200 years in the future as a recruit of a band of future revolutionaries. This is a bright and witty movie with some good humor and Allen shines. I would give this an 8.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Would you imagine a sci-fi movie starring Woody Allen?","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In one of his coolest movies, Woody Allen plays Miles Monroe, who got cryogenically frozen in the 20th century, only to get brought back to life two hundred years later. The plot actually involves an organization trying to overthrow the government, but the movie is mostly an excuse to be zany. And I don't just mean the Orgasmatron. They've also discovered that smoking is very healthy. And that whole sequence with him pretending to be a robot is a classic.Above all, Sleeper shows that Allen does best when not focusing on neurotic rich New Yorkers. How he comes up with this stuff I'll never guess, but he does it. A hoot. "},{"Title":"Like a sex machine?","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the future, a sex machine might be different than what you would expect. A healthy way of life might be different than what you would presume. It is way past the year 2101. Do you know where your nose is? Watch this and wake up laughing out loud. "}{"Title":"Hillarious Allen flick with great social commentary","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Films like `Sleeper' garnished Woody Allen with his iconic status in American pop culture. His sarcastic, yet admirably foolish characters amplify his aberration in the film industry; you find yourself asking, `is this guy ferreal?'`Sleeper' looks at 2173 through the spectacle of 200 years prior, obviously slamming the genre of science fiction that was still in its infancy. However, for all its low-fi gadgetry and gaudy bubble cars, it serves humor only Allen can conjure.Misfortune abounds when Allen's character Miles Munroe wakes up two centuries after what was supposed to be a routine operation. Unfortunately, he finds himself in the laboratory of a group of underground leftist physicians destined to overthrow the fascist cult regime ruling what we know as America. Should authorities catch him, he'll surely be reprogrammed, or eliminated. As the Leader's Gestapo find and surround the physicians' croissant-shaped estate, Miles sneaks into a mechanical-servant delivering van where he poses one of the devices. This inadvertently lands him a job at Luna Schlosser's home. Schlosser (Diane Keaton) has an affinity for ditsy, melodramatic poetry, fondling an intoxicating orb and having sex in the orgasmatron. All the while, authorities place an APB for Miles. Meanwhile, Luna wants nothing to do with him.Miles solicits Luna's assistance by threatening a big hickey. He drags her to the brink of civilization where she complains she hadn't showered in seven hours. Their sustenance comes from Miles' thievery of oversized legumes. Predictably, their woodland romp adheres their relationship and Luna joins the underground Marxist sect bent on eliminating the Leader.On a special assignment, Luna and Miles discover the underground movement gained more strength than they realized when a bomb exterminates all but the Leader's nose. The establishment's goal is to reconstruct the leader as a clone from the DNA in the appendage. The pair attempts to purloin it and expose the government's weakness.Allen's direction compares to Mel Brooks' slapstick shtick and subtle Semite humor-granted, Allen is more salacious. The tacky backdrop and props directly slam 1970s sci-fi low-budged and low-imagination, right down to the operation-assisting computer resembling HAL from `2001 A Space Odyssey.' Similarly, he satirizes the stalling '60s counter-culture movement with the film's exaggerated battle between ultra-rightists and leftists. In what seems purposely outdated for a sci-fi spoof, he works aged silent-film clowning and fast-motion replays backed by New-Orleans's-type chase music into the mix.Diane Keaton, a regular in Allen's films, returns yet again as femme fatale Luna. Her comely appearance and wavering allegiance to the government help solidify her role, pulling it off with a sarcastic farce. She progresses from air-headed hackneyed poet to red revolutionary with a devil-may-care attitude.The story serves as a mile marker when the '70s brought about dismal disillusionment with revolutionary culture with the influx of recession. Allen nearly questions the legitimacy of either side in favor of the ultimate balance. The sexual revolution's societal penetration culminates with the introduction of the orgasmatron-a cylindrical sarcophagus capable of stimulating both partners without the need for physical contact. It unwittingly points sexuality's grim future facing the '80s AIDS scare. He clearly has much to say in this film.Allen's status in film will never be challenged. He makes social commentary while raising eyebrows and eliciting chuckles. At any rate, this video release is a must-have for any film connoisseur.  "},{"Title":"Keeps you wide awake","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen Sleeper(1973) again recently. It's still my favorite Woody Allen movie - not that I'm a great fan of his.  Even mentions cloning way back then.  Big Brother is watching you, has current overtones also.  I like the jazz music, Diane Keaton, and all the robots.  There are a multitude of funny slapstick incidents in this film, and repays successive viewings - you can always get something more out of it.  "},{"Title":"Hi. I'm Rags. Woof! Woof!","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are other Woody Allen fantasy comedies I prefer, for instance The Purple Rose of Cairo and Zelig. But Sleeper has memorable, brainy bits that I still find funny like the Volkswagen dug up after 200 years and starts the first time. And the giant banana peel that Woody somehow manages to slip on. The movie plays on the familiar dystopian scenarios--1984, Brave New World, etc. Woody at least has enough respect for the science fiction genre to consult one of its leading practitioners, writer Ben Bova, before he commenced skewering. He might have used H.G. Wells' When the Sleeper Wakes as a starting point. "},{"Title":"Allen's finest slapstick moment","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is somewhat ramshackle but that's part of its charm. Forget the lowish production values and revel in the fun. I don't believe Woody Allen ever made a funnier film - just thinking about it gives me a lift, even when I haven't seen it in years. A film which contains so many classic moments - the 70s artefacts, the orgasmatron(!), the nose(!!) - a film which has made the world a better place by its very existence - deserves top marks. "},{"Title":"A little boy found a butterfly...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In contrast with Woody Allen's later films, Sleeper chooses to escape the New York of the present, and, in a similar way, it's rather differently funny to his later classics.The movie meticulously sets up lots of amusing situations and set-pieces (like the giant tape machine and the expanding instant pudding) and the humour lies in these and in physical comedy, rather than in the more typical wisecracks and one-liners, which often fall a little flat.Another extremely successful aspect of Sleeper is the tone of the movie the enthusiastic cast, the excellent music and the carefully chosen locations and props combine to give the movie a fresh and upbeat feel (there are a few dramatic moments, but they're not taken too seriously).But, all things considered, it's not so much the unorthodox nature of Sleeper that makes it so great - it's just really funny!  Wonder no longer how poets of the future will make their living! "},{"Title":"surreal, hilarious comedy","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read a biographical article on Woody Allen once. It seemed like Allen was somewhat disappointed with his earlier works in comparison to his later works (which were more critically acclaimed and in which he focused more on plot and characters than comedy) because in his earlier movies, he was just trying to cram as many jokes as possible into one movie.So?What's wrong with that???It certainly worked! This is a very very funny movie. Yes, it's kinda slapsticky, but Woody is great with verbal humor as well. Many quotable one liners (Not my brain! That's my second-favorite organ!). Watch Woody satirize society - I love how in the future, everyone realizes that health food is actually bad for you. And that machine that allows two people to -Well, I won't spoil any more. See this movie! "},{"Title":"Woody's final slapstick masterwork","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sleeper was a significant film for me, and probably for Woody Allen as well. It was the first movie of his that I saw and as a kid, I loved every minute.  For wild slapstick, nothing beats Woody Allen pounding a villain with a giant strawberry.  Watching it as an adult, the film is still hilarious, although not as funny as Bananas.  It's a bit more ambitious in its plot and setting (the sci-fi landscapes are still pretty inventive). The film contains a slightly sinister theme but the placement of Woody Allen amid this cold environment of the future is a funny sight in itself.  In my opinion, it is Woody's last screwball classic.   "},{"Title":"Great as always!!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a movie!!!!!!! I loved it since the first time! Super-ironic, anti-heroic and, as usual, ferocious towards our society! Funny gags, historical dialogues and his great genius make this movie a Must. ...uhm... maybe all of his movies till 1980 should be a Must... ) "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's funniest.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although Annie Hall may be his best, I think this may be his funniest. This movie is very, very funny. With excellent slapstick, which is the best form of humor, as well as wordplay. The chaplin style scenes are very funny as well. This is just a funny movie. Woody Allen does some great pratfalls to the likes of Chevy Chase. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"To sleep perchance to laugh","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The belly laugh is both illegitimate and orphaned in today's cinema comedy.  Writers, directors and performers will go for the gross-out laugh or the cerebral titter, but nudge them towards the broad plains of slapstick and they come down with Pecksniff Fever, the symptoms of which are a sickly desire to edit out real-time physical humor, inability to perform the double-take and constant complaining that the opportunities in front of them are kids stuff.  The best cure for these whining victims is a constant dose of Woody Allen's movie SLEEPER.  Allen pulls faces, takes pratfalls and battles a giant pudding with the panache of an old-fashioned troupe of circus clowns.  The Dixieland jazz score, with its screaming clarinets and yodeling trombones, is reminiscent of the old Marvin Hatley scores that so aided and abetted the shenanigans of The Little Rascals and Laurel & Hardy in the mighty days of slapstick yore.  SLEEPER is one long chase, with Allen evading the authorities in various disguises or simply girding up his loins and skipping away like a madman.  Even when caught and brainwashed he still manages to botch up the computer tapes he is assigned to handle, turning them into something resembling the remains of a taffy pull.  The music, the pacing, the frantic acting; it all conspires to stir up our diaphragm to the bursting point.  We have to guffaw and let the tears stream down our raw cheeks as Allen unerringly out-Chaplins Chaplin and out-Three Stooges the Stooges.  This kind of movie teaches us how to laugh out loud.  Allen has gone on to bigger(?) and better(?) things since this movie but he's never since been able to tickle himself into such an exuberant physical frenzy.  Most great clowns are pretty sad mental cases, so perhaps we need to place the blame for the current drouth of belly laughs with Prozac and the other physcotropic drugs that now rid our creative zanies of their demons. "}{"Title":"hilarious!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a must-see for fans of Austin Powers and 1984, as it is like a cross between the two.  I loved it when Woody Allen dressed as a robot-the way he moved was just too funny!  Although some parts were a little cheesy, the humor makes up for it. "},{"Title":"A strong early movie from Woody","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sleeper is one of Woody Allen's last couple of straight comedies, before he began to expand his horizons and his subject matter.  While it's not his best film, nor his funniest, it's still quite good, and certainly has its moments.The movie is worth seeing if only for its brilliant oddball-sci-fi premise.  Allen's character, Miles Monroe, goes into the hospital for minor surgery in 1973 and wakes 200 years in the future because of a complication in his surgery.  Eventually he becomes embroiled in a less interesting socialist subplot, but it lends itself to some very funny chase scenes.  Certainly this is the only film I've seen that was a successful blend of science fiction, one-liners, action, and slapstick.  It truly is an original.I love seeing Allen's take on the way things in the future are bound to turn out, especially the end result of health foods of the 1970s and the use and behavior of futuristic robots.  And Woody gets plenty of mileage making fun of our time in order to update the future's history books (Watching a clip of Howard Cosell on Wide World of Sports, Miles is asked whether it was shown to political dissidents as punishments.  That's exactly what it was. is his reply).The social commentary on drugs, sex, and politics are great, but the movie runs out of steam in its last couple of minutes.  After a brilliant hostage situation (I can't ruin who that hostage might be) the film just ends, with very little resolution of anything.So it's not his best film.  But it is very funny, very original, and extremely watchable.  "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sleeper, directed by Woody Allen and written by Mr. Allen and Marshall Brickman, reads just like one of Allen's old stand-up rountines. The future is run by a disembodied nose, people have sex in the Orgazmatron and vegetables are huge. The film is so bizzare and funny, it stands out as a landmark in Allen's distinguished career.Miles Monroe (Allen) is a simple jazz musician who owns a health-food store in Greenwhich Village, New York. He goes in to the hospital for a small operation and wakes up 200 years later, in a world run by a totitarian tyrant. He biggest concern is that his rent is 200 years overdue, until some scientists push him into joining the underground movement and stopping the lethal Aries Project from succeeding. Monroe is quite the bumbling hero, and along with the beautiful Luna (Diane Keaton), sets out to conquer the new world of the 23rd century. The film is so unique in Allen's filmorgraphy because of all the slapstick humor. The physical comedy is absolutley priceless, Allen is a revelation like never seen before. He mixes non-stop sight gags, classic Allen one-liners and sharp satire to declare war on all the established rules of a comedy. Allen and Brickman go for broke for a laugh, and they get big ones.There is no reason why anyone should pass up Sleeper, the biggest non-stop comedy of Woody Allen's career. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy. A must-see for all fans of slapstick","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read other comments about this film and the camp seems to be divided. On the one hand people take it for what it is - a hilarious slapstick comedy. On the other hand people dislike it for being one of Woody Allen's mediocre films because the humor is not his usual high-brow style. I disagree with the latter. Whether you are a Woody Allen fan or not, if you watch this film expecting another Allen 'comedy' then you will be disappointed. The film is a departure from his usual comedic style - less on the dialogue; more on the visual humor. This, for me, makes it one of his better films. It's easy to watch, you don't need to concentrate on characters and dialogue, you don't need to go on a mental journey to enjoy it and above all it is hilarious. I give it 7 out of ten and recommend to anyone that is even remotely interested! "},{"Title":"Transitional Woody film, from pure slapstick to intelligent humour!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Miles Munroe (Woody) is defrosted from a 200 year old cryogenic immersion. He becomes a rather unconvincing robot to disguise himself from the authorities; is then caught & brainwashed by the police; then joins a Marxist Guerilla Death Squad to assassinate the President of the World, while trying to convince a rather neurotic, suburbanite Diane Keaton to have sex with him, with the use of the Orgasmatron machine!And that's the story!!Nice, simple slapstick - typical Allen, slowly developing his comic talent from the out & out Chaplinesque slapstick of Take The Money & Run and Bananas to a slightly more intelligent brand of verbal humour. It's not until Love & Death do we begin to see a further development into Allen's psyche, that of neurosis & philosophical existentualism.But for Sleeper we have a decent combination of the visual over the verbal and it works very well, especially with his old sparring partner Keaton to bounce his gags off.Again, like a lot of early Allen films he fills the movie with many many jokes, some work some don't. But I suspect he did this to allay any fears of the film becoming boring. Perhaps he still didn't feel very confident to fully develop his more truer qualities of telling a funny story rather than simply rely on quick visual humour to move the film along and keep the audience happy.I doubt if anyone would have guessed back in the early 70s that Allen would eventually go full circle with his passion for film genres - from the middle-brow intellectualism of Annie Hall & Manhattan, to the sombre Bermanesque qualities of September, before returning to a more accessable light humour with Manhattan Murder Mystery and Mighty Aphrodite.In addition I suspect that even the most ardent Woody fan would be pushed to admit to liking every one of his films over the last 30 years since most of them fall into themes. Personally I preferred his neurotic period of the late 70s with Annie Hall etc, although I did like his earlier slapstick era with Love & Death and of course Sleeper. I don't really care much for his rather guilt-ridden missive of late 80s doom & gloom period with such dull delights as September.But each to his or her own. Sleeper is a very good film that perhaps runs out of energy near the end. But Keaton is a delight to whom I've always rated highly regardless of whether she's with Allen or not.Recommended***/***** "},{"Title":"Even if you think you hate Woody Allen...","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  These days, Woody Allen is known for a more gentle, highbrow, intellectual approach to comedy not so much laugh-out-loud as chuckle knowingly.Sleeper is a classic example of perfect comedy. Allen was just coming out of his goofball phase (which gave us the hilarious What's Up, Tiger Lily, and Take The Money And Run), and making a move toward real film-making.  Sleeper represents a perfect synthesis, as old Woody first began his transformation into neo-Woody.  Managing to be both intellectual and slapstick, he manages to evoke the classic physical schtick of Chaplin and Keaton, while giving us a peek at the brain behind the glasses.This film should be of particular interest to Austin Powers fans, as Mike Meyers readily admitted that the unfreezing sequence was a bold-faced copy of the one found here. "},{"Title":"My brain! ...That's my second favorite organ.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Woody Allen's Sleeper is one of his best films yet. The wit is, common for 70s era Allen, razor-sharp on the fronts of Woody's retorts and nervous ramblings, as well as in visual terms. Allen comes closest to taking the visual comedic spirit of the silent era, or of the first sound comedies, and making it fit perfectly into his work of pure absurdist science-fiction. There's never a wisecrack to miss, or a nod to political or social ties of the contemporary sort. In fact, there are almost TOO many sight gags to go around, like with the huge fruit and vegetables, or the orgasmatron, or the Nose, which is meant to be *the* leader of the dystopian future Allen gets thawed out of in the year 2173. And by sort of stretching out of his New York skin, as he also did with Love and Death and Bananas to an extent (though even more winningly here), there's some fresh ground to break. There's also some great team-work with Diane Keaton- the first time the two teamed up under Allen's direction. Topping this with a sensational up-beat rag-time jazz score by Allen and his band-mates (the only time Woody's done the bit as composer), you've got great one-liners, great physical comedy, and superb, jokey production design. One of the best film of 1973. "},{"Title":"G.Orwell revisited by another genius","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is simply irresistible,In a  post-apocalyptic future  world, a big brother has installed his tyranny. The only human that can save us is a fake robot (Woody Allen) initially admitted in hospital 300 years ago for a minor operation, he wakes up in a post nuclear-holocaust era where he becomes the public enemy #1.Burlesque, Chaplinesque, the adventures of this savior are hilarious. Especially the scene with the Orgasmotron. "},{"Title":"Woody discovered again","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sleeper has been my very first Woody Allen experience, 20 years ago. That was the French version, entitled Woody et les robots...(weird translation!). The first minutes of the movie appears like it's another average sci-fi telefilm some serious-looking scientists conscientiously try to awake a man from his 200 years long hibernation. It works. Then begins the part of Woody Allen Chaplin's inspired buffoonery(guffaw). It's pretty damn crazy! So is the remains of the movie. The music (composed by himself) is foolishly funny too, actually more enjoyable than the annoying score of Titanic. Rent it, and if you don't laugh, get worried.  "},{"Title":"One of early Allen's best","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is there anything Woody Allen can't do? Woody Allen doing sci-fi? What? There's no way that could work, right? Wrong. Allen, in all of his neurotic genius, has created his own zany brand of sci-fi comedy. Of course it is all in the style of your typical Woody Allen film and sci-fi is more of a backdrop, but there is still no denying that Allen has wonderfully blended the two genres. Sleeper is a movie about Miles Monroe, played, of course, by Woody Allen. Miles was a whole foods store owner and clarinet player who died in 1973. He is revived out of cryostatis 200 years into the future where the world is suppressed by a big brother type government. Miles only wants to go back to 1973, but he eventually gets involved with a rebellion against the government. This is a hilariously creative display of a pseudo-slapstick style of comedy with every situation and every moment of the film a laugh out loud and uproariously entertaining experience.While brimming with slapstick humor and physical comedy, Sleeper is also an excellent satire. The whole futuristic government satire idea is kind of burnt out by this point, but Sleeper shows itself off as one of the smarter examples of this motif in modern filmmaking. There are some hilarious moments, satirizing not so much the government, but more just society in general, like when it is revealed that things like chocolate and cigarettes are some of the most healthy products for the human body. This is even funnier when you account for the fact that Miles owned a health food store back in 1973 which only sold organic products. Miles makes various amusing comments about this throughout the film as well, making fun of society's obsession with eating healthy. The cleverness of this film is just so appeasing at times.Now I will say that this isn't the kind of high brow comedy that Woody Allen's more sophisticated films permeate. This is a very early Allen film and it is obvious that his true style that we see in his best works from the 80's and 90's is still in development. But you can't look at this film as a staunch comparison to other films that, at the time, hadn't even been conceived yet. You have to look at Sleeper on its own and understand that it is the work of a still learning Woody Allen who was still perfecting his wistful style of comedy and satire that we know and love today. I imagine that Woody Allen intended to be a slapstick comedy filmmaker before he realized what a talent he had for writing more sophisticated comedy. But while the slapstick phase lasted he really struck gold with Sleeper.I'm not even entirely sure why I liked this movie so much. I guess it is because it is just so much fun. Normally the silly comedies like this just seem to hold my attention for the time that they are playing, provide a few laughs, and nothing else. But Sleeper really hit a note with me and I was incredibly entertained and draw in how any comedy should draw you in. I was really entertained by the comedy but also enthralled by the incredibly entertaining storyline that is a perfect blend of slapstick, satire, and sci-fi. Woody Allen proves once again that he knows how to make a good film. "}{"Title":"The Fundamental Woody Allen!","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" To simply state that I'm not a Woody Allen fan would be a serious understatement. I really don't like Woody Allen&#x85; Naturally, I can't but have deep respect for a creative mind who has consistently been writing and directing an average of one movie per year, but I can't stand his typical pseudo-intellectual humor and allegedly mature sense for drama. This is exactly why multiple of my friends recommended me to give another fair chance to Allen's earliest accomplishments as a writer/director/comedy actor. I've been told that his films like Take the money and run, Bananas and particularly this Sleeper feature the type of humor that is more laugh-out-loud funny and story lines that are delightfully absurd. After watching Sleeper I can only concur wholeheartedly and be thankful to the friends who know my taste in movies. This is a terrifically refreshing and inventive Sci-Fi comedy romp with a fast pacing, delirious atmosphere and hysterical dialogs & one-liners. With his goofy charisma and mimicry, the young Woody Allen also reminds me of other legendary comedy performers like Groucho Marx and the French genius Louis de Funs. Allen stars as the nerdy and unworldly Miles Monroe who's brought back from a state of cryogenics in the year 2173, exactly 200 years after a routine surgery in the old New York went wrong. Obviously a lot things have changed over the years, and since Miles isn't electronically registered anywhere, activists of a radical underground movement beg him to help overthrow the oppressive government before they get the chance of cloning their dictator leader. Miles is quite reluctant at first, and when he does decide to join the rebels he quickly finds himself struggling with all the 22nd century inventions, like house robots, aphrodisiac devices and orgasm booths. What I liked the absolute most about Sleeper is the typical 70's interpretation of the future. The same marvelous clichs and stereotypes recur in many contemporary Sci-Fi flicks and I truly love them! We're talking about those hideous futuristic buildings, floating yet rudimentary designed vehicles, totally crazy and useless household gimmicks, sober silver outfits and &#x96; of course &#x96; silly robots! Undoubtedly the most memorable sequences in Sleeper are the ones where Woody Allen disguises himself as a house robot and acts all spastic. It's pure comedy gold. "},{"Title":"My God! I beat a man insensible with a strawberry! ","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is interesting -- though not surprising -- that the most intriguing thing about Woody Allen's SLEEPER is that, even though it all takes place in the future, it seems dated. The film takes place in 2173 and despite the apparently low budget, the filmmakers do a nice job of making this new civilization appear appropriately, if generically, futuristic. This future references its past in clever ways, like in revealing that tobacco and hot fudge will eventually be recognized as being healthy, life-giving substances. But, there is a brief scene, where time traveler Woody is asked to explain some historical artifacts and he responds with a few one-liners about a few then-topical subjects, like Billy Graham and Howard Cosell. The point obviously was to make the film relevant to 1973 audiences -- and it certainly was funny in 1973. But, while watching Woody trying to justify the existence of a timeless oddity like a chattering teeth novelty toy is funny; watching him take a gratuitous pot shot at Richard Nixon just seems lame.That is the problem with the future, it goes out of date so fast; you just can't predict how something intended to be cutting-edge topical might soon become offensive, naive or simply dumb -- just as the past can slide quickly into obscure irrelevancy. What is the shelf life of a joke? His sight gag about McDonald's still being in business in 2173 is funny, but even now how many get the joke about the dependability of the Volkswagen Beetle? (But happily, his portrayal of a couple of gay characters as being over-the-top stereotypically limp-wrist swishy may be the most blessedly dated thing about the entire film.)It is a small quibble, since much of the point of SLEEPER is the idea of it all taking place out of the proper time. It is said that Woody originally conceived the film as a silent movie, an homage to the classic comedies of the early days of film. The futuristic setting was to be seen as a time and a place where a totalitarian state had forbidden language, forcing citizens to communicate non-verbally, like Chaplin or Keaton. Allen meant to visit the past by visiting the future. And much of this remains, especially in the early scenes where Woody's character, awakening from a coma, has no dialogue. Indeed, it is almost 12 minutes before Woody's distinctive neurotic whine is heard -- his first words being I can't believe this!, which is the closest thing he ever had to a catchphrase. So it is odd that he goes to two extremes -- the distant movie past and the distant sci-fi future -- and then lets his present, circa 1973, intrude.Woody plays Miles Monroe, a health food store owner from Greenwich Village NYC, whose botched ulcer operation ends up being a 200 year nap. Thawed out like a Birdseye TV dinner (another dated reference), he is quickly recruited by revolutionary forces to work with the underground to overthrow the regime of Our Leader, who apparently rules what is left of the civilized world. Along the way he picks up Diane Keaton as Luna, an airheaded poet who rather quickly makes the transition from pampered, placated citizen to eager assassin. Despite the themes, SLEEPER is remarkably light-hearted, almost whimsical in tone.It is difficult to see just what political point, if any, Woody was trying to make. His vision of a future totalitarian state appears somewhat benign It seems to be a socialistic society which provides its citizens with all the basic needs in a clean and friendly atmosphere, all under the watchful eye of a smiling old man in a wheel chair, who unavoidably brings to mind FDR. There is that pesky little matter of state supervised mind control, which placates the masses with television, intoxicating orbs and sex machines called orgasmatrons, but even so there have certainly been more threatening visions of the future.Though consistently funny throughout, SLEEPER is nonetheless an awkward blend of comedy styles. Though he pays homage to the wacky slapstick and visual chaos of silent comedy, he wedges in his New Yorker's strain of intellectual cynicism and sexual obsession, not always with great ease. Part of this works in a perverse way, as his often esoteric non-sequitars seem even more obscure in a completely alien culture. Certainly the Woody Allen persona remains intact; whether it is 1973 or 2173, his skewed view of the world seems consistent. Maybe that is his is point; the more things change the more they don't change at all. "},{"Title":"Different cuts ?","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I purchased the French edition of the Sleeper DVD a few months ago.It seems a scene I remembered and loved, where Miles and Luna are having dinner and a Chaplin-like Miles eats at the pace of a soft piano music, was replaced by another, reminding of the Marx Brothers this one, where Miles shaves in front of a video mirror.The IMDb Trivia section doesn't mention that there exists different cuts of Sleeper. I can't find any information about this lost and so beautiful piano-dinner scene.I'll be sad if this scene is lost forever.However, this is Woody Allen at his highest. Few people resist the charm of Sleeper and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Low budget, high imagination","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Such is his current unpopularity, Woody Allen's recent films have received only a fleeting release in the UK and the television companies do not even bother to pick them up for showing on the small screen. I have not seen his last four films but, apart from those, I have seen his complete oeuvre. I enjoyed Sleeper in 1973, when it was first released and, seeing it on a recent, rare appearance on television I was surprised how fresh and amusing it still is.Sleeper comes immediately after Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex&#133; in the Allen chronology and his role as a white-faced robot with a shower rose for a mouth is reminiscent of his seminal role as a sperm in that film. These films come as he made the transition from the clumsy slapstick of Bananas and Take the money and run to the more cerebral Annie Hall and Manhatten. In this film, as many other people have commented, he strikes the perfect balance between the visual and verbal aspects of his comedy.The film seems to have been made on a shoestring the stormtroopers wear boiler suits and motorcycle helmets, the futuristic buildings look like a 1970's student hall of residence, the orgasmatron looks like a plastic shower surround. Somehow, this just adds to the charm, illustrating that you do not need big money to make an effective science fiction film, just a lot of good ideas. Some of the funniest ideas are totally irrelevant to the film such as Allen being kitted out by two robot Jewish tailors, Allen competing in the Miss America competition, Allen impersonating Vivien Leigh and Diane Keaton impersonating Marlon Brando in A Streetcar Named Desire.This is the only one of Allen's films in which he is credited as composer and in which he plays on the soundtrack and the execrable Dixieland jazz that accompanies the slapstick passages is, literally, the only jarring note in this film. Fortunately, in all his later films, Allen's impeccable taste as a listener to jazz prevails over his dubious talents as a performer. "},{"Title":"Terrific Allen comedy","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Sleeper' is so silly and works so well on the same time it is sort of like a comic masterpiece. It tells a story about a guy named Miles Monroe (Woody Allen) who wakes up in a hospital two hundred years after he entered it. The United States is a police state now and the underground movement can use Miles because he is the only person without an identification number. How the plot develops itself from here is not really the issue since it basically is there to create gags; it does a terrific job.The movie works so well because it passes by like a roller coaster at full speed. You never have the time to think about the weird things that just happened so you take them for granted. In this roller coaster ride Miles meets the love interest Luna (Diane Keaton), he takes part in a Miss America contest, eats fruit as big as himself, discovers the nation's leader is only a nose without a body, and has an encounter with the voice of HAL 9000 (Douglas Rain) from '2001 A Space Odyssey'. This must say enough about the silliness of the movie, but again, here that does not matter at all. This movie is simply here to make us laugh and succeeds more than once in almost every scene. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Sci-fi comedy is simple humor.","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really enjoyed this little 70s movie by Woody Allen, since in mixes my two fav genres of sci-fi and comedy.The humor is rather basic, and the set-ups are a bit obvious; but it IS fun and it does show off Woody Allen the Comic to his best advantage. Admittedly some of the look and feel is a bit dated. In fact the whole thing seems reminiscent of a British TV comedy like Benny Hill or The Goodies.The vehicle design was very good, and I loved the running gag of the bazooka team who keep blowing different things up, with very comic results. The orb idea was interesting for a futuristic sci-fi concept, as was the orgasmatron. And Woody impersonating an android was rather cool, though it didn't quite live up to the reputation I have heard for it. And the climactic scene with the cloning wasn't developed enough I don't think. Plus the large chicken doesn't appear nearly enough as I was led to believe.In fact watching the DVD, the most creative bit was the theatrical trailer; where Woody tries to sell this as a serious intellectual futuristic romance, with none of that silly slapstick comedy stuff in it. (He-he!) "},{"Title":"One of Woody's better films","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sleeper is one of the movies where you can see Woody Allen at his funniest and best. His character of Miles Monroe is typical Allen Paranoid, oversexed and constantly freaking out. Diane Keaton plays her stock Allen character. It's pretty much the same Diane Keaton you saw in Annie Hall.The thing with Sleeper is basically a fish out of water story. There is a lot of jokes that fall flat but there is also a lot of great humor that will have you laughing up a storm. The Jewish robot tailors, the giant vegetables, the Miss America pagent, the Orgasmatron, the list goes on. Another hallmark of Woody Allen's films is the jazz numbers that accompany all the action parts. Great music for great comedy.Bottom Line Made in the time where Woody knew what he was doing and Soon-Yi wasn't even born, Sleeper remains one of his greats.  "},{"Title":"Woody's valentine to Chaplin, Lloyd, Keystone Kops and all great slapstick movies.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Funny, absoluteley funny in physical comedy slapstick - Woody's valentine to all the greats -- from his walk to his winding of giant projection tape to his pratfalls -- perfect.  His political satire is sharp 60's and 70's; trademark themes of sex, death, religion run all through it. Diane Keaton is pre-Annie Hall - same words, different melody - she thinks she appears stupid, and when she smartens up, he rues the day he introduced her to knowledge.   "},{"Title":"Slapstick and one-liners delivering easy comedy.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Allen plays a health food store owner who is frozen after an operation goes wrong and wakes up 200 years later. Unfrozen to, unwillingly, take part in a rebel uprising against a big brother state.While nothing more than a rag-bag of visual gags and one-liners (all very mixed - but they do come thick and fast), it still manages to make more sense and delivers more comedy than several of his recent films put together. The jazz score is not really to my taste, but serves the slapstick elements well.The plot - about overcoming a dictatorship - is really only a device for Allen to do his Bob Hope act (the honourable coward). A young Diane Keaton comes on as a spoilt woman who later changes her ways and joins the rebel cause; but no one else gets a blow in. Not even the good looking (even his gums are capped!) square jawed leader of the rebellion.Worth watching if you want to see a film that doesn't seek to deliver anything more than simple-minded comic entertainment. "},{"Title":"Weird and wacky! 6/10","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Review What a strange and wacky movie. To be honest, I lost the plot halfway through the film, but some of the scenes are really funny. I think that this is Woody Allen's slightly warped look at politics in the 70's which sees him on a mission to destroy a nose. Like most Woody Allen movies, there is a love interest and this is film she is played by Diane Keaton, who cracked me up with her funny expressions and crazy lines. I definitely saw a bit of Charlie Chaplin in Allen's acting, which was quite physical compared to his latter movies. Anyway, this is a off the wall type of movie which has some funny moments. Enjoyable!Round-Up For a movie that was made in 1973, $2milion dollars was quite a big budget and you can see were the money was spent in some of the extra ordinary scenes and weird costumes. It does seem a bit dated but it's a unique comedy that reminded of classic films like Dr. Strangelove and Clockwork Orange. It does get a bit out of hand near the end, but I liked the chemistry between Allen & Keaton and you can't say that it wasn't original for its time.Budget $2million Worldwide Gross $18.3millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a man who wakes up 200 years in the future after a operation that goes wrong. 6/10 "}{"Title":"A watershed in Woody Allen's career","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What happened to her face?, about 38 minutes into this Woody Allen Sci-fi parody SLEEPER, audience can distinctly notice there is something drooping on the left cheek of Luna (Keaton), a make-up goof? How come this scene has been kept in the final editing? Nobody knows but Allen himself. From this angle, it actually bespeaks the half-hearted style of the movie and declares don't take me too seriously please!. In retrospect SLEEPER doesn't stand out among Allen's works, but indeed it is the watershed in his career since afterward (from LOVE & DEATH, 1975) his films has matured into a realm with a more sophisticated and judicious calibre about urbanite relationship philosophy which modern viewers are more familiar with, other than his earlier light-hearted and sex-obsessed farces launch his long-lasting career. Also simply the idea of Woody Allen directs a Sci-fi movie alone sounds inviting enough for me.Woody Allen is Miles Monroe, a store owner and divorce in 1973, being revived out of cryostasis after 200 years, where autocracy has dumbed down human's intelligence. When he is on the lam as an alien wanted by the government, he meets Luna Schlosser, a well- behaved citizen, a self-claimed poet with a degree in oral sex, Miles falls for her, and together, they will eventually sabotage a final attempt of cloning the dictator from his nose, the last remnant of his body. Although only possessing a shoestring budget, Allen constructs the future-world with a strong influence of futurism, although the settings look chintzy in sight by today's standards, the film does stick with its wack-a-doodle mockery right from Monroe is awaken from his aluminum wrap, with many homages and references to past screen classics, theatrical pieces and slapstick burlesques. Sex is the unalterable wont in Allen's mindset, as he emphasises in the coda, sex and death are the only things he believes in. The most ridiculous props are the pleasure orb and the sex booth where two people can achieve orgasm in 10 seconds, Monroe has tried once, not with Luna, but with himself. The quarrelsome mode of Allen and Keaton forms a nice congruity which would later stride on to perfection in ANNIE HALL (1977, 9/10). Escorting the screwball plot is the ragtime score composed by Allen himself, a suitable company as Miles is an amateur musician in a jazz band too, altogether SLEEPER is definitely undemanding in viewers' brainpower to grasp its mockery of superficiality and social politics, but an insouciant cruise in a meaningless fiction, sometimes one might feel too silly to be keen on what is materialising on the screen, unfortunately that is not a sign of a great film in my book. "},{"Title":"some funny Woody Allen","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Miles Monroe (Woody Allen) was frozen in 1973 and rediscovered 200 years later. He's a clarinet player who ran a health food store. He has been revived by anti-government scientists who opposed the dictatorial leader. The world is completely changed. The rebels want Miles to infiltrate the leader's mysterious Aries Project because he has no identity. When the authorities capture the rebels, Miles escape into this futuristic world. He disguise himself as a robot butler in socialite Luna Schlosser (Diane Keaton)'s home. He later kidnaps her and fall in love. It's outlandish, silly and most importantly fun. There is wacky slapstick comedy and pointed commentary. The 70s style sci-fi and the pop culture references are dated. Nevertheless, it's still loads of fun broad comedy. "},{"Title":"Silly Slapstick...Outrageous Physical Sight Gags&#x85;Goofy One Liners","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Few Filmmakers have such a Distinct and Separate Period Style as Woody Allen. His Early Movies were Mostly Slapstick and One Liners, a sort of Classic Comedians Repertoire. In this One the Nods to the Silent Comics are Prevalent, a lot of Sleeper Plays Out Without Dialog and is Physical Mayhem. There are also Many Verbal Stabs at Society with Stinging Slaps at Pop Culture, Religion, and Politics.This, it could be Said, is Woody before He became a Self-Absorbed Manhattanite Obsessed with Interpersonal Philosophical Paradoxes. It was Allens Funny Period and this is Outstanding Stuff. The Film Looks Incredible, even Today, as a Vision of the Future with its Believable Futuristic Cars, Buildings, and Robots. With a Distinct Division between Early Woody and Later Woody the Beginning of the Writer/Director's Output will most likely have a Broader Appeal with its Timeless Slapstick and Goofiness. All of His Early Films are worth a Watch but this may be the Best of them all. It is a Playground for a Fertile Imagination and a Certain Immaturity that has as its Appeal the Kid in all of Us. But Woody would Mature and so would His Films. It is these Early Efforts that have that Universal Appeal that He Lost Somewhat when Things got more Serious. "},{"Title":"A hilarious thought-provoking comedy","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never thought I would ever find slapstick humor funny, until I saw Sleeper. When the security police of a futuristic totalitarian regime is falling all over themselves, and a bumbling health food store owner from our time can outsmart them, slapstick is funny.As funny as this movie is, it also has serious content. For one thing, it's scary that a bumbling health food store owner can outwit the security force. The people must be so docile that the security force is not used to doing anything. It's scary how dumb everyone else is in the society too - Diane Keeton's poetry is terrible, and none of the characters recognize Woody Allen when he is pretending to be a robot (his lack of disguise is immediately apparent to the movie viewer).We are also led by Allen's character to wonder how different we really are from the people of the future portrayed in the film. Allen is obviously smarter and more jaded than the inhabitants of the future, but he claims to be an existentialist and does not appear to value anything except survival and pleasure. This is similar to the people of the future, who live for the sole purpose of experiencing orgy machines and drug-like balls that they hold in their hands.Finally, the movie asks us to consider the question of what constitutes our wants/needs/desires. We are told that in the society of the future, these are all taken care of more efficiently than we would have ever thought possible. But it is plainly on view here that the wants/needs/desires of the people in the society of the future have been shaped by the society in which they live. Thus, the question arises - to what extent are our own desires shaped by ourselves?Of course, I wasn't thinking about any of this while I watched the film. I was too busy laughing. "},{"Title":"A Woody Allen I wouldn't mind seeing more.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a Woody Allen I wouldn't mind seeing more. It's a kind of an absurd and surrealistic comedy, set in the future. The comedy is done in the same style as the earlier Allen movie Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex * But Were Afraid to Ask. I surely wouldn't had minded it if Allen had done some more movies such as this one during his career.The movie is basically the one absurd situation after the other. It's concept, that puts the entire movie in the future of the year 2173, provides the movie with plenty of material for the movie its comical situations. The movie is often absurd and quite simplistic but it makes it all the more fun to watch it all.Allen shows his true comedy talent with this movie, in which he plays his character perhaps in a Charlie Chaplin kind of way. The movie also often has some slapstick moments in it, which works out well for the overall tone of the movie.The movie is just a bit too simplistic with its story though for my taste. It relies purely on its silliness and not really on any development. Like I said before, the movie is basically the one comical situation after the other but without much story to it. I wished the movie is more like a whole at times and would had put some more effort in its main plot-line. The movie its comedy itself is quite strong enough alone to carry the entire movie. And nor is Allen's acting, that is fun but is not quite yet the typical style we know from him.The movie is good looking though, with its fine looking futuristic sets and costumes, that are often looking ridicules but that of course was exactly the point of it. It was fun to see how in 1973 they would thought the distant future would look like.A fun silly comedy, that is watchable for everyone, even when you're not a Woody Allen fan.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Future Is Here","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of Woody Allen's funny early films (to quote the alien in Stardust Memories). Sleeper is quite prophetic as we find the world hurtling toward a globalized (ie fascist) dictatorship not unlike that which is depicted in Sleeper. Even the head of the Empire is called Our Leader (sound familiar?) Some memorable scenes A party where Allen is a robot with a disfigured head; he helps the guests pass around the drug-orb. He becomes increasingly intoxicated to the point of launching himself in a drunken stupor at anything that moves. The guests then go for a swim and lament that they would have had sex, but there were not enough people, so they decide to use the orgazmatron machine instead.Allen finds himself in a gay household as he flees from the police-state. They have a gay robot called Regan, who complains that he can't find a hydrovac suit that will enable Allen to escape, because the bedroom is such a mess.While Allen is being measured for a suit by two Jewish robots (with appropriate noses) they start arguing about why one of them ordered so much velvet.This is a must-see for all fans of great comedy. "},{"Title":"Sleeper is rock solid proof...","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...that Joel Schumacher should've stuck with costume design. It's also the best Woody Allen movie that I've seen (seen about eight), other than maybe What's Up Tiger Lily... especially since it's not set in New York City, he doesn't bag a chick out of his league or young enough to be his daughter, and it's not too auto-whine-biographical.  "},{"Title":"Classic Woody","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper (1973) *** 1/2 (out of 4) A dorky health food store owner (Woody Allen) goes to the hospital for a simple surgery but wakes up two-hundred years later and gets thrown into a revolution to take over the government. In many ways this thing plays out just like a silent movie and the influence of Buster Keaton are everywhere including a hilarious scene where instant pudding starts to grow out of control and Allen must battle it with a broom. This early entry from the writer/director is certainly a mile a minute type laugh fest and for the most part this thing works, although I feel the final third of the movie can't keep up with what came before it. The best thing in the movie is the chemistry between Allen and Diane Keaton who would of course go onto many more films. The way the two play off one another is certainly the best thing in the film as it really comes off as something we'd seen in classic films from the 1920's and 30's. Allen's screenplay throws out countless gags a minute and some fall flat but the majority of them are home runs including a great sequence near the start of the film where Allen must tell some doctors who certain people are from the past including Stalin. Allen's writing also makes for some great one-liners like a scene where Keaton tells him it's hard to believe he hasn't had sex in two-hundred years and Allen comes back with two-hundred and four if you count my marriage. The incredibly fast pace that Allen creates somewhat backfires in the final third of the film when the revolution finally starts as the jokes don't come as fast and the film slows down. Even with that said, the unique talent of Allen is certainly on display here and it would only get better with future films. "},{"Title":"Mediocre  Woody Allen","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Plot The year is 2173. Scientists have found a man, Miles Monroe (Woody Allen), from the 20th century. He has been frozen and just now has awakened. A band of rebels need Miles help. An evil leader has complete control of the world. Only Miles can overthrow him. Miles is the man for the job because now when a human is born, a monitoring device is attached to them. Since he does not have a monitoring device, he can infiltrate the government and go unnoticed. On his adventure he meets a Luna Schlosser (Diane Keaton), discovers new technology, and disguises as a robot.My Critique Don't get me wrong, I think Woody Allen is one of film's greatest directors. However, Sleeper can only be described as mediocre. Normal Allen comedies focus more on character and dialogue. In this outing, however, he turns often to slapstick. Perhaps, though, any genre of comedy wouldn't work. The plot of Sleeper is so original and intriguing that perhaps, if the material were played straight, it would have been much better.My Rating  5 "},{"Title":"Futuristic comedy filled with silent film influence.","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Health food store owner and musician Miles Monroe awakes after a 200 year slumber to find out things have changed drastically in the world he once knew. Cigarette smoking and diets rich in high fat content are healthy habits, sex is more mechanical than ever and society in general is content to follow a rather benign FDR like Big Brother in a society that suppresses free an individual thought.Woody Allen's futuristic comedy is filled with enough Chaplin and Keaton silent comedy classic slapstick and sight gags to sustain it's meager storyline with a sufficient amount of laughs. What he lacks in physical grace he offsets with some very funny stand-up commentary on the era (1973)he comes from. There's some Banana riffs and a few coo coo Clockwork Orange set pieces to fill out the thin plot but little help from a lackluster supporting cast. Allen gal pal Diane Keaton is just that since she seems bereft of any acting talent. Keaton who a short time later would go on to win an Oscar for wearing silly clothes in Annie Hall shows no discernible comic talent or timing in her first teaming with Allen. More forced than funny her role reversal Stanley Kowalski imitation to Woody's Blanche in one scene is so cringingly bad it provides damning evidence that Ms. Keaton's considerable career success may well have been more dependent on timing (The Age of Aquarious) and the guys she bedded (Beatty followed Allen)than talent. She got better but that's not saying a whole lot. Allen's immense comic abilities however trump his blind cupidity long enough to keep himself center stage where his wit and slapstick styling more than save the day. "}{"Title":"Not the brilliant Sci-Fi film a lot of people think it is.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In a very generous mood I rate Sleeper 7 of 10 because it is funny in many spots and although very simple in its approach, moderately well done. NYC clarinetist is inadvertently frozen for 200 years and is thawed into a police state complete with its underground movement. Woody Allen and Diane Keaton play well off each other, but the film is really a running series of Woody Allen jokes thinly held together by a story.I really like 3 Woody Allen films -- The Purple Rose of Cairo, Mighty Aphrodite, and Sweet and Low Down. I guess even a blind pig finds a few acorns... "},{"Title":"This Peek at the Future is Often Stuck in the Past","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A freezer-burned Woody Allen emerges from a lengthy cryogenic slumber to apply his own specific brand of humor to the late 22nd century. At times overly topical and horribly dated, this is really at its best as a flippant physical comedy. Even then, the puns and gags are stretched awfully thin, with blatantly sped-up footage and a ragtime soundtrack giving it the look and feel of a futuristic Benny Hill. Allen's pokes and prods about the evolution of society are occasionally good for a snicker, particularly the advent of technology supplanting our need for sex, drugs and organized religion, but the central storyline is so thin and inessential that the whole mess feels like a series of vaguely-related skits. The glut of weak, DIY-esque backdrops and special effects make the arrival of Star Wars just four years later seem even more impressive by comparison. Mildly silly at best and utterly dull at worst, it's not something I'll be revisiting again soon, if ever. "},{"Title":"If you are into Allen's humor,you'll love it.I'm not into it,so I don't.","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I respect anyone who has a passion for making people laugh,and Woody Allen obviously has that passion.There are different brands of humor,and Woody Allen's brand stands out from all others.Trouble is,I just don't find this man or his brand of humor very funny.I did chuckle just a little at his Stan Laurel-like smile when his character was first being thawed,but this was quickly forgotten when he made a blatantly offensive remark about the Reverend Billy Graham.Woody Allen is a known atheist,and this is my first viewing of a Woody Allen film,so I was sort of on the lookout for off color remarks about religion and wasn't really surprised.If you are a person of faith I would naturally advise you to steer clear.Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Not one of Allen's better films","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sleeper is most certainly not among Woody Allen's best work. The film was made during Allen's pre-Annie Hall period, dubbed his 'funny period'. This is my first pre-Annie Hall Allen film, so I can't comment on the period as a whole; but if this film is anything to go by, then someone has got their dubbing mixed up. Don't get me wrong, this film certainly has moments that will make you laugh; but for every laugh you get, there's at least four gags that didn't work. The film does feature the trademark Woody Allen sharp script, but it's not all that sharp, and certainly nowhere near Annie Hall; but then lets face it; what is? No, actually, it's not the script that's the problem; it is 'a' problem, but it's not the main problem; Allen's continual use of visual gags is the problem. It's obvious that he was having fun making this, but there's only so much laughter that can be had from Allen walking around doped up, or incessantly falling over Chaplin style (both of which become supremely annoying after the third or fourth time). Allen's films work best when the laughs come from the characters and the script, and I don't think that Allen is the right type of comic to make slapstick work.The plot follows the story of Miles Monroe; a jazz playing health store owner from 1973, who wakes up to find himself 200 years in the future. That's something that's annoying about this film; with such a delicious premise, and an obviously talented director; this film really should have been a lot better. Anyway, while in the future he is forced to go on the run from the state because they believe that he is involved in a secret plot to being down 'the leader'. Within the film is themes of politics never working out, and how leaders have a tendency to become tyrants; but any message that the film tries to portray is lost under rigorous stupidity. Woody Allen's character is, as usual, Woody Allen; a neurotic New Yorker with a penchant for saying witty things. As mentioned; he's not that witty as usual in this film. He also has a large mane of hair, which looks&#133;rather silly really. Diane Keaton stars alongside Allen as his female counterpart. The two made a great pair in Annie Hall, but they're not so good here. The whole thing is too detached for the characters to really build anything anyway.Overall, Sleeper isn't a bad film. It does have it's moments and it's recommended to anyone that likes Woody Allen. As mentioned, a lot of the jokes don't work but the ones that do genuinely are funny (Allen being caught in a sex machine by the police, for example). This is weak for Allen, but if you want a Comedy-Sci Fi, you could do a lot worse. Spaceballs, for example. "},{"Title":"What do you expect from Allen?","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here is a guy (Allen) who married his wife's adopted daughter, whom he helped raise from a little girl. Somehow they let him get away with this. He should be in jail. What a sick disgusting creep he is.This movie was a disappointment. Most jokes were either little-to-half intelligent groaners, inside jokes or pop culture references that most people today wouldn't catch or remember. The acting was quite amateur as was the movie as a whole. I was not in a good mood after watching this years ago, and I certainly will not watch any of that pervert's movies now.If you like movies made by a child-molester, be my guest... "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was a disappointment. Most jokes were either little-to-half intelligent groaners, inside jokes or pop culture references that most people today wouldn't catch or remember. The acting was quite amateur as was the movie as a whole. I was even in a good mood when I watched this. It's not that I'm a prude and don't enjoy silliness (I love Monty Python, Jim Carrey, Napoleon Dynamite, AFV, etc.). I admit I laughed at the beginning when Miles was relearning to walk. It was kinda funny when he was making strange faces but his jokes just made me roll my eyes. Woody Allen's take on what might be in the future was laughable but for reasons that I don't believe he intended. It was just a high budget home video that Woody made with his buddies. My apologies to die hard Woody Allen fans. "},{"Title":"Trash ,. complete and utter trash.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a prime example of a star driven movie. The only reason it even saw the light of day is because of woody allen. And he definitely shows his lack of talent in this boring piece of slop cinema. It felt like I was watching a student film. "},{"Title":"The 2nd Worst Movie I've Even Seen On Purpose","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's get this on the table from the beginning I like Woody Allen. There's something pathetically real about the guy and the characters he creates and portrays in his movies. But what about the movies themselves? Hannah and Her Sisters is his best film, IMO, and is an intricate, entertaining movie that doesn't try to be all that NYC chic, like Annie Hall, for instance.Conversely, Sleeper is everything that HaHS is not and nothing that it is. Imagine a movie version of James Halperin's The First Immortal directed by and starring Charlie Chaplin, throw in a dash of know-it-all New York cynicism and you've just about got it.There are words that describe how terrifically bad this movie is, but it depresses me to waste time writing them. Suffice it to say that if not for the existence of the muppety The Dark Crystal, Sleeper would be the worst movie I've ever seen on purpose. And yes, this analysis does include the late-night Cinemax flicks starring Tawny Kitaen that I used to stay up all night to watch, hoping for a glimpse of tawny thigh...All I could do was wish for it to be over, but even at 89 minutes it was interminable. Thankfully I fell asleep twice, but never for long. My wife dislikes Woody intently - if this had been the first Woody movie I saw, she would be a happier woman, because I never would have brought home another. "}]