[{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I sometimes wonder if Magnum Force is a better movie than Dirty Harry. In the latter, Harry Calahan is up against a psycho causing panic, while in Magnum Force Harry opposes a number of enemies enemies he would not have expected at first. Crime is still on the rise, there is too much corruption and too few 'real' cops, like him. When he meets some young, aspiring cops he is amazed by their qualities. Great acting by Clint Eastwood who is just perfect in playing the old-fashioned Harry Callahan. There is violence, but the strange thing is you support Callahan in 'cleaning' the city. One of the best in the Dirty Harry-series. "},{"Title":"Eastwood is the conventional tough-guy par excellence...","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A racketeer, Carmine Ricca, has been cleared of murder, due to the usual and frustrating court technicality... He leaves, a happy and free man... Not for long... A motorcycle cop pulls his car over, seemingly for a traffic violation and ruthlessly slaughters him and the other three occupants...Harry is soon on the scene, this time with a new black partner, Early Smith (Felton Perry). It transpires that Harry is no longer in the homicide squad, he's been demoted to a stake-out squad by Detective Briggs (Hal Holbrook) because of his previous unconventional methods... Nevertheless he soon demonstrates that he has lost none of his considerable skills... Enjoying a hamburger at San Francisco Airport he becomes involved in a hijack...Harry meets an old colleague Charlie McCoy (Mitch Ryan) who seems unnaturally upset about the ineffectiveness of the courts and Harry fears that he may be the killer cop...Later, in the police firing range, he meets four young traffic cops who are more than impressed by his former lethal methods... With a wave of underworld killings on the increase, Harry is eventually told to work with Briggs to solve them... He still suspects the murderer is McCoy until the latter is killed and, by setting a clever trap to check the bullets in the guns of the four young motorcycle cops, Harry finds that they are the guilty persons...Magnum .44 is much bloodier than Dirty Harry. The lack of emotion emerges in Harry's character... He is a powerful and dominating figure who shoots first and asks questions later... Director Ted Post takes him from below to imprint his stature on the piece... Eastwood is solid enough but not as penetrating as it was in Dirty Harry. He even have sex... Inevitably, as is usual with his persona, the initiative has to come from the female, unsuccessfully from McCoy's widow and extremely directly from the pretty little Japanese girl who lives downstairs... She gazes up at Eastwood and says What does a girl have to do to go to bed with you? He replies Try knocking at the door. They've only known each other for about half a minute, making it one of the swiftest screen seductions on record, and it illustrates the fact that Eastwood's sex appeal is instant and uncomplicated... He is the conventional tough-guy par excellence &#150; handsome, laconic, cynical, determined and independent; clearly a man to be idolized by other men and worshiped by women... "},{"Title":"A sequel with a new story...","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This sequel to the entertaining Dirty Harry stands with few peers when it comes to successful follow-ups. Most don't stand on their own feet but Magnum Force does solidly. Changing the plot but not the style is good formula in movies, rather than playing out what was already done in the original, which is why so many sequels fail. Magnum Force is my second favorite film by Eastwood after High Plains Drifter. Harry still likes to do things his way although rather than focusing his energy on the bad guys, he's focused on some crooked cops in his own department! Follows in the original's footsteps with lots of great views of San Francisco (My Birthplace!) I always feel at home when watching this movie. This is another film that is played a lot on TV because its so good on it's own. Felton Perry does a good job as Harry's partner, comparable to Reni Santoni in the original. Didn't like any of the sequels that followed this movie with the exception of Sudden Impact. Magnum Force is a film that rates highly as watchable again & again. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood knows his limitations.","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After a known criminal, with clout over the city, manages to escape the punishment of the law, he and his partners are gunned down by a vigilante dressed as a cop and with a .44 Magnum. Drawn to the case Infamous San Francisco Detective Dirty Harry Callahan starts to investigate as the vigilante continues to take out criminals citywide. Soon there are suspicions that the criminals are getting their information from inside the police force.If there is one actor that can be plainly badass, macho, and tough in the most stereotypical way without making a fool of himself, it's Clint Eastwood. Never has an actor been so plain and stoic, yet so entertaining and funny at the same time. That's because Eastwood knows his limitations and, as a result, never becomes totally ridiculous. Whether he's dropping one liners, shooting his cannon of a revolver, or mysteriously seducing women with no effort whatsoever Clint Eastwood just plays it cool. Steve McQueen also managed the same with his classic Bullitt and Dirty Harry uses essentially the same formula, but it does it well with its own unique spin and style. Also Clint Eastwood has lived well past McQueen's early death so his films are more prevalent in the current movie mindset.The film isn't quite perfect and there is one sequence in particular - at the airport where Harry takes out two hijackers single handedly - that seems to be just there to show that Harry Callahan is a badass who makes his own rules and gets things done. Yet this scene does nothing to advance the plot. With the film clocking in at over two hours this could have easily been dropped. Along with a few trimmings here and there for a slightly brisker film.That said, the movie remains entertaining and a good part of Eastwood's action era. --- 8/10Rated R for violence "},{"Title":"First sequel to the classic","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Ted Post directed and John Milius and Michael Cimino wrote this first sequel to Don Siegel's classic gritty police drama, Dirty Harry (1971). Magnum Force (1973) is not as near as effective or powerful as the first and original film, but this sequel is watchable and has its merits, too. Harry is now investigating strange killings of criminals, pimps, dirty politicians and others, so the killer is killing bad guys this time. Harry starts to investigate the cases, and he has his doubts about all this. Then the truth is revealed and also, unfortunately, spoilt in most of the reviews and comments I've read.Harry has again his usual opponents, mostly his colleagues and superiors who don't accept his tough style. Harry wants to do justice, but by using his own ways and moral. If talking doesn't help, then the magnum .44 will. I don't think this or the first film are fascist, but realistic and honest, and extremely bleak depictions of world and society which is more or less collapsing because of its inhabitants. This film manages still to tell something about that, but the next sequel, The Enforcer, is pretty lame in comparison.Magnum Force has pretty fat plot and many different characters and sub plots, without being too confusing. Towards the end, the film becomes perhaps too predictable and unbelievable, and I think the ending should have needed little tightening. Now it is little unnecessary shoot outs and nothing else. The film runs two hours, which is the longest running time in the series, but still this manages to interest and even surprise, but if they had finished the film some 20 minutest earlier, this would be even more noteworthy film. Now it has nothing too important to offer during its finale, and so the finale becomes little unnecessary, in my opinion.As an action film, this is pretty exciting and shot with talent. The action scenes are often fast and full of gunpowder and fire, so director Post can surely direct with skill. The film is pretty brutal and violent at times, and this again shows the fact that films this gritty and violent are not made in Hollywood nowadays, at least not too often. Magnum Force is much more easier and positive film than its predecessor, and that's why it hasn't got so many things to offer and give. This is pure action film where the first film was also many other things, too, like social commentary and talking about things many would not want to talk about. Magnum Force gets 7/10, but fortunately still has its positive things and even little bit of the power that made Dirty Harry so immortal. "},{"Title":"Another Dirty Harry masterpiece","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force turns up the heat a little more than Dirty Harry. There is a little more gunplay and more of the sizzling 70's soundtrack that helped Dirty Harry be so groovy. Clint returns of course as Dirty Harry Callahan, this time after a small group of rogue cops. All the Dirty Harry movies are great and this is the 2nd best in the series, after Dirty Harry. The streets of San Francisco provides a beautiful backdrop, and Hal Halbrook does a great job of playing the continually annoyed chief. Bottom Line Magnum Force meets the bar set by Dirty Harry and does a fabulous job of continuing the series. "},{"Title":"Magnum force will make your day!","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you were to ask film goer's which character or movie they would associate with Clint Eastwood it would probably be his portrayal of the no-nonsense crime buster inspector Harry Callahan. Of course Eastwood had done some very popular movies prior to this including his spaghetti westerns in the 1960's and even after the Harry Callahan run he has gone on to do some well acclaimed films in front of as well as behind the camera. It's worth mentioning this because despite being well into his seventies he's still in demand as actor and director which is a testament to his movie making abilities and longevity that spans fifty years! All in all an impressive achievement. Be that as it may, when you play the character of Harry Callahan five times over an 18 year period it's hard for fans not to associate him with the part.MAGNUM FORCE might actually be a tad better than DIRTY HARRY as well as being the best of the sequels. Not only do we learn a bit more about Inspector Callahan but also it's a more interesting and compelling story as well as having a better all round cast. Well, at least it seems that way as time has gone by, because the supporting cast of David Soul, Tim Matheson and Robert Urich who play the easy-going traffic cops would go on to be well known stars in their own right through the 70's, 80's, 90's and 2000's. In addition they are backed up by the brilliant Hal Holbrook playing the impatient and easily irritated lieutenant Briggs.Tough street wise cops were not a new thing to Hollywood, but because of the civil rights movements in the 1960's and 70's there were a lot of new rules that the police had to adhere to and their methods came under greater judicial scrutiny. If there was a whiff of wrong doing, the judge would instruct that critical testimony should be dismissed and vital evidence rendered inadmissible thus making the DA's prosecution impossible and an acquittal or a dismissal of a case a certainty. They had rights! As a consequence it seemed that the courts became a sanctuary or a get out of jail card for the criminals! Also, rather than having some dopey public defender the criminals gained access to the new breed of wise-guy smarmy lawyers who would use all forms of court room trickery to gain acquittals for their clients. Whether it was organized crime, pimps, murderers, rapists and muggers the system seemed to work in their favor.Also, politicians became sensitive to the minority communities complaints of police strong armed tactics leaned on local police forces to ease off. All this coincided with an explosion of violent crime in the early 1970's where the public particularly in the big cities became anxious and frustrated at this. Therefore movies such as DIRTY HARRY where Harry used his own methods to get his man and DEATH WISH which encouraged the public to fight back using the same methods as the hoods all captured the public imagination. In the follow up, MAGNUM FORCE explored the possibility of vigilante cops acting as judge, jury and executioner because the system seemed not to be working.Inspector Callahan is not impressed by these new methods and shrugs off pressure from above. The beginning of the movie sets the tone, from his indifference towards the gunned down thugs as well as the way he tackled the hijacked plane only demonstrated the way he wanted to do his job. When it appears that some one is trying to put the courts out of business as the body bags that are piling up in the cities morgue are San Francisco's dregs of the earth, Callahan has the unenviable task of finding out who is responsible for this? Harry at first thinks that it is some rouge cop acting out of impulse who might be the one responsible for these revenge killings but as things progress it appears that this is not just a random or a spur of the moment act.Callahan becomes suspicious towards a well disciplined team of rookie cops who he knows are expert marksman. It appears that they are a highly motivated and are a product of a well organized shadow police force who have support much higher up the chain of command. Although Callahan has no empathy towards the people who are being killed and to a large extent understands why somebody might carry out such a deed, he is much happier catching them in the act and blowing them away in a shoot out. He is uneasy at the blatant execution style of these killings and is way beyond what he thinks is right! As his investigation unfolds, he too becomes a target and when his partner gets rubbed out it seems that he may have crossed more than just the mayor and the chief of police! Now with nobody watching his back, can he get to the bottom of this before he becomes a victim, and more importantly who can he trust?There are obvious plot holes but it is more than compensated by great cinema photography with great shots of San Francisco, shoot outs, an easy going back ground score and and of course a very smooth Clint Eastwood to boot. The sparing between Briggs and Callahan is entertaining and produces some great dialog, it's well worth a watch and I'd highly recommend this to 70's movie buffs and Clint Eastwood fans!. "},{"Title":"Are you the cop who lives upstairs?","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It seems that between Dirty Harry and Magnum Force Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan,Clint Eastwood, had learned the value of the Bill of Rights and the US Constitution. Unlike in the first Dirty Harry movie where Harry was the sole judge jury and executioner of all those that he deemed were guilty of crimes against the people of the city of San Francisco. In Magnum Force Harry actually believes in letting the system do it's job and not take the law into your, or Harry's,own hands. A number of the top criminals in San Francisco from corrupt labor leaders to sadistic street pimps have been done away with by what seems to be a rouge element of the SF Police Department and Harry's boss lieut. Briggs, Hal Holbrook, wants to find out just who's responsible. Harry, between shooting plane hijackers and convenient store hold up men, is also interested in stopping these criminals in uniform since their breaking the law, like average criminals, and the very thought of them breaking the law just gets Harry's Irish up. Inspector Harry Callahan is assigned to take part in the bust of a mob hideout and when the police operation is put into full gear something goes wrong, the mobsters are tipped off, and a policeman and a number of mobsters, most of them by Harry, are killed in the shoot-out that follows. Harry realizes that there's someone in the police force that's behind all those vigilant killings and tipped off the gangsters in order to have them killed in the shoot-out! That instead of having them arrested and and brought to trial. It's decided there and then by Dirty Harry Callahan that not only is he going to put a stop to those killings but also to those who are doing them Dirty Harry style! By far the best of the Dirty Harry movies with Clint Eastwood never better in his role as Dirty Harry Callahan in the most action-packed and exciting Dirty Harry film ever made. Eastwood is much freer and less constraint then he was in the first Dirty Harry film. Which makes the action go faster and also make it far more exciting with a great cast and a much better action director, Ted Post. Post keep things moving when it comes to keeping the tempo of the action in the movie up and the talking and explaining down, by Harry and his fellow police officers and friends, as to why Harry is called Dirty Harry every ten minutes in the film like in the first Dirty Harry movie. Great ending sequence at the San Francisco Navy Yard with Harry taking care of business by doing in the bad guys and making the city safe again until the next Dirty Harry film comes blazing along. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and lots of action Eastwood's second Dirty Harry outing","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This time Harry Callahan(Eastwood) attempts to detain a vicious killers are murdering mobsters and criminals.The rock-hard inspector is accompanied by an African-American cop(Felton Perry) and they track down a suspects P.D.(Robert Urich,Tim Matheson, Mitchell Ryan).The killers band sees outlaws freed on legal technicalities and they take justice into their own hands.Harry aware a secret gang which administers justice extra-legally and take revenge. Harry is called on once again and wielding a Magnum 44 revolver, he returns his unorthodox means;taking on ominous avengers group that is threatening the city of San Francisco. Harry in trouble as habitual with his chiefs(Hal Holbrook) because his methods lead abuse the criminal's civil rights and a pile of death in clod blood along his wake.Harry pursues the revenge-obsessed murderers and encounters he has more in common with them than he expected.Eastwood's second Dirty Harry entry is well written by John Milius and Michael Cimino; it packs tension,violence, action-filled and is really effective. Although less exciting than ¨Dirty Harry(1971,by Don Siegel with Reni Santoni, Andrew Robinson) but still interesting and plenty of vivid action and suspenseful. However this time ,doesn't feature Callahan's classic phrases, such as ¨Do you feel lucky¨ or ¨Go ahead , make me day¨, though he also says some original lines. Good use of locations by cameraman Frank Stanley and adequate musical score by usual Lalo Schifrin. Taut and expert direction by Ted Post and well produced by the usual, Robert Daley. Followed by ¨The enforcer'(1976, by James Fargo with Tyne Daly,Harry Guardino), ¨Sudden impact¨(1983, Eastwood with Sandra Locke)and ¨Dead pool¨(1988,by Buddy Van Horn with Lian Neeson, Jim Carrey). This formula thriller will like to Clint Eastwood fans and Harry Callahan series enthusiastic. "},{"Title":"Year Of The Gun","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It's all about the man, his politics, and his methods. Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is a tough, no-nonsense cop. In this second Dirty Harry movie, Callahan is on the trail of a ruthless vigilante gang. The story starts off well enough, with a fair amount of suspense. As the plot moves along, however, it becomes less tight and more drawn out. Suspense fizzles. And the puzzle solution is revealed too soon.The film conveys an angry tone, especially directed at the American court system. The idea is that the law doesn't really protect innocent people. So we need loners like Dirty Harry to hunt down the bad guys. The film glorifies guns, a symbol of rough justice. As such, Harry is very much a modern representative of the Old West cowboy gunslinger. Right is right; wrong is wrong; there's no in-between. I hate that overly simplistic mentality.Color cinematography is fine; there's some good overhead camera shots. Many scenes take place on city streets. Way too much time is spent on car chases. Acting is acceptable. I especially liked the performance of the always reliable Hal Holbrook.The original Dirty Harry was quite suspenseful. By contrast, Magnum Force is much less so. Still, it's not a bad movie, if you don't mind lots of car chases and the sounds of screeching tires, and if you adhere to a philosophy that a lone tough-guy cop can protect us, with the help of his trusty 44-Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world. "}{"Title":"Eastwood, Holbrook save day in trashy follow-up","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'Dirty Harry' was a two-pronged success for Clint Eastwood, as the 1971 thriller broke new ground in police films and earned over $28 million at the box office. With this good fortune, however, came backlash from writers such as Pauline Kael and Roger Ebert who judged the movie as 'fascist' and an endorsement of police brutality. The first Dirty Harry sequel, 1973's 'Magnum Force,' was a direct response to these claims and hoped to build on Harry's already-solid marketing power.'Magnum Force' opens at City Hall in San Francisco, where mobster Carmine Ricca (Richard Devon) has been acquitted of killing a union leader and his entire family. Ricca is free on a technicality and drawing protests from those already sick of loopholes in the American justice system. When returning home from the trial, Ricca and his legal team are pulled over by a sunglass-wearing motorcycle cop who shoots dead all four men.San Francisco's felons are dying in mysterious hits and the police have almost no clues. Inspector Harry Callahan (Eastwood), who has been transferred from the homicide division and worked recent months on stakeout, is ordered to investigate. The assignment comes unwillingly from Lieutenant Briggs (Hal Holbrook), a by-the-book administrator who is disgusted with Callahan's tactics. Callahan soon realizes that four motorcycle cops (David Soul, Tim Matheson, Kip Niven, and Robert Urich) are members of a sub-organization called Magnum Force that aims to wipe out crime in San Francisco, regardless of the cost to human life. Harry, who is seen as a prototype by Magnum Force, refuses to support it; he believes that any such group would endanger honest citizens rather than protect them.One can't expect 'Magnum Force' to rival its predecessor, but this follow-up is still a major disappointment. The writing, direction, and technical work of 'Magnum Force' simply don't compare to Don Siegel's original film. Magnum Force's screenplay (by John Milius and Michael Cimino) does not have the tight plotting or razor-sharp dialogue that makes 'Dirty Harry' special. The plot is littered with conveniences such as Callahan eating at an airport snack bar when a hijacking occurs and Harry not being able to start a motorbike, which allows David Soul to catch up with him and engage in a chase. Also featured are an unnecessary love interest (played by Adele Yoshioka) and one-dimensional characters who only exist to be tortured and knocked off (including Margaret Avery as a prostitute who swallows drain cleaner). 'Magnum Force' doesn't build on its premise, yet drifts on crude tangents and is much longer (124 minutes) than it needs to be.Don Siegel was replaced by Ted Post as director, whose experience is mainly in television. Post's direction is bland and without a clearly defined style; he frequently uses master shots rather than close-ups of actors and vehicles, which ruins the sinister, closed-in atmosphere that Magnum Force's death squad is supposed to generate. The action scenes are very basic in approach when their energy could have been heightened by some imaginative camera work. These sequences have a degree of excitement, but they rarely walk the levels of 'Dirty Harry,' whose action is quite limited. The cinematography by Frank Stanley is also a major jump down from that of Bruce Surtees in 'Dirty Harry.' 'Magnum Force' has a dreary appearance on lower-quality film stock; combined with the violence and trashy situations, 'Magnum Force' has an atmosphere similar to 'B' films by American International Pictures and Crown International. It's almost hard to believe that 'Magnum Force' was released by Warner Brothers and that Eastwood fills the starring role.Strong performances by Eastwood and Holbrook keep 'Magnum Force' from being a complete disaster. The two veterans play their roles intensely and make the film considerably more entertaining than its script allows for. Supporting roles with Soul, Matheson, Niven, and Urich are effectively played, although their lack of identity in the biker squad makes this whole greater than the sum of its parts. Actors from 'Dirty Harry' such as Albert Popwell and John Mitchum reappear; Felton Perry has a dull turn as Harry's ill-fated partner. Lalo Schifrin is back as composer, which gives the series a further degree of continuity. The brilliant theme song combines his sleek orchestration and wordless vocals. Interestingly, Schifrin's music during the film is mostly background color rather than holding a dominant place.Warner Brothers has released a snapper case version of its 'Magnum Force' DVD, improving the flimsy cardboard version previously sold. The DVD treats 'Magnum Force' with respect, but is weak on extras. 'Force' is presented in widescreen with Dolby 5.1 stereo enhancement; dubbing and subtitles are offered in five languages. Magnum Force's print is in fairly good condition, although grain is visible and colors look faded. Audio presentation is decent; while Schifrin's score comes across nicely, dialogue is sometimes muffled.DVD extras include a commentary track with screenwriter John Milius; 'A Moral Right,' WB's 24-minute program on the social implications of Dirty Harry; 'The Hero Cop,' a short program released during Magnum Force's production; and a gallery with all five trailers from the Dirty Harry series. As a person who doesn't especially like John Milius's work, I found his self-righteous commentary grating. To worsen matters, the new program is only a rehash of ideas from Warner's 'Dirty Harry' DVD; I would've rather seen a 'making of' program that examines 'Magnum Force' in depth. On the plus side, its trailer gallery is an excellent look at Dirty Harry's evolution from 1971 into the 1980s. Harry fans will certainly be entertained (as I was), but the film and DVD never live up to their potential.** ½ out of 4Roving Reviewer - www.geocities.com/paul_johnr "},{"Title":"Watered Down Harry Callahan.","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood returns as Police Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan, who is called upon to investigate the mysterious murders of various pimps and gangsters who had evaded trial/conviction. A vigilante is suspected, and though Harry doesn't care much about killed criminals, he does start to after an old friend of his is gunned down by the vigilantes, who are really a renegade group of motorcycling police officers, fed up with a corrupt judicial system.(Though with hidden support in the police department) Harry realizes this group has gone too far, and must be stopped, despite him being a hero of theirs...Misguided sequel to Dirty Harry has some good action scenes, and Eastwood is still a pleasure to watch as Harry, but story is too morally obvious, taking the easy way out by converting them into indifferent killers of innocent bystanders, and making Harry look like the protector of a legal system he no longer believes in...it doesn't make sense, and film feels like a waste of time as a result. (Imagine if the vigilante cops were responsible, and did care? What would Harry have done then?) "},{"Title":"Doesn't come close to the original","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood is back in Magnum Force, an overall serviceable sequel to the incredible Dirty Harry. This time around, San Francisco is being stalked by a group of wayward motorcycle cops, who are fed up with an ineffective D.A.'s office. And who better to go after such an above-the-law group than ... Dirty Harry? Car chases and gunfights rule the day in Magnum Force, but the tension and taut direction of Don Siegel is sorely missing (replaced by the made-for-TV-movie style of Ted Post). And the film is written by none other than Michael Cimino and John Milius (heavyweights by any standard), but the story here tends to meander, while the movie stands best as an excuse to see Eastwood reload his Smith and Wesson for another go-around. And this might be nitpicking, but why is Harry still on the force? When last we saw Callahan, he was throwing away his badge after skirting the law to nail the untouchable bad guy. I can't really see a more distinct line drawn in the sand for a police officer, but this movie has our no-nonsense cop back on the force as if nothing happened. Magnum Force lacks the punch of the original, and I don't see myself watching this again, anytime soon. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Blunt Force Trauma...","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I have no idea yet whether the series gets progressively worse, but this was a pretty major disappointment to me, after a solid opening to the franchise...It just seemed more like a parody of a 'Dirty Harry' film because everything was way too overemphasised... If you don't know that the main character is a badass, then you shouldn't be watching a Dirty Harry film, so don't throw in extended irrelevant sequences (plane hostages, grocery store...) that have no relation to the main plot and appear to have been included solely for the purpose of glorifying the 'hero' - or if you do, then at least try and make them more subtle. It's pretty clear that John Milius is incapable of writing anything without broad strokes.The same goes for the iconic catchphrase... If the producers have their heart set on having Harry reprise one of his most memorable lines of dialogue, (Do ya feel lucky... ) then shouldn't they have found a way to include it within the context of the actual script, rather than addressing it to the audience before the action even starts?! It's the indiscriminate use of signature touches like this - all for effect, and no worthier purpose - that in my opinion represents a blight on the entire film. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry is back","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force is the second Dirty Harry-movie and as most sequels this isn`t quite as good as the original.  Magnum Force is almost as good as the original Dirty Harry, but not quite. The movie is about some cops who kill criminals because they feel that the judicial system in America just isn`t fair.  Now this is a pretty original script for an actionmovie and it makes you think. Once again, Dirty Harry must play dirty to track down the bad guys, and the movie has cool dialogue and actionscenes.   But the movie could`ve been better if it`d had more and better action.  Still, this is cult-action from the early 1970`s and worth a look for those who`ve seen the first movie.  If you haven`t seen Dirty Harry, you should see it first and then return to Magnum Force later. 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"If the rest of you could shoot like them, I wouldn't care if the whole damn department was queer.","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First sequel to Dirty Harry finds Harry (Clint Eastwood) taking on a group of vigilante cops. Excellent cast includes Hal Holbrook, David Soul, Felton Perry, Tim Matheson, and Robert Urich (his film debut). Suzanne Somers has a brief topless scene at a pool party where one of the vigilantes strikes. Good screenplay by John Milius and Michael Cimino. I like this one but I've always felt it didn't quite live up to its premise, which was very interesting and possibly could have led to it being the best of the series. It just feels like it's a little padded and the climax lacks the punch of the first or third films. It also feels like they threw in some things to soften Harry's image, potentially to make the series more accessible to a wider audience. They aren't things that are necessarily out of character, nor do they damage the movie, but they still feel tacked-on. Also, Harry's big line in this one, A man's got to know his limitations is less memorable than the Do you feel lucky speech or Go ahead. Make my day. So, overall, an enjoyable movie with some great scenes but not my favorite. "},{"Title":"A sequel well worth watching","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Underworld figures are being murdered all over San Francisco. One by one, criminals who have eluded prosecution are getting the justice they deserve, justice you'd think Harry Callaghan might approve of with his tight lipped smile. But if you think so, You have misjudged Harry and so have the killers. This Dirty Harry sequel stars Clint Eastwood in his role of Callaghan the no nonsense cop here he his facing an unexpected kind of lawbreaker one who carries a badge. Sharpshooting rookie motorcycle policeman have turned vigilante. Their real enemy is the system. But the system is what Harry is sworn to protect. This movie stars Clint Eastwood, Hal Holbrook & David Soul****/***** "},{"Title":"Vice versa","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood's second Dirty Harry film sees Harry identifying the fact that a rogue cop is killing crooks who the law can't touch. Ultimately, Harry is faced with a choice as to embrace vigilantism or the rule of law.This movie - which, it must be said, is tremendously entertaining - is interesting for two reasons.One is the group of four young police officers, all relative unknowns at the time, who went on to bigger and better things - David Soul, Robert Urich and Tim Matheson, in particular.The other is the fact that Harry, in adopting an anti-vigilantism stance, is at the exact opposite end of the political spectrum from the Harry who threw his badge away after taking vigilante action to stop Scorpio in the original Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"The Four Traffic Cops of the Apocalypse.........................","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Somewhere between shooting your neighbour for letting his dog p*ss on your lawn - as Mr Eastwood so eloquently puts it - and failing to deport convicted airline hi - jackers and known terrorists in case they get ill - treated in their home countries,their lies a satisfactory way of administering justice.Unfortunately few Western countries seem to have found it yet. In his own small way Inspector Callaghan (the aforesaid Mr C.Eastwood)tries to tread this middle path after a not entirely convincing Damascene conversion from a one man vengeance machine to a cop standing for Truth,Justice and the American Way.Although to be fair he's not having qualms about slotting the occasional scumbag he catches in flagrante. Sexily dressed in black leather and led by an enigmatic Mr D.Soul,four rookie biker cops are carrying out the self - imposed task of ridding San Francisco of some very bad guys.By bullet and bomb the city's finest are eliminating the city's worst.Unfortunately there is a degree of collateral damage - mainly semi - naked young women - but not much notice is taken by the brass until a cop is mercilessly despatched whilst walking in on the aftermath of one such killing. This rather spoils Callaghan's theory that the dead cop was the main suspect for the earlier killings and he eventually focuses on the right bad guys,finally hunting them down and despatching them in their turn. It turns out that Harry's boss (the splendidly disdainful Mr H.Holbrook) was the mastermind behind the cops' plan and he perishes by one of his own bombs(irony,see?). Magnum Force is not one of the more interesting Inspector Callaghan pictures mainly because apart from Messrs Eastwood and Holbrook none of the characters has any life.It is nicely shot in a hot,dry San Francisco that would be the envy of many a citizen of a cold,damp North European island.The main moral of the story would appear to be if you're a young blonde woman with a penchant for exposing her breasts,don't hang out with tough - looking geezers with chest wigs,water beds and swimming pools. If I were more in touch with my feminine side I might say Mr Soul in black leathers and sunglasses is a sight to quicken anyone's pulse. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry must find out who is behind some vigilante killings.","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This Dirty Harry movie to me was rather good, much better than the next movie in the series The Enforcer, for some reason that is just one Dirty Harry movie I can not sit down and watch without becoming bored. This one though I found interesting as Dirty Harry must track down a person who is killing some of the worst criminals ever, someone Harry would probably like, but he is not doing things within the law and despite all of Harry's frustrations he still believes in doing things the right way. Of course, it becomes sort of clear that there is more to the killings than meets the eye, that there is more to it and that it may run deeper than Harry realizes at first, but you know in the end he is going to get the killer and that he will take out a few bad guys his own way along the way. Rather good action, the story is good too, though in a way it reminds me a bit of a later Dirty Harry movie Sudden Impact, though the situations are totally different as for the whys and such. Still, in the end this one has enough of a story to keep you interested and the ending surprised me a bit when I first saw it. "}{"Title":"Produced As A Response To Critics","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Despite being viewed as a classic crime thriller nowadays the original film in the DIRTY HARRY franchise received very verbal complaint from critics two of which were by legendary critics Pauline Kael and Rober Ebert described it as being  Fascist  . Maybe that's going too far but you have to consider that up till that time Hollywood always divided good and evil in absolutes . With the birth of  New Hollywood  in the late 1960s the lines started becoming very blurred . Certainly Harry Callahan doesn't stomp around in jackboots but is torturing confessions out of suspects to be condoned ? Maybe the reason the audience cheered the demise of Scorpio in the original was because it was a good compromise ? Yes shooting suspects caught red handed is certainly justice no matter how rough the liberals may claim it to be It's obvious the makers of MAGNUM FORCE are mindful of this . It's certainly a tough compelling thriller with an interesting premise of cops forming a death squad to liquidate criminal elements in society but often you get the impression characters become literary devices in order to say  Nope Dirty Harry wasn't a fascist movie and here is the difference ...  There's slight niggling flaws that stops the film becoming a persuasive film in its own right . It would have been very interesting if Lt Briggs had arrested Harry and how it would have stood up in court . It also begs the question at the end if Harry would have to reveal he's killed the vigilante cops or if he's not going to mention anything on the matter . But these are minor flaws in a film that's the only one in the franchise that comes close to the brilliance of the original "},{"Title":"A shame","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It's hard to understand how with this supporting cast, screenwriter and Clint in his prime the Dirty Harry series could take such a step backwards. Perhaps it has to do with the violence which is too repelling; the action sequences silly and badly choreographed; the sex scenes gratuitous and pointless. At the end of this movie I was just tired of it. In many parts I felt I was just watching an old police show. Funny how such a mediocre movie could launch this many fine careers but it did. And a few questions what was the point of the shoot-out at the store ? Are we supposed to believe Harry drives to the San Francisco airport on a regular basis just because he likes the hot-dogs there ? Do airplane stewardess really keep on tending to passengers during a hijack ? The one thing I came to appreciate with Magnum Force was just what Don Sieguel did for the Dirty Harry phenomenon. Sad to say but Ted Post ruined two #2 series entries this and the Planet of the Apes as well. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As The First","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force - the second in a series of five Dirty Harry movies - suffers some sequelitis. It tries to keep to the spirit of the original, but forces itself to attempt to change some elements to distinguish itself from it's predecessor.Magnum Force is about corrupt officers acting as vigilantes. This is an alright idea - it's been done elsewhere - but the central villains of the piece aren't half as sinister, or effective, as the killer in the original movie. The killer there was quite freaky - for want of a better word - but here the villains are just cold, relatively faceless and characterless men. That's not a good idea. As well as the main story-line both movies features Harry getting involved in a few story-lines. Magnum Force doesn't succeed here quite as well - there's a ridiculously implausible air hijack fiasco for example. The scenes aren't permeated with Harry's black humor either, which renders them mostly into excuses to engage in random acts of violence.Having said all that above, Magnum Force is still enjoyable. Eastwood has no problem playing Harry - just place a sneer on your face. It's nice to see that Harry actually enjoys the company of others and cares about people - the family he visits, his partner, the neighboring girl - and there are one or two lines in it that raised a smile (though none approaching the classic status of I know what you're thinking - did he fire..). The directing is trying too much, at times, to be involved (notice the shaky camera motions at the beginning, emulating - and failing to - the madness of the crowd) but it's never very much over-the-top. All in all it's not at all bad, not really that good. "},{"Title":"What happened to Dirty Harry?","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" - Having been busted down to surveillance duty, Dirty Harry is itching to get back into the real action. A series of murders force his superiors to bring him back. Soon, Harry has his own ideas about the murders - it looks like they're being committed by a policeman.- This Dirty Harry sequel lacks the punch of the original. The plot is pretty much a second rate police story. Anyone can spot the killers from the moment they appear on screen. There is no real suspense or tension. And the finale ends up being very anti-climatic. The movie might have been much better with someone other than Post as director. He did, IMO, another poor job with Eastwood's Hang 'em High "},{"Title":"Big Step Down","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers AheadPlease this movie is such a disappointment; it is the reason why the Enforcer seems much better than it actually is. The villains are stars from televisions David Soul from Starskey and Hutch, Tim Matheson are you kidding me? Their acting is just dreadful. The Harry character is blatantly violated in the urge of creeping multiculturalism; look, Harry was written a certain way do not try to make him over after the Icon was created to broaden his appeal. Harry was always a racist; that is established in the original remember? He hates everybody? He would not have a romance cross culturally, never happen, sorry. Way too much of valuable screen time is devoted to mellowing Harry out to sand some of the rough edges off. It damages the movie; it changes the personality, softens him.So much time is wasted among the badly acting television cops who are about as believable, as vigilante assassins, like me being a stock broker; OK, please stop it is so silly. David Soul when he speaks we start laughing; Dave go cut another record and take roles that make use of your very limited talent. The entire film has only one good scene where Harry volunteers to go after hijackers on that plane that is an excellent true Dirty Harry scene. The shootings are gory and surprisingly boring. The villain, which made Dirty Harry, remember Andrew Robinson, what do we get here a bunch of TV actors some kind of half ass CHIPS? Please, it was written by Heaven's Gate, I write crap, Michael Cimino. It stinks, sorry. I never get how people even dare to say this is better than the original. Like Bond, Harry movies are defined by how good the villains are. Here they are just awful.How about that great climax? Harry and the CHIPS guys in the dark inside an old aircraft carrier. The photography is just awful; you cannot tell who is who. It is probably the worst climax of any Harry film. They felt compelled to throw in Hal Holbrook as a villain hey, now there is a real scary guy!! It is long, boring badly acted gory for no apparent reason other than to wake us up. Even Sudden Impact, which I hate, is better than this one. "},{"Title":"Badly Produced Badly Executed and Plain Bad","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" From the lingering opening shot of Dirty Harry's .44 Magnum this sequel shows off itself to be little more than less of the same. The Movie is filled with static shots, lame dialog, and is so basically bad that even the production is pedestrian and amateurish looking at times.There are one or two scenes that rise above all the bland and uninteresting, but these can hardly sustain two hours of boring bad ass behavior. Harry is not Dirty Harry anymore. For some reason he has decided to work within the system. Say what? This is unacceptable for our Anti-Hero and is nothing more than a plot convenience to make the bad good guys a target.The almost inconceivable tag line a Man's got to know his limitations is laugh out loud ludicrous. The violence while strong and bloody lacks any real style and is played straight and stagy. In the end this is a plain and awful looking Film, with grainy, sometimes actually out of focus Photography and signaled what was to come in the rest of the series. "},{"Title":"Force majeure","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Second outing for Clint Eastwood's anti-hero is an absorbing thriller, let down by some sloppy characterisation and the lack of a killer (no pun intended) scene or even iconic dialogue. It starts off poorly with the title credits lamely played over an almost static shot of the title weapon (very Sledge Hammer) but once we get past the token scene reminding us of Harry's shoot first, ask questions later policing policy, the main plot strand about an internal police death-squad violently taking out known felons dominates the film.There are some humanising touches around Harry's character, although these stereotypically show him as irresistible to women, rebellious to authority and almost friendly and caring for his young black sidekick, so that nothing new is revealed about what makes him tick. There is something condescending about the treatment of these supporting characters, especially the portrayal of Callahan's young Oriental neighbour who despite hardly seeing him around, seems desperate to jump into bed with him.Better to stick with the action of which there is plenty. There's intrigue as Callahan's instincts lead him to find the true identities of the assassination bureau and a good twist as their ringleader emerges from the shadows.The acting is mostly fine, Eastwood naturally dominating in his typical laconic manner. Hal Holbrook is also excellent as his testy superior and David Soul shines in a pre-Hutch role. Ted Post directs with some flair with some blunt lapses while Lalo Schifrin contributes a typically gritty soundtrack. The film makes its main point about the dangers of vigilantism and cleverly uses Harry Callahan of all people as a counterpoint to its proponents.Some might argue as to whether all the violence was necessary and I felt the grisly death of a black prostitute bordered on the gratuitous but on the whole this was superior cop-fare and a good sequel to the trailblazing Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"Hotly anticipated sequel to Dirty Harry.... this one puts more emphasis on the violence, less on the story and characters.","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I wouldn't say that Magnum Force is a disappointing film in its own right, but as a follow-up to the absolutely brilliant Dirty Harry I would say that it's a disappointing sequel. The original was a fairly ground-breaking cop thriller in terms of violence, but it had great characterisation, clever dialogue and genuine tension too. Magnum Force is really just about the violence. The characterisation is cartoonish, the dialogue contrived.... and the moments of tension are sporadic to say the least. There's something uncomfortable and tasteless about watching Harry coolly dispose of a couple of plane hijackers, or an undercover black cop being told to suck the barrel of a shotgun by a liquor store gunman, or a bunch of naked sunbathers being gunned down by a renegade machine gun-toting motorcycle cop. Perhaps Magnum Force is trying just a bit too hard to be controversial, when it ought to be concentrating on the action.High-profile criminals who have been released by the courts due to legal loopholes are being bumped off in San Francisco. Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) tries to figure out who is responsible for the executions. He knows that one or more motorcycle cops are responsible, and initially he suspects that it could be the work of Charlie McCoy (Mitchell Ryan), an old buddy who is growing suicidally disillusioned by the way that the crooks he keeps busting are being pardoned by the courts. Or perhaps the killers are a bunch of sharp-shooting rookie motorcycle cops (David Soul, Tim Matheson and Robert Urich)? Even though Harry can see that the legal system is flawed and frustratingly ineffective, he is still sworn to protect those considered innocent by the courts.... so he finds himself hunting the renegade cop(s) despite the fact that they have a valid point.Eastwood seems to be on auto-pilot in this one, trading off his tough persona rather than giving a performance of any real depth and feeling. The only performances that seem to carry any acting weight are given by Hal Holbrook and Felton Perry. Lalo Schifrin provides a sensational '70s score (perhaps the best thing about the film), but in most aspects the film is relatively lacklustre. Ted Post directs in a very workmanlike manner, never really sensing the opportunities to make this anything more than a standard police actioner. The plot, which has a potentially explosive moral question about whether it is right or wrong to release known criminals simply because of insubstantial evidence (and whether the vigilante cop/s are right to assassinate such lowlifes without the support of the law), remains sadly under-developed. "},{"Title":"The best in the series!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Tell you something. If the rest of you could shoot like them, I wouldn't care if the whole damn department was queer.We all know there is corruption in the police force and even Harry himself might be considered corrupt. Now here we see some real corruption and Harry is not liking it. Here we see a group of young police officers on a killing spree. Killing basically every criminal in town. Harry after quitting homicide in the first movie is brought back to investigate the murders and once he finds out who's behind it, it's his job to stop them.Ted Post does a great job replacing Don Siegel as director. I like how he combines a crime drama with action. In fact that's why I consider this to be the best movie in the series. It manages to combine action with crime drama and still have a realistic view of violence in modern society.Mans got to know his limitations!***out of****stars   "},{"Title":"yeah, but who hasn't wanted to drive a car into David Soul?","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dumb, dumb and dumb, violent, lurid, with just a fleck of style for slickness. This was not the best writing Cimino or Milius ever did, though if they'd been allowed to direct... who knows. Cimino soon directed Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, one of the great unknown 70s crime movies, and superior in every way to this predictable yarn; Milius did The Wind and the Lion, a boring piece of crap. Then they went on to direct a couple of really good movies apiece. But we got Ted Post.Veteran Gunsmoke, Rawhide and Combat TV director Post manages to make this clunker barely appealing by sticking to the most superficial and prurient elements of the original Dirty Harry formula and giving them some gas. The car hitting the motorcycle is pretty good. The execution of the pimp and the shoot-out at the docks are thrilling, in a cheap way. We get nude scenes with not only Suzanne Somers but Cliff Pellow, which you can't say about every film. And Hal Holbrook is the best actor who's ever been in a Dirty Harry movie. But he still sucks in this, just like everybody else, because this movie sucks. "}{"Title":"Harry's not the only killer  with a badge","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Detective Harry Callahan throws his badge away at the end of Dirty Harry (1971). I guess the sequel wasn't originally in anybody's mind, film was meant to be just one individual police thriller and that's it. Sequel was nevertheless pretty much unavoidable after the unexpected popularity of the movie and two years later somebody had to fish that badge out of the water where it ended up.I already stated that Sudden Impact (1983) is perhaps the very finest sequel of the series but it's a damn hard decision to make because I adore each one of these flicks extremely much. Still, at least I can definitely say that the greatest, cleverest and the most fascinating plot is definitely in Magnum force (1973). This time Callahan is not after a traditional serial killer. His own colleagues are the bloodthirsty villains, bunch of young renegade cops who punish criminals with death because the system just lets them walk.After the release of Dirty Harry some people were horrified by Harry's brutality and ethics. He was seen as the cop who didn't care about the law. In Magnum force they chosen to make his image just a little bit softer. Naturally Harry hates the system like in the original film but serves it until something better comes along. To make this pure and simple, I love this movie. It's one of the finest thrillers of the 70's. I adore every scene and I cheer to Eastwood's irresistible performance.Callahan's partner was Mexican in Dirty Harry, women in The Enforcer (1976) and Japanese in The Dead Pool (1988). This time he's naturally black. Veteran actor Hal Holbrook played stylishly Lieutenant Briggs. Second chapter in the Dirty Harry -series is an entertaining, exciting, enjoyable, charming and supercool suspense classic. Simple but ingenious masterpiece. Man's got to know his limitations, that's what I've always been saying! 10/10. "},{"Title":"top notch despite the racism","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Part 2 in the Callahan franchise. This is a completely other thing than Dirty Harry and I must say that it doesn't matter at all because it is still top notch. Have seen the Death Wish franchise you could see after part 2 that it went totally wrong but Dirty Harry is still strong. Of course the performance of Clint Eastwood as Callahan is superb. I dare to see that it is even better then his performance in Dirty Harry.The opening credits do say it all, the famous sentence of Dirty Harry is repeated here so you immediately knows what your up to. Just before the end credits there's a new line Men got to know it's limitations. Straight from one of his spaghetti westerns it could come. Being made early seventies it shows in the bad way, there's a lot of racism going on, what was going on back then, but to see it nowadays what they all are saying to the black people is really outdated. also surprised of the nudity added in this action flick. Some full frontal here and there. Still if you can place it in it's time made you will love this, another classic from Clint Eastwood despite some editing faults with the car chase at the end, just watch the car changing with it's damage now and then.Gore 0/5 Nudity 1,5/5 Effects 2/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry With A Twist","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a more than competent follow up to Dirty Harry, where a group of rookie cops are taking out gangsters, pimps and other low lives in San Francisco. However, when Dirty Harry refuses to join them, they turn on him, planting a bomb in his mailbox and killing his partner. Also it seems they have an intrinsic dislike of the permissive society and take out a group of people at a pool party and have an ally in Harry's boss, Lt Briggs, played by Hal Holbrook, who captures Harry at gunpoint when he finds out he's not supporting the young vigilantes. In Harry's eyes, for all the system is rotten, vigilante law is not the answer and he has to uphold the law, where you'd expect him to support the police death squad.Magnum Force is good in other respects, the brutal shooting of a gangster who is acquitted for murder by one of the renegade cops is unexpected, the chase scene at the end where Harry dispenses of the vigilante cops on a disused aircraft carrier( including karate chopping one of them to death) is first rate, and Harry also stops an aircraft hijack. As ever, Lalo Schifrin provides a first class soundtrack and look out for David Soul in his first starring role as one of the renegade cops.Again there are some memorable quotes, most notably one where Harry's Japanese American neighbour asks him what she has to do to get into bed with him,  just knock at the door, is his quick response in one of the quickest seductions ever. Also as the film ends and Harry's boss is blown up by a car bomb planted by Harry, he states,  man's gotta know his limitations. Overall 9/10 in what is an excellent sequel to Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"The Power Of The Magnum Force.","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was Mr. Eastwood's second appearance as Harry Callahan, and - among the first - his best. You can watch it from time to time and always appreciate the good work from the director. (Who was mostly Clint himself I've read; T.Post credited, though.) The story was picked up after reports about Brazilian police-squads who worked outside the law frames, and swept away criminals without court trails and like processes. Yes, it's kind of old now in 2015, but a beauty as it fits 70's movies. Cliché's, wonderful automobiles and clothes. Wawy hairstyles, not to forget. Future Starsky & Hutch star David Soul is formidable as a biker cop; in my opinion he never topped it in S & H a few years later. Many Harry-fans may think I'm crazy who rate this in front of The Enforcer and Sudden Impact ( and the final whistle Dead Pool. ), but I will keep my rankings that way. Many cool scenes and a gorgeous final makes it equal with Dirty Harry, and a little better than the other three. It would be fun to see Clint in one last elbow leather-patched jacket, playing the coolest cop ever before he turns in, but I think no one (including Mr. Eastwood) bothers at all. But you can always imagine him as retired, keeping up the skill with the .44 on a shooting range, impressing some aspirants on the San Fransisco Police Academy!  ) "},{"Title":"He's a no nonsense copper about to come a cropper","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry is back! And this time, he's up against some vigilante cops who are blowing away all the mobsters in old San Francisco while being harassed by his superior officer Hal Halbrook. Not only that, but there's folks trying to rob stores, hijack planes, one of his buddies is going a bit mad, that guy's wife is hitting on Harry and his Chinese neighbour is looking for a bit of filthy squeezy. Where does a guy find the time? Harry does somehow (although the neighbour would have gone right to the top of the 'to-do- list for me). Even when the guy's trying to grab a burger he ends up pretending to be a jetliner pilot so he can plug a few holes in a hijacker.There's not too much of a plot for this one (the film doesn't need one) &#x96; You can solve the mystery of who's behind the killings in about five seconds, but what you do get is loads and loads of bad guys getting what they deserve one way or another, and Harry almost, almost sympathises with the killers. But then doesn't because he's Harry Callaghan and states clearly that he does thing his own way. Because he's Harry Callaghan. And he does things his way. Because he's Harry Callaghan.Also starring the guy who ate baby food in Robocop and David Soul. Loads of gunfights in this one. Maybe a little overlong, but who cares "},{"Title":"Entertaining, despite the plot holes","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Entertaining, despite the plot holes.The second Dirty Harry movie. This time, vigilante cops are killing off criminals. Meanwhile, our hero, Harry Calahan (played by Clint Eastwood, of course), has a hard case Lieutenant for a boss, and is out of Homicide.Entertaining, especially as a pure action movie. The plot has a few holes but the movie brushes off these minor inconveniences with ease, hardly stopping to take a breath. More balanced than the first Dirty Harry movie. There Harry was the vigilante, to a degree. Now he's fighting vigilantes.Usual solid performance from Clint Eastwood as the cool, tough-as- nails Harry Calahan. Supporting cast includes David Soul, Tim Matheson and Robert Urich in early-career roles. Was, in fact, Urich's first movie. "},{"Title":"Can you feel the force","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Oh no its my television heroes as the bad guys. This was probably echoed around the country when Magnum Force was first shown on British television in the early 1980s as it inferred that David Soul from Starsky & Hutch and Robert Urich from Vegas could be vigilante cops.Magnum Force is the first sequel to Dirty Harry. Clint Eastwood reprises his iconic role as the no nonsense San Francisco detective Harry Callahan. Eastwood was mindful of the criticism levelled at his character that he was a vigilante cop and this film was a response that labelling Harry as a vigilante is misconceived. Clint Eastwood always maintained that the Harry was critical of organisations and the bureaucracy that they carried. They simply would not let police to their jobs, possibly reflecting Eastwood's own libertarian views.In fact the plot really can be distilled to two people's views of organisations. Harry and his abrasive boss Lt Briggs (Hal Holbrook) on the face of it the anti-Dirty Harry, the cop who has never pulled a gun in the line of duty. Harry knows the system is broken but works within it. He might edge close to the line, even slightly cross it (which he seemed to have done in Dirty Harry) but respects the rule of law even if its grudgingly. It looks like Briggs also realises that the justice system is broken but has a different solution.Watching Magnum Force again almost three decades later I expected the film to have aged. It certainly has a different depiction of San Francisco than the more tourist friendly picture postcard setting you get these days. Even the crooked segment of Lombard Street does not look like that any-more. What is striking though is the how action packed the film is, its absolutely modernist. I would say that this might be the precursor to the 1980s action thrillers.There was a time in action films where things moved slowly, you established settings, character and there would be a lull in between action scenes where you have quieter moments. Just look at Steve McQueen's Bullitt made a few years earlier and also set in San Francisco.In Magnum Force things are happening all the time. Bad guys getting bumped off by someone dressed up as a cop in a motorcycle. When we see Harry he gets into action pretty quickly as well, dressing up as a pilot to deal with a plane hijacking, later on we see him on a stakeout when a store is held up. The film is very well paced with incidents and action at regular intervals. Credit for that has to go to the writers more than the director Ted Post in my opinion.The film was written by Michael Cimino and John Milius. Both were the new wave of infant terrible of 1970s cinema which also included Scorsese, Spielberg , Coppola and De Palma. John Milius has always been a gun nut with a fascination with the military. He is regarded as the most right wing person in Hollywood. A film critic once said that's like calling someone out for being the tallest player in a professional basketball team!Cimino would go on to work with Eastwood the following year in Thunderbolt & Lightfoot which he wrote and directed. Cimino would achieve acclaim with The Deer Hunter and infamy through his follow up film, Heaven's Gate. He has not directed a feature film since 1996. There have been rumours he now lives life as a woman. What is true is that he has had a lot of bad plastic surgery.The film is called Magnum Force but during the climax notice that Harry dispatches the villains without once resorting to his gun. This is deliberate, Eastwood wanted to show Harry was more than a cop with a big gun that he had guile. It also reinforces the anti- vigilante message of the film.The ending is a little drawn out for my liking.One other thing about Harry in this film was sex appeal. Maybe he should be called X rated Harry as women just keep falling for him. Eastwood in his Dollar trilogy films was never into the ladies. That came in the movies in the 1970s which the star exploited as Eastwood became something of a sex symbol. I am sure it was also an ego thing on the part of Eastwood. It was the only thing that was odd about it, the Harry of Dirty Harry never seemed to have the social skills of being such a womaniser.The film is different in tone and style from Dirty Harry which is the best of the bunch. Magnum Force is a very good sequel and much better than the ones that followed. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Dirty Harry Sequel","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Unless you're Oliver Queen or the brooding anti-hero star of a comic book serial, don't expect the idea of Taking the Law Into Your Own Hands to work out after months of trying. Cops can get awfully irritable, and messing with the heat isn't a game worth playing &#x97; especially when you've got Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) hot on your trail. He's got a .44 Magnum Revolver, and he isn't afraid to play a tricky game of Russian Roulette with you if you don't quit it.The villain of this Dirty Harry sequel is not a deranged sniper but a vigilante posing as a traffic cop. He doesn't figure himself to be crazy; he finds his actions to be methodical. His favorite hobby involves hunting down the thugs who escape jail time and offing them &#x97; since the law can't manage to lock them up (the first few minutes of the film witness outrage following the release of a murderer, based on a technicality), why not do the dirty work and rid the city of the vermin that corrupts it? The foe figures he's doing San Francisco a favor, but Harry can see through the bullshit &#x97; the guy's a madman looking for an excuse to justify his madness; who knows how long it'll be before he starts shooting jaywalkers? So he and his partner (Felton Perry) try to strip away all the false leads and find out what the real deal is, as their Lieutenant (Hal Holbrook) remains skeptical of Harry's unconventional ways.Some find the Dirty Harry movies to be too questionable in their ethics to really enjoy, but I find their thunderous grittiness to be gigantically entertaining. Clint Eastwood is the ultimate anti-hero, his perpetual machismo convincingly charged. He's a man bred to seek justice, too old and worn to consider the confines of the rules. Harry is ruthless, stoic, street smart &#x97; Eastwood is so mesmerizing in the role because he doesn't have to emote. His lined face and subtle emotional scars speak louder than the limited stretches of dialogue he has to deliver.Magnum Force is a such an excellent sequel because it builds on what made Dirty Harry made so great; we hardly need character development here, considering all we need to know is that Harry Callahan is a cop you don't want to mess with. The thrills are leaner and meaner, the screenplay without filler, the characterizations fiendishly simple &#x97; even the villain menaces more than the previous scoundrel, as his identity is kept secret until the unpredictable truth is let out. Things might not be as rugged as they were before &#x97; Ted Post, replacing Don Siegel, prefers an adventuresome tone in comparison to the first's sinister bloodlust &#x97; but Magnum Force is an appealing sequel that delivers the turbo-charged thrills one wants, one expects. But its quality &#x97; that's what makes it strong enough to work on its own. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry a Force to be reckoned with.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is the first sequel to Dirty Harry, where Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) goes after vigilante cops, who are going above the law in gunning down some of the city's top criminals.As with Dirty Harry, the mystery begins immediately when an acquitted gangster is gunned down in broad daylight by a traffic cop, and then a trial of more incidents occur. In the middle of if all, there are these random crimes foiled by Callahan, which showcases his strength and witty attitude as he deals with those city's scumbags. This gives us a good mixture of suspense and action as the audience is kept engaged in following the main plot.The cinematography by Frank Stanley captures the tense atmosphere and bustling city life of San Francisco and the direction of Ted Post did a nice job directing, keeping the film interesting for the most part and leaving little room for boring fillers (however, I did wish there were a little more of the revenge and paycheck elements in the story). The acting was great, particularly that Clint Eastwood, who does his usual deadpan delivery whenever he can and his unorthodox ways of delivering justice and standing up to his superiors.This movie shows that despite how slow the justice system is, Callahan finds a way to deliver it swiftly while still upholding the law, and the good cop vs. renegade cop angles leaves us with a captivating entry in the Dirty Harry trilogy.Grade B "},{"Title":"Typical Sequel that Offers little to Differentiate from it's Predecessor,","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is a good movie with a reasonably well developed storyline and a talented cast. It has plenty of great action sequences and some intense scenes, Clint Eastwood is once again in great form as Harry Callahan, he slips back in to the role very naturally and with pure class. My main problem with the film is that it is a very typical action film that was clearly only made because the first one was a success, they didn't seem bothered to put together a sequel that differentiates itself from its predecessor. I think it should have developed Harry's character some more, they are given so much time with this second movie to give the audience new information about him, which is something I feel sequels always should do to a certain degree, but they didn't use it to full effect. It may be a predictable and cliché action thriller, but Eastwood and several other great cast members still make this film enjoyable, and I would recommend it if you ever see it on television and have some time to kill. Harry Callahan investigates the murders of some of San Francisco's undesirables. Best Performance Clint Eastwood Worst Performance Robert Urich "}{"Title":"Great Action and Of Course, The Great Eastwood","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force (1973) *** (out of 4)'Dirty' Harry Calahan (Clint Eastwood) has been taken off street duty by Lt. Briggs (Hal Holbrook) but he gets back into action when various scumbags throughout the city are executed. Pimps, gangsters and various other criminals are being killed off and Briggs believes it's other criminals doing the crimes but Harry believes it's someone inside the police force.MAGNUM FORCE was the second film in the ever popular series and while it's no where near as great as DIRTY HARRY, it still manages to be highly entertaining thanks in large part to lead actor Eastwood who was clearly born to play this role. As with the first film, this one here asks a lot of political questions as well as some moral ones. After all, the people being murdered here aren't innocent people or good citizens. Instead they are low life criminals and them being picked off, as it is put in the film, is saving the tax payers a lot of money. This vigilante aspect comes a year before DEATH WISH but it's interesting to compare the two films and their thoughts on the subject.With that said, MAGNUM FORCE is pure 70's action and there's no question that it's incredibly entertaining. I will say the one flaw is its running time, which is just a tad bit too long and especially once the plot is revealed. A few of the scenes towards the end probably could have been edited down some but even with this flaws the film is still a great entertainment. The biggest key is certainly Eastwood who was simply born to play this role and when you think about it it's nearly impossible to imagine anyone else in the role. Even though several other actors were offered the part, film history is blessed that Eastwood got it.He certainly has that dry humor that fits this character so perfectly and there's certainly no questions that he can handle the action scenes with ease. The supporting cast is also very good with Holbrook doing nice work as the stuck up Lt. and there's also Robert Urich, Kip Niven, Tim Matheson, David Soul and Mitchell Ryan doing nice work. On a technical level the film is also very good with some strong cinematography, fine editing and of course the music score fits the decade and subject perfectly.MAGNUM FORCE offers up a pretty good storyline and there's no question that its political nature mixes well with who Dirty Harry is. The film also manages to have some terrific one-liners for Eastwood to say and there's no doubt that the action scenes are a "},{"Title":"My favorite in the Dirty Harry series.","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Ever since I saw this at the drive-in as a kid I've liked it. It's an action movie, that, in my opinion, is one of the better ones.I'm so happy that Clint Eastwood was chosen to play Harry Callahan even though all of the others whom it was offered to before him are all great and legendary actors as well. If John Wayne, Frank Sinatra, Marlon Brandon, Steve McQueen, or, Paul Newman would have taken the role, the series wouldn't have lasted as long as it did. Clint Eastwood has kept his youth throughout this series, and, when the time came, refused to reprise the role as he thought it would become a parody.Can anyone imagine Marlon Brando in The Dead Pool (1988) at the age of 64, barely strong enough to hold up a .44 Magnum with one hand, rolling through the streets of San Fransisco in a wheelchair while being chased by one of those remote-control cars!?!? Or, Frank Sinatra doing the same at 73!?!? John Wayne at 81!?!?SPOILER ALERT - Deep down, although they won't admit it, I believe that most people think that what those cops in this movie were doing was good...and, it was. They saved the courts time; the prisons space; and, the taxpayers money...all the while making the streets much more safe for good people and much more dangerous for criminals whom everyone knew were as guilty as sin. However, when they killed one of their own, opinions of them were swiftly changed...and, this is where vigilantism becomes a problem. That particular killing 'had' to be written into the script so that this movie wouldn't come across as promoting vigilante activity (as in the Death Wish movies); and, at the same time, making the star, Callahan, a 'law-abiding' hero.I like the Dirty Harry series, but, I find this one to be my favorite.Overall, I give it 8 stars; but, as an action movie, I give it ten. "},{"Title":"Magnum force","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum force is the sequel to the 1971 film Dirty Harry and is on par with the original but isn't quite as Good as it the plot concerns once again inspector Harry Callahan he is called to investigate the murders of San fransiscos most sadistic criminals who are being bumped off by unknown sources and Harry soon after comes to the realisation that's the killers maybe closer to him than he ever imagined . Overall magnum force is a satisfying sequel to fans of the 1971 film it's not as good because it contains weak villains in the form of the motorcycle cops in the form of David soul,Robert ulrich,kipniven, . And Hal Holbrook as his superior lieutenant Briggs who again aren't terrible villains just lack the presence and edgy ness that Andrew Robinson brought to the role of Scorpio in the first film . Other than that Clint Eastwood is magnificent as Dirty Harry and the action scenes are exquisite to watch and keep you on the edge of your seat . "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood is back as Dirty Harry Callahan in Magnum Force.","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood returns in his iconic role as the unorthodox SFPD Inspector Harry Callahan in Magnum Force, the sequel to the classic crime caper Dirty Harry (1971). Although Magnum Force not a groundbreaking classic compared to Dirty Harry, you can't deny the fact that it is still an enjoyable movie and it was great to see Harry Callahan return onto the screen.This time, Inspector Harry Callahan finds himself on the right side of the law when he finds himself hot on the trail of a secret group of vigilante cops who are going against the system and murdering San Francisco's high profile criminals who have managed to evade justice. Magnum Force opens with mobster Carmine Ricca (Richard Devon) driving away from court after being acquitted on a technicality for the murders of a labour union leader and his family. After Carmine Ricca manages to escape from the clutches of angry mob protesters outside the courthouse, his limousine is stopped by an SFPD Motorcycle Police Officer for a traffic violation. Without warning, the motorcycle officer draws his revolver out of his holster and guns down Carmine Ricca, his attorney, bodyguard and his driver in cold blood all while in broad daylight. The motorcycle officer then calmly returns to his motorcycle and rides away from the crime scene.Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) and his partner Inspector Early Smith (Felton Perry, Robocop) drive by the crime scene however are turned away by Lieutenant Neil Briggs (Hal Holbrook, Wall Street), telling Callahan his presence is unwanted as he has been temporarily reassigned from Homicide to Stakeout. Callahan and Briggs have a history of butting heads with each other, not only with their contrasting views of police work but also with their personalities. Lieutenant Briggs prides himself on not having once drawn his revolver in the line of duty to which Callahan flippantly responds Well, you're a good man Lieutenant. A good man always knows his limitations. Briggs looks on at Callahan in disgust with his attitude problem.While visiting a fast food shop run by a retired officer who is a friend of Callahan's at the San Francisco International Airport, Callahan notices a distress signal being broadcast over the PA system and airport security are frantically dealing with a plane hijacking and the hijackers are demanding a pilot. After Callahan sneaks on board the place disguised as a pilot he manages to disarm one hijacker after he casually admits that he has never had a flying lesson and guns down the second hijacker. With the hijacking crisis over as Callahan casually exits the plane, Lieutenant Briggs and the SFPD arrive on the scene. Callahan mockingly asks a fuming Briggs What are you doing here, Lieutenant?, further escalating tensions between the pair.Later at a shooting range Callahan bumps into an old friend of his, traffic officer Charlie McCoy (Mitchell Ryan, Lethal Weapon). McCoy is an embittered person who is separated from his wife and appears to be suicidal and unstable. Inside the range, Callahan meets a close knit quartet of rookie police officers who are also excellent sharpshooters. The group consists of Phil Sweet (Tim Matheson, Animal House), John Davis (David Soul, TV's Starsky & Hutch), Donald Red Astrachan (Kip Niven, Earthquake), and Mike Grimes (the late Robert Urich, TV's Spenser For Hire). The group strike Callahan as a young and idealistic group of officers with promising futures and in return they look up to Harry Callahan.Briggs allows Callahan to return to Homicide when the bodies continue to pile up with a massacre of party goers at a gangster's pool party, a pimp (Albert Popwell who previously appeared in Dirty Harry as the wounded bank robber who finds himself asking does he feel lucky when on the wrong end of Callahan's .44 Magnum) after he brutally murders one of his prostitutes at the back of a cab, and a drug kingpin and his associates in their luxurious apartment.Callahan has suspicions that there is a secret death squad operating within the San Francisco Police Department and a group of renegade motorcycle police officers are dispensing their own brand of justice. However, Callahan's efforts in exposing the vigilante police officers are hampered by Lieutenant Briggs and his denial that such a group exists, instead pointing towards another mobster in San Francisco organising these hits.It was an absolute joy to see Clint Eastwood return in his iconic role as SFPD Inspector Harry Callahan. It was also good to see actors such as David Soul, Tim Matheson, Robert Ulrich, Hal Holbrook, and Felton Perry go on to bigger and better things, in particular David Soul who carved out a successful TV career with Starsky & Hutch and proved he was not just a pretty face by adding another string to his bow with a successful career as a singer with the hit song Don't Give Up On Us which topped the music charts in 1976. Suzanne Somers (TV's Three's Company) appears uncredited as a pool girl in the ill fated pool party massacre and Carl Weathers (Rocky) appears uncredited as a protester at the start of the movie.Writers John Milus (Apocalypse Now, Conan The Barbarian) and Michael Cimino (The Deer Hunter, Heaven's Gate) have done an excellent job bringing the story to the big screen as well as the return of Harry Callahan and director Ted Post has to be commended on an excellent job taking over the director's reigns from Don Siegel.Although some parts I found to be violent despite being over 40 years old, Magnum Force is an excellent movie that is a worthy entry in the Dirty Harry legacy.9/10. "},{"Title":"Not a gem, but gem-like.","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The '70s, (shotgun) violence, neat cinematography, cool soundtrack, San Francisco and (dirty) Eastwood in the mix! A couple of scenes make hardly any sense story-wise (Dirty Harry stumbling upon a hostage situation at the airport, when he only went there for a good burger, for instance - these scenes add nothing much to the whole, other than to show us that Dirt H. is the man), but it doesn't matter much; the premise of a good old vigilante (or vigilantes? - o, the twist(s)!) taking on crime is rather dubious, as usual, but somehow it works...'Magnum force' is not a true '70s gem (like, for instance, 'The friends of Eddie Coyle'), but that golden combination mentioned before works well enough for me. And there's some hot, partially nude, chicks to boot. Hey ya!A good 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"hardcore Dirty Harry","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Mobster Carmine Ricca is released on a technicality. An unknown SFPD motorcycle cop rides up and kills him and his men. Inspector Dirty Harry Calahan (Clint Eastwood) has a new partner Early Smith. He wants in on the job but his superior Lieutenant Neil Briggs (Hal Holbrook) has relegated him to stakeout. While grabbing a bite at the airport, Calahan takes down a couple of hijackers. He runs into old timer cop Charlie McCoy (Mitch Ryan) who complains about the new culture of soft on criminals. He meets four eager rookie cops Phil Sweet (Tim Matheson), John Davis (David Soul), Red Astrachan (Kip Niven) and Mike Grimes (Robert Urich) at the shooting range. The vigilante shoots up a porn movie shoot. It get so bad that even Briggs calls in Calahan.The movie is hardcore Dirty Harry. It's the second in the franchise. There are some good action and good stunts. It gets ridiculous from time to time like the hijackers. The body count is pretty high. Some may object to any perceived message but that's trying a little too hard. Eastwood is still the standard for quiet machismo. "},{"Title":"When the police becomes incompetent it turns out rotten","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Once the matrix or the mould is in place, the formula constructed in the first film works all by itself but you have to vary the dressing of the composed salad bowl to make it attractive to the people.In this second film the desire for the good cops to carry out their mission with as much power force as possible that Dirty Harry represents is realized by a secret police sect or clan that systematically kills everyone who is a criminal or an associate of such criminals knowing that justice would never manage to have them convicted and sentenced to anything. In front of that impotence, only one solution let some secret police society take over. The fun then is to see how Dirty Harry is going to cope with that group who he admires because of their shooting skills, who he must admire because they are cleaning up the criminal plate of San Francisco and yet he can only disapprove because they do not kill in action but they kill as vigilantes and hit men, which is cowardly since the targets have no say they do not know anything is coming.Then it is Dirty Harry versus that clan or clique and he has to eliminate them all. For once his partner will not be killed though he will be so badly treated and shot that he will decide that kind of job is not for him, which Dirty Harry will support whole-heartedly. In the end Dirty Harry will manage to clean up the police, which is admirable in itself since that police has to be rotten to the core to be that inefficient, not to say incompetent.The action is brilliant though slightly too slow for present time taste. The special effects are rather primitive but the stunts are definitely OK.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Deadly","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film is a message about anti-authoritarianism, vigilante justice perpetrated by corrupt cops. From the get go the leading officer is Dirty Harry from the original film. This guy solves problems by operating outside the law. His contempt for law enforcement blends with his determination to inflict punishment on the cities criminals. His two cop companions one a rookie both killed. He is partly responsible for the deaths of cops in the line of duty due in part due to his reckless behaviour. The death squad traffic cops are the villains of the film riding around the city essentially culling the crime bosses. These fascists are Harry's worst nightmare, descent cops who have turned to murderers in order to serve their own desire to rid the city of its unwanted elements. Finally we come to the deceptive head of the cops. We learn he is the mastermind of the conspiracy. It goes all the way to the top totally undermining the trust of the police force in the city of San Francisco.The film follows a sequence of events in which the cops are portrayed first as a moral force that is good but this is short lasting as we see the murder rate increasing with their assassinations. Then we see Harry's style of crook catching when he foils a robbery, violent but effective. The cop's intentions become known when they kill a fellow cop and after a brief interlude of gun shooting scenes which would satisfy the National Rifles Association we return to the menace of the cops and Harry's task to find the culprits of his friend's murder. He is too late and faces off against his superior and proceeds to eliminate the traffic cops one by one. Towards the end the idea that he is fighting to stop the corrupt cops disappears and it becomes a straight forward survival movie in which he is fighting to stay alive.The interesting thing about this movie is that in hindsight it is full of ambiguous characters none of whom are really good. Dirty Harry is more reckless than a good cop. A total of seven cops are killed. Harry personally kills four cops. Nobody complains that the crime bosses were killed at the beginning but all of a sudden at the end the cops become evil when they decide to kill off Harry and his partner. What this movie does demonstrate is that by putting a police force under the spot light secrecy is exposed. This movie is about how not to run a police department. In this way it is a great movie on police brutality and generally the police forces attitudes towards the citizens it serves. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry changes sides","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" As a sequel to Dirty Harry, the plot of Magnum Force has been brilliantly thought out and neatly planned.The character of Dirty Harry as a cop who steps out of the law to protect the law, has been magnified but drafted onto a bunch of cops who are then made the villains of the movie, with Dirty Harry playing hero against them.Clint Eastwood is smarter than he shows.This movie allowed Callaghan to be Dirty Harry and yet become a real hero. As against the 'anti-hero' that Dirty Harry was.Of course most Dirty Harry movies  and also where Clint plays a cop with any other name  are a city version of western movies of a bad-ass sheriff out-gunning the bad guys.Magnum Force is a little different. The focus is more on the killers, and the targets. To that extent, the focus is a little less on Clint than usual.Even the focus on Clint's character in the movie is a focus on his 'reputation' as Dirty Harry.Clint plays more a 'detective' of the killings. The airplane hijack scene and shopping mall scene seem contrived and outside of the main plot. But of course enjoyable to die-hard fans of Dirty Harry.  In a way, the scenes highlight the 'Dirty Harry' side of Callaghan while allowing for Harry to play the 'good' cop against the 'out of law' killer-cops. Clint's one-liners are crisp and short, and add to enhance his character to make sense of his 'position' against the 'view' of the killer-cops. "},{"Title":"A sequel just as good as the first.","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I bought a DVD box of the first 4 Dirty Harry movies. After seeing the first one I was glad that I did. So when I saw the second movie (this one) I was wondering weather or not it would reach my high expectations. Sure enough it did. This movie it so great in it's story and characters that it just about reaches the first one. In this one Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) the cop that's admired as much as feared by his fellow officers is inspecting the deaths of known criminals who seem to have been killed by vigilantes. His superior officer Lieutenant Neil Briggs (Hal Holbrook) clearly disproves of the ways that Harry solves his cases, but has no choice but to let him. Meanwhile Harry begins to suspect that these criminals may have been killed by other officers. I won't give away the answer but I'm sure that you'll be surprised who they were. What makes this film great is the writing which is just as good as the last one. The acting is also great in this one too. Especially the dialog between Harry and his partner Early Smith (Felton Perry). If you liked the first one than check out the second one. "}{"Title":"Better Than Dirty Harry","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This sequel to Dirty Harry is awesome. I think it's better than Dirty Harry (the first film in the series). What I like about this second film is the air of mystery surrounding the bad cops.Some people have wondered why Dirty Harry does not join the bad cops. Dirty Harry does not always follow the rules - he'll make his own rules up as he see fit. So why doesn't Harry join the group of bad cops? It's just like Harry's movie catchphrase A man's got to know his limitations. The answer is within the film.You do not have to watch the first movie, Dirty Harry, to know what is going on in this second film - but I do recommend watching Dirty Harry first.This is a great prime-time film. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"The best Dirty Harry film IMHO","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The second in the Dirty Harry franchise, Magnum Force is a rare case where the sequel is superior to the original. Here, Harry Calahan observes what happens when an officer or officers go rogue by operating above the law to tackle rampant crime. When Harry refuses to join the vigilante(s) he becomes an enemy.The five Dirty Harry films are as follows Dirty Harry (1971), Magnum Force (1973), The Enforcer (1976), Sudden Impact (1983) and The Dead Pool (1988).I like all five, but Magnum Force is my favorite while -- surprisingly -- the first one is my least favorite, probably because the villain, Scorpio, is so annoying and the way he gets away with his crimes via legal loopholes and the idiocy of the authorities and their system is so aggravating (and, yes, I realize that was the point).Magnum Force switches the plot around so that Harry -- albeit still a bit of a loose cannon -- is now fighting against vigilanteism in the force rather than being the quasi-vigilante.What I like best is the eponymous magnum force of a group of mysterious officers. The best scene is when Harry is unexpectedly confronted by this force in the parking garage and Harry comes face to face with what he could've become.This is just a great cop thriller. At the end, one of the villains dies by riding his bike into the bay off a huge carrier. If the movie were remade today this wouldn't do; Harry would have to blow up three ships, the pier, the marina, the buildings and a third of the city.The film runs 124 minutes and was shot in San Francisco.GRADE A "},{"Title":".44 Mag Sequel","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" FOLLOWING THE Phenomenal success of 1971's DIRTY HARRY, the natural succession of events would, could and did bring us the inevitable sequel. Having invented the character in that of Inspector Harry Callahan, which was sort of Lawman of the OLd West in the mid 20th Century San Francisco, Mr. Clint Eastwood established what would become a screen franchise. Much like so many other popular films with characters that take on lives of their own, it is usually a case of dumb luck; rather than artistic abilities.IN CHOOSING THE subject matter of MAGNUM FORCE, the production team seemingly wanted to maintain the bad-ass persona; yet they wanted to hit it from another angle. Instead of giving us an account of another spectacular and heinous crime, this go round we have a series of killings of some of the dredge of the underworld's organized crime. Harry is assigned to the case (or rather the Crime Pattern) by his superior, Lieutenant Briggs (Hal Holbrook).HARRY'S INNER SENTIMENTS are questioned after some casual remarks about the appropriate end met by such human vermin is heard by Briggs and others. After all, he may be a fanatical protector of the public safety, but here is still civility and the law. Could it be that our Harry doesn't believe in the Rule of Law in a Nation of Law? PUTTING JUST A little complication into the game is the inclusion of a sort of sub-plot involving some 2 Wheel Motorcycle Cops. Veteran Charlie McCoy (Mitchell Ryan) is under suspicion of being a rogue responsible for killing with his service revolver. After years of stress and dealing with the criminal element, he is in state of a near nervous breakdown.THROWN INTO THE mix are some young, newly recruited and certified Motorcycle Cops, portrayed by David Soul, Tim Matheson, Kip Niven and Robert Urich. All of these, as well as veteran Charlie McCoy, are suspected of being assassins of these vicious, low-life thugs. But the big question is just who is the guy behind all of this? IT HAS JUST occurred that the dramatic device employed here, bears a strong relationship to the plotting of the old Serials. In one of those Cliff Hangers or Chapter-plays, there was often a masked or completely unknown sort of mystery villain. He was usually in reality some other well respected character in the story; having his identity exposed in the last chapter.ANOTHER NOTION THAT we have long entertained is that this sequel, MAGNUM Force, was at least in part, intended to show that Harry does, indeed, believe in our system of Criminal Justice. He even states so at one point.SO, AS BRUTALLY violent and gory as the depictions of bloody killings are here, they are intended to give Inspector Callahan a new, gentler, more fan-friendly personality.IN A RELATED story of Life imitating Art, when DIRTY HARRY and MAGNUM FORCE came out, a Smith & Wesson Model 29, .44 Magnum pistol could not be found in gun shops around the country; the real police of America were buying them.SO, YOU SEE, we all have our little fantasies! "},{"Title":"Eastwood At  Top Form In Magnum Force","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is the second to feature Clint Eastwood as maverick cop Harry Callahan after the film Dirty Harry. Hal Holbrook,Mitchell Ryan,David Soul,Robert Urich and Tim Matheson co-stars. The story has Dirty Harry trying to figure out the identity of a vigilante group that has targeted notorious lawbreakers for extermination. The screenplay was written by John Milius and Michael Cimino.Ted Post directs.When a prominent gang boss or lawbreaker is set free by the courts, a covert group of the police is soon on hand to kill them. While detective Dirty Harry Callahan does things his own way, he is dead set against wholesale murder as a solution instead of having the legal system deal with them. Discovering that all the killings have been committed by the same weapon, Callahan suspects that his partner, Charlie McCoy, is responsible. But the people responsible are far from his suspicion as it happens people that he is familiar with that almost cost him his life as Harry learns at the end.This is definitely a great sequel to the first film.Clint Eastwood was definitely in top form as Harry Callahan.He was definitely a one resourceful cop.It is also worthy to mention as sexy cop as well as many women are willing to sleep with him.LOL The story was also interesting and the violence was definitely intense as we get to see the vigilante group kill a lot of criminals as they put the law into their hands.Aside from that,the identity of the group was definitely a surprise for the viewer.The movie maybe dated in terms of pacing and special effects but it will still manage to entertain especially for both Eastwood and Dirty Harry fans. "},{"Title":"Harry, he is still the law.","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is directed by Ted Post and collectively written by Harry and Rita Fink, John Milius and Michael Cimino. It stars Clint Eastwood, Hal Holbrook, Mitchell Ryan, David Soul, Felton Perry, Tim Matheson and Robert Urich. Music is by Lalo Schifrin and cinematography by Frank Stanley.The second Dirty Harry movie finds Inspector Callahan on the trail of a vigilante group who are offing Frisco's villains.Following in the wake of Dirty Harry was never going to be easy, Don Siegel's film was very much a trail blazer of sorts, giving the movie lovers of the world a different cop than that which was accustomed. So what to do with Magnum Force then, the inevitable sequel given Dirty Harry's popularity? The makers come up with a great idea, have Harry confront a group of vigilantes who believe in his own kill crime ethics, only they take it to the extreme.So begins a trail of blood for Harry to follow which leads him right where we the viewers pretty much knew he was going to end up. Post is no Siegel, and although the action and all round testosterone feel that so marked out the Dirty Harry films is exciting and evident respectively, there's periods where the film meanders. The instances that serve to add more complexity to Harry's make-up is welcome, but aside from a jumping bean turn from Holbrook, the director can't get much out of the rest of the cast, as shame since there's a lot of up and coming talent and stalwarts in the mix.Still, even with its evident problems it's a lively and entertaining sequel, one that doesn't shy away from pushing some buttons and baiting of critics who had disdain for the first film. The ending is a disappointment, though, but the journey is ultimately meaty and macho. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great film collection","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There are 5 films about Dirty Harry and I would recommend all of them. They all have good story lines and will keep you interested from the start. Of the 5 films I would say The Dead Pool is the weakest and Magnum Force is the best. Dirty Harry is a brilliant character who is portrayed superbly by Clint Eastwood. Each film has the right amount of action in it as well as a drama and suspense side. Harry Callahan is also quite a funny character who will do things his own way. There may be consequences but he'll get it done. The supporting cast is also generally good.I watched these 5 films in the space of a week and they were great. Of course they are old films but they have stood up to the test of time. I really liked Magnum Force the best, the plot for that one was really unique and quite brutal. Without giving too much away all I would say is that I recommend you to watch all 5 Dirty Harry films. I feel that they are extremely underrated on IMDb. Dirty Harry &#x96; 8.5/10. Magnum Force &#x96; 9/10. The Enforcer 7.5/10. Sudden Impact &#x96; 8/10. The Dead Pool &#x96; 7/10. "},{"Title":"This is a bit better than the first Dirty Harry because there is more revelation inside the protagonist","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The way the movie starts is unlike any other I have seen. The end of Dirty Harry involves last kill-off by Harry Callahan's .44 Magnum pistol, and we see the actual gun with a red background in the beginning. The gun fires at you at the end of the introduction and you are shocked by the gun's power, preceded by probably one of the most famous lines by Harry in Dirty Harry--which in turn was the final line of that movie, which ended with Don't you feel lucky?...So, basically, the movie covers the San Francisco Police Department but in a very ugly way. The force's motorcycle-driving personnel, who had usually only a few years on the force, had already formed a death squad where they do this M.O.--make a traffic stop on hardened criminals with their police bikes that the courts cannot prosecute, and then kill these criminals off with usually a .357 magnum.Sometimes, the killing of these hardened criminals involves automatic weapons and explosives and not a sneaky traffic stop. Hence the pool scene where I guess a member of a SF mob--probably a mob boss--was having a very private party there. Suzanne Sommers made a cameo appearance in that scene. But here comes the unknown rookie bike cop, armed with a black bag and parts of a automatic UZI that he fits together, going up to the party to spoil it. He opens the bag, and sets off a smoke container (which in turn sets off a delay fuse for a plastic explosive inside), and throws it into the water as a distraction. Then, he fires automatic bullets into the pool party crowd, killing 10 of them but 5 more survive, but they all get dead when the plastic explosive blows up, creating a very big geyser of water as well as a loud boom. And then silence. The pool party is fatally over. The cop had done his dirty job, goes down the hill, gets on his Harley, and speeds away without getting caught because he was a cop.This scene was probably the first turning point in this movie--you are shocked with that unjustified killing by a cop who went beyond the laws of deadly force. Callahan would have liked it that way but he would not have too much guts to do that.When Harry Callahan sees the evidence in the first of these death-squad-like killings that put hardened criminal Antoine Ricca to death in a limousine at point-blank range, Lt. Briggs is very quick to target Callahan as probably the killer of Ricca, but backs off a little bit. Harry's sidekick police officer, Early, soaks up a little bit of what Harry's thoughts about the SFPD using beyond-the-law tactics.Just near the end of the movie, Callahan then faces a few of the unknown rookie bike cops in his apartment garage, who tells him the reason why they did their unjustified killings. Callahan then retorts that he is against their ways, they speed off, and then, those cops make a sneaky revenge later.They almost kill Callahan with a mail bomb in his apartment mailbox, probably as revenge for what Callahan said to them, but Callahan was smart--detecting a suspicious red flashing dot inside the box and he knew what to do...take the mailbox apart and then, he revealed a plastic explosive armed with a timer. He pulls it out carefully and stops the timer before the bomb would blow. The movie does not tell you if Harry was part of the SFPD Bomb Squad but by the way he disarms the bomb, you find out that Harry is very insidiously smart. He is not just a regular cop that you would guess he would be. "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly very Good Sequel to a Great Film","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Since Dirty Harry is one of my all-time favorite films, I wasn't exactly looking forward to any of the sequels that were produced. Fortunately, Magnum Force really succeeds as a sequel. It is not a rehash of Dirty Harry, but a different kind of take on the iconic S.F. Inspector with the big gun.A year after the Scorpio case, a new threat takes to the streets of San Francisco, in the form or rogue Motrocycle cops, who begin a killing spree of all the city's top crime lords. Inspector Harry Callahan (who somehow has kept his job after the events of Dirty Harry) is on the investigation. His superior Lt. Briggs (played by the very good Hal Holbrook) sees him as a reckless cop who is dangerous in any situation. But Briggs is not all peace and diplomacy as he may seem though. After evidence begins to indicate that a cop (or more) may be involved, he is confronted by said Magnum Force to join them to rid the city of all crime.This film, written brilliantly by Michael Cimino and John Millius, adds a new layer to Harry's character. When confronted by the cops involved, they remind him of his hate for the law and the red tape that would allow the crime lords to walk free and keep doing what they are doing. However, Harry will not resort to complete vigilantism, and will try to stick to the law, even if he hates the goddamn system, but until someone comes along with some changes that make sense he'll stick with it. The reason why I give this aspect of the film so much praise is that it fleshes out Harry's character a little bit more,showing him as a cop who will protect his city but with limits on what he will do. That is why i love the line A man's got to know his limitations. He uses it on Brigg's at the beginning as a joke (much like his Do You Feel Lucky, Punk?) But also like that quote, in the end when all villains are revealed and taken care of, it has much more significance.One thing that is is escalated in Magnum Force is the action scenes, with car chases, and even a airplane-hijacking. These scenes work very well, and keep in context with the story. The climax on the old aircraft carrier is a very good scene to, very tense, and very dark as it would be on a ship like that.This sequel wouldn't work unless you had some good acting, and the acting here is very good actually. Eastwood is still in top form as Harry, and gets more emotion and conflict during this film than he did in the last one, especially when his reputation is called into play and what he believes in is questioned. The men who play the bike-cops are very good, and they include David Soul (before he played Hutch) All all played as rookies, and very convincingly. Hal Holbrook is great as always playing a very snide and very proud Lt. Briggs.This sequel really works. it may be a bit rough around the edges, and dare I say, a little too long to play out. However, I like this movie very much. it's one of those rare sequels that really works as entertainment, but offers something that extra bit more. "},{"Title":"Slightly Less Dirty Harry.","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Police thriller Dirty Harry (1971) received a lot of criticism for the apparent right-wing values of its central character Harry Callahan, who was accused of being a prejudiced, fascistic vigilante who considered himself judge, jury and executioner. In Magnum Force, Harry's principles are made much clearer, and as a result, the character appears far less objectionable he might step outside of the law to get to the bad guys but there are lines that even he will not cross. In his own word 'A man's got to know his limitations'.Helping to make Callahan look like the model of tolerance and moderation are the four rookie motorcycle cops (two of whom are played by a pre-fame David Soul and Robert Urich) who have taken it upon themselves to clean up the city by executing criminals without trial. When Harry rumbles their game, the renegade lawmen present him with an ultimatum either you're for us or you're against us. No prizes for guessing what his reply is....Magnum Force is a solidly entertaining, action packed movie with plenty of brutal violence, some decent stunts (many performed by Eastwood himself) and a groovy Lalo Schifrin score; however, the watering down of Eastwood's character in order to placate outraged liberals (Callahan is even given a black partner and an Asian girlfriend to show how open-minded he can be) and a plot that lacks the original's gritty sense of realism does mean that the overall movie lacks the (sudden) impact of its predecessor. "},{"Title":"Sticking With The System","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Following the huge success of Dirty Harry, it would have been understandable if (for box office reasons) the inevitable sequel had turned out to be just another slice of what was so popular the first time around. Fortunately, however, Magnum Force is far better than that. Whilst it retains its predecessor's focus on vigilantism, police officers who act unlawfully and the failures of the justice system, it also recognises that the solutions needed to deal with these problems aren't always quite as simple as those suggested in the earlier movie.The public are outraged after murder charges made against notorious gangster Carmine Ricca (Richard Devon) are dropped because of legal technicalities and shortly after, as Ricca and his associates are driving home, their car is stopped by a police patrolman. After making some brief checks, the patrolman produces a gun, shoots dead all four occupants and promptly leaves. Shortly after, a large group of people at a mob boss' pool party are killed by a motorcycle cop and in a later incident, a pimp is also shot dead by a police officer.SFPD Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) and his new partner, Inspector Early Smith (Felton Perry) are tasked with investigating the killings and after finding evidence that the pimp had offered his killer a bribe, Callahan concludes that the killer must be a cop. His further investigations reveal that the killings were actually carried out by a group of rookies who're all accomplished marksmen and regard Callahan as a role model. His reaction to their activities isn't what they expect and sets up a series of further developments which lead to the movie's exciting conclusion.The Harry Callahan of Magnum Force has fine-tuned his attitudes to authority and vigilantism in ways that are best exemplified when he says I hate the goddamn system but until someone comes along with changes that make sense, I'll stick with it and also I didn't shoot at anyone who didn't start shooting at me first. Interestingly, though, his long-standing contempt for his boss, Lieutenant Briggs (Hal Holbrook) is actually given some justification in this story.Magnum Force has an excellent script with numerous quotable lines that make a strong impression and there's also enough car chases, shoot-outs and stunts to satisfy even the most demanding action fans. The entire cast turn in creditable performances and predictably, Clint Eastwood brings his tough, softly-spoken character to life with consummate ease and style. "}{"Title":"Politically correct Dirty Harry","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is the second movie in the series . It's the best rated of all sequels , yet I think this one is along with The Dead pool  the weakest one from all Harry Callahan movies .The screenplay was written by John Milius (Conan the Barbarian) and Michael Cimino (The Deer hunter) . Dirty Harry was a controversial movie for some people (Roger Ebert (RIP) called it a fascist movie ) , but commercially successful . It seems that Magnum force was supposed to calm the critics of DH by showing that he's not that bad at all. That he works in unconventional ways , but he's not above the system . So , in this one the villains are evil cops (to be honest I wouldn't mind if in REAL LIFE cops would kill criminals with cold blood and no court ) . His new partner is very likable black cop ( Felton Perry &#x96; Johnson from Robocop ) and his new girlfriend is Asian .The movie is too slowly paced . The action scenes lack excitement . The plot twists aren't exactly impressive . The whole movie lacks the passion of the first . Magnum force feels like a conventional good cop versus bad cops movie , unlike the groundbreaking Dirty Harry . Not to mention that the opening credits are terribly lame.Some of the shootouts look really nice . The dialogues are witty. The acting is good. The music by Lalo Schiffrin is quite fun. The characters are interesting.Overall , it's a nice movie that just doesn't have too much power . I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Harry....The Cop With Few Limitations.","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There were 5 Dirty Harry movies made. The best was the first (Dirty Harry), and they gradually got worse. This was the second one made (in 1973) and it is really more than a little good. The writing is way above average with good one liners and the key statement a man must know his limitations is used well by Harry. When well known criminals begin to get found with there brains blown to pieces Callaghan smells a rat. He finally gets his man...The Chief Police Inspector (Hal Holbrook) who is training a group of traffic cops that bad folks are bad and should be assassinated. There are lots of Harry addicts who think this is the best of the bunch. I prefer the first one, but i have to admit, this is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Somebody Let An Evil Genie out of The Bottle!","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie I saw in December, 1973 tells everyone what happens when you let an evil genie out of the bottle. Lt. Neil Briggs and his 4 Little Boys on Motorcycle Bikes are the ones who are sending criminals to hell and Hot Stuff is having his field day in hell making the SF Criminals his personal property. Dirty Harry in this follow up is the straight guy and those who were killed off by The Motorcycle Cops were kosher to get rid of. However when Officer Charlie McCoy was killed by the one known as Davis. The evil genie from the bottle has decided to have his way thru Lt. Briggs & his 4 Little Boys. Hal Holbrook gives a great performance as one who is sick & tired of Freddy Kruegers & Charlie Starkweather equals ruling SF. Some were shocked when Sidney the pimp did the drain cleaner act on his agent played by Margaret Avery & her name is used for The Drain Cleaner act & at least Chuck Starkweather did not do that to his victims. The Evil Genie did his bidding & when Charlie McCoy was killed, Dirty Harry decided to put the evil genie back into the bottle & almost got The Birmingham Sunday treatment when a bomb was in the mailbox. Officer Sweet was used as an offering to The Evil Genie & Harry's partner got the September 15th treatment when he got a bomb in his mailbox. Lt. Briggs was behind the killing squad & the three remaining motorcycle cops did their best to take out Dirty Harry, however the screen writers made sure Harry came out on top & Lt. Briggs ended up done like The 4 Little Girls of Birmingham what was good enough for Denise McNair is good enough for Lt. Neil Briggs. When Dirty Harry did his duty, The Evil Genie was placed back in the bottle & the bottle was sealed inside of a building hoping to keep it away from other people who wanted The Evil Genie to do their bidding. Lt. Briggs & His Motorcycle Cops are in hell & property of Hot Stuff, The Little Devil from The Harvey Comics. Now because of current criminals, there will be a person who will carry out the deeds of Lt. Briggs, but carry a samurai sword & behead criminals with his sword & known as Tojo Brown a person who is African-American & Japanese & has Tojo's eyes & glasses & buck teeth & carries a divine samurai sword. America is not ready for Samurai Justice & learn the lessons from Magnum Force (It's okay to kill off dishonorable criminals, but when you kill off fellow police officers whatever he one like Charlie McCoy or not, you have let an evil genie out of the bottle & the evil genie will not go back to his bottle, period!) That's was the lesson in the follow up of Dirty Harry. Clint earned his money in The Dirty Harry Series. From Marcus Brainard. "},{"Title":"a Movie's got to know its limitations","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was the sequel to Dirty Harry, where Harry is still the cop with an attitude who doesn't play by the rules. It's pretty much a cliché now, but Clint got there first.There was an attempt I think to liberalize Dirty Harry. They gave him a black partner and an Asian girlfriend, neither of whom could act.So here's the plot. Someone is killing all of San Francisco's bad guys. Harry suspects that it might be a fellow cop as they were able to get fairly close to their targets without a problem. He uncovers a Death Squad within the SFPD, run by Hal Holbrook, of all people.Lots of good actors in this cast- David Soul, Robert Urich, Tim Matheson - who would go on to better things.Oh, can we talk about the Albert Popwell. Al appeared in all four Harry movies, playing different characters. In the original, he was one of the bank robbers who had the good sense to not try to figure out how many bullets Harry shot. In this one, he plays a pimp who kills one of his girls with drain cleaner, and is killed himself by the Death Squad.Al Popwell. He lived. He died. He lived again. He died again. And seriously, Clint, do you think we didn't all notice it was the same guy? This is your quintessential 1970's cop movie. Enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"solid sequel","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This follow up to Dirty Harry certainly has its flaws and isn't quite up to snuff with the original, but still is very entertaining with a solid plot line with decent actors, namely David Soul, Robert Urich, and Hal Holbrook to name a few. Clint is just as great and has as many funny one-liners as before, if not a few more. In Magnum Force, Harry must deal with someone(s)killing notable villains who seemingly get away with murder. It appears they're not as safe as they might think as rogue cops are eliminating those who get away with murder, and Harry has his suspicions, yet keeps getting rebuffed by Briggs, played convincingly by Hal Holbrook. You know the rest of the story from here, but it is a rather fun and wild ride with several memorable moments to make this one of the better sequels around. "},{"Title":"You still feel lucky?","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First sequel to the stunning original, this is a leaner, meaner animal, though more polished and, as a result, lacking the teeth of the progenitor.'Dirty' Harry Callahan is running foul of his Super Intendent, his frequent misdemeanours and allegations of heavy handed policing following him around like a bad stink, a reputation he does little to shake off. When Harry chances upon a bunch of rookies practising at the firing lane in the early hours, he is duly impressed and seems to aspire to be more like them.Simultaneously, the major players in San Francisco's criminal underworld are being slain one by one and, whilst the violence of the crimes is abhorred, the choice of victims is approved of by many.Soon after, Harry is approached by the group of rookies, who ask him to join them in their bid to 'clean up' the city and, when he refuses, a showdown is sure to follow soon enough.It's a good film, steeped in atmosphere and tension, with some truly glorious shots of San Francisco circa 1973, though it doesn't captivate in quite the way the original managed. Still, recommended all the same. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best in the series","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is probably my favourite Dirty Harry movie, although it is very hard to choose between the three films made in the 70s. Harry is back, complete with that enormous gun and a ready selection of one-liners. A series of high-profile vigilante killings target famous criminals Harry has to track down the perpetrators, but becomes increasingly suspicious of a group of raw young recruits, led by David Soul. By film's end, Harry is threatened with death unless he joins the shadowy organisation, but naturally he decides to sort things out with his Magnum 44, rather than be blackmailed! The highlight of the film is its end, a genuinely exciting conclusion. Harry is chased by bad cops on motorbikes, reminiscent of a pack of wolves chasing the prey. A great moment in Clint's career. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry on the other side of the fence!","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The original Dirty Harry struck a sensitive nerve in the American audience the way that Death Wish did. When Harry shot the sniper Scorpio in the leg and was torturing him to make him reveal where the girl was and he was saying I have rights I want a lawyer. I can imagine audiences literally stood up in their seats shouting him down! Lets face it, Harry Callahan's not a very nice guy, why is he so popular and spawned five films? Its because in him we see ourselves and our frustrations with a legal systems that frees the guilty and damns the innocent. He is our avenging knight so to speak. Ted Post, who directed Eastwood in Hang 'em High, is no Don Siegel, but he does a fine job in the director's chair. There were two unusually distinguished people writing the screenplay for Magnum Force, Mike Cimino and John Milius (both would win Academy Awards for The Deer Hunter and Apocolypse Now). Cimino would later write and direct another excellent Wastwood film called Thunderbolt And Lightfoot. Then unfortunately he directed Heaven's Gate and it basically ended his career. People can accuse the Dirty Harry films of being a lot of things, but never boring. From the opening murder of the Ricca gang, to Harry's foiling of the hijacking, to the armed robbery scene it is action action all the way! I wanted to note that many movie critics have said that the car chase in Bullit was the finest ever done, SPOILER ALERT the final chase here and the scenes aboard the aircraft carrier when Harry and the vigilante cops have the final showdown is also awesome! Hal Holbrook is a wonderful actor, wasn't he a great Mark Twain, I think SPOILER ALERT that this is the only film that I have ever seen him in where he plays a bad guy and he does a great job. The scene in the car where he pulls a gun on Harry and reveals himself as the leader of the viglante organization is expertly written. He tells Harry they believe in evil for evil and retribution. Harry tells him he judged him wrong and that they are only murderers. Briggs says What the hell do you know about the law your a great cop Harry you had a chance to join the team but you would rather stick with the system. Harry says Briggs I hate the damn system but until someone comes along with some changes that makes sense I'll stick with it! The only scene in the film that really troubled me is the one where that pimp murdered the hooker by pouring Drano down her throat. For you trivia lovers, Margaret Avery who played the hooker, was in 1985 nominated for an Oscar for The Color Purple and Albert Popwell who played the pimp was in the first four Dirty Harry films. He was the bank robber in the original Dirty Harry, Big Ed Mustafa in The Enforcer and Harry's friend in Sudden Impact, just some useless trivia. This film also features early appearances by Kip Niven, Robert Urich, David Soul and even Suzanne Sommers.  "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry Takes On Vigilantes","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Clint Eastwood returned to the role of Inspector Harry Callahan in 1973, and perhaps stung by claims the original Dirty Harry was fascist, Eastwood and company added a different angle to Harry Callahan's encounters with varied perps in the streets and bowels of San Francisco.Labor racketeer Carmine Ricca beats an indictment for murder due to a technicality, and a traffic policeman watches a news report on the incident before heading out to work.  Later, a traffic cop pulls over Ricca and asks to see his license and registration - and while Ricca's driver gets the required paperwork, the traffic cop unholsters his .357 and blasts the occupants of the car.It's the kind of open-air murder that would be investigated by Harry Callahan and his new partner, Earlington Early Smith, except that Callahan's new CO, Lieutenant Neil Briggs, had had Harry and Early transferred to Stakeout, and Briggs wants nothing to do with Harry's brand of police work - even after an airport hijacking is foiled by Callahan.Harry then renews acquaintances with his friend Charlie McCoy, whose life has deteriorated following a divorce, and he also meets four rookie traffic cops who practice marksmanship incessently and who as Early explains stick together like flypaper. The first third of the film pulls an interesting balancing act - when the vigilante cop massacres a mobster's pool party, a few minutes later Harry and Early get involved in a liquor store holdup that leaves three perps dead.  Two acts of violence by the vigilante are balanced by two actions by Harry and Early stopping criminals.  It is as if the film seeks to reassure the audience that the SFPD is by no means helpless at stopping violent crime even as the vigilante works his havoc.Eventually, after the death of a pimp who killed one of his girls (one of the more genuinely gruesome scenes of the Harry series), Harry and Early are transferred back to homicide to help in the investigation, and as the two officers tail shipping racketeer Frank Palancio Harry begins to doubt the department's theory that Palancio and fellow mobsters masquerading as police officers - doubts aggravated when a raid on Palancio's dockside offices triggers a firefight that leaves several people dead.The film's deliberate emphasis on the dark side of vigilantism is quite effective and brings to the fore Harry's real motive as a cop - he may have to break societal rules to stop criminals society lets free, but he knows that The System is still what seperates civilization from barbarism.   "},{"Title":"A cop of his time - and sometimes you wish that time was now as well...WARNING SOME SPOILERS.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best film series in my view is the DIRTY HARRY series and indeed in the sequel to the 1971 classic, MAGNUM FORCE, there was a truly no-nonsense approach as to what was being presented on screen in terms of morals or violence. Post 9/11, the idea of an iconoclastic cop breaking the rules to take out those people out to undermine the cultural system of a country is even more profound and I can strongly doubt that Harry would not have tolerated Al-Qaeda doing what they succeeded in doing on that sad day in history. A good old '44 would have done the business well. Indeed, the third film, in which Harry takes on terrorists, touches on this subject effectively, but MAGNUM FORCE is a pulsating thriller that still has depth today.It is two years since the events of DIRTY HARRY and Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is on a stake-out with new partner Early Smith (Felton Perry), when he comes by a shooting of local mobsters at close range on a roadside. Lt. Briggs (Hal Holbrook) is none too pleased with his presence there and prides himself on the fact that he has never used his gun out of it's holster, to which Harry utters the immortal line 'You're a good man, Briggs. A good man must always know his limitations' Soon though, a terrorist take over of a plane at the airport sees Harry in action successfully.One evening, Harry encounters an old friend on the ragged edge at the cop shooting range, before practicing. It is at the range that he encounters three cops (David Soul, pre-STARSKY, the late Robert Urich, pre-VEGAS and Tim Matheson, pre-ANIMAL HOUSE) who are good shots and is so impressed with their shooting ability that he asks them to consider joining him in homicide.....MAGNUM FORCE capitalised on the success of the original one and as directed by Ted Post, who did a first-rate job on the fourth PLANET OF THE APES film, CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES, it is still enjoyably thrilling today. "}{"Title":"Solid sequel","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the better sequel's out there.  Its got plenty of action, a good plot, and we see side's of Detective Harry Callahan that we did not see in the first film.  There were a few particular action scenes that I thought were solid.  The gun fight at Frank Palancio's hideout was very good, and the chase finale was solid and is one of the better car chases out there. Also, I thought the plot was well written. I liked the whole idea of vigilante cops taking on Dirty Harry, even though hes been considered a vigilante at times.  Anyway, a solid sequel that will entertain action fans as well as fans of the first film.  4/5 "},{"Title":"DIRTY HARRY RETURNS WITH HIS .44 MAGNUM!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** A brutally violent action thriller, which served as the sequel to the 1971 classic DIRTY HARRY. Clint Eastwood returns as Inspector Harry Callahan, SFPD's most tenacious cop. He works for another dept. now and seems to have calmed down a lot since the Scorpio saga in the previous movie. However, he still uses his typical no-nonsense approach when dealing with dangerous criminals (there is quite a funny scene when he tackles a pair of hijackers while posing as an air pilot and in one sequence, he kills two store robbers). But he is in for a terrifying shock when he discovers that the city's biggest crooks who are 'above the law' are being slaughtered by a vicious gang of rookie motorcycle cops ( comprising of future TV stars David Soul, Robert Urich and Tim Matheson). Worse to come, Harry finds out that his ill-tempered, stuck up boss Lt. Briggs is their leader. This leads to a dramatic conclusion where Harry has to protect the 'system' and defend himself from these vigilante killers. MAGNUM FORCE in a lot of ways is not as good as DIRTY HARRY. It is not as suspenseful and doesn't quite have the same narrative structure. How would it have been if Don Siegel directed this sequel? Nevertheless, it has some awesome action, the best bit being the shoot-out at the gangsters' den when Harry blows a couple of hoods away then jumps onto the bonnet of a gangleader's moving car. As a matter of fact, I saw that scene in a TV ad for the movie back in '88 and so I asked my brother if he could record MAGNUM FORCE for me ( I liked Clint because of his spaghetti westerns). But as I was only 9 years old, my bro refused, saying it was an adult movie. It certainly is, featuring the graphic slayings of the mobsters by the bike cops and the nasty deaths of some young women, notably hookers. As ever, though, Clint is at his hardman best, also hinting at a more sympathetic side to Harry and Hal Holbrook is okay as the hypocritical, out of his depth Lt. Briggs. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry kicks ass again","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force isn`t quite as good as it predecessor but still delivers some quite entertaining moments.The hero still is HarryDirty HarryCallahan and once again he have to get rid of loads of bad guys,but there is a but,the main baddies is just like himself,vigilantes that takes the law in their own hands and wasting bad guys in every possible way and that is not the worst, they are also cops.Dirty Harry still chase`em but he really get`s going when they kill own of their own,a cop who revealed their identity.Magnum Force is a entertaining movie with a hectic ending sequense which even includes a real 70`s car chase,it has more violence and gore than it`s predecessor,but that doesn`t meen it`s better.The story is more sophisticated than the first Dirty Harry but Dirty Harry himself isn`t quite as cool as in the first movie. I rate this movie 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Best of All Dirty Harry Movies","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Contrary to popular belief this is the best of the entire Dirty Harry series. Detective Callahan is more human, thus easier to identify with, thus more able to give the viewer a tangible sense of efficacy which is the reason these movies are so popular. One watches Dirty Harry in order to feel like goals can be accomplished despite the, at times, overwhelming roadblocks that occur in life. These movies provide the profound satisfaction of the bad guy getting what he deserves and the good guy getting the glory. The more human the hero the more deeply these emotions are felt by the audience. This movie does this very effectively. (Hmmmm...re-reading this I realized that if my comments are correct than this should be the most popular Dirty Harry movie, but it's not---as I freely admit in my first sentence. This is a problem. Well then, take my comments as what I alone expect from these movies. From now on I'll be a little more prepared when writing a review.) "},{"Title":"Never gets going!","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force never really gets going, so the plot about a vigilante group of cops in the SF police force falls flat.  Good overall performances help the movie, but the movie lacks a villain at least equal to unappeal as the first movie.  Funny subplots with Harry acting as an overseas pilot to take care of a couple of airplane hijackers is amusing.  Other than that, the film is very average.  A rating of 6 out of 10 was given.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a solid action movie that displays the talents of Clint Eastwood. Although not as good as the original Dirty Harry movie, this is still an enjoyable film to watch.Harry is still tough and humorous.  One of the best parts in the movie, is during the police shooting competition when Harry shoots the cardboard policeman.  Definite symbolism if I've ever seen it.Good movie.  I enjoyed watching it.  7/10  "},{"Title":"Goes one up from the original but fizzles out in the climax.","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" While the previous edition is also mainstream, this edition is more audience friendly bordering on the action-comedy genre (just shades of contained comedy). The thriller element is more developed and Harry is a known character where the screenplay doesn't need to waste time introducing him again. But right when this one was going to overshadow the original, it fizzles out with its weak climax.While Harry (Clint Eastwood) still goes by his reputation of an unconventional trigger happy cop, a new form of 'terror' engulfs the city where criminals are being put down by a vigilante. Harry is being suppressed by his Lieutenant Briggs (Hal Holbrook) and he is assigned a new partner Early Smith (Felton Perry). When he watches a bunch of talented rookies in the shooting range, it gives him an idea.This is way more suspenseful while the antagonist is mysterious and powerful. Eastwood goes one up from his original performance by bringing in a subtle comic element to his character but at times oversteps on the space reserved for Chuck Norris, take the hijack drama for example. The screenplay is stuffed with twists and turns which makes it breezy and the rest of the characters too put in an apt performance except for Hal Holbrook who resorts to a caricature. Though the climax is quite revealing in the writing perspective, the action sequences and the actual implementation in disclosing the plot is mediocre. There is a small tabla melody introduced for the aforementioned comic subtlety that gels well with the overall background score. A lot more characters are introduced compared to the first edition, his romantic interest comes and leaves without a head and a tail.Goes one up from the original but fizzles out in the climax. "},{"Title":"The rarest of things, a superior sequel","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Good as 'Dirty Harry' is I think 'Magnum Force' is actually superior. 'Dirty Harry' is famous for 'every frame votes Nixon', that it's a backlash against the sixties counter-culture (personified by Charlie Manson style villain Scorpio, the stereotypical hippie with his long hair and peace symbol belt buckle) which by the early 1970s had begun to degenerate into violence and anarchy. Thus 'Dirty Harry' tapped into a very real nerve amongst the 'moral majority' who felt the reforms of the justice system had gone too far. I think 'Magnum Force' is a more interesting film because it asks you 'Where is the the line?'. Ultimately it is a testament to Harry's character that he refuses to join the vigilantes when they make the offer, there's a secret liberal lurking beneath someone many had thought was purely a reactionary thug. As he says himself 'I'm afraid you've misjudged me (talking to the critics?). You get the feeling that Harry perhaps would have joined them if they'd been a little more careful not to hurt the innocent, notably McCoy and the various hookers. A shame they ditched the scenes where we see Davis save a mugging victim or the other cops writing articles despairing recent miscarriages of justice, it would have given more credibility to their viewpoint, they genuinely think what they're doing is right rather than just being a bunch of extreme rightwing nutjobs. You wonder if Briggs' and Davis' grief over McCoy is for real and conclude that it probably is.Interestingly if you watch the last Dirty Harry film 'The Dead Pool' Harry not only shoots an unarmed Mafioso who's running away but also kills a man whom he know has an empty gun. And indeed protects a murderous vigilante in 'Sudden Impact'. Maybe the years have made him come around to the vigilantes way of thinking? So many good things in this film. The music is excellent, I'm always amazed that someone hasn't re-edited it as a dance track. Clint Eastwood is great as ever as Harry, revealing a little more of his background and character (we learn that Harry is an ex-marine and where he's from in San Francisco). There's a noble weariness/sadness to Harry, none of his films ever end in triumph. In 'Dirty Harry' he throws his badge away at the end in despair at the system but we see police cars speeding to the scene and we know that ultimately he is vindicated for his actions, the police, his family, take him back. At the end of this film Harry is truly alone, he can't even trust his fellow officers any more.Early Smith is my favourite Dirty Harry partner (perhaps a deliberate move to counter some of the negative portrayal of Afro-Americans in both this and the previous film?) Some great humour amongst all the action and the action is terrific, especially the car/bike chase and the dockside shootout, interestingly in this film Harry doesn't kill any of the main villains by shooting them. In particular his killing of Astrachan on the carrier using karate blows to the neck is brutal and bloody, very realistic and a long way from the stylised martial arts of Bruce Lee popular at the time. The plot is good and dialogue well written, people act logically and believably at all times. I love the scene after the dockside shootout where Sweet has been killed and the Police Chief is berating a wounded Harry for the carnage. The doctor treating Harry smartmouths him back only for the Chief to tell him Doc I don't need any of your wisecracks, a police officer is DEAD! And both Harry and the doctor shut the hell up, realising that he's right and that he genuinely cares for his men. What makes it special though is the depiction of the vigilantes themselves. They seem so cool, handsome,(how AMAZINGLY good-looking is David Soul in 1973? He's like an angel!) clean cut and heroic but are actually disgruntled Vietnam Special Forces veterans who declare 'All our heroes are dead', voicing the cynicism inherent in their generation (the authoritarian flip side of the counter-culture villains in 'Dirty Harry' and 'The Enforcer'?). Their appearance is iconic, sexy and stylish but verging on the fascist. According to John Milius before this movie no one on the force wanted to be a motorcycle cop. Afterwards everyone wanted to be (and of course the porn industry took the outfit to heart, both male and female versions). It's hardly surprising that Robert Urich and David Soul would later find fame and fortune essentially playing heroic versions of their 'Magnum Force' characters, Detective Ken Hutchinson notably also using a Colt Python .357 Magnum revolver.If I were to have one criticism of the film it would be it's voyeurism and misogyny. We get nubile naked teenage girls to titillate the audience then they are brutally blown away to satisfy a puritan urge to see them punished for their sexiness in traditional slasher movie style. I can just never watch the horrible scene where the pimp kills his hooker in the taxi. Also a bit homophobic with the Guzman penthouse scene and Harry and Early's use of the word 'queer' (although of it's time). As some have pointed out you cannot effectively silence a .357 Magnum revolver although using a suppressor will reduce the sound of its' muzzle blast a great deal. The dummy that falls from Guzman's penthouse is laughably bad although the stunt where Harry kills Grimes by ramming his bike with his car is excellent. But these are small points. All told it's a wonderful film and if you liked it I would also recommend 'Counterforce' which has a similar storyline but ups the ante by having a vigilante SWAT team. "},{"Title":"A bit overlong but decent enough follow up to Dirty Harry","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" All things considered, Magnum Force is a pretty decent follow up to Dirty Harry. Not that it's in the same league as that film of course but as sequels go it's not bad. It sort of looks to me that it was some kind of response to the accusations that the original film attracted of being a fascistic police brutality manifesto. In this one we have some renegade policemen handing out vigilante justice to an assortment of low-life's that the justice system hasn't been adequately dealing with. It can surely be no coincidence on the film-makers part that in this instance Harry Callaghan is made to look relatively libertarian alongside these cops. Although this plot-line is in some ways a weakness, as in the original flick the villain was an irredeemable scumbag, where here we have cops who take out characters such as a pimp who brutally murders one of his prostitutes in the back of a cab. The problem is that I think most of us are cheering the comeuppance of lowlifes such as this, so the villains of this movie aren't entirely unsympathetic which dilutes the dynamics a bit.If it could be said that Harry is softened a bit here, pretty much everything else is ramped up. There's more violence, nudity, swearing and sleaze. But never has the truism less can be more been more appropriate than here, as the overall effect is much less effective. The direction is more sluggish and the movie is definitely too long. It could easily have been a good 20 minutes shorter, and the last third is a bit lacking overall. However, as I mentioned earlier it's really not too bad either. There is plenty of violent action to keep things interesting. And the idea of a succession of sleazy characters getting knocked off is not too bad an idea.So, some reservations for sure but overall pretty good fun. "},{"Title":"Magnum Force","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A man's got to know his limitations. Harry Callahan believes that the ones responsible for a rash of homicides inflicted on the criminal element(mostly massacres with collateral damage, such as junkies and whores, not to mention gangsters' goons)who escape the prosecution of the courts are traffic cops. How to prove this will be difficult, particularly when these motorcycle cops soon threaten his own life.Probably more interesting for the fresh faces of future television stars like the super cool David Soul and Robert Urich(and a really young Tim Matheson)than the rather simple plot which questions the law system and how the worst of criminals are able to remain out of prison on technicalities and lack of evidence. Ted Post is more than capable(he directed Eastwood in the fine western, HANG 'EM HIGH)to take over the directorial reigns from Siegel and gets a chance to stage a nifty chase scene where Eastwood must evade a motorcycle cop on his tail through the outskirts of San Francisco. There's a dandy of a shootout between tipped-off gangsters who operate a drug operation on a pier where Eastwood amazingly hangs on the hood of a speeding car. Hal Holbrook is well cast as Eastwood's nemesis, Lt. Briggs, his superior, proud that he has never removed his gun from his holster. There's a great moment in the movie, rather subtle, which has a certain someone committing a Freudian slip(they're guilty until...)which could implicate him to the viewer(if they catch it, that is) as the ringleader of the motorcycle cop gang. There's a lot of bloodshed in this particular film, as Post and company stage several violent set pieces where cops gun down criminals in cold blood. One very disturbing scene features Dirty Harry regular Albert Popwell as a pimp who pours drain cleaner down a struggling prostitutes throat after she attempts to hide money from him, in the back of a taxi cab. Mitch Ryan has a small part as a disgruntled police officer pal of Harry's who is having a hard time accepting that it seems the scum on the streets get a fairer shake than cops..he's blatantly put out there as a possible suspect which most viewers will see right through. This film has the rare occasion where Harry loses at something, a shooting competition where cops compete on an obstacle course, Soul defeating him. Holbrook and Eastwood's tension makes for some great drama, the way they butt heads, and Soul really lands a great part as the leader of the traffic cops, probably considered quite the star vehicle to excel his career..behind Eastwood and Holbrook, of course. The film points out how Callahan is different than the vigilantes of the film meting out their own brand of justice by acknowledging his indifference, but loyalty, to the laws he must adhere to..Callahan must protect and serve, while also defending himself against anyone who discharges their weapon in his direction, threatening his life. That said, Callahan doesn't condone pulling people over(no matter how evil and unlawful)and shooting them on the spot, and this separates him from those who do in MAGNUM FORCE. "}{"Title":"Harry Meets His Evil Dark Side !","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If the authority was condemned one way or another in (Dirty Harry - 1973) through the helpless laws, here, in the sequel, it became condemned literally. And then it would be in all of the following movies, especially after the Watergate scandal. To the extent that in the movies of suspense nowadays, guessing that the chief of police is the one who did it; is mostly right ! It overstepped the phase of good satires to the phase of ridiculous potboilers.(Harry) of all the people is the one who must appreciate the efforts of the killers in here. Or understand well their motives, statement, and nobility more than others. And why not ? Since he is dirty Harry himself, the cop who's against the dirtiness of a city and its stupid deficient laws. I liked when he was at one moment in question (Maybe Harry did it ? said by his black partner). The enemy this time was the dark sides of Harry, yet in its extremist. He was facing his worst nightmare of himself; however it eventually proved that he wasn't THAT dirty. Harry managed to meet his loose dark side in that idealistic gang of killers, to beat it cleverly, so he could assure that he was pure, rational, however as violent as all the madness around him whether has the word evil or good on its intentions.The perusal of the new character continues, but with some repetition. Look at the scene of the airport, it began with Harry eating his lunch in a hurry, and just while he was chewing it, he found himself in the middle of stopping a running crime. It's the same situation from the first one; which &#x96; however &#x96; took place in a street. Maybe because the people liked it, because it presents the character for the ones whom didn't see it before, or because it assures how crime became the daily meal of character like Harry. In part 4 (Sudden Impact) they would put him in the same situation again, yet in a diner while he was getting his coffee. And in part 5 (The Dead Pool) he pretends like he's having his lunch in a Japanese restaurant to do the same. Speaking about repetition but in a good way; remember how every time Harry has a partner from the minorities to confirm that he's NOT hating everybody, so you see him with a Mexican (Part 1), a black man (Part 2), a woman (Part 3); considering the way of appreciating women's rights or working at the time, they were minority ! And a Japanese (Part 5), regarding that part 4 was an adventure for Harry out of the city as a lone ranger. Another lovely repetition  (Albert Popwell) as a different character in the first 4 movies. I think they considered him a lucky charm since Do you feel lucky you punk ? fame, where he was the punk !Everyone knows (Eastwood) as a director must easily notice how a lot of scenes were having him in front of the camera and in its back too. I could swear that the scene of his first meeting with the 4 young perfect shooters was part of his uncredited directorial job. There are small yet nice touches like Harry's ghost of a smile while the 4 young cops were leaving the shooting's room. Harry there was consoling himself; whether because they were nearly half of his age and quite like his cleverness, or had each others and he just came in that late time to be alone.. As always. I think they put the love scene to approve how Harry is a human being, and that he needs to be loved. Or to make what they didn't in the first one !(Eastwood) carries on establishing himself greatly as a cold-blooded, crudely stubborn, good man with his own sense of humor. It's the Eastwood Force's special foundation for heroism Trade Mark. However, I deemed casting (Hal Holbrook) as (Lt. Briggs) as the best thing in the movie. He could convince you that he was another executive, more than police officer; being nagging, rules' freak, and sadistically enjoying hindering the hero. By his shortness, thin figure, and acrid talking; (Holbrook) looked like a complete dictator, with all the insanity of the word.The dialogue and the chain of events were average. The action wasn't as ambitious as the original (Here, Eastwood was on the top of a hurling car, in DH it was a hurling bus !). It's all trying to catch the flavor of the original, yet without its surprise's impression, or that gloomy sense where there were  a humming chorus in the back of the music; like it's a community in pain, desperately screeching in the need of help, plus sharper editing, less dialogue, more sad and believable satirical ending which was less showy too.So, it became a franchise already, where commercial would exceed satirical, to live some kind of platitude afterwards, and dive the new hero into violent blockbusters. It proves that being serious in a major studio's movie is something that hard indeed. Compare the original to most of the next Dirty Harries, likes, wannabes, till now, to thoroughly understand how man/movie maker in Hollywood got to know well his limitations ! "},{"Title":"Slightly Cleaner Harry&#133;","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry was a revolutionary early 70's action movie that instantly caught the attention of cinema-loving (and hating) audiences because of its no-nonsense attitude, excessive depiction of violence and thoroughly nihilistic atmosphere. Magnum Force, the first sequel in the fairly long-running series and released barely two years after the original, is still an excessively violent and nihilistic toned action movie, but unfortunately it hasn't got the same shocking and adrenalin-rushing impact as Dirty Harry. Partially this is normal, since the surprise element has vanished, but especially the subject matter here is far less disturbing (also far more fictional) and even the character of Harry Callahan seems to have softened a little already. Magnum Force still remains a pretty terrific and highly exciting cop thriller, of course. I never doubted that for a single moment, especially not since the screenplay was penned down by no less than John Millius (Big Wednesday, Conan the Barbarian) and Michael Cimino (The Deer Hunter). The problem &#150; if you can even call it that &#150; here is that Magnum Force is only a prototypic action vehicle, whereas Dirty Harry also served as a contemporary 70's statement to assure the times were rough and flower-power influences were dead, buried and gone forever. Harry apparently picked up his badge again, after throwing it away at the end of the original, since he's still upsetting his superiors by enforcing the law with unorthodox methods. He's called back to the homicide department when the city of San Francisco seems plagued by a series of killings of prominent gangsters, like drug barons, mafia couriers, pimps and professional hit men. Shortly after they narrowly escaped justice and got acquitted, the criminals' are found barbarically murdered&#133; Executed, even. Harry initially suspects one of his closest colleagues struggling with depression, but there are other possibilities as well, like a young and straight-shooting posse of traffic cops. Magnum Force is exciting, but not exactly suspenseful since director Ted Post never really intends to make the killer's identity a big mystery. The vigilante-massacres are extremely sadistic to behold and especially the irrelevant interludes (Harry single-handedly preventing the hijacking of a plane, Harry brutally sorting out a supermarket heist&#133;) are super amusing. Harry Callahan may not be as dirty as he was in the first film, but Clint Eastwood nevertheless still portrays him as the ultimately cool tough cop. Eastwood also receives support from Hal Holbrook as the grumpy superior and David Soul &#150; who'd later play Hutch in the legendary series Starsky and Hutch &#150; as the younger cop. The soundtrack is excellent and the photography and editing are far more sophisticated as in the first film. There's even a replacement, albeit less memorable, quote for Do you feel lucky, punk?; namely A man's got to know his limitations. "},{"Title":"I have 2 questions to ask.","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood is my favorite movie star of all-time and I have seen 43 of the 44 films he has starred in going back to A Fistful of Dollars.I have 2 questions to ask about this fine film 1. Why didn't Dirty Harry take the gun off of the 2nd renegade policemen after Harry beat him to death? He then would have been able to better defend himself against renegade cop #3. (Did I miss something?) 2. When Dirty Harry activated the small bomb and tossed it into his police chief's car how did he know that the police chief would not order Harry under threat of death to get into his car. (Then both of them would have been blown up)? "},{"Title":"My Introduction to Clint Eastwood","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Many of you are probably saying Where were you when RAWHIDE was on TV? Well, in all honesty, I wasn't a big fan of westerns when I was a kid. I have become a fan of westerns in recent years, but I wasn't as a young boy. That said, this was the first Clint Eastwood movie I ever saw, and I became an instant fan. During the seventies when the law seemed more and more to side with heinous criminals, this was welcome and refreshing. I loved Harry's tough, no nonsense approach to justice and his wisecracks had me rolling in the floor. I saw this movie in college two or three years after it came out and I sat through it three times. I also made a point to see a Clint Eastwood movie every time one came out because he always played these hard-nosed characters. I thought to myself when I saw this movie, Finally, a tough cop who kicks ass and takes names. Too bad Clint is getting too old to play these kinds of rolls now.I now have all the Dirty Harry movies on video or DVD. I enjoy them all. Well...maybe THE DEAD POOL is a little bit lame, but I still enjoy watching Clint kick ass in that one. Anyway, I give this 8 out of 10. GIVE 'EM HELL, HARRY. "},{"Title":"continuity comment is inaccurate","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" the following comment is inaccurate When Callahan jumps onto the hood of Palancio's car after the police raid, he is facing the rear of the car, grabbing the hood near the windshield. A few seconds later, he is seen sprawled across the hood, facing the front of the car, and then seconds later he is back in his original position. Actually Harry jumps on the hood of the car facing the left side of the front hood. He is tossed back and forth looking both forward and back at the driver, but his position never really changes. This continuity comment is inaccurate and obviously made by someone who has never been on the set behind the camera and setting up shots. I made sure my observation was accurate. Whoever made this statement needs to revise their comments, no matter how old they are. "},{"Title":"I hate the damn system, but until someone comes along with changes that make sense, I'll stick with it.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I think this sentence, said at a pivotal point in Magnum Force, the second Dirty Harry picture, is one that should get more attention. It says something very basic about Inspector Harry Callahan, and in a sense about the society he's fighting/serving. He has no qualms about putting a bullet right between the eyes of anyone with a pistol meaning business (in this case there are a couple of juicy examples, like early on with a hijacked airplane). But there is a line that he just can't, and won't cross. This is something that I think has some reflection in our world from then and today; many of us get (usually rightfully so) indignation about the criminals of the world who seem to get away with abhorrent, or just plain wrong, crimes. Dirty Harry (Clint Eastwood, still one of his great characters) has become a kind of masculine, hard-as-nails (and as Pauline Kael calls pretty much 'fascist) hero for the period, because he tries to get above the law, while still within its perturbing limits. The other line a man's got to know his limitations, is also potent, though more of a throwaway to the 'do I feel lucky' speech from the first one.It's themes like these, from a script by John Milius and Michael Cimino, that give the audience something to sort of think about even as the more standard elements of the story run through. This time Harry has to contend with mysterious lot of killings in San Francisco; a corruptible politician and a pimp being two such targets. He also has things on the side with his personal life, but soon the case is taking over for him. There is also the contemptible, and shady, Lieutentant (Hal Holbrook, with a couple of subtleties that work better than expected through the hard-faced scenes), who couldn't care less about Callahan. Amid this there's at least a couple of car chases, shoot-outs, the plane hijacking mentioned before (a highlight), and a supermarket robbery. For those who are gun nuts, some of these scenes will likely be eye-candy.However, compared to the first film and even some of the subsequent sequels, the direction is hit or miss; some shots are creative, but its mostly pretty straightforward (although Eastwood was reported as uncredited as director, it just doesn't pack the wallop Siegel's direction had). And the scenes involving Harry's personal life (i.e. women) aren't very well developed; they're just sort of left hanging as the film focuses on the main plot, even if they're good scenes. Still, through all of this, the ideas working through the story and the script help push it forward to a rewarding and exciting climax. There is a statement being made through all the action and hard talk. And there's that trademark jazz score too. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*     This second sequel to the Dirty Harry films is some what too brutal. When I first saw this movie, I hated it because there's was a lot of violence that had to do with people that weren't that dangerous or at least not yet, such as the pool shooting, the murder of the prostitute and the drug dealer and that woman being shot off the balcony of the apartment just was too much. Eastwood plays his character well and Hal Holbrook is good as the turncoat Police Boss. Eastwood goes up against a gang of rough tough bad guys who try to wipe out the major criminals in San Francisco. When I saw this movie the second time, I liked it better but I still think it's too violent. Lalo Schifrin's 70's music score is an uplifter of this film and possibliy the greatest thing about it.   "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry's back","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's second outing as Dirty Harry sees the vigilante cop back on the force and tracking down some rookie cops who are murdering crooks. Eastwood brings his usual gruff star quality to the role and keeps the Film going. "},{"Title":"Great Dirty Harry movie!","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force is one of the roughest and action packed of the Dirty Harry series! Clint Eastwood was good as always and Hal Holbrock was good. I don't want to spoil it for but if you have not seen the movie expect to see some very surprising scenes! Recommended! "},{"Title":"The 3rd best of the Dirty Harry series","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Watchable film with plenty of action and a good plot about renegade cops who take the law into their own hands when they become frustrated with the justice system. Although one sympathises with the bad guys they eventually go too far in meting out their form of justice and Harry has to stop them. Not as good as the original Dirty Harry or Sudden Impact - probably because the bad guys in those two movies are  well acted and portrayed as extremely vile and detestable characters whereas here they are just misguided. Nevertheless a good film  watchable for the action, the plot, and the lovely San Francisco. A man's gotta know his limitations.  "}{"Title":"So-so sequel to Dirty Harry","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Interesting plot--a bunch of cops take the law into their own hands and execute those they think deserve it. Good thing Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is on hand to stop them. The original Dirty Harry had its problems--it was stupid, sadistic and sexist. But it moved quickly and was never dull. This one isn't stupid but it's VERY cruel (the murder of a hooker is particularly sick), sexist (not one positive female character at all and when the hooker is killed, it's shot to turn on the men in the audience) and moves way too slowly and is too long (at least 20 minutes too long). We get a hijacking sequence and a gun shootout contest which are not needed and bring the film to a sceeching halt. Also the extreme violence (car chases, crashes and lots of bloody gunfights) is curiously unexciting. The only fun here is seeing Eastwood and unknowns Tim Matheson, David Soul and Suzanne Somers (blink and you'll miss her) so young and full of energy. Also, the acting is pretty bad...especially Hal Holbrook who walks through his role. "},{"Title":"Even the bad guys are good","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dirty Harry part two- better than the original? Almost, but not quite. Magnum force is a worthy successor to Dirty Harry and we get to see the other side of the coin of Harry's personality. He now has a black partner and a Chinese girlfriend. Which would arguably diminish Callahan's bigotted approach as seen in the first film. But this doesn't quite ring true, as this film shows Harry is on the side of the law, even if the system is messed up. Perhaps this more mellow Callahan came about after rejoining the department, which isn't explained (he through his badge at the end of 'Dirty Harry'. It's also nice to hear him refer to his ex- partner.Storywise the film is stronger than its predecessor but it can never quite make it out of the shadows of the first venture, as the opening titles highlight. Despite this I would recommend this as a good one to watch as a double bill with 'Dirty Harry', it gives us more of an insight into what makes SFPDs finest tick and the bad guys are very good, not random psychos/ revolutionaries etc....6/10 overall, but beware the slide begins after this one with parts 3,4 & 5...you have been warned "},{"Title":"Eastwood fans only","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Following hot on the heels of Dirty Harry is Magnum Force. Clint Eastwood returns as the no nonsense detective, 'Harry Callahan', as director Ted Post brings us a film which is very loyal to the first. The only thing really different about this film is the script, which does not reveal the killer unit late on. No real surprises though, except maybe for the ring-leader. However this movie is not at all filmed for mystery, but for action.If you're a Dirty Harry fan, you'll probably enjoy the first half of the film more, as Detective Callahan gets little opportunity to blow anyone away at the end. Magnum Force is for Eastwood fans only.Saturday, September 12, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" *yawn* Oh, excuse me, I forgot where I was for a moment. This movie is a favorite of many Clint Eastwood/Dirty Harry fans. After growing up watching mystery whodunnits, suspense thrillers, and unexpected twists in the plot, this was very disappointing. If you love Eastwood, more power to you. If you don't care either way about Eastwood, then don't feel guilty if you never view this one. I solved the mystery of whodunnit in the first 15 minutes or so, and spent the rest of the movie tabulating all the easy-to-spot clues that were written into the plot. If you haven't figured it out by the end of the movie yourself, check your pulse. You may be stone cold dead. Maybe this was good for its time. I didn't think so. Watch out for nudity. If you don't want to see it, don't watch this movie. I found the revealing shots gratuitous. Save yourself the boredom and find something else to watch. This one ain't worth the trouble. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  so-so, aging a little","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is a straightforward shooter, just the thing for an action movie buff like me. There are a few clever lines and a few clever twists in how the physical stunts are set up, but nothing special given today's standards. Let's face it, a lot has blown up in action movies in the last 30 years.So while Magnum Force surprisingly holds up to its age regarding general violence and mayhem, it no longer shines. The plot isn't at all interesting and we've seen it all before. My advice skip it.Who should see this film-- action buffs only, and then only on a rainy day when you have nothing better to do, and then only if you catch it for free on TVI'll give Magnum Force a surprisingly high 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Should've been more forceful.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force is probably the best of the four Dirty Harry sequels, and it presents Harry in a different, more human light, but it still has more than its share of problems. Harry takes too much time to figure out the case, the direction lacks rhythm, there are too many drawn-out action sequences than go on for so long that the suspense evaporates, and there are also a few too many clumsy tracking shots and awkwardly fast camera movements. Oh well, at least Eastwood is still in top form and the music score is just great.     (**1/2)  "},{"Title":"Vigilantes and 'Dirty Harry'","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The first sequel to Dirty Harry, is an involving story that grabs you right from the start and keeps you interested for the full two hours.In this one, Harry (Clint Eastwood) goes up against cops-turned-vigilantes. It's interesting to see two of those young policemen who went on to stardom on TV David Soul and Robert Urich. However, I don't recall Urich uttering one line! Hal Holbrook, meanwhile, was convincing as the bad guy-lieutenant.The climactic scene was a little hokey all kinds of car chases and shootouts in the streets but no one else around! Where was everyone? Have you ever noticed how many times that happens in movies. All kinds of strange and loud things happen on the road but at that particular time - even in the middle of the day - no one else is on the road. Oh well. All these 'Dirty Harry' movies are entertaining nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Brutal and bulldozing balderdash...a swaggering fantasy for blood-and-bullets fans","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The second Dirty Harry film, directed by Ted Post (a friend of star Clint Eastwood's from their days in television), is full of smash-ups, crash-ups, a pimp killing a prostitute with drain cleaner down her throat, a metal girder catching a crime czar right in the face, and a police inspector (Eastwood's partner) dispatched in a shameful manner--by opening a bobby-trapped mailbox! The plot is inverted from 1971's Dirty Harry--this time, the kids are all right and the cops are the bad guys. No matter; Eastwood's Harry Callahan dispatches with the legalities and mows down the crooked rookies just as he did with the hippie sniper from the predecessor. The screenwriters (John Milius and Michael Cimino!) don't even attempt to recognize the irony inherent in the scenario--it's just a plot gimmick to them, another way to go with this character. Still, for fans of completely mindless action fare, one could do worse than Magnum Force. It has built-in audience approval, which is impossible to shake; one goes into the movie knowing exactly what to expect--and enjoying that all expectations are fully met. Post keeps it moving--thumping, thumping--like an erotic dance for would-be assassins. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The greatest action sequel masterpiece of all time!","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force (1973) is the greatest action sequel of all time! Dirty Harry and Magnum Force are my two best favorite sequels of all time. I always, always enjoy those two movies so much from Clint Eastwood, I grew up watching those two movie and they are the best action movies of all time! I just kept watching them. My second best favorite action flick of all time! The movie had a good edition - good actors in this and Clint was his usual bad ass self. Hal Holbrook is a great villain in this. The flick is proof sequels can be damn fine films and not redundant. It is my favorite entry's of the series and no doubt one of the greats action flicks of the 70's! Magnum Force has...everything. Immortal perfection personified. Hal Holbrook does a marvelous job as do the three rookies who later became famous on their own. Robert Urich and David Soul well-performed the berserk cops. I do believe that Harry crosses the line, and obviously so do those berserk cops, but unlike them, he never kills innocent by-standers and women.Magnum Force is old school 70's action flick with 'acting' and 'actors...none CGI or special effects in it. It is not that I hate CGI or special effects ...it's just so nice to watch the way it was done. Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) goes up against rogue cops here and he never waivers on his 'justice'. Great pistol shooting scenes and very well done film. Eastwood rocks. I forgot to mention Dirty Harry series are more similar to Charles Bronson's Death wish series. In my opinion I enjoy Dirty Harry Series much better than any other action movies. So the film is set when a mysterious wave of killings sweeps the Mafia underworld, it's Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan who answers with Magnum Force. Despite a demotion by Lt. Neil Briggs for his questionable methods, Harry will stop at nothing to find the killers. A rouge traffic cops are killing criminals who have escaped from court, they killing them brutally and they don't care if they kill an innocent person or not. Those cops are different from Scorpio from previous movie and they are more vicious than psycho sniper Scorpio. A tough, hard-core and explosive action-thriller that gets the job done. It's sharply written and well-constructed action film that has lots of flavor. Clint Eastwood is in top form as Dirty Harry, showing that truly no cop series can stand next to his classic character or these films. Compared to the original, this was a much better movie The main story and characters were more interesting, the writing was less uneven and the overall pacing was better. It was still quite dated but a lot easier to take than the original. And, once again, I enjoyed the retro-ness of it. Mr. Eastwood's unshakable cool&#x97;as he dismantles a bomb or refuses a local anesthetic for seven stitches. In the film, Harry is certainly not a dictator. The law is. The law decides who lives and who dies. Nor does Harry glorify the state; or in this case, the system. He hates the system--the liberal legal system that has made a mess of things and Harry's the janitor who must clean it up; which makes sense considering his name derives from always getting the dirty jobs. Well, somebody's got to do it. Ironically, he sometimes makes a mess of his own, but delivers efficient results in the end. In Magnum Force, there's some new enforcers in town, and they ride dark horses. If ever a fascistic label could be applied, it's on them. I love this movie to death, it is my favorite best sequel of all time, Just like Terminator Trilogy I love those two sequels to death! This movie deserves 10, it is almost so good as Dirty Harry, the only problem I have with the film is it 2 hrs. long, it could have been shorter. All the actors did a great job acting and the story was amazing. I have enjoy this movie to death and I always will! Throughout, there's a stress on dear old hubris Harry earnestly repeats that a man's got to know his limitations. Thus, it's reasoned that the killings he commits are justified &#x97; There's nothing wrong with shooting, as long as the right people get shot &#x97; but murderers do have to be discriminating. The action scenes are fabulous and the fantastic, the gun play is terrific, you will sea a lot of hand gun use and they are used well. Magnum Force is a 1973 American action film and the second to feature Clint Eastwood as maverick cop Harry Callahan after the 1971 film Dirty Harry. Ted Post, who also directed Eastwood in the television series Rawhide and the feature film Hang 'Em High, directed the film, the second in the Dirty Harry series.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Warner Bros. , Malpaso Company Starring Clint Eastwood, Hal Holbrook, Mitchell Ryan, David Soul, Felton Perry, Robert Urich, Tim Matheson Director Ted Post Producer Robert Daley Screenplay John Milius, Michael Cimino Story John Milius Rated R Running Time 2 Hrs. 4 Mins. Budget $44,680,473 Box Office $39,768,000 "},{"Title":"More dull than dirty","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A clever idea is buried beneath this dismally scripted DIRTY HARRY followup. Clint Eastwood is back as the anti-establishment Harry Callahan trying (SLOWLY) to figure out who is gunning down various city low-lives. By the time he realizes that Mafia dons, crooked politicians and pimps are getting shot by traffic patrol cops, the film is nearly over and you're left with the feeling that it all should have been wrapped up in 30 minutes (as opposed to the 2-hours plus the film runs). Hal Holbrook is the senior officer butting heads with Eastwood and Tim Matheson, David Soul and Robert Urich play rookie cops. Directed, with zero imagination, by the usually very efficient Ted Post. Post does nothing to exploit the idea that cops have become so sick of the system that they've taken the law into their own hands. "}{"Title":"Go Harry, go","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This could well be the best out of them all, may'be with the exception of the first. For it's second outing, it's story is impressive. Much like the Death Wish movies we've grown to love, our vigilantes here wear badges ridding scum who beat the courts. There is no other way as one cop blatantly says to Inspector Harry Callahan in menacing calm. Harry ends this chilling conservation by saying I'm afraid you've misjudged me. It's great to see Eastwood square off with Holbrook, a jealous Seargeant, who has his own secret, that's a shocking revelation near it's end where a few mob guys have got their just deserts throughout the film by our magnum force. Eastwood kind of befriends four of them, two of them played by a younger David Soul and Tim Matheson. Brilliant shooters as they are, could they also be involved. Harry, the only one that believes these killings are traffic cops lays this story on his black partner, (Felton Perry) who sadly becomes sacrificed, in a bomb explosion, his letterbox rigged, where luckily Harry beats death again, after his Asian girlfriend is shoved away while almost about to open it. This Dirty Harry movie is so well made, it's makers should be applauded, plus it's scriptwriters, and like a lot of other movies, I haven't video'd for a long time, it's last line of dialogue by Eastwood stays me, that rings so true, as does this as being great entertainment. "},{"Title":"When Harry questions his dirtiness ...","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 1971. Movies audiences met with a new kind of cinematic hero through the ground-breaking The French Connection, Shaft and the most emblematic of all, Dirty Harry, directed by Don Siegel and starring Clint Eastwood as the ruthless Police detective with unconventional methods Harry Callahan. The film was released at a convenient time, during the Nixon era and less than two years after the Mansion massacre put a deathblow on the whole dream of 'peace and love' inherited from the hippie counterculture. Dirty Harry had such a huge psychological impact that it was even described by the distinguished critic Pauline Kael as a 'right-wing fantasy' with some explicit glimpses of fascism. Dirty Harry became an American icon for the wrong reasons, and the no- less iconic weapon, the Magnum .44 that inspired the lucky speech became the unlikely symbol of a new kind of law enforcement. And viewers responded to that symbol, and it's not surprising that the Magnum .44 occupies the screen during the whole opening credits sequence of Magnum Force, the sequel directed by Ted Post. But it's important to get back to the context of the first film. In the pessimistic (or nihilistic?) 70's, people looked for figures such as Harry Callahan, Jimmy 'Popeye' Doyle or John Shaft in order to keep faith on their safety rather than the agonizing legal authority, as if it was better to be safe than let the chaos infect the American lifestyle, it was not a cynical but rather a practical view of life during a cynical period. It was the birth of 'vigilante' movies, a sub-genre of the cop-thriller that would reach a fantastic paroxysm with Taxi Driver, from young director Martin Scorsese and would end in style with Abel Ferrara's explosive directorial debut Mrs. 45. After that, the genre would decline to the level of mindless bloody B-movies such as the dreadful Death Wish II and other Golan-Globus productions.The vigilante practice takes its origins from America's most obscure times, when the arm of the Law couldn't reach the smallest towns or interfere with such common practices as mobbing and lynching. The phenomenon was accentuated with the development of gangsterism and the progressive use of mass murdering weapons like machine-guns, and the growing political immunity of powerful criminals, Mafia bosses and other Al Capone-likes, who made Law look either powerless or accomplice of a corrupted system. The substantial philosophy governing the vigilante groups was that fighting crime implied the use of the same weapons, a sort of ends-justifies-the-mean necessity that leads to the paradoxical state where the best way to uphold the Law is to act against it for its own good.Naturally, the eye-for-an-eye principle goes against the progressive nature of civilization, and should not be tolerated because no one could ever see where it ends and in fact, only the strong could take advantage from it. To give you an example, if the United Nations Organization is supposed to interfere when a country plans to invade another one, then how come the Iraqi War happened in 2003? The same goes in microcosm in the Streets of San Francisco, law is here to protect everyone, and even if it does protect criminals, the system would still be the least imperfect of all. The irony is that the same Harry Callahan, who seemed to be the incarnation of the vigilante figure in Dirty Harry, fights against it in Magnum Force and the contradiction is so evident that it can't be coincidental.Indeed, Magnum Force works like a sort of self-defense cry addressed to those who labeled the first film as a 'fascist' movie that legitimated the use of violence or cruel methods when it was against criminals. The film confronts Harry Callahan to an organization that coordinates the murders of unpunished criminals; it opens with the gruesome murder of a Mafia boss who's just been acquitted for a technicality. The execution is so cold-blooded that you'd almost feel bad for the bad guys, and the executioners, all traffic cops, look so clean that it's hard to believe they are the villains. But it's an interesting twist in a series that caricatures to the extreme the fascist allegations and confront them to Harry, a way to say these are the real fascists, good old Harry can't be one of them.And that's the strength of Magnum Force, not only it takes some distance from the first film by providing an original villain, much more difficult to reach because it's a group, but it also does an effort to rehabilitate Harry Callahan, without changing much in the character, as cool and charismatic as ever. The main difference is that he's not fighting a dangerous psychopath cruel enough to awaken his most sadistic impulses, he's like confronted to his inner demons, to people who think like him and even more, and that adds a redeeming dimension of depth in the character. One of the film's most repeated lines is A man's got to know his limitations, and it's very true to the story, because Harry himself questions his own beliefs in justice, by understanding their limits, and so do we.The villains, among which, David 'Hutch' Soul gives a passably memorable performance, are less 'impacting' than Scorpio but the film is saved by the supporting presence of Hal Holbrook as Lieutenant Briggs who doesn't play the typical incompetent angry superior. The film is beyond movie stereotypes and thanks to an intelligent screenplay from John Milnius, who'd write Apocalypse Now, Magnum Force is an insightful continuation of one of the most controversial series made in the 70's, with enough guts to disobey some aspects that forged the initial fascination for Harry Callahan, and chill down the feverish minds that adulated him for the wrong reasons. By demonstrating that the noblest impulses can determine 'evil' actions, Magnum Force creates a sort of revisionist quality that certainly rehabilitate the series. "},{"Title":"More action than the first, but less suspense","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First of all, this is my favorite of the series. I edge it out slightly over Dirty Harry. It is a pity but basically the series ran out of gas after this film. There is lots of action, and a very interesting story. People who thought Harry was judge, jury and executioner (A line used in the movie) see that there is a line that Harry won't cross. If there's one thing I'd like to gripe about it's the ending. I won't give anything away but it was disappointing. I'm not sure if they were looking for a more exciting ending, instead of a satisfying ending. I would have preferred Harry using a .357 Magnum (As he lost his .44) to finish the job. The cast was great, and there's still discussions on if his friend Charlie was in on the conspiracy or just been on the streets too much (A red herring?). Great motorcycles, great revolvers, action, some sexual content. (I wish I had women proposition me like that, then again it was the 70s and it is Clint Eastwood we're talking about!) An interesting story all make it a great (Maybe not perfect) movie. Too bad the series started going downhill in The Enforcer... "},{"Title":"Solid sequel to the first Dirty Harry movie","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Okay so Dirty Harry is back again as an inspector despite the ending from the first movie. Because the first movie made money. And this time the movie has a bigger budget and the stakes are higher. Clint Eastwood is back again playing Harry as the cocky and yet badass inspector who fights for what he believes is right. Anyways this time it's Dirty Harry vs. a Vigilante that goes around killing bad guys and puts the law into his own hands. So this battle is a tough call although the audience knows who the main protagonist is. Which is interesting because Harry is a sort of a Rogue cop that has the mentality that the ends justify the means. The chase scene in this movie is well done, not amazing but for a movie that was made in the 70's it's exceptional. Although there are some really great chase scene in other 70's movies. Anyways it was entertaining throughout the build up that leads to the chase and shootout near the end.7.8/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant Sequel","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Sequels are not always good and often a let down, but this is not the case with this film. It is hard to add anything new considering the many excellent reviews on here already. I recently caught this on TV and had forgotten what a great film it was. It sure keeps your attention throughout and has a bit of everything to please any Clint fan. Clint Eastwood is really at his very best in this and the supporting cast are all excellent also. Of course it has the added interest of having a number of young actors who went on to find fame later on, but it is really the fact that is has such a great story that this is one of the best in the Dirty Harry series. "},{"Title":"not as good as the original (it was not expected to be) and sometimes campy...but who cares?","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Of course it was only a matter of time after the incredible success of Don Siegel's Dirty Harry (1971) that a sequel would be released. In this case, two brief years passed and then Magnum Force, the second chapter of the five-part Dirty Harry series came into theaters.Nobody expected Magnum Force to be any better than the original film and it's not. But that does not necessarily make it a bad film. It's not a bad film at all. The original is just a lot better. Clint Eastwood returns as the .44 Magnum-wielding San Francisco cop who begins to suspect men in his own department when a series of notorious people native to the city turn up murdered systematically one after another. And before long, just as you'd expect, Harry is blazing away with his cannon of a revolver and bodies are hitting the floor.Magnum Force does not have the chilling and compelling atmosphere of its predecessor and it is really nothing more than just a shoot-em-up cop flick with a couple of great performances, one by Eastwood and another by David Soul as a spectacled corrupt cop and you can make out whose the mole in the system right from the start, but who cares? The movie sports a lot of well-done gunfights and action scenes, Eastwood has another creative tagline for the film, the movie holds up well through the duration of its running time, and although it is a disappointment when compared to the original, is still a ton of fun. "},{"Title":"Harry Callahan Vs. Vigilantes","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The first sequel to Don Siegel's 1971 masterpiece Dirty Harry, Magnum Force of 1973 brings Inspector 'Dirty' Harry Callahan back - even though he just isn't quite as dirty in this one. Clint Eastwood is doubtlessly one of the most iconic actors ever as he personifies two archetype roles in cinema - the Spaghetti Western antihero who was defined by the role of the Man With No Name he played in Sergio Leone's Dollar trilogy, and the unorthodox copper whom he personified with his role as Harry Callahan in Dirty Harry. When it came out in 1971, Dirty Harry caused outrage among critics for its political incorrectness and the violent no-nonsense attitude of its supremely bad-ass protagonist. This second film obviously tried to play these elements down a little, which wasn't the best idea in my opinion. Even so, Magnum Force remains a more than decent sequel which my fellow Callahan-fans can not afford to miss. Ted Post, who had already directed Eastwood in the tough-minded Western Hang 'Em High is doubtlessly a potent filmmaker who is capable of making a film gritty and uncompromising. And while the character of Harry Callahan is slightly more correct in Magnum Force, the film does not scant with gritty violence as such.Prominent members of the San Francisco underworld are getting murdered one by one. Harry Callahan, who is investigating the murders, suspects that the culprit might be police himself... Maybe because Dirty Harry was critizised for a violent eponymous Cop/Hero character, Magnum Force has Harry fight against vigilantism. Even though this step sometimes seems to have been taken in order to becalm critics of the film, it is very well executed. Clint Eastwood, simply the epitome of coolness in my opinion, is once again great in the role of Harry Callahan, the archetype of the super tough, bad-ass, no-nonsense cinematic copper. Callahan, who has an Asian, somewhat hippie-ish, girlfriend (Adele Yoshikoa) in this one, still doesn't scant with outspoken remarks about punks and superiors alike. Magnum Force is again great in terms of cinematography and style and delivers some sequences of quite extreme violence. This is not one of my favorites of the 'Dirty Harry' Franchise. The greatest of them all is doubtlessly Don Siegel's original masterpiece of 1971. My personal second-favorite is the fourth part, Sudden Impact, which Eastwood directed himself, simply because its the grittiest, meanest and downright dirtiest of them all. This second film in the series isn't en par with its predecessor, but it is definitely a more than decent sequel that entertains immensely. A must-see for all Callahan-fans, and highly recommendable to everybody who likes Police Thrillers and Action films. "},{"Title":"When the Cops Turn Bad Can the good one save them","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This one is not quite up to the standard of the first film, but even though the cast is limited there are violent scenes galore as it appears much more violent than the first Harry film.This film other than Eastwood does not even resemble the first movie. It does turn up the violence. When I saw this, I left the theater still shaking from the violent sequences.There is less nudity in this movie. fewer people survive this movie. I recommend it as a way to kill some time if your not too busy. This movie did start some of the interest in vigilante's. This one has very little female interest compared to others in the series. It does keep the series going as it was made on the cheap. The whole Harry series does this as none of them are real expensive to make. "},{"Title":"The other side of Dirty Harry","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In the classic and controversial Dirty Harry, we're introduced to a character who is fed up with the legal system. Why must rampant lawlessness be fought with a system that is slower than slime? We know who the bad guys are; let's just take them out! That is what Inspector Harry Callahan believes in and that is what he does in the first film. Clint Eastwood's Harry Callahan and Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey from Death Wish serve as the models of vigilante justice, as people who reflect what even the most liberal among us secretly want, which is to see bad guys brought down. They are the men who enforce justice when the law fails to do so.What Magnum Force does is to show the other side of the coin, to show what happens when vigilante justice gets too dirty even by Dirty Harry's standards. The movie serves to add considerable depth to Harry Callahan. He hates the system but until someone comes along with changes that work, I'm sticking with it. From this movie, we see that Dirty Harry is not a fascist, but rather is a man with a strong moral compass who always does the right thing. He's willing to break the law to do the right thing, but he's never going to do the wrong thing. Even vigilantism has its limits and, in Magnum Force, Harry takes on those who have gone too far.The great thing about the Dirty Harry movies is not just that they're entertaining action movies but that they leave a lot of room for discussion. These are movies that raise questions about the link between the law and justice. The original Dirty Harry is a statement against a legal system perceived as excessively liberal, where protecting the rights of killers results in injustice to innocent victims. Magnum Force is a response to that philosophy and is a statement against an excessively right-wing legal system, where individual law enforcement officers become judge, jury, and executioner. In both cases, in steps Harry Callahan as the voice of morality and justice. Only with a lead character as strong as Dirty Harry can an action movie series debate itself this effectively. "},{"Title":"am i right?","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" a full bore(pun intended)follow-up to Dirty Harry that contains even more violence,albeit tame by todays standards.the plot has changed in that not Harry but the rest of the police force is dancing around the law to stop the evil perpetrators.Callahan happens to stumble across this,but doesn't really have the means to dispose of the bad apples(they even try to get him to join).this is not as far-fetched as it sounds,because Harry claims it happened in Brazil years earlier.although not as suspenseful as the previous Harry,this one has enough action to keep the viewer's attention.Callahan even becomes more human and has a brief affair with a neighbor.a standout is Hal Holbrook as the lieutenant in one of his many fine performances.I've always thought that the Dirty Harry series went gradually downhill,but this film is pretty close to the original. "}{"Title":"Interesting and engaging sequel, minus the bleak tone of the original.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The grim starkness and desolate outlook of the initial Dirty Harry film is largely absent in this follow-up. It's still violent and populated with some nasty pieces of work, but there's an overall lighter touch and a more amiable performance by Eastwood. This development is a good or bad thing depending on one's personal preference. This time out, Eastwood (restored to the police force despite tossing his badge away at the end of the first film) is assigned to stake out potential suspects in a rash of vigilante slayings. Someone is going around slaughtering crime bosses, pimps, slippery felons who've been released on technicalities and the like. The audience is given an indication that the killer is a cop, but Eastwood has to play catch up. He isn't exactly aided by his antagonistic superior Holbrook, who prefers things by the book and holds contempt for Eastwood's loose cannon methods. Aiding Eastwood in his investigation is Perry as his latest partner (a position that more often than not leads to injury or death in the Dirty Harry flicks!) Other cast members include Ryan as a weary, mentally-fatigued motorcycle cop and a quartet of up and coming actors as rookie cops who threaten to show Eastwood up in the shooting department. These are played by Soul, Urich, Matheson and Niven; familiar faces of the future that don't really get a huge amount to do in this film. The female cast is not particularly strong with White as Ryan's estranged wife and Yoshioka as an amorous neighbor of Eastwood's, though Avery turns up in a decent bit as a prostitute holding out on her pimp. Keen-eyed viewers will also spot a pre-Three's Company Somers as a nubile pool party guest. There's a lot of shooting and a decent amount of action in this film, but it does run just a touch too long and simply cannot match the nail-biting intensity of the first film with its deranged sniper terrorizing the town. Here, Eastwood is forced into the position of a more traditional policeman since the villain is the one working outside the lines and thus a certain amount of his edge is diffused. That said, he does have a stellar vignette near the start of the film in which he must disarm a plane hijacker. Some lovely San Francisco sites are used as well. Composer Schifrin provides a brilliant opening theme set against a shot of Eastwood's massive Magnum handgun. Holbrook gives his usual solid effort while third-billed Ryan barely appears at all, except for one feverish initial scene! Also appearing briefly is former TV star Hutchins (of Sugarfoot) as a police officer on duty at a convenience store hold up. One hilarious moment occurs when Pellow, as a slimy crime lord, holes up in a penthouse suite where he's cavorting with a young tan naked couple, doing drugs and God knows what else, until they're interrupted and each shows off his or her behind (with varying degrees of aesthetic attractiveness!) It's a welcome dose of kink in an otherwise straightforward action drama. "},{"Title":"Shoot the director","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force has only one thing going for it Clint Eastwood as detective Dirty Harry Callahan. Without Eastwood's charismatic presence this film would have been nothing more than a made for TV style movie. The film suffers from a weak script and confusing editing.Worst of all is the incompetent directing from Ted Post whose resume reveals that he was a TV director in the 50's and 60's and worked only on a few feature films. His total lack of understanding of how to direct an action movie certainly shows especially in the inept scene where Eastwood is chased (compare to French Connection or even better, Bullitt and you'll see how lousy this chase really is.)Magnum Force is the second of the Dirty Harry movies and it doesn't come close to the original directed by the immensely superior Don Siegel (Invasion of the Body Snatchers and many other wonderful Grade B films.) Hal Holbrook is Eastwood's superior and he is totally miscast in this film and totally unbelievable as a cop.It's probably no wonder that Eastwood turned to directing after having to suffer working with lightweights such as Post. "},{"Title":"Blunt Force Drama","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Judith Crist, the acerbic movie critic for so many years with TV Guide, dismissed Magnum Force as just another gut-bashing, brain-splattering cop movie. But the first sequel to Don Siegel's magnificent Dirty Harry is more than just an ugly and brutish crime drama. It's got an artless, visceral power that sustains it, from the execution of four mafia types at the start of the film to the incineration of the head bad guy at the end. Instead of Siegel's lyrical and scalpel-sharp direction of a battle between good and evil (and the blurred lines between the two), Ted Post uses Clint Eastwood's Inspector Harry Callahan as a blunt object to batter your senses to pulp. Again and again, Eastwood bashes and splatters his adversaries, dodges or succumbs to the temptations of some refreshingly real looking women, and makes mistakes that cost him his credibility with his superiors. Harry isn't going soft on us, but there are a few hints that he's just a shred more than the robotic killing machine in, say, Where Eagles Dare. This might just be one of the best sequels I've ever seen because in Magnum Force, Callahan's personal world is expanded and embellished. It's not a pretty world, nor do we really need to know that he has a skanky neighbor who embodies (and what a body!) the worst of the sexual revolution. Yet, the screenwriters have mixed enough personal interest and topicality (remember that in 1973, according to FBI statistics, violent crime was reaching epidemic proportions and the appearance of a vigilante squad of policemen in such a left-wing town as San Francisco provided for an instant, multi-layered interest level for the viewer) to make Magnum Force a continuation of Dirty Harry but a clearly different movie. While Magnum Force isn't the work of art its predecessor was, it has a raw power that reminded me of For a Few Dollars More and, although the early 70's were saturated with bashed guts and splattered brains, Eastwood's second outing as Dirty Harry Callahan is original enough to make it a satisfying entertainment. "},{"Title":"Another pimp scene goof","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When the cop is riding up behind the pimp on the GG Bridge, the pimp looks in the mirror at the cop. Notice that a tower is immediately to left of the motorcycle cop. The only way the tower could be on that side of the cop is if the scene was shot going the wrong way on the bridge. Also, when the camera switches back to the pimp, its reversed from what was shown in the rear view mirror. This isn't a everything is backwards in a mirror thing. One other thing, I've had a problem with the death of David Soul near the end. All he does is ride off an old aircraft carrier and lands in the bay and that kills him?? People dive from higher platforms with no problem...they should have found a better way to take him out. Why was Briggs investigating a Marin County murder? "},{"Title":"Solid follow up to Dirty Harry with less edge and style but better storyline","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is critically regarded as inferior to Dirty Harry,the first in the five part Harry series. Certainly Ted Post's direction is workmanlike compared to Don Siegels,and some edge is lost due to both Harry being less 'dirty' than in the first film and there also being no horrible villain to fear. However,Magnum Force is still a quality cop thriller and is certainly no disgrace to the original. It does what sequels are supposed to do in my opinion,it gives us the hero we loved from the first film,develops his character a little without diminishing his appeal,and places him in a new and completely different story.In fact the plot of Magnum Force is one of it's strongest aspects,even if it's far to easy to guess who the vigilante cops doing all the killings are. The story allows Harry to use his brain as well as his brawn,and cleverly presents us with villains who may not seem that far from Harry himself. Harry's dialogue scenes with the killers about this are especially well written.Nearly 20 mins longer than the original,this has a few slow spots,although it's nice to see a more human Harry with friends,and allowing himself to be seduced ridiculously easily by an oriental neighbour. There are more action scenes,including a great shoot out in a shop,Harry hanging on to the bonnet of a villain's car and a terrific extended car and bike chase at the climax. Perhaps there are two many scenes showing the vigilantes killing people,but despite the enormous death toll in this film the violence comes across as pretty tame these days. Only the somewhat unnecessary killing of a prostitute by drain cleaner has any shock value.With another funky score by Lalo Schifrin,Magnum Force is a solid example of action film-making in the 70s. No CGI,slower pace,a bit more plot. "},{"Title":"'Magnum Force'","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is as tough and cool as ever in this sequel to 'Dirty Harry'. A man's got to know his limitations says Harry when challenged by his superior, in one of those 'make-my-day' lines.  When a girl living in the same apartment building asks Harry how to get in bed with him, Harry replies, Try knocking on the door.  There's definitely a whole load of one-liners like these this time around.  But, heck, it's lines like these that make these kind of Eastwood movies worth watching.In 'Magnum Force', Harry is assigned to investigate a group of vigilante killers within the police force.  'Magnum Force' definitely lacks the darkness and grittyness of its predecessor, but it still provides plenty of action and thrills to keep us watching.Rating (7/10) "},{"Title":"great sequel","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Every man should know his limitations. is the catchphrase this time. Harry has a knew partner, a new red tape seargent and new bad guys. This movie gives us an insight into the day to day life of Harry and his way of dealing with crime. The plot is disturbing and has good potentiol for suspence which is handeled well by the director. The action is realistic and fun at the same time. The director,Ted Post(Hang'em High)has taken well care of continuing the saga of Don Seigal's Dirty Harry.He really did his homework. Clint again get's into the skin of the character and does'nt let you feel that he played Harry  after two years. Added with this is the chilling background score of Lalo Schifrin and you have a great action/thriller of the seventies. "},{"Title":"Even scumbags at least deserve a trial!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers!This 1973 follow up to the 1971 classic Dirty Harry pits Inspector Harry Callahan against a vigilante group within the SFPD. Eastwood again shines as the squinty-eyed protagonist who attempts to track down the killer or killers of some high profile scumbags. His boss (and arch-nemesis) Lt. Briggs seems convinced the violence is just a bunch of mobsters killing each other off. Clint doesn't but into that theory. He discovers the murders are being committed by a death squad within the police department. And Briggs happens to be their leader!The plot alone is enough to make this one a winner. We have always had police corruption and brutality. This film takes the idea to a new level. Watching Clint figure things out while wading through the typical big city slime is a lot of fun. Clint has a one-liner for almost every scene, and he makes sure plenty of bad guys pay the price for messing with him.This film is quite a bit dated in terms of its clothing, cars, and hair styles. Heck, this film is as old as I am. The ideas it touches on are still as important today as they were back then, though. What qualifies as excessive force by the police? Are even the most hardened crooks worth protecting by our legal system? This film makes the case that they are. Clint, near the conclusion, explains to Briggs that police cannot and should not be judge, jury, and executioner all in one. In other words, even scumbags deserve a fair trial. It's almost as if this film apologizes for Clint's hard core behavior that outraged so many liberals in the original.Overall, this is a solid entry in the Dirty Harry series. Plenty of action, interesting story, and Eastwood is always a joy to watch.The film suffers from the fact that it lasts too long, though!3 1/2  of  5 starsSo sayeth the Hound.      "},{"Title":"Good idea, mediocre execution.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Watching Magnum Force reminds me of what made Dirty Harry so good - the stylish direction, unfussy script, Lalo Schifrin's percussion-heavy score and of course, Clint Eastwood.Although a few of the sequel's action scenes come across with great power, I always got the feeling that the makers of the film were just trying to outdo the violence in the first film, what with numerous bloody headshots, hookers thrown out of windows and gangsters getting smashed in the face by iron poles.The direction and editing also leave a lot to be desired. The sequence with the pimp and the prostitute and his comeuppance feels as though it has wandered in from another film entirely, whereas the finale lacks any sort of tension or a satisfying conclusion. As well as this, we are treated to pointless encounters between Harry and his mate's wife and Harry and his loose neighbour (seriously, are all women in this world hookers or easy lays?)Despite all these criticisms, the idea behind the film is intriguing, what with Harry having to go up against cops that stand for the very things he believes in. In fact, the film actually never really answers why Harry wouldn't join them!The film mostly succeeds in the exchanges between the rookie cops and Harry - especially their confrontation in the underground car park and at the shooting range. However, far too much of the film is spent lurching around from killing to killing, with no real sense of rhyme or rhythm.Unfortunately, Magnum Force sits at the bottom of the pile in the Dirty Harry series by quite a long way, what with it's disjointed story-telling, unnecessary violence and overall lack of intrigue.5/10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  ====****May contain spoilers****=== A disappointing follow up to the classic Dirty Harry. Instead of Scorpio,one of the greatest psycho killers in movie history, we get traffic cops. How dignifying!Eastwood gives it his all as the Dirty Harry we all know and love, but looks very uncomfortable in scenes such as the family scene or with the girl in his apartment block. Personally, I felt that these were included as a result of hysterical protests over Harry's behaviour in the original. The scenes spoiled the mysterious, brooding loner who was portrayed in the original.Ted Post's direction is so blocky and stilted that, at times, I thought I was watching a very badly made TV movie. San Francisco, such a beautiful city in the original, looks like Belfast on a good day.I give Magnum Force a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Somewhat disappointing sequel to Dirty Harry","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force - the second in a series of five Dirty Harry movies - suffers some sequelitis. It tries to keep to the spirit of the original, but forces itself to attempt to change some elements to distinguish itself from it's predecessor.Magnum Force is about corrupt officers acting as vigilantes. This is an alright idea - it's been done elsewhere - but the central villains of the piece aren't half as sinister, or effective, as the killer in the original movie. The killer there was quite freaky - for want of a better word - but here the villains are just cold, relatively faceless and characterless men. That's not a good idea. As well as the main story-line both movies features Harry getting involved in a few story-lines. Magnum Force doesn't succeed here quite as well - there's a ridiculously implausible air hijack fiasco for example. The scenes aren't permeated with Harry's black humour either, which renders them mostly into excuses to engage in random acts of violence.Having said all that above, Magnum Force is still enjoyable. Eastwood has no problem playing Harry - just place a sneer on your face. It's nice to see that Harry actually enjoys the company of others and cares about people - the family he visits, his partner, the neighbouring girl - and there are one or two lines in it that raised a smile (though none approaching the classic status of I know what you're thinking - did he fire..). The directing is trying too much, at times, to be involved (notice the shaky camera motions at the beginning, emulating - and failing to - the madness of the crowd) but it's never very much over-the-top. All in all it's not at all bad, not really that good. IMDB's rating of 6.5 is bang on target for what I'm giving it. "},{"Title":"As Long As The Right People Get Shot","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"       Clint does his tight-lipped Harry thing, and Hal Holbrook does his sinister-insider-perverting-American-institutions thing in this Dirty Harry offshoot which shows unmistakeable signs of a format creaking at the joints.     A group of vigilante cops is administering 'street' justice to criminals acquitted by the way-too-liberal San Francisco courts.  Can Harry stop this uniformed lynch mob?  You know he can.     The film starts well, but quickly degenerates into feeble formula.  The early scenes of the mysterious motorcycle cops are striking.  David Soul's character, Davies, is depicted cleverly as the 'fragments' of a policeman, with badge, gun and bike standing in for the man.  He relies on these symbols and at the same time desecrates them.     And then the rot sets in.  The 'crowd' scene at Ricca's acquittal is feeble.  The hi-jack is quite ludicrous, and Mitch Ryan (McCoy) overacts outrageously.  How come Davies is officiating at the funeral?  Doesn't anyone think of the fingerprint evidence left on the car?  Since when have lieutenant detectives done their own ballistics analysis, or defused bombs themselves?  If evidence is processed as casually in California as this film suggests, it's no wonder that OJ Simpson was acquitted.     Why does Harry meekly obey Briggs as they drive along near the end?  What has he got to lose?  Or is the film just limping mindlessly along to the next location?       "},{"Title":"violent","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film broke a few rules in violence when it came out.  The first scene in this film is pretty graphic, and gives the viewer an idea of what to expect.  TBS has to edit this movie extremely.  I like it, not the best acting or script, but the concept is great.  Eastwood is great and is the only one to pull this story off.  The action scenarios have been copied to death, but in 73 it would have been ground breaking.   The feel this movie projects of vigilantism make it a bench mark others have followed.  If imitation is complementary this film is a standard other action films follow. "},{"Title":"Magnum Farce more like!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Nice idea but poorly executed. The idea of having fascist cops take matters into their own hands  at the way criminals seem to get away with murder through a weak judicial system is quite a good one, especially when one considers that Harry himself is no lover of criminal civil liberties.The only problem is that director Post doesn't seem all that confident in which way to take the idea resulting in a rather jumbled mess at the end with Hal Holbrook going into preamble mode with no true conviction.At the same time I found it rather baffling that Callaghan should be so implacably opposed to the idea of a secret fascist cop squad because that's exactly what he is, no more eloquently stated than in the original Dirty Harry film where he studied his prey, Scorpio, tortured him, shot at him before finally killing him. Most of all this outside the typical methods of law enforcement.Magnum Force has its moments but I guess Ted Post & writer, Milius were too in awe of the imposing Eastwood figure and felt compelled to underline the hero worship with one or two unnecessary set pieces - the farcical aircraft hijacking for one.There was good support from renegade cops David Soul & Tim Matheson as junior Dirty Harrys, but that's about as far as the credits should go.Ted Post never bothered to build on Eastwood's complex character from the first film. Instead he tries to explode the idea of vigilante cops even more evil that Harry with about as much subtlety as a brick in the face.MF is still superior to the follow-up Harry films and could have even eclipsed the original if handled with a bit more care in the hands of a better director.**/***** "},{"Title":"A man's go to know his limitations","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  One of the all-time great quotes from a very taut movie that skillfully blends action, dialogue, and message.  The second Dirty Harry effort, both chronologically and quality-wise -- although Enforcer is also very good. Young David Soul and Robert Urich are wonderful in their supporting roles, as are Felton Perry and Albert Poppa.  But Hal Holbrook's masterful presence nearly steals the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Worst of the Dirty Harry movies, but has some redeeming qualities.","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Magnum Force is a jigsaw puzzle of a movie that has some great points to think about, but leaves the viewer a little dissapointed.  Clint Eastwood plays Harry Callahan once again as only Eastwood can.  However, the movie's plot throws in an unneeded twist involving a gangster, while simply baiting the audience with the big theme.  The movie also fails to drum up excitement for more than 5 seconds of excitement and the ending chase scenes meanders around too long.  Still, something to think about and Lalo Schifrin's score still rocks. "},{"Title":"Make his day!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is Clint at his best.Three rogue cops are killing the baddies. Clint wants in but HIS own way of getting rid of them. The film is very violent. Music score is very good. The only drawback is the violence and hooker scene. Dirty Harry has his own brand of justice for the thugs. The ending will make you think. "},{"Title":"It Is Big, Therefore I Am.","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This can't help but be interesting. Dirty Harry was an engagingly tight-lipped character and the film was gorgeously shot in a gorgeous location, a right-wing wet dream. And, man, his gun was big.Dirty Harry and his gun soldier on, but this is craftsmanship without heart. It's no longer original, and it's done as if by numbers.Harry Callahan now works for Lt. Briggs (Holbrook) in homicide, and has a friend who is bent so far he's just about to break (Mitch Ryan). Four rookie traffic cops who carry .357 magnums can evidently outshoot Harry (!). And Harry gets a proposition from a friend's wife, which he turns down, and an enthusiastic proposal from a pretty Japanese neighbor, which he doesn't. His partner from the first film, Chico, is now teaching college and Harry is burdened with another minority partner, the African-American Felton Perry, who is there chiefly so that Harry can tell him (that is, the audience) about what's going on. He does not survive. The reason Felton Perry must be blown apart with a stick of celery in his mouth is that it's been decreed that the body count must be kept high.There are only two points worth making. One is that Dirty Harry was nailed by critics and by the public (who attended in droves) for being a Fascist fantasy, which it was. So now Harry must redeem himself by upholding the jurisprudential system in the face of an assault by an internal death squad that is intent on killing all the evildoers in San Francisco. The movie is a jab to the jaw of liberal critics.The second point is that there is no longer any poetry is this carefully constructed and successful piece of junk. The movie knows precisely where it wants to go and it gets there efficiently and without imagination.One of the more celebrated aspects of the original film was Harry's .44 magnum. Everyone was thrilled by that huge cannon Harry carted about. Therefore -- knowing this -- the film's credits roll over a static shot of a monster magnum being held against a blood-red background. The shot of the fist holding the gun seems to go on forever. Maybe it will. But -- no! As the credits end, the fist twists the barrel of the cannon towards the audience -- and SHOOTS.Well, what are we to make of this? We -- the audience, guilty of nothing more than stealing an occasional ash tray from a fancy Las Vegas motel? Or a towel from the beach at Waikiki? Oh, maybe a little cheating on our income tax return, but everyone does that. And the closet full of pantyhose is nothing more than a hobby, a collection, rather like a stamp collection except a bit more, well, exciting.What we are obviously supposed to make of that opening is that the folks who are bringing you this Grand Guignol don't care whether you're guilty of anything or not. They know you've come to the theater to see Harry wield his big gun, and they give it to you -- in your face.In case that opening isn't enough, Ted Post, the director, gives you three shots of men loading their revolvers with the camera at ground level and the guns being held barrel-downward, pointing towards the lens.One of the things I gave Dirty Harry credit for was not trying to imitate the inimitable car chase from Bullet (1968). Magnum Force tries to rectify that error. A motorcycle chases a car down Vermont, the twistiest little street in the city, bar none. There are multiple crashes, a car explodes in a fireball, dead bodies (faceless and otherwise) abound, a pretty prostitute is made to drink a can of Drano and the camera shoots the scene from between her wildly waving legs. Whatever elements ground the original in reality are thrown away here in favor of cheap fantasy, a pandering of the worst sort.It probably looks pretty tame today. We ought to ask ourselves what that tells us about our vernacular culture. "},{"Title":"One of the rare occurrences where a sequel is almost as good as the original.","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is a little bit different then Dirty Harry, but just as wonderful, nonetheless!. Dirty Harry has many of the same traits that made Dirty Harry so wonderful. Gritty feel, rough locations, a tough as nails Harry Callahan, and many classic shootouts, but I also appreciated the fact that Magnum Force wanted to go its own way. I loved the concept of Rookie Cops taking justice into their own hands, going above the law and killing all the corrupted criminals in vicious and brutal ways, it really made for an interesting storyline I thought. I loved it when Harry clashed with Lt. Briggs|Hal Holbrook| it was always and intense, and seeing two terrific legendary actors go at it in verbal wars was fabulous. To this day, the twist at the end of Magnum Force retains its shocking impact in every way, and giving us one of the most thrilling finales ever filmed. Magnum Force like Dirty Harry, is a treat to watch, it's almost as good as that film to be honest, and not many sequels are able to pull that off, then again Harry Callahan isn't anything ordinary.Performances. Clint Eastwood is wonderful as Harry once again. He portrays the same characteristics as he did in Dirty Harry that made him so Iconic. Hal Holbrook is fantastic as the stubborn, power happy Briggs. This is one of his most memorable roles, and with good reason. Mitch Ryan has a small, but memorable role as McCoy. David Soul is quite chilling as Davis, he played the vigilante rookie cop wonderfully.Bottom line. Magnum Force is a sequel that many studios need to watch to make a great followup. Like Dirty Harry, its powerful impact remains intact today, and I can't believe the underrated 7.0 rating!. A required viewing.9/10 "},{"Title":"A good follow up to a classic","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Creating a follow-up to the amazing Dirty Harry must have resulted in weeks and weeks of frustration. Overall, the film was rather good and well shot, but there just wasn't a strong enough story to back up the complex nature of Harry. This was also one of those films which talked about the social moirés of the time. Harry, making the random reference about homosexuals was priceless, and should have been used in pro-gay rights slogans. Anyhow, this film was better than most sequels could ask for, so I have to say this was a good follow-up to a great movie.  "}{"Title":"That 70's Harry Part 2","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a much better effort than the first Dirty Harry, since (almost) everything has improved. The story is good, the characters are a bit more elaborate, &#145;The Dirty One' is funnier, the cinematography is not so shaky anymore (though it could be smoother) and last but certainly not least, you're at least a bit involved in the film, which makes it much more exciting for you. The only thing that has not improved though is the pace. This film too, could have been a lot shorter, making it more of a tight package. Taking everything into account, the people involved really learned from the mistakes that were made in making the first Dirty Harry.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Clean Harry","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The first Dirty Harry film ended with Inspector Harry Callahan throwing away his badge and resigning from the San Francisco Police Department in disgust. The character, however, was clearly too popular for the franchise to end there, as Clint Eastwood went on to make four sequels, of which Magnum Force was the first. Harry has been reinstated in the force, but is as disenchanted with the job as ever, particularly with his liberal, by-the-book superior Lieutenant Neil Briggs. Briggs disapproves of Harry's methods and has moved him from the homicide department to the stakeout team. Harry proves ruthlessly effective in his new job, bloodily foiling both the hijacking of an airliner and a raid on a liquor store, but regards it as a demotion and wants to get back on homicide.He gets his chance when several notorious villains- racketeers, drug dealers, pimps- are murdered by a gang of vigilantes. Harry is reassigned to homicide to help track down the killers, who turn out to be a group of rookie traffic cops with unorthodox views on the best methods of enforcing law and order. The vigilantes, who call themselves Magnum Force after the handgun they use, have no compunction about gunning down not only the criminals who are their intended targets but also anyone else who gets in their way, including one of Harry's police colleagues, Charlie McCoy. The film may have inspired the later Michael Douglas thriller, The Star Chamber, in which it is a group of judges, rather than policemen, who take it upon themselves to execute their own form of vigilante justice. In both cases the motive of the vigilantes is the same; frustration with a legal system which allows obvious criminals to go free on technicalities. It comes as no surprise when the supposedly liberal Briggs is exposed as the secret ally of Magnum Force.Magnum Force seems to have been intended as a sort of public apology to those liberals who criticised Dirty Harry as advocating the use of violent and uncompromising methods of policing. Clint Eastwood's character, formerly the gung-ho maverick, here becomes Clean Harry, the unlikely advocate of due process and the sworn opponent of those who would take the law into their own hands. This transformation is never entirely convincing, but at least the film-makers could argue that Harry only took the law into his own hands when lives were at stake; the vigilante cops do so cold-bloodedly in order to take revenge. Harry's character is softened in other ways; he becomes less of a loner and is even provided with a romantic interest in the shape of a Japanese-American girlfriend.Magnum Force lacks the depth of the original Dirty Harry, a film which asked some searching questions about the philosophy of law enforcement. It is, however, stylish and exciting, better than some of the later instalments in the series such as The Dead Pool. It has some good action sequences, including car chases, that staple of seventies cop films, especially those set in San Francisco with its switchback hills. Eastwood brings to his role the same combination of coolness and menace as he did in the original, and receives good support from Hal Holbrook as the treacherous Briggs. David Soul makes a pre-Starsky and Hutch appearance as one of the vigilante cops. Altogether a watchable thriller. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Every time you pull out that gun my paper work backs up for three God damned months. Decent sequel.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is set in San Francisco where infamous cop Insp. 'Dirty' Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is at loggerheads with his superiors over his unique & brutal brand of law enforcement. Carmine Ricci (Richard Devon) is allowed to walk free after a judge acquits him from a murder charge on a technicality, the triumphant Ricci drives away from the court house a totally free man but a traffic cop pulls his car over & proceeds to shoot dead everyone inside. Then more big name criminals are assassinated & when the innocent get in the way of these rogue killers plans they are scarified for the greater good, Harry is put on the case & quickly comes the the conclusion that there is an organisation within the department who are acting as judge, jury & executioner & killing all of San Francisco's top criminals & Harry sets out to bring them down...Directed by Ted Post, although sources including Eastwwod himself claims that he & second unit director Buddy Van Hoen directed more of the film than Post, this is the second of five Dirty Harry films & I quite liked it & definitely put it above average although I wouldn't call it great or anything. The script by John Millius & Michael Cimino is more of a thriller than a straight action flick & has an interesting premise that is still, perhaps even more so, relevant today as there's barely a news broadcast or edition of a national newspaper that goes by without some sort of criminal getting a ridiculously small sentence (I can remember one here in the UK recently where a convicted paedophile was let off because there were no prison places near where his family lived & the fact that if placed in a prison father away he wouldn't get any visitors & that would be stressful & cruel on him & his family, I kid you not) or an interview with a cop who feel like their hands are tied with petty rules, paper work & laws seemingly geared towards protecting the guilty rather than the innocent. You can see where the character's are coming from in Magnum Force, both the rogue cops & Harry who despite not liking the system understands it's the only one we have so ultimately defends it, it's a decent with a moral message so I'll give it some credit for that alone. Unfortunately it isn't all plain sailing here as I thought the film went on for too long & was simply too slow, it's well past the 50 minute mark before Harry is even put on the case for cryin' out loud & the identity of the rogue killers is far, far too obvious. Basically I felt that Magnum Force was a well written & thought out film which could have used a little tightening up during the editing, this could have been an absolute classic as it is it falls just sort.Director Post does OK, the action is competently handled with the motorbike chase at the end standing out as the best set-piece the film has to offer. I watched a pristine 2351 widescreen print of this last night & for a film shot over 30 years ago back in '73 it sure does look good, if you can please try to watch the widescreen version. There's not much violence here, a few shootings but nothing excessive by todays standards. There's some nudity as well if that sort of thing interests you. I also have to mention the pimp mobile, the big black mother who drives around in a huge pink car with orange tan roof & huge triple exhausts running along the side! Talk about drawing attention to yourself, a stark lesson in how not to be inconspicuous...Technically the film is good, it's well made on location in San Francisco using some of the cities sights as backdrops. The acting is fine, Eastwood is good, David Soul's performance here apparently got him the job as Hutch in the TV series Starsky and Hutch (1975 - 1979) & Hal Holbrook is decent as Harry's long suffering boss.Magnum Force is a good thriller, those looking for out-and-out action may feel a little disappointed so bear that in mind. This was a sequel to Dirty Harry (1971) & was itself followed by a further three sequels, The Enforcer (1976), Sudden Impact (1983) & The Dead Pool (1989) in which Harry finally hung up his 357 Magnum... "},{"Title":"My favourite Dirty Harry movie..... perhaps.","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Reasons i love this movie? Firstly its got the set pieces you'd expect from a 70s cop film that didn't make it into DIRTY HARRY such as the sky-jacking sequence and the shoot-out in the liqour store. Then you've got another ace soundtrack which has the same funky-rock beats as the first movie. And then of course there's Eastwood himself. No matter what he goes up against its all in a days work for him whether it be stopping hi-Jack's in their tracks or going to bed with Asian girl from downstairs. The dialogue (A mans got to know his limitations) and wise-cracks are vintage stuff and the intriguing thing here is that its renegades from within Harry's own police dept. that are the real villains here offering an interesting counterpoint the moral issues presented in the first movie. I think the first two Dirty Harry movies are terrific and maybe this one just edges it. "},{"Title":"Action,Suspense, Drama,Language, A romantic interlude what else could you want?","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Good all Harry he has not changed a single bit when it comes to shooting up the bad guys and having a go at his bosses. Clint is a talented and terrific actor you can never get tired of him.Mr Ricca gets off the hook for a murder,then he gets shot up by a criminal but not just any criminal but a vigilante cop! Harry comes to the scene but has a little bit of a tiff with his new so called Good man boss Lt.Briggs who is a natural pain in the ass to Harry and calls him off the case and sends him to stakeout to keep him out of trouble. HAH! Like that's ever going to happen! No matter where Harry goes there is always action around the corner, something that is important to all action movies.ACTION ACTION ACTION & a little bit of suspense we all love it!! I'm not going to reveal anymore of it. It is up to you to figure the rest out. I liked the film because it leaves you guessing until the end you've think you know who the killer is then all of a sudden there is a dramatic twist that you don't see coming and then it hits you and because there is always action, drama and suspense. There is something for everyone and if you think that's not enough there is a little something for the ladies when Harry has a little bit of free lovin from an East Asian Women. Who asks him directly firmly and too his face!!! What does a girl have to do to go to bed with you? pause..blink twice try knocking on the door Wow love it never fails to crack me up! Very poor move by Carol though and what she siad to Harry about the kids was kind of tight. Love the fights that Harry gets himself into with his boss. Hal Holbrook was very good at playing the role of Lt.Briggs. The rest of the acting was all solid but the directing of Ted Post was not very solid not as good as Don Seigel.Other than that Go watch the movie it's a good solid sequel i praise Clint Eastwood for that even though it is not as strong as Dirty Harry.Magnum Force is my favourite sequel. HARRY CALLAHAN ROCKS MY WORLD!!! "},{"Title":"Eastwood Force (May contain Spoilers)","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorIn my opinion I consider Magnum Force to be the best film in the series. Here what I personally find unique about this film is the quote Man's Got to have his limitations! In the original, Dirty Harry was an exceptional homicide detective who used violence and broke the rules to get the criminal.Here we have an organization within the police force itself which has enlisted a group of rookie cops to murder every single person who breaks the law. And even asked Harry himself to join. His refusal is what makes this a unique action film. In this film we fully understand Dirty Harry and his philosophy that brutality and punishment is the way to capture and treat a criminal BUT killing a criminal is always the last option not the first.RATING 4 STARS  "},{"Title":"Harry & Hutch (the Best, and most underrated, D.H. flick)","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS HEREIN this is the best of the Dirty Harry movies, but somehow it's been branded as the worst. the bad guys are fantastic, all great actors and also, future classic cult TV (and movie) stars, including, as a group of young hotshot patrol cops, Tim Matheson (Animal House), Robert Urich (Vegas), and the ringleader played by David Soul (Starsky & Hutch). the first half of the movie we see a number of deaths, what seems to be a single rogue cop killing a bunch of notorious, and even famous, villains the likes of a pimp, a mafioso, and a drug dealer. the second half is Harry on his own private mission, seeking out the people that only he believes are the bad guys. there are also some great scenes filtered in throughout the story, having nothing to do with the story itself but simply showing Harry at work, one a stakeout of a hold-up about to go down, and thus Harry taking care of the robbers like only he can (BANG BANG!), and there's a classically over-the-top scene in which Harry takes down some terrorists trying to overtake an airplane by posing as a pilot. the incredible over-actor Mitch Ryan co-stars as the red herring, as it were, playing a cop who's been on the beat just a beat too long, and who's the prime suspect of all the deaths that occur in the first half of the movie. and Hal Halbrook also co-stars as the slime-ball police chief who, obviously, hates Harry's guts for being... Harry. and then there's a brief (but memorable!) cameo by Suzanne Somers (to add to the cult TV stars), this being the same year she was featured in American Graffiti. Ted Post, usually a television director whose directing career has been hasty at best (he also directed the second movie of another franchise, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, possibly the worst science fiction movie of all time), does a great job at the helm; as do the writers, John Milius (Apocolypes Now, Big Wednesday) and Michael Cimino (The Deer Hunter). there's some great music too, a classic seventies funk groove soundtrack leading the way. so to sum it up, this movie, Magnum Force, is the best Harry of all (even better than the first film, which was marred by the overacting of the Scorpio Killer played by Andrew Robinson, who makes William Shatner seem like Marlon Brando). Magnum Force works simply because it doesn't take itself too seriously. it's good action/fun and that's all it needs to be! "},{"Title":"a big man and his gun","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Sometime around 1980 my parents bought a VCR and the first two movies I rented were ENTER THE DRAGON and MAGNUM FORCE. And this is still, along with the first Dirty Harry and The Gauntlet, my favorite of all of Eastwood's cop movies.Director Ted Post directs like a more brutal, stripped-down version of even Don Siegal! He also directed the amazingly violent(for a G rated Film!) second PLANET OF THE APES movie. Any connection? Do we have a mad neglected auteur who gets consistently handed sequels to other mens films? Probably not but as those are the only two Ted Post films i've ever seen, i must say the man directs with a clipped military proficiency and is amazingly adroit at filming characters as they meet particularly nasty endings. If you really want a good laugh find PAULINE KAEL'S review of MAGNUM FORCE. "},{"Title":"Plays like a TV movie","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" MAGNUM FORCE (1973) is a sequel that I just don't get! The original Dirty Harry is a masterpiece of cinema, a gritty, edgy, engrossing 2-character battle of wits and wills between the anti-heroic Inspector Harry Callahan and Scorpio, but also a memorable indictment of the legal system. This immediate sequel Magnum Force is the anti-Dirty Harry, having a softer, nicer, more tolerant Harry, again essayed by icon Clint Eastwood, who has mellowed out to the point of seeming like someone else. Magnum Force has an all too apparent TV movie vibe about it. Ironically, it has actors that would go onto star in popular TV series (Suzanne Somers 3s Company, Robert Urich Vegas and Spenser for Hire, David Soul Starsky and Hutch, and Tim Matheson, certainly nowhere near an A-lister, although he would eventually star in Animal House). Veteran Hal Holbrook is the only movie presence other than Eastwood. Felton Perry admirably plays Harry's new partner, but the casting felt gimmicky. Reni Santoni felt more organic as Harry's partner in the original. Here, it feels like the writers gave him a black partner just to continue the diversity. Magnum Force literally feels like a typical TV show/movie plot, about vigilante cops who kill ANYONE who breaks the law. The cinematography in this sequel lacks the atmosphere and punch of the original. The killing scenes seem juvenile and happen too abruptly. Scenes cut off too quickly. The idea of all these cops having the same vision and being of one mind stretches the imagination to the point of incredulity. Mitchell Ryan (as a disgruntled veteran cop) is the only actor who acquits himself well in this. The second sequel The Enforcer did a much better job relaying the message of corruption and ineptitude of the legal system and had a higher entertainment value than this one. "},{"Title":"It beats the original!","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It was quite surprising to find that this second Dirty Harry movie even beats the original. It's better written and even uses- and handles its main character in a better and more intriguing way.At first it really looks as if this movie is going to be nothing more but just another rehash of the first movie. It seemed to feature a similar type of plot and progressed in almost the exact same manner. However, the further the movie progresses, the more starts to become clear about the story and the direction it's heading at. You think this is going to be yet another movie about a serial killer but there really is far more to the story, as you'll find out.I won't spoil anything but there are some nice twists and turns in the movie, that shake things up. It even makes this a somewhat surprising and also original genre movie.It's really not necessary either to watch the first Dirty Harry movie before you go and see this one. It's really a movie on its own, with a new story and also mostly new characters in it. All of the events that happened in the first movie are mostly irrelevant for this one and you'll get into this movie and its main characters just as easily as you would when you have already seen the first movie.Compared to the first movie, which was great as well by the way, they had improved on certain things. The character of Harry himself for instance is given some depth and background this time around, making him even more human like and likable. You get a better sense of the character so to speak. The movie also still feels very raw and straightforward. There is some pretty graphic violence in the movie and the Clint Eastwood character Harry Callahan of course isn't afraid to use his Magnum more than once throughout the movie. There is some real good action and some nice thrills in this movie, that all look and feel very typical for an '70's genre production, which is a big compliment of course.There really wasn't much that I didn't liked about the movie. It did everything right, had a great genre story in and of course one iconic main character, who lifts the movie even up to greater heights, also mainly thanks to Eastwood's performance. An absolute must see for the lovers of crime/cop movies.9/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Hey Harry What All That About, Well Their Betting To See How Long You'll Last As My Partner.","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is Dirty Harry at one of is finest, I am so surprised to being a sequel to. I thought this one was about as good as the first, I loved the storyline, the cast was great; and the action was there from beginning to end. The time line on this film I would like to say is probably a month or too after solving The Scorpio case, just a guesstimate.The Movie is about rouge cops cleaning up the scum of the city by killing them once they are free from prison/jail. You will find out later in the movie that Lt. Bressler, Hal Holbrook, is the ringleader of the bunch. This has vigilantism written all over it; and it wouldn't surprise me if this or something like it was ever tried in real life.Lt. Bressler grooming young academy grads, into police killing machines. They are motorcycle officer's who, find the cities worst criminals track them down and clean the city of their filth so to speak. Bressler believe this is the best way to rid the cities crime problem, especially when the courts fail.Harry suspects the worst and forwards the info to his partner, both now have targets on their back. It's up to Harry to stop the madness of Bressler and his corrupt organization until it's too late. A great movie and on of the best sequels I have ever seen. Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"Explosive sequel! Harry is angry with the system.","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In terms of production values, action sequences, and plot devices, this sequel is superior to the always effective Dirty Harry.Unlike the first one, Harry is able to explore and stand against the corrupted security system. As always, his life is in risk and supposedly honest police elements try to kill him. He will face a squadron of death. Clint Eastwood as always steals the show with his unique bad-ass performance. The Direction is top notch and looks very Hollywood without watering down the violence level that the original implemented. I enjoyed this sequel big time because it takes the Dirty Harry character further. He's no longer just a cop. "},{"Title":"In some ways superior to the original...this is more in the life of the infamous Harry","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Magnum Force is like a condensed version of a really great 70's Cop TV Show. There isn't just one main story but rather we get to see Harry Callahan in various situations, doing his daily routine as a cop, coming across various challenges with his superiors and such but then at the heart is this intense mystery and thriller about a rogue cop (or cops) killing mobsters, villains and others. The best thing about Magnum Force is just watching Harry in his element. Ultimately it helps us understand more about this vivacious character that seemed to work on the brink of madness in the first film doing anything he can to clear the streets of 'scum.' In the end the film humanizes him much more and perhaps it would seem he has a little less edge to him but in a good way if that makes sense. Whereas the original Dirty Harry really captured San Francisco and brought it to life, the follow up doesn't really utilize the San Francisco backdrop as much. Its still present but just not as vividly used. This one is all about the cops and their lives and Harry's interaction with them.Harry Callahan is probably one of the amazing Clint Eastwood's best characters with the most depth and really larger than life on screen. He doesn't grumble and grunt his way through the role (and nobody loves his grumbling and grunting more than me) but instead Harry is full of life and passion and a true determination to do what is needed no matter what. This fills in everything you wanted to know about Harry from the first film. Legendary character actor Hal Holbrook joins the force as Harry's nemesis and Lieutenant. He goes toe to toe with Eastwood repeatedly in a battle of wits and holds his own. Holbrook probably gives easily the second best performance in the film next to Eastwood especially in the latter part of the film. Mitch Ryan plays Eastwood's friend of years Charlie McCoy who is going through many problems emotionally. I wish Ryan had a far bigger part because I think he was excellent in the one big scene he gets and could have really done great in the film. Tim Matheson is also a familiar face in character acting and is solid as a hot headed young traffic officer hellbent on cleaning up the streets. He should also get more screen time. Same can be said for Felton Perry who plays Harry's partner Early. I suppose when you're sidekick to Dirty Harry himself you are bound to take a backseat but I would have liked to have seen more of him.So my biggest issue with Magnum Force can be summed up in that the supporting actors could have been used so much more than they were. Also the ridiculous romance forced into the story with Harry and his neighbour is not only unnecessary but completely out of whack with the story. Unlike the first film Harry doesn't have a clear cut enemy or villain. There isn't just one killer although for awhile he is represented by one of the officer vigilantes. Still he isn't just being chased or chasing down one serial killer but a group of his own really amping up the tension in the film. The climax goes beyond that of the original including a huge twist to the film, a high speed car chase, and an epic shoot out worthy of an Eastwood film. Director Ted Post came from a heavy background in Television and it shows in his style for Magnum Force but it works perfectly fine for the film. I did score Magnum Force higher than Dirty Harry because in several ways it is better. Exploring Callahan as a character makes this one superior. The climax is even better, as mentioned, and it simply is a great thriller/mystery/cop drama and makes for a great film. A man's got to know his limitations... Man I love Eastwood. 8/10 "},{"Title":"( Dirty Harry 2) better than the original film","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" this second film in the Dirty Harry series of films is,in my mind,better than the first one.the story is better.it's a bit more complex.though not so complex that you can't understand what's happening.it has more substance to it.it's not as straight forward,so you have to think about what's going on.as the viewer,you're never 100% really sure who's bad and good.there are better one liners in this one as well.Harry(Eastwood)has more to do this time around.the action is a bit more intense this time around,as well.there are no slow spots,unlike the first one.everything flows much more smoothly.it's just an all around better picture.for me,Magnum Force is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Harry is back... magnum blazing!","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry is back and this time he is after a vigilante who is knocking off San Francisco's low life while dressed as a traffic cop. Harry must find out if it is an imposter, a rogue cop or in fact a small group of cops who have taken it on themselves to become judge, jury and executioner.The film opens with a murderer walking free on a technicality, he isn't free for long though as he is stopped by a highway patrol officer who executes him along with the other people in the car. At first it seems to the police that it is the work of other gangsters. Harry wants to be put on the case put is refused a transfer back to homicide. He decides to go for a burger at a stall at the airport run by an ex cop. It turns out that his timing is impeccable as he ends up having to prevent a hijacking. As the number of vigilante murders increases Harry is brought back onto the case.While this is going on Harry meets a group of rookie cops when he goes for a bit of pistol practice, to his surprise they are all crack shots who rival Harry's own abilities. At first he is impressed with their skill and dedication but later gets suspicious as they seem to be the first on the scene at the various murders.This film is a lot of fun, containing plenty of of hard hitting action, moments of humour and even a little romance for Harry in the form of a colleague's ex-wife and his Japanese neighbour. Clint continues to impress in the lead role, David Soul did well as one of the rookies and Hal Holbrook was suitably officious as Harry's by-the-book boss. If you liked the first film I'm sure you will enjoy this one too. "},{"Title":"Magnum Force Doesn't Have the Force of Dirty Harry.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood reprises his role as Inspector Harry Callahan of the San Francisco Police Department in Hang'em High director Ted Post's Dirty Harry sequel Magnum Force. The sturdy cast including Hal Holbrook, David Soul, Robert Ulrich, Tim Matheson, and Mitchell Ryan co-star with the lanky Eastwood and his Model 29 Smith & Wesson revolver. The vigorous John Milius & Michael Cimino screenplay serves to clarify our hero's law & order stance that he took so much flak for in Dirty Harry. Indeed, Magnum Force whitewashes Eastwood's saintly but insubordinate cop. Remember, in Dirty Harry, our hero ignored the law when he tried to save the life of a kidnapped girl. Harry's violation of the villain's Miranda rights, however, allowed the fiend to go free despite overwhelming evidence that he was the murderer. In Magnum Force, we find Harry back on the job. The filmmakers never explain what occurred in the interim, but it really doesn't matter. Harry is back and that is all that counts. Harry encounters a quartet of gung-ho 'young Turk' motorcycle traffic cops who are crack shots with their .357 magnum service revolvers.Magnum Force opens with an angry mob of citizens protesting the release of a mobster Ricca (career character actor villain Richard Devon) and his associates, who want out of court, climb into their automobile and tool off to freedom despite the crowd. They don't get very far before a uniformed traffic cop in black leather with a cream white helmet pulls them over for crossing the double lines on the freeway. When the thug driver gives the cop some lip, the cop&#151;who we cannot see because he is virtually anonymous in his regalia&#151;whips out of his service revolver and punches holes in all four of them, leaving them sprawled dead in the car. Harry investigates and his new superior, Lieutenant Neil Briggs (Hal Holbrook of The Great White Hope) chews him out for not being on the stake-out to which he has been assigned. By this time, Harry has acquired a new partner, an African-American (Felton Perry of the original Walking Tall) to show that he isn't a bigot. Harry takes Smith out to airport to grab a hamburger and stumbles onto a hijacking plot. Harry masquerades as an airline pilot to get aboard the jetliner and thwarts the swarthy looking hijackers with a few shots. When Harry gets back to the stake-out at a super market, he nails a couple of gun-toting bandits. Later, a pimp (Albert Popwell who played the bank robber in Dirty Harry that was on the receiving end of Callahan's speech) corners one of his girls at night and takes a stash of cash that she has been hording. He repays her greedy by pouring drain cleaner down her throat. The next time that we see the pimp he is being pulled over by another traffic cop. He offers the cop a bribe and the cop blows him away. prefer to take the law into their own hands and execute crooks that rely on the loopholes in justice to get out of being prosecuted from their crimes.Ted Post isn't half of the helmer that Don Siegel was, but Magnum Force pales by comparison with its predecessor. First, despite the presence of some strong villains, the bad guys are rather straightforward types. Nobody is as psychotic as Andy Robinson's Scorpio in Dirty Harry. The antagonists here are well-heeled gangsters with armies of gunmen or slickly dressed motorcycle cops with impenetrable sunglasses that make them look intimidating. All in all, Magnum Force is rather conventional. Dirty Harry fans would have to wait for Sudden Impact before the character had another memorable speech. The closest that Milius & Cimino come to a signature line is Harry's comment A man has got to know his limitations. Otherwise, the dialogue is as disposable as the spent shells that Harry empties from his revolver. The shoot-outs are staged with some competence, and lenser Frank Stanley's camera-work is far about average. There is a major shoot-out between a mob and Harry. Eventually, Harry winds up on the hood of the car being driven by a hood that conveniently loses control of the vehicle and impales himself on a crane. Early in the storyline, Harry stumbles across a career cop and an old friend, Officer Charlie McCoy (Mitchell Ryan of High Plains Drifter) who hates the system almost as much as Harry does and makes no pretense about it. Milius and Cimino use McCoy as the red herring. He appears to be the unhinged cop who has been killing thugs, that is, until he gets killed himself.A little more than half-way through the action, the badguys identify themselves to Harry and ask him to join them. Surprisingly, for them, Harry refuses to and it's only a matter of time before he has to confront them. As it turns out, Harry's worst suspicions have come true. Vigilante cops within the SFPD are knocking off suspected criminals with extreme prejudice. Eventually, Harry has to tangle with them aboard a mothballed aircraft carrier after a brisk but uneventful car chase. The motorcycle stunts come off looking tame.The biggest difference in Magnum Force from Dirty Harry is the relationships that Harry has with women. He had no woman in Dirty Harry, but here we see him date an Asian-American as well as Charlie's ex-wife. Harry never gets them between the sheets because he has to respond to some criminal emergency that cannot wait for him. Interestingly, according to scenarist John Milius&#151;in an above-average but less than satisfactorily complete commentary&#151;revealed that Eastwood had received mail from women requesting that he work women into the movies, but that the women come onto Harry instead of vice-versa. Magnum Force packs a lot of heat, but it cannot compare with Don Siegel's original. Hal Holbrook makes an okay villain. "},{"Title":"Great Movie But No Leading Actress","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" TITLE MAGNUM FORCE was release in theaters in the United States on Christmas Day in 1973 and time on this movie was 124 minutes. Clint Eastwood, Hal Holbrook, and Mitch Ryan Magnum Force is the 1973 sequel to the 1971 Dirty Harry film, starring Hal Holbrook, Mitvh Ryan and Clint Eastwood returning as maverick cop Harry Callahan. The film was released in 1973 and directed by Ted Post, who also directed Eastwood in TV's Rawhide and the feature film Hang 'Em High. The screenplay was written by John Milius (who provided an unaccredited rewrite for the original film) and Michael Cimino. This film features early appearances by David Soul, Tim Matheson, and Robert Urich as the vigilante traffic cops. It is also the longest Dirty Harry film, clocking in at 124 minutes.SUMMARY Carmine Ricca (Richard Devon), a known organized-crime kingpin, drives away from a court case where he was declared not guilty for a massacre of a whole family. Soon after, a motorcycle traffic cop stops Ricca's car and begins to write out a ticket for the driver, saying he had crossed the double-line. Suddenly, the cop pulls his service revolver, a .357 Magnum, shoots all four men in the car, and then calmly drives off. Later, Dirty Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) and his new partner Earlington Smith (Felton Perry) stop by to check out the crime scene, but Harry is no longer working in homicide due to his handling of the Scorpio case in the first film. Harry butts heads with his new superior, Lieutenant Briggs (Hal Holbrook), who orders him to return to his assigned stakeout. Harry instead takes his new partner to the airport for the best hamburgers in town. At the airport, he foils an aircraft hijacking, by impersonating a pilot that the hijackers were demanding. When one of the hijackers is distracted as Harry goes through the motions of preparing the plane for take-off, he slams on the brakes and takes the hijacker's gun after punching him unconscious, and shoots the first one dead. Back at the police academy, Harry encounters his friend Charlie McCoy (Mitchell Ryan), a fellow cop who is despondent, having just separated from his wife. When Harry suggests Charlie should retire, McCoy angrily vows never to do so, but to go out fighting. At a shooting range Harry meets a group of rookie motorcycle police officers, fresh from the Airborne Army Rangers, United States Army Special Forces, and out of the police academy Philip Sweet (Tim Matheson), John Davis (David Soul), Red Astrachan (Kip Niven), and Michael Grimes (Robert Urich). Meanwhile, more killings by the motorcycle traffic cops occur, including the murder of a murderous pimp (Albert Popwell) who killed one of his own prostitutes, and a host of underworld members at a private house party. Harry and his partner are transferred back to homicide. From the clues, he finds Harry thinks the killer is a traffic cop, and begins to suspect his despondent friend Charlie McCoy. Harry visits Charlie's wife and kids and finds out McCoy has been suicidal and living with a stripper. McCoy's wife makes a pass at him, but Early calls Harry and informs him a robbery at the store where they've been on stakeout is about to take place. Harry travels to the store and enters the back way, viewing the suspects through a one-way glass. The robbery takes place, but Harry, Early, and another police officer foil the robbers, killing all but one of them who gets away in a car.QUESTIONS Why does Harry think a Motorcycle cop committed the murder? Why was Charlie McCoy killed? Why did Harry turn his attention to towards the rookie cops? Why did Harry lose the shooting competition? Why was mob boss Frank Palancio the prime suspect? What was Lt Briggs hiding? What was planted in Harry mailbox? MY THOUGHTS I thought this movie was great because of the on the edge of your sit suspense. There's plenty of action and drama involve in this movie also. Based on the action and the suspense itself I give this movie 8 weasel stars. The only thing this movie lacked was a leading woman and that's why it doesn't get a 10. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry May Have Been The Original, But Magnum Force Rules","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've been privileged to see all of the Dirty Harry Films and while the original was a classic, I'll say Magnum Force was the best of the bunch. I say this because we now see the more extreme, darker version of Dirty Harry's techniques of ridding the streets of bad guys and Harry finding himself on the right side of the law this time in order to nail the bad guys, who just happen to be his fellow officers. Of course Harry realizes it will take more than just conventional police methods to bring them down. It's almost a teacher vs. students showdown and I found it very entertaining.I also liked the softer side of Harry Calahan as he enjoys some time with a cute neighbor, who happens to be Oriental. Something I found out later on that Clint Eastwood's popularity at the time was very high among Oriental women and he knew this so he decided to have an Oriental love interest in the film.Eastwood, of course, was awesome but I thought Hal Holbrook as Dirty Harry's ball-breaking superior was stellar as well. David Soul as the ringleader of the cold blooded, clean cut rookie cops was fantastic.Magnum Force...the best of a classic quintet. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Dirty Harry","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The second and the best of the Dirty Harry series Career criminals,gangsters,pimps and other undesirable elements are being wiped out.You would think everyone would be happy especially Harry but there's something sinister going on...A special death squad inside the SFPD led by Lt.Briggs are slaying the scum of society ruthlessly and without remorse.Armed with their colt pythons and wearing their motorbike uniforms many deaths are executed(consisting of a young David Soul) Many critics of this film state the excessive violence is unnecessary.I feel this is not justified as the death squad's anger at the justice's system lack of ability to deal with criminals needs to be accentuated.This is manifested in the following scenes, The killing of Polancio and his entourage.The murder of the pimp.The massacre at the pool.Their ferocious aggression surpasses even Harry's and is an integral part of the film.Harry needs to use his mind more to trap the killers instead of his usual unconventional methods.A cunning trick at the shooting contest gives him the evidence he needs to confirm his suspicions though he had no idea Lt.Briggs was directing the death squad.The music used from start to finish sets the tone and creates an atmosphere which is required for the film.The opening credits where Harry is seen holding his .44 magnum against a red background with the seventies music is awe inspiring.The ending sequence where Harry mutters A man's got to have limitationsis an iconic moment of movie history.A fantastic achievement for everyone involved and cemented Clint Eastwood's place in stardom.Encompassing everything needed in a cop film the sheer quality sets it apart from all competitors "},{"Title":"The best of the Dirty Harry movies!","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  ***MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS*** This is by far the best of all Dirty Harry movies (the worst, in my opinion, being The Enforcer)! Great character development coupled with good action and really good performances of Hal Holbrooke and David Soul (although we doesn't really see that much of him). Eastwood is really convincing and it seems as if he's more settled in the part than in the first. "}{"Title":"Down and Dirty Harry","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  MAGNUM FORCE (1973) ** Clint Eastwood, Hal Halbrook, David Soul, Tim Matheson, Robert Urich. Second Dirty Harry flick with Clint out to expose an elite vigilante faction of his police force with the usual justice a la Callahan.  Best line A man's got to know his limitations.  "},{"Title":"A Worthy Sequel","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Clint Eastwood does another good job playing the clever detective Harry Callahan. The action is well put together with a realistic, smart approach, unlike some dumb-down fare we have seen in the past (or should I say more recent times?). Kudos for making a sequel worthy to DIRTY HARRY.Detective Harry Callahan returns to homicide when it seems a vigilante has been taking the law into his own hands.The movie gives an episode-like feel and at many points puts you in the perspective of various characters. Nothing is over-dramatized, or overplayed. Save for the usual cliche remarks by Callahan, everything feels as fresh as could be! It is a well-made sequel with nice touches. "},{"Title":"Magnum Force IMO the best Dirty Harry movie.","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" SFPD Detective Dirty Harry Callahan finds himself in the middle of a conspiracy to change the face of police work from standard procedure to vigilante justice when he's faced with a string of murders committed by a secret cadre of assassins in the uniformed police.Magnum Force is my favorite of the Dirty Harry movies. Harry Callahan finds himself up against a problem, and a concept, that is bigger than his ability to easily deal with practically or intellectually. Rather than facing some vile criminal for whom he feels only disgust and contempt, his antagonists in MAGNUM FORCE are people whom he knows and likes, and with whom ehe even feels he has a lot in common. It's like he has to fight a more extreme version of himself. Also, unlike other Dirty Harry films, in MF he must use his investigative skills as well as his instincts to piece the situation together.Magnum Force is the most artful of the Dirty Harry films. Kudos to Ted Post! Rather than build the whole film around Clint Eastwood and Harry Callahan, he focuses on the story and direction and wisely lets Eastwood handle himself. The result is a city-wide crime scene through which Callahan must negotiate his way and pick up the pieces.The plot is sequenced very well and each scene is well filmed. The story features great, effective set pieces, such as the airplane hijacker scene, the grenade attack on the pool, and the pistol range contest. Ted Post makes good use of the San Franscisco back-drop, as well as having a lot of fun with the visual of a uniformed patrolman as both an object of terror as well as one of hope. A scene where Callahan is confronted in a parking garage by the renegade squad is chilling.Sole complaint Hal Holbrook's constant raspy CALLAHAN! snarl, repeated ad nauseum. "},{"Title":"Mainstream  1970's  Eastwood","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" We were viewing this film for the first time and the scene came up where Clint deals with an attempted air hijack. My brother made the comment I don't think this film is meant to be taken seriously. He (my brother) compared both the plot and production values unfavorably with the more intense and grittier Dirty Harry. That may be the case, but personally Magnum Force is one of my favorites in the Eastwood opus along with Hang em High, also directed by the redoubtable, but much-maligned Ted Post. Like Hang em High, Magnum Force has improved with age and one has to admit that Ted Post really wasn't such a bad director.Clint performs the usual Eastwood stuff in fine style, and one-liners like  A good man always knows his limitations have become legendary. However, Hal Holbrook in his excellent performance as Briggs has what in my opinion is a line to die for;  You're about to become extinct !, he snarls at Eastwood, when he very briefly has the drop on him. You just KNOW that Briggs is soon going to get what's coming to him in a big way. Anybody could have told him that pulling a heater on Dirty Harry is one really dumb move. Callahan demonstrates that he is more than capable of driving a car and punching out his boss at the same time!A useful, but not memorable performance from David Soul, and good back-up from a competent support cast. In style and format, this film anticipates a lot of Eastwood's own work as a director, and he once even admitted that he learned a few things from working with Post. The honest cop as outsider character is a perennial favorite with audiences and Eastwood has made good mileage out of the Callahan role over the years. I liked the Lalo Shifrin score and the classic opening credit sequence; it lets you know in advance not to go looking for too many deep insights in what is to follow. Overall, a reasonable production in the crash autos/shoot assholes genre and like Dirty Harry and Bullitt, its now a real West Coast period piece. Younger audiences really dig the seventies clothes, old automobiles, and traditional car-chase sequences, especially the motorcycle showdown on the derelict carrier...... Briggs was right; you guys lack experience.A movie not to be taken TOO seriously. R. B. "},{"Title":"Harry Callahan's Back On The Job","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" At the end of Dirty Harry, Clint Eastwood throws a way his badge and ID after ending the life of that evil piece of protoplasm Scorpio. The intention obviously was like High Noon when Gary Cooper just threw away the marshal's badge after killing four Miller brothers, Eastwood was quitting the San Francisco PD.Well he must have thought better of it because Harry Callahan became such an iconic figure that the public wanted him back on the job. So Eastwood made the first of four sequels in Magnum Force.Somebody is doing a great job in reviving the vigilante tradition of San Francisco with a string of assassinations, starting with the opening sequence of a shooting of a labor/racketeer who massacred a rival and his whole family. Shades of the United Mine Worker's Tony Boyle and what he did with Joseph Yablonski. A pimp who murders a prostitute who was withholding on him, there's another massacre at the house of a drug dealer, it's getting open season on criminals.His supervisor Hal Holbrook hates his guts, but there's no one like Harry Callahan for these kinds of cases. Mitchell Ryan who's an old friend of Eastwood plays a cop falling apart at the seams and he looks good for it. And there's a group of four sharp shooting rookies on motorcycle patrol, Tim Matheson, David Soul, Kip Niven, and Robert Urich. Any one of them could be our vigilante. In a way Magnum Force is the polar opposite of Charles Bronson's Death Wish films. Bronson's pretty good at selecting some of the right kind of criminal scum to eradicate, but doing this seems to offend Eastwood although Deity only knows, this has been his game for a long time.There's a nice climatic sequence with an unarmed Eastwood dealing with the responsible party for all of this. Magnum Force is every bit the equal of Dirty Harry in action and violence.In the end as Clint's famous tag line in this film says, it turns out that Dirty Harry was dealing with a man who did not know his limitations. "},{"Title":"Don't we wish???","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dynamite entertainment with super performances by all. Special mention for David Soul and Felton Perry.This could be a VERY REAL situation as was mentioned in the film. A squad that carries out justice when lying lawyers and jaded judges put the cuffs on the police instead of the criminals. A serious movement is developing in this country for justice and retribution instead of insane and illogical pity for these animals The only disappointing aspect of the film is the ending when Harry should have joined with Briggs and the boys. What a sequel that would have made!! "},{"Title":"known as the worst, this is the BEST of the DH movies!!!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  i don't care what anyone says, MAGNUM FORCE is the best of the Harrys. it has action and a cool plot and great guns. what else do you need? and a cool costar cast, including David Soul, Hal Halbrook, Tim Matheson, and Robert Urich. we get to enjoy a phantom CHP cop killing bad guys who deserve it, that is, it's entertaining to watch the set-up of each murder. this takes up the first hour of the movie. there's one great scene involving a pistol range shoot-off between Eastwood and David Soul. this happens in the pivot of the film and brings the movie into a great divide. I won't give anything away except that Eastwood's last shot in the contenst is pretty classic. there are some awesome action scenes here. and once again Albert Popwell shows up as a pimp. he's the guy who's appeared in all the DH movies, except DEAD POOL. the story is written by John Milius (BIG WEDNESDAY, APOCOLYPES NOW) and oscar winner Michael Cimino (THE DEER HUNTER, THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT). and there's some great hammy acting too, done a little by the always over-the-hop Hal Halbrook (whose overacting is an artform) and also by one of the 'greatest' overractors of all time, Mitch Ryan (ELECTRA GLIDE IN BLUE, LETHAL WEAPON). so enjoy this seventies gem, it's the best of the five DH's and yet it's always gotten the rap as the worst. the first Dirty Harry was marred by the horrific overacting of Andrew Robinson (the Scorpio Killer), the third was just okay (I call it HARRY AND LACY), the fourth, my second favorite, was pretty good but a little too slick and glossy, and the last one is, well - Jim Carrey lipsynching Welcome to the Jungle; need I say more? MAGNUM FORCE is the best of the best... and look out for Suzanne Sommer's in a short, but very memorable (hubba hubba) cameo... WHAM BAM!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"brilliant movie","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have just watched this movie and i love it. I must admit though i enjoyed this film far more than Dirty Harry because i like the story of Magnum Force where the traffic cops are doing all the killings of all the drugs bosses and the low life racketeers 10 out of 10 for this movie. "},{"Title":"Exciting Violent Dirty Harry Movie With Good Story And Strong Cast","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When a string of apparent vigilante killings of notorious criminals hits San Fransisco, it's up to Inspector Harry Callahan to find out who's responsible.This is the second Dirty Harry movie, and in some ways its interesting premise is a reaction to the first film, which was (incorrectly) labelled by many critics as right-wing fascist propaganda. What if Harry were to come across a group of police vigilantes who took the law into their own hands and dealt out punishments as they saw fit ? Would he admire them ? Join them ? Arrest them ? It's an intriguing idea, and the script by John Milius and Michael Cimino explores it well, juggling Harry's contempt for political hogs and bleeding hearts with his moral values and objective view of society. If the writing has a flaw, it's that it takes a bit too long to get going, with four separate attacks before the good guys start to figure what's up. It's also not for the squeamish, with several gleefully violent sequences (a pool party gets ripped to pieces with a machine gun, a hooker is forced to drink drain cleaner, a naked woman is shot and falls from a penthouse balcony, a mobster is skewered by a crane), all edited for maximum impact by seasoned cutter Ferris Webster. The film is also a seventies style classic, most notably for Lalo Schifrin's delicious music and Popwell's classic Pimpmobile, a pink Cadillac Eldorado with crazy side vents, faux leather roof and sheepskin upholstery. Eastwood is in fine form (A man's gotta know his limitations.) in this his signature role - in some alternate universe I think he is forever driving round Frisco in a green LTD with a wah-wah pedal on the soundtrack running down hoodlums - and the support cast is strong, notably reliable old pro Holbrook as the superior officer with a big secret, and Perry in the thankless partner role. The final twenty minutes features top-notch stuntwork by Buddy Van Horn and Carey Loftin, as Harry is first chased through the streets in his car and then takes refuge on foot in an abandoned aircraft carrier. Perhaps this movie could use a little tightening, but all in all a fine thriller and a seventies crime classic. "},{"Title":"The most cartoonish--and enjoyable--of the original three Dirty Harry films","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fun, absurd installment in the Dirty Harry saga finds Harry back on the force (minus an explanation of how/why he fished his badge out of the river after killing Scorpio at the end of the first film), trying to figure out who's circumventing the justice system by killing hit men, drug dealers, and pimps on the mean streets of San Francisco. Clint Eastwood is charismatic and completely over the top as Harry, Hal Holbrook is great as his cranky, uptight lieutenant, and Lalo Schifrin delivers his most memorably brash soundtrack (though Enter the Dragon is a close second). Magnum Force is miles away from the deadly seriousness of Dirty Harry, but it boasts enough shootouts, car chases, and gritty dialogue to satisfy any fan of cop films. "}{"Title":"This one gives vigilantism a whole new meaning!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you thought Dirty Harry was something, well you haven't seen anything like this. Magnum Force was high impact, high octane movie that will leave you on the edge of your seat. Dirty Harry Callahan(Clint Eastwood) is San Francisco's rogue policeman. However, he's seemed to have met his match, three times. A group of vigilante cops are killing off the scum, and somehow Callahan isn't too thrilled about it. First, a crime boss gets off, and is offed. Then the family of the crime family gets blitzed. Then the pimp who shoved drain cleaner down a prostitute's throat gets pumped. Then I liked the scene where Harry meets the new crew, at the target range, and shows how his .44 Magnum packs a punch. One of them had some trouble handling it because of the weight. His shooting tactics were hardcore. The cast of the rogues were great David Soul(Before Starsky& Hutch), Robert Urich,1946-2002(Before S.W.A.T, VEGA$, and Spenser For Hire) The action was not lost, and the climax was top notch. I enjoyed very well! 5 STARS! "},{"Title":"A man's got to know his limitations.","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Of all the Dirty Harry movies, this is the one that characterizes Harry Callahan the best. Yes, he is a cop that stretches the line between good and evil, just as Danny Lee does in The Killer, but, when it comes to the line, he will not step over.There is even a Bond girl (Adele Yoshioka) in this one, and in her brief appearance, she shows more than any Bond girl ever did.Great action, a little love, and the bad guys (not who you think) all get it in the end Dirty Harry style. When will they learn not to mess with him?hey, there is even a cameo by Suzanne Somers. Look close. "},{"Title":"Good ones generally are older","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Isn't it true that the good ones are the older ones? I saw Unforgiven recently and thought it was pretty poor compared with the old Eastwood. I am buying this movie over the internet. Good work Clint! "},{"Title":"Best Terrorism Movie","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry takes on the Death Squad of rookie cops- all Special Forces veterans. For 1973, the violence of the film makes today's action films meek by comparison. It features assassinations, bombings, shooting sprees, and bare-handed murder scenes in explicit detail. The former Marine Dirty Harry-Red Astrachan fight to the death gave me chills! It is the best terrorism movie bar none. The forerunner to Lethal Weapon and Die Hard, its the perfect Post-9/11 film about the lone cop who stumbles on a secret organization- and lives to tell. A man's got to know his limitations. is the best line. All the casting is excellent as is cinematography and dialogue. Look for David Soul and Tim Matheson in early roles. 9/10 "},{"Title":"There is nothing wrong with shooting as long as the right people get shot!","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After watching Dirty Harry, I wasn't all too thrilled to push myself to see the sequels. But, seeing as how I love Eastwood's movies, I went for it and well, was actually wrong.This was quite a memorable sequel. There were a lot of good moments to remember, many good characters/acting, lots of good twists, and Clint Eastwood (of course).Clint Eastwood is perfect as Harry Callahan, enough said. Hal Holbrook held up well as the demeaning Lt. Briggs. Mitch Ryan was also very well picked for Officer Charlie McCoy, Harry's old friend. Felton Perry was enjoyable as Early, Harry's partner of this movie. David Soul, Tim Matheson, Kip Niven, and Robert Urich were fun to watch as the new recruits for the police force.Fans of Dirty Harry should give this one a try.9/10. "},{"Title":"Magnum Force","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry was a fantastic crime thriller, and even though this follow-up isn't as gripping, it certainly isn't terrible. Basically San Francisco detective Insp. 'Dirty' Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is this time on the hunt for some killers who are murdering not innocent good people, but many major criminals, e.g. mafia, drug dealers, pimps, and these killers are in fact vigilante motorbike riding cops. There is not much more to say, other than there are one or two chases, a bomb disabling and explosion, and three expected deaths at the end. Also starring Hal Holbrook as Lt. Neil Briggs, Felton Perry as Insp. Early Smith, Mitchell 'Mitch' Ryan as Officer Charlie McCoy, David Soul as Officer John Davis, Tim Matheson as Officer Phil Sweet, Robert Urich as Officer Mike Grimes and Kip Niven as Officer Red Astrachan. The performance by Eastwood is still fine, and there are one or two moments to catch your eye, but I can't say this is just as good or better than the predecessor. Clint Eastwood was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 61 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Harry Callahan was number 17 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains. Worth watching! "}]