[{"Title":"Positively surreal Blaxploitation Bond","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"67 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" And none the worse for it, since every Bond film needs a fresh spin on the same old formula. Roger Moore's first outing as JB is, in equal measures, comical and action-packed. You'll never get bored. But it's definitely the weirdest Bond ever with loads of utterly bizarre moments.It begins with M turning up at JB's house in the early hours while he's pumping some Italian agent for information (don't you just love his initialled dressing gown). Before sending him to America to investigate a Harlem pimp known as Mister Big he delivers some gadgets from Q-Branch, including a very useful watch. Q himself, or Major Boothroyd if you want to call him by his proper name, doesn't make any appearance in this one.Standing out like a Muslim in an airport, almost every single black person JB encounters in Harlem is on Mister Big's payroll. And they've got a seemingly endless bag of tricks to play on him. The funny thing about Moore is that he's very proper and British and doesn't think anything of walking into a tough Harlem bar while dressed up like the Duke of Edinburgh. His stunned reactions when they mess with his head are seriously funny.The action then moves to Lousiana and a savage Caribbean island as JB uncovers a massive heroin plot. There's a particularly long speedboat chase across a bayou where JB encounters Sheriff J.W. Pepper, the most stereotypical southern redneck ever. Think of Texas Businessman from The Simpsons and you get the idea. JB also gets to dodge a hundred hungry Gators and do, many times over, Solitaire, Mister Big's Tarot card reader.I'm not sure what kind of formidable villain uses a Tarot card reader to help him do business but when you also surround yourself with a hook-handed maniac called Tee-Hee, a quiet fat guy called Whisper and a seemingly unkillable voodoo high priest called Baron Samedi then you really do become a serious baddie. Right? He even goes on a big speech about how his master plan works before attempting to kill JB slowly. Obviously this makes much more sense than just shooting him right away. When will they learn?Despite being the oldest actor to debut as Bond (at 46), Moore does look younger than Connery. And while Sean was gruff and Scottish, Moore is perpetually calm and refined, even in the face of danger (fingers being chopped-off, snake in the bath, being eaten by gators/sharks). Everything that the British once thought they were. He has a certain sarcastic edge that the other Bond actors lacked. While some of his films may have been the sillier of the franchise, Moore has always been my favorite. And the massive revolver and holster he uses at the end is so much more masculine than the usual, wimpy as hell, Walther PPK.And, as much as I am no fan of Paul McCartney, you gotta love that theme song! Exciting and iconic at the same time. And also yet another juxtaposition in the weirdest Bond movie ever. MI6, Harlem, Pimps, Paul McCartney, Gators, Heroin, Voodoo, Snakes, Sharks, Clairvoyance, Rednecks, Afros, Fake Afros, Fillet of Soul, Human Scarifice, Scarecrows and a small-headed man in a Top-Hat who lost a fight with chickens. Is this a Bond film or did the whole world just go insane? "},{"Title":"Bond Over Easy, Cool But Dumb","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"66 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Was Roger Moore channeling Austin Powers in 1973? There's a scene in this, his first go-round as 007, where Bond is tied up and his arm is cut to draw blood and attract some hungry sharks swimming below. Moore twitches his eyebrow and asks Perhaps we can try something in a simpler vein.Those sharks don't need any frickin' laser beams on their heads to get you to smell the Austin. Moore gets a lot of blame for turning the Bond movies into weakly-plotted farces, ignoring that the series had been moving in that direction since Goldfinger and that the previous installment, Sean Connery's final EON bow Diamonds Are Forever, was every bit as goofy. Also, Moore could deliver a more serious Bond when the script allowed, and two of the finest Bonds ever, The Spy Who Loved Me and For Your Eyes Only, were his.But there's no getting around this, Live And Let Die is a dumb movie. The gadgets are silly, the villain's scheme is ill-defined, the storyline is frenetic and unengaging, the action is plodding and overlong. Moore starts out not quite know how to play Bond here, while the movie requires him to play the fool sauntering through Harlem in a double-breasted suit like the Prince of Wales waiting for some natives to show him around.But this film makes me smile, in part because I'm young enough to remember what it was all about when it came out. If this was Bond for the cheap seats, it at least delivered the goods, with some vivid supporting characters, a knockout visual style, amazing title music from Paul McCartney, and most importantly for Moore's future in the series, drop-dead quips. My favorite is when the nasty Tee Hee twists his pistol muzzle out of shape with a metal pincer arm, then giggles when he hands it back Funny how the least little thing amuses him.Julius Harris is menacing but charming as Tee Hee, mostly mute except when he sticks Bond in a gator pond and suggests the best way to disarm the beasts is to try and pull out their teeth. Chief villain Yaphet Kotto has his moments, too, but with odd shifts of character. In the beginning, he's stone-cold Ron O'Neal in Superfly, and at the end, he's plummy Charles Gray in Diamonds Are Forever. Jane Seymour is Bond's love interest, and why she goes off with him is another of those things best not thought about long.There are two great characters in this movie, though, bigger than just about anything seen in a Bond movie before who kind of work in tandem in overhauling any objections about this film being too cartoony. Clifton James is redneck sheriff J.W. Pepper, who throws off one madman line after another while Bond is off on one of his long silly chase scenes. James mugs through every scene he's in, rolling his tongue around, playing off everyone and everything, and delivering every hackneyed Southern stereotype to such righteous perfection it's enough to make cotton sprout out of his ears. Bond purists who whine should just take their vodka martinis shaken not stirred and let the rest of us enjoy the craziness. The series is supposed to be fun; if you want serious espionage go watch Smiley's People. (I grant you Pepper shouldn't have returned in the next Bond film; that was a mistake.)The other great outsized character is Geoffrey Holder as perhaps the most mysterious figure in the whole series, Baron Samedi. Is he supernatural? Is he just crazy from the heat? He's certainly different, a guy who sides with the bad guys without quite being one of them. The always-eerie quality of his appearances, either dancing in a big hotel production number or quietly sitting in a cemetery playing a flute, make you question whether there ain't something to that voodoo after all.It's silly bashing Pepper but praising Samedi, they are both equally so unreal, in a way that's in tune with the rest of the movie. The best thing to do is enjoy the different kinds of fun on offer. Frankly, not having these guys around might push this film on the bad side of Spinal Tap's fine line between stupid and clever, the side where A View To A Kill and Moonraker are on.But Live And Let Die is a winner. It's a fun movie that brings me back to younger days, when my heart was an open book. It's a nice transitional film for the series in that Moore managed a mostly smooth entrance to the role of Bond. And it has one of the best final shots in movie history. That's all I'll say there; you know it if you saw it. "},{"Title":"Moore introduces his trademark cigar into his interpretation of 007...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Live and Let Die' is the only film that matches Bond exclusively against African-American drug czars... It is the only other movie besides 'Dr. No' with no briefing with Q, no meeting in M's office, and no musical score from the great John Barry... The motion picture begins with one of the most arresting openings of any Bond film, the killing of three British agents one in Harlem New York, one in New Orleans and one on the island of San Monique...Bond is called to investigate the deaths of the three British spies... He is menaced by a venomous snake in his hotel room, and cornered in the middle of a pool full of alligators... He stumbles upon a heroin trade operation presided by two contrasting personalities, Dr. Kananga and Mr. Big...Yaphet Kotto is ruthless and calculating as the black master criminal... His position is shored up by the application of fortune-telling and magic charms... Under the alias of Harlem hood Mr. Big, Kananga plans to flood the US with free heroin... His entourage includes the mystical Baron Samedi (Geoffrey Holder) who may or may not be a supernatural being, and Tee Hee (Julius W. Harris) one of the best henchmen in a Bond film... Tee Hee is an intimidating giant enforcer with quite a 'right hand'... He seems amused by 'the least little thing,' after he twists Bond's gun barrel...Before he became James Bond on screen, Roger Moore was a successful television actor who was respected for his work in such series as Maverick, The Persuaders, and, especially, The Saint. In his first appearance as 007, Moore wears a refined black jacket, dark gloves, and a magnetic wristwatch... He carries a shark gun that fires compressed-air bullets, and drinks the martini shaken not stirred... He enjoys a large cigar after a hot bath... He tries hard to conceal the presence of his early guest, and goes into trouble when he tricks a mystical mistress using a fake deck of tarot cards... He claims to be a 'gentleman' when he refuses to tell his interrogator whether or not he's deflowered his chaste priestess... He becomes highly in danger in the land of black magic and fetishes...Jane Seymour looks innocent in the ways of the world... She is lovely as the clairvoyant heroine Solitaire, whose powers fade after being romanced by the suave, and handsome English 007 Spy...Rosie Carver is Playboy bunny Gloria Hendry, the weak CIA agent whose loyalty is controlled by a few bloody feathers...Madeleine Smith is the voluptuous Miss Caruso who's undone by Bond's sheer magnetism... She is seduced with the aid of a watch that magnetically tugged down her zipper...This eighth James Bond film is an entertaining spy adventure which went so far as to fail to include Q, forever played by actor Desmond Llewelyn... "},{"Title":"A new era for James Bond, and a fairly effective and enjoyable opening film.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die ushers in Roger Moore as the new James Bond. Prior to this movie, Bond had been played most often by Sean Connery, with the one exception being George Lazenby's short-lived stint in 1969 (On Her Majesty's Secret Service). Moore is very different to Connery and Lazenby. He plays Bond as a more relaxed, charming, humorous character. Over the years, many people have said that the Moore incarnation of Bond lacks the brutality of Connery's and the hard masculinity, but actually Moore is not the kind of actor to do Bond in that manner. He's merely playing to his own strengths, and creating a Bond that is akin to his acting style. I feel that Roger makes a perfectly likable 007, admittedly different to the character of the novels, but still a rousing screen hero.The story has James Bond sent to solve the killing of three British agents. One was killed in New York, one in New Orleans, and the third on a voodoo-practising Caribbean island. Bond's starts his mission in New York, where he runs across a nasty black gangster named Mr Big and his gorgeous, tarot-reading accomplice Solitaire (Jane Seymour). Bond heads down to the Caribbean, where he connects Mr Big with a drug-smuggling big-shot named Dr Kananga. Then it's off to New Orleans, where Bond discovers that Kananga's master plan is to provide huge amounts of free heroin to the junkies of the world, creating a massive drug-reliant population and setting himself up as a supplier with a worldwide monopoly on the drug trade.The title song, sung by Paul McCartney and Wings is one of the best of the series, a lively and powerful tune which fits the style and period of the film perfectly. Yaphet Kotto is a decent bad guy (his death scene at the end is both funny and memorable); Seymour is superb as the Bond girl (probably the best of the bunch apart from Barbara Bach in The Spy Who Loved Me). There are good set pieces as we have grown to expect from the Bond series, most notably a spectacular boat chase around the Louisiana bayous, a scene involving a bunch of hungry crocodiles, and a slick sequence featuring Bond's escape from corrupt island police aboard a slow and lumbering double decker bus. The film has some negatives, but not too many. The character of Baron Samedi doesn't fit in the film (check out that ludicrous closing shot, which seems to be hinting that Samedi is somehow immortal), and Clifton James's brash southern cop is an immature and irritating character who might just as well have been left out of the final cut. On the whole this is a good start to the Moore era, though. One point of interest- Live and Let Die also features a scene in Bond's house at the very start..... only once before have we seen where Bond lives, and that was at the start of Dr No. "},{"Title":"Names is for tombstones, baby!","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ignoring a Roger Moore who presents a bit of a distraction for viewers  watching the series in order, Live And Let Die is an excellent example of  how pop culture helps the Bond series survive throughout the decades.  The  growing concern of a drug-using society at the time is featured, and an  immensely popular Paul McCartney does the title theme - indicating that the  Bond series need not be rooted solidly in the three-piece suit days of  1962.  Jane Seymour gives an excellent performance in her introductory  role (although it was her fourth film).  A bit of black magic and voodoo  intertwined with gadgetry and high-tech machinery will have the viewer  wondering if, indeed, there was magic in the movie after all - indeed, the  cards WERE always right under Solitaire's power.  Magical or not, Live and  Let Die provides an interesting doorway to the other five Moore pictures -  J.W. Pepper  returns and Tee Hee seems to be Jaws' forerunner.    "},{"Title":"Good Bond movie with a good line in bad guys","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"29 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Several British agents are killed in America and in the Caribbean.  Despite the difference in how the murders occur they seem linked together by drugs.  Bond begins to investigate and finds links between the American drug dealer Mr Big and the mysterious owner of a Caribbean island Kananga.  While investigating Bond falls foul of both despite gaining the affections of Kananga's beautiful mistress Solitaire.Roger Moore's first Bond is one of his best.  The film wisely steps away from those regular bad guys the Russians and gets a new feel by actually having non-white main characters.  The plot is pretty good and doesn't have the usual `take over the world' feel to it.  There is plenty of silly stuff of course but the stunts are quite good and Bond has a new line in `eyebrow raised' humour.Moore will never be the best Bond but he did make the role his own &#150; adding an element of self-deprecating humour to the role.  Yaphet Kotto is a good actor and makes a good bad guy.  Jane Seymour isn't convincing as the mystic property of Kananga &#150; she really should have been played by a black actress and it shows a lack of bravery on the side of the producers that they went with a white face as the lead Bond girl.  Julius Harris is good as Tee Hee and Clifton James adds some comedy value as J.W. Pepper.Overall this is one of Moore's best Bond movies and certainly stands out from previous films with numerous Russian baddies.  Also the theme music is a really fun song from Wings. "},{"Title":"Peculiar, but not bad","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a whole, Live and Let Die is a pretty peculiar Bond film. Its characters and settings are rather unusual for a James Bond movie, not to mention the trifling with voodoo culture. However, the result is not bad.Spiced with the awful 70s fashion, Live and Let Die is fun to watch. Of course the film has also intentional stylishness that shows particularly in the clever pre-credit sequence, which contains the murders of three British agents.Yaphet Kotto gives a strong performance as the infamous main villain, Dr. Kananga. Kananga has many colorful henchmen, like the grinning Tee Hee, who does a very handy job opening a tin. Jane Seymour's Solitaire is a truly graceful Bond girl, but the useless role of Rosie Carver should have been deleted, or recast, at least. And where's Q?Live and Let Die isn't Roger Moore's best Bond outing, but not his worst, either. It's definitely better than his next one, the thoroughly tiresome The Man with the Golden Gun. "},{"Title":"Lean, mean, but lacklustre","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's debut as 007 was a bit wan but, in retrospect, probably his best outing. He looked pretty lean and mean for a 45 year-old. For a British audience, Moore (The Saint, The Persuaders) was the natural successor to Sean Connery.Director Guy Hamilton makes this an expertly staged but somehow lacklustre affair. While the background voodoo theme is suitably bizarre, the main McGuffin about drugs smuggling is rather under-whelming for a Bond movie. Yaphet Kotto is a potentially strong baddie but has too little to do amid the familiar carnage and boat chases. And the introduction of the series' first out-rightly comic character in Sheriff JW Pepper presaged the self-defeating lapse into self-spoofing the films would increasingly take.Nor does a heavy-handed score by Beatles producer George Martin help. Unlike regular Bond composer John Barry's music, Martin's is ponderous, overlaid onto the action rather than organic to it.Still, Paul McCartney's blistering title-song really jolts Bond into the 70s. And Live and Let Die does have one of the best jokes in the entire series, in the opening sequence when a CIA agent, watching a New Orleans jazz funeral, innocently asks a nondescript fellow bystander Who's funeral is it&#133;? "},{"Title":"Poorly done adventure kicks off the Roger Moore era","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With Sean Connery finally leaving the role of James Bond, Englishman Roger Moore became his successor. While Moore would eventually leave his own stamp on the part, he is much too stiff and tentative here. He does not resemble Sean Connery in looks or mannerisms. Bond is way too nice to his adversaries, often conversing with them as if they are his good friends. Sean Connery's Bond would never say thank you after being roughed up and shoved out a door. This problem stains the entire movie, and led me to question Bond's good judgment. Moore would get better, but he is caught in a weak plot involving drug smuggling and the voodoo nonsense of Baron Saturday.The air of absurdity materializes as early as the pre-title sequence, where a British agent watches a funeral procession that turns out being his own. This is one of three rather ludicrous killings that melt into Paul McCartney's famous title song. Unfortunately, the best theme in the series is the high point of the movie. Any hope that will improvement will come thoroughly dashed within fifteen minutes.Bond starts an investigation of the three aforementioned murders, all connected to Dr. Kananga (Yaphet Kotto), the prime minister of a small island nation. Bond's mission takes him to Harlem, where he discovers a link between Kananga and criminal mobster Mr. Big, both later revealed to be the same person. Aiding Kananga/Mr. Big is a lusciously beautiful tarot card reader named Solitaire (Jane Seymour) and a vast organization of stereotyped cronies.Live and Let Die is a flop in nearly every way. In addition to Moore's poor rendition of Bond, the action is lackluster, the characters are irritating, the soundtrack is terrible, the style is incongruous, and the film is racist. All the black people use fractured blackspeak and are either drug dealers or mob enforcers. Adam (Tommy Lane) orders some lazy henchmen to chase Bond saying, The man who gets him stays alive! Now MOVE YOU MOTHERS! Later, he encounters hick Sheriff J.W. Pepper (Clifton James) and risks his organization's entire plot by not shooting him.Pepper is also an annoying, negative stereotype who undermines the film's best scene. Writer Tom Mankiewicz says he included Pepper so he could make fun of all groups equally. Since when are the Bond films about making fun of people? I bet Albert Broccoli would have shuddered if he heard during the making of From Russia with Love that the series would one day come to this.Finally, the movie's climax is poorly written and executed. Bond carelessly leaves one of his weapons lying around for anyone to find, leaving him defenseless. It is the second time that he essentially allows himself to be captured. Maybe Mankiewicz and director Guy Hamilton were just looking for an excuse to create a brawl. Moore was never particularly good at brawls.Despite its myriad of flaws, Live and Let Die has three positives. The most obvious one is Solitaire, Kananga's radiant mistress and the film's best character. Solitaire is intentionally vulnerable, and Seymour understands that well. As for the eye candy, Solitaire is arguably the most physically attractive Bond girl.The other two positives are Kananga and his aide Tee-Hee (Julius W. Harris). Not surprisingly they are the only two non-stereotyped blacks. Kotto plays Kananga as an intelligent, well-expressed man who is in complete control of his emotions. Only Max Zorin is a more effective Moore era villain. Bond and Tee-Hee's train fight at the end is one of the few jewels of Moore's time although it does not approach the original in From Russia with Love. The idea of a bad guy trying to kill Bond after the victory is won occurred in five of the eight films by this point and lost its appeal.As far as 007 adventures go, Live and Let Die is one of the worst despite its three good characters. Moore would improve, and but it would take until 1977 to undo the damage from the film and its successor. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite James Bond movies","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I can't understand why some other people didn't like it. Actually this is the first Bond movie I've seen, it made a big impression on me and it still does. I found this movie being one of the most colorful Bond movies. There were few colorful villains, lots of action, some humor, and of course - Roger Moore who is my favorite James Bond. The story isn't typical for James Bond movies, it's more mystical this time, but I liked that. Of course nowadays when you watch this movie it may look cheesy in some scenes, but the action sequences where very exiting. Another reason why I liked this movie was the main theme song - Paul McCartney's Live and Let Die, which is yet my favorite James Bond theme. "}{"Title":"An Average Bond Aventure","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Updating Ian Fleming's most controversial novel, Live And Let Die, the producers, writer Tom Mankiewicz, and director Guy Hamilton choose to embrace the action packed comical Bond film as seen in the previous Bond film Diamonds Are Forever. Unlike that film, which turned out to be a very mixed bag, it works here.Roger Moore's debut as Bond sets up the tone of the films to come. Roger is more comic than Connery or Lazenby and in his later films is stuck with very bad one liners. But here, Bond's one liners are mostly well written and while Roger is mostly comedic, when a serious moment comes, Roger for the most part can play well. Roger makes his own Bond and steps out of Connery's shadow so well that it is extremely hard to make a comparison. On the down side, the more comedic 007 doesn't help the film in the realism department and that hurts the film quiet a bit.In the casting of Solitaire, Jane Seymour fits Ian Fleming's description of the character to perfection. Not only does Seymour look the part, she also plays the part well. Given that in both the novel and the film, Solitaire is a poorly defined character who Bond saves at every possible chance, Jane Seymour plays the role with believability that is rarely matched by an any other Bond girl. While some of the lines are cliché, the tarot card and ESP abilities of Solitaire give Seymour a chance to show off her considerable talents that have only improved over the years since this film.In Doctor Kananga, we get the first African American villain in a Bond film. Yaphet Kotto brings considerable menace to the character that is turned on and off as Kananga is both a public figure and then as drug lord Mister Big. It must be noted the well done plot twist of Mister Big being Kananga, though it doesn't make a lot of sense. Two things ruin an otherwise memorable character his death. His death is completely absurd and doesn't even seem realistic.The supporting cast is mainly African American actors and actresses playing villains. That fact brings out the fact that while this a 007 adventure, it is also jumping on the blaxplotation bandwagon of the early 1970's and serves to date the film. Those actors are underwritten and way too often used for comic relief. Rosie Carver is another example. She is an interesting character who is underwritten to the extreme and we come off not caring that she is dead.While on the subject of the supporting cast, it should be note that David Hedison makes a great Felix Lieter. The bad memory of Norman Burton's Lieter as this Bond and Lieter share a very believable friendship. It is only a shame that the character doesn't appear again for 14 years as he could have added a lot to the Moore films. If there is one outstanding example of a bad character in this film, it has to be Sheriff J.W. Pepper. This type of character is out of place in a Bond film and one almost wonder's what everyone was thinking when this character was added. Most if Pepper's lines are cringe worthy, though the scene at the end of the boat chase where Pepper confronts Bond is the film's best comedic moment.The film can be best viewed as a chase film. The film is really a bunch of chases that the plot revolves around. While this is usually the kiss of death for any film (look at 1997's Tomorrow Never Dies for example), it works here. The chases are well done and, despite thirty plus years of other action films, are exciting. The tension in the film is primarily found in these chases and fights that test's the abilities of 007. While humor fills these chases, which ruined many chase sequences in Diamonds Are Forever, it works here. If there is anything to complain about these chases, it is the occasional lack of music. This is no more apparent than in the film's best chase the boat chase.The boat chase is the film's lengthiest sequence and with good reason. The boat chase takes us across the buoy and showcases some amazing stunt work. The chase is occasionally hampered down by appearances by J.W. Pepper and his merry band of idiot cops. The chase is one of the better sequences to appear in the series and has truly stood the test time.The music for the film marks a milestone in the Bond films. This was the first time ever John Barry didn't compose any music for the film. George Martin, a long time Beetles producer, was hired to the score and he created the best non-Barry Bond score until David Arnold's score for Tomorrow Never Dies 24 years later. The score has a great feel to it and doesn't feel dated at all. Martin is however guilty for leaving some of the action un-scored. The boat chase is for the large part un-scored, but when the music comes on the excitement. Martin does a very good take on the James Bond Theme and the film's score is built around an excellent main title song. The song is an unabashed rock song, but it fits very well with Maurice Binder's title sequence.With a good main cast, a shaky supporting cast, good action sequences, an excellent tile song and a wonderful score by George Martin, Live And Let Die saved James Bond. Though when it is viewed in context with the rest of the series, it comes off as above average. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Bond Films","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is Roger Moore's first Bond movie and I liked it.  Roger Moore does a great job in the part and this was the first of many excellent Bond films.  In this one James Bond is caught up in a mystery with the United Nations and drugs. Odd combination? Well wait until some odd activity pops up in the Caribbean.  I will say this Bond has one of the best supporting casts I have seen In a Bond movie.  First Yaphet Kotto is one of the best villains.  There is something a bit odd about him but you will find out what it is in the movie.  Jane Seymour is a good Bond girl as well.  This was her film debut as well.  David Hedison is very good as Felix Leiter.Special mention should go to the other villains as well.  Julius W. Harris is awesome as Tee Hee, and Geoffrey Holder as Baron Samedi is very good.  The villains in this movie hit the perfect spot between menacing and odd.  Gloria Hendry plays another Bond girl, the first African-American to be so, and the last until Halle Berry in Tomorrow Never Dies.This one is different from all of the other Bond movies.  The movie is a bit faster paced than previous Bond films and Roger Moore plays the role in a less serious way then his predecessor did.  One thing I loved about this Bond movie was just how 70's it was.  This movie definitely works as a time capsule if not for anything else.  I like the way they dressed themselves. The action is not so tense.  This Bond seems to have the ability to laugh at itself.  This was one of the most enjoyable Bond films.  The movie capitalized on the Blaxploitation films popular at the time of this movies release.  The other thing I liked about this movie is that this movie had Bond getting in a lot more traps than normal.  He is trapped in the Filet O'Soul many times and then the crocodiles and all of the rest.This also had a great finale too.  I loved the occult scene that was something that was really cool.  Out of all of the Bond movies I have seen that was one of the most unusual Bond finales I have ever seen and it was good.  That was also a great line too. (He had an inflated opinion of himself) David Hedison is this installment's Felix Leiter and he does very well.  I loved the boat sequences and the sequence at the airport.  There are so many little quirks and small characters that make this one so good.  This is one of the cleverest Bond movies I have seen. Also out of all the Bond villains and plots this villainous plot involving drugs and international distribution seems so much more realistic than other Bond plots, but that is not saying much.  I also loved how in this one it seemed like everyone was in on Bond and he was essentially alone fighting an enemy at every turn.  The scenes in New Orleans are classic those funeral scenes are quite interesting, nothing you would expect.  It is very unconventional compared to other Bond movies.  Bond does not check into the office there is no exhilarating action sequence at the beginning and the action picks up very quickly.  It also loved Paul McCartney's title song, that's a classic.  In the end I guess this was a great beginning for Roger Moore he did very well.  This is one of my favorite Bond films.  "},{"Title":"More Action. More Excitement. More Adventure.","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die is directed by Guy Hamilton and adapted to screenplay by Tom Mankiewicz from the novel written by Ian Fleming. It stars Roger Moore, Yaphet Koto, Jane Seymour, David Hedison, Julius W Harris, Gloria Hendry, Earl Jolly Brown, Clifton James and Geoffrey Holder. Music is scored by George Martin and cinematography by Ted Moore.Bond 8 and 007 is assigned to investigate the recent murders of MI6 agents in New Orleans, San Monique and New York. Suspicion falls on San Monique ruler Dr Kananga, a man who has definite links to Harlem crime lord Mr Big. As 007 digs deeper he uncovers a plot to corner the world's heroin market, but halting such a plan is hindered by the presence of voodoo in his midst.Connery was gone, for good this time, no amount of cash would entice him to don the tuxedo for a legitimate Bond movie again....... This meant that producers Broccoli & Saltzman would be showcasing the third actor to play James Bond in a four year period! After the fall out of the casting of Lazenby in OHMSS, it was agreed that a established actor was needed this time around. Timothy Dalton was mooted, as he was for OHMSS (he was never offered the role though until 1986), but it came down to just two actors, Roger Moore & Michael Billington. Billington would screen test for the role of 007 a few times in his life but never landed the coveted role, as a sweetener he got to play a minor character in 1977's The Spy Who Loved Me. So Roger Moore it was, someone the producers knew quite well and who was well in vogue after starring in The Persuaders and The Saint. He also was honoured to play the role, wanted it badly and accepted the fanaticism that went with it.Moore's take on Bond the man was a world away from Connery, and rightly so, but Live and Let Die is not far removed from Connery's last outing, Diamonds Are Forever. In truth it's a weak script, with Mankiewicz probably under orders from above to play to Moore's strengths and keep the overt humour and cartoon escapades as a selling point. The decision to pitch Bond into a world of voodoo is a good one, and it was not, as some believe, an attempt to grasp the tails of the Blacksploitation market that had made waves in the early 70s. It's a better film than Diamonds Are forever, without doubt. The villains are memorably played, though Kananga's (Koto) demise is indicative of the daftness that would blight many Bond movies from here on in, and in Hamilton's hands the action, especially an adrenalin pumping speedboat chase, is quality entertainment. Top blunderbuss theme tune, too, from Paul McCartney & Wings. While Felix Leiter is back on good charming form in the hands of Hedison (a real life friend of Moore and it shows).Problems elsewhere, though, stop this from being a great Bond movie. Much of the film is made up of scenes that are played purely for smiles rather than for dramatic purpose. In short a Bond movie has stopped taking itself seriously. The introduction of Sheriff Pepper (James) is pointless, the beautiful Seymour shows promise but then becomes one of those Bond girls who is a liability to 007 outside of the bedroom, and the film is padded out with scenes that offer nothing important to the story. Hendry's Rosie Carver is a dope and poorly written, though it gave Bond his first inter-racial dalliance, something that the producers were nervous about behind the scenes. While there's no Q! And George Martin's score is very hit and miss.A new actor playing Bond and many failings in the picture, could Bond still succeed? Yes indeed! Moore, in spite of not getting good page to work from and getting stick from the critics, put his own stamp on the role by looking smooth, having an excellent vocal delivery and being someone the girls wanted to bed and the boys wanted to be. The box office sang to the tune of over $160 million, over $40 million more than Diamonds Are Forever. The tag-line ran More Action, More Excitement, More Adventure, though not entirely accurate, there was indeed an abundance of fun play and gadgets are us (Felix Lighter, priceless). Bond was set to continue coining it in for the foreseeable future, but the dye had been cast and Bond ran the risk of becoming purely a cartoon caricature..... 7/10 "},{"Title":"Moore's 1st 007 film - Uneven Pacing but Great Characters...","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was my first exposure to non-Brosnan 007 and, while I wouldn't say it's a GREAT movie, I still found enough about it that I enjoyed to rank it with some of my favorite Bond films. The film, Roger Moore's first performance in the signature role, has James Bond investigating the mysterious deaths of three MI6 agents that appear linked to Kananga, a diplomat from the island nation of San Monique. The film is unique in that it is the only 007 film to include elements of the occult and supernatural. Oddly enough, though there are a lot of aspects of this movie that I love, I still find it hard to claim it as one of the best of the series.Let me start by saying that I thought Roger Moore was a great choice to replace Sean Connery. At this point, I've seen nearly all of the 007 films and I thought Moore, while he did put his own spin on the character, was a fine replacement. Moore was able to add a bit more humor to the role and I thought it was a welcome addition. As a whole, this movie has a great cast and some of my favorite characters from the Bond canon. Jane Seymour did a fine job as Solitaire; her performance was nothing extraordinary (though it WAS one of her first leading roles...give the girl a break) but she was easily one of the most beautiful, if not THE most beautiful, women to ever pair with James Bond. In this film, my favorite performances came from the villains. Yaphet Kotto does a great job as Kananga, making him appear dangerous without ever going over-the-top or campy, and Julius Harris as Tee Hee (the henchman with the mechanical hook-arm) was a real highlight. I'm not sure why, but Tee Hee's scene introducing Bond to the crocodile farm is one of my favorite moments from the movie. Despite his role as a villain and desire to off the hero, the dude's got a natural charisma. For me, though, the best character in the film had to be that of Baron Samedi (a fantastic job by Geoffrey Holder), the voodoo god of cemeteries and closest Bond's ever come to encountering something supernatural. I WISH he had been given a larger role in the film; it's a shame the filmmakers weren't able to work the character into a future storyline.On the flip side of the character choices, I really think the film could've done without Sheriff J.W. Pepper. The character, a mildly amusing performance from Clifton James, feels completely out of place and tacked on for whatever reason. Aside from the lame choice of comic relief, the film did have one other major flaw for me...there were a lot of points where it felt as if the whole thing slowed to a near stop. 007's main visit to San Monique drags on a bit once he joins with Solitaire and the boat chase seriously could've been cut in half and still had the same effect. While I was impressed by some of the stunts in the sequence, I think nearly 10 minutes is a bit of overkill for a boat chase. Otherwise, it was a fun film with some great scenes (i.e. the crocodile farm or Bond's visit to Harlem). Sure, the special effects are very much dated and some spots are downright awful by modern standards (i.e. Kananga's last moments) but it isn't enough to detract from the film. Regardless, this movie is easily a must-watch for any 007 fan, as it contains some great characters and it proves that Moore had what it took to become the new Bond. "},{"Title":"One of the better bond films","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and let die (1973) is definitely one of the best bonds in my opinion, and Roger Moore was always awesome starring as James Bond in the 1970's, I think he really was a great fit for the role! The other actors also accomplished what they needed to in their individual roles here. This installment in the franchise still of course had the women, both in the opening sequence, and later on in the actual film, as every other one does, I liked how in this one they still had the girls, but there wasn't any nudity or long sex scenes, like in a few of the newer ones. I also loved the theme song in the opening sequence. The action scenes were cool, fun, and high octane, which was nice to see. The acting was spot on, like in all the other bond installments. If you're a true bond lover, then this one is most definitely for you. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Live and Let Thrill","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While it may not be the strongest entry in the series by any means, Live and Let Die still manages to retain they key ingredients that make any movie a success captivation and excitement. The film is a seemingly endless thrill-ride, or better yet, a non-stop chase of a movie, with only elemental pauses and breaks that allow you to breath and take a moment to admire what you've witnessed. This sense of an endless chase can be attributed to the score of henchmen the main villain has at his disposal. Just when Bond had dealt with an adversary, another rears his head. From the cab driver to Baron Samedi, Tee Hee to Whisper, the film's cast of villains are all entertaining and it's great to watch Bond go up against them all. Moore himself is quite good. I don't mind the cold side he shows in the Hamilton entries. It shows that, despite his gentleman demeanour, he can still get the job done, whether it be dirty or clean. My only complain is that it could be truer to its source material. Live and Let Die is among my favourite of Fleming's novels, so I wouldn't mind a potential remake in the future. Nevertheless, in my opinion it is the most entertaining Roger Moore 007 adventure, and it's only helped by Paul McCartney's amazing theme, which has become a staple of classic rock. Good stuff! "},{"Title":"New Bond and fresh directions; this entry is actually a refreshing blast of Blofeld-free, voodoo imbued madness unafraid of taking the franchise to some dark places.","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I suppose I remember 1973's Live and Let Die as a spookier Bond entry to that of those in the franchise. With the further benefit of hindsight in having seen most of what followed and preceded Live and Let Die, I think we're all able to deduce that the film was indeed a stark change to usual proceedings here is the Bond film that featured a scene whereby people fell backwards into coffins full of snakes; here is the Bond film whereby we are plunged (during the pre credits sequence, no less) into ritualistic killings accompanied by blaring trumpet scores. Here is the Bond film wherein people tear away parts of their face; manage to survive having sections of their scalps blown off by well placed Magnum rounds and have the ability to see into the future. Even the immediate train-set ending to the piece is a full blown, anti-Bondian, anti-mainstream slice of ambiguous; open ended film making designed to force a complete revaluation on where we now stand in terms of whether things are as wrapped up as they seem.Moore's bow as James Bond begins with him in the company of a young woman whilst located, in what is a rare instance, within his actual house. It doesn't take long for this constant, burning sense of urgency the film has to establish itself when there is a visitor at the front door in the form of his boss, M (Lee), along with ally Moneypenny (Maxwell) &#x96; the pair of them paying him this visit ridiculously early in the morning. Where previous instances of debriefing or mission assigning have taken part during the (compared to this) far more relaxed, even leisurely, locale of M's office during normalised hours, this is here and now and in Bond's house such is the importance. The reasoning behind this pushing of the panic button lies with the separate events propping up the pre credits sequence, whereby three separate deaths at three separate, and somewhat disparate, locations took place. The first, a British representative at the United Nations building on account of a mysterious Black hand obtaining access to a place one would think is rather tight with security, sets the scene for a then road side assassination causing the entire street and mock funeral-parade to begin cheering, before things are rounded off with an extravagant ritual involving a hapless White individual at the mercy of a deadly snake bite precipitated by an array of Black cultists.Bond's task begins in New York City, where he investigates, along with the help of the C.I.A., a powerful political figure known as Kananga (Kotto), whose remorseless expression filled the frame in the United Nations building during the opening. There is a quite brilliant moment in a public bar, ruthless if only for the choreography of the sequence, whereby Bond swaggers in expecting to dominate proceedings, although ends up facing down the barrel of a gun in a completely new zone populated by the very people he's there to foil. The process of placing him there to begin with; having him offer the waiter a bribe for information; having the wall seat at which he is positioned do what it does and then have the waiter swipe the money from his hands before turning around and taking a sip out of the very drink Bond ordered for himself is a sharp, rapid and cutting series of instances reiterating how much control these people have over their domain.Things progress to the Caribbean, the nation of Jamaica doubling up for a fictional island country of similar geographical locale named San Monique; a strange place, an eerie and seemingly backwater zone populated by these very specific individuals who move and dance and perform in a very unique and very uncanny way. Knocking around is the tarot reader Solitaire (Seymour), a girl whose own plight of independence and ascent into womanhood is just as interesting as Bond's investigative strand as she begins to clash with Kananga's established patriarchy. It is first established how her mother once worked for the same man doing the same thing, and that she lost her abilities, something that is later revealed to be more broadly linked to the of a finding a man and falling for them. The use of the word Solitaire to double up for Jane Seymour's character's name, traditionally speaking a card game one plays alone, infers degrees of individuality or being by one's self. Bond's entrance into her life does well to spawn a character driven process that pushes Solitaire away from being the pretty supporting female, and into someone deciding not to be tied down to loyalty to a tyrant.Certainly, Live and Let Die was always a stranger and less conformative Bond entry which still somehow managed to find a way to wedge in all the codes and conventions synonymous with it. Indeed, Bond is torn from the world of espionage or the warring with the Soviets and instead placed into a domain that sees him go up against the illegal drug trade. These are socio-political ideas not necessarily revisited, nor previously explored under Sean Connery, until Timothy Dalton's two outings whereby he battled the Latin American drug trade under a familiar guise of the revenge framework in 1989's License to Kill and (according to some academics) found time to conform to an anti-Aids repertoire in 1987's The Living Daylights, when some-or-a-lot was made of the fact the usual interests Bond has in arrays of beautiful women was more muted. Things feel different in Live and Let Die, and yet it is all at once pleasingly familiar in that way Bond films should be. "},{"Title":"Incredible Debut For Roger Moore as 007","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When it comes to theme songs in James Bond movie, no one ever comes close than rock legend Paul McCartney and Wings'' classic (Shirley Bassey's Goldfinger gets honourable mention then Tina Turner's Goldeneye comes third). Another milestone about Live and Let Die is that there are more black people in this film than any of the other 23 installments of the series.It seems quite upsetting that Mr. Bond (Roger Moore's debut) was labeled as a honky or a cracker especially since the setting was in Harlem, New York. It seems strange he would be ostracized that way, but I guess the world was different in the 1970's compared to our more image conscious ways of our modern times. The ideology might have been the results of blacks coming out on their own in the movie industry at the time and were being treated as more serious performers in movies and avoiding and usurping any clichés that they have fallen victim to over the years.Roger Moore debuts as Sean Connery's replacement as the dashing assassin 007 which he would continue for seven more installments ending with A View to a Kill.Granted Moore lacks the charisma that Sean Connery possessed in his six outings as Bond, but he still manages to play the part better than most of his successors (especially Daniel Craig). He had potential to be at the same level as Connery if only he wasn't trying too hard to be a carbon copy of Adam West' in the campy Batman series in the 1960's.The plot juxtaposes between a deviant drug lord along with mystifying voodoo as the locations take us from Harlem to San Monique to New Orleans to capture Mr. Big (Yaphet Kotto). Solitaire (Jane Seymour) is a Tarot card reader. No it's time for Bond to stack her deck and get the opportunity to poke her (Get it? Gotta love that tongue-and-cheek humour). She loses her powers to tell the future after she lost her virginity to the Lothario assassin (you think she should have learned by now?) We knew it was bound to happen.Live and Let Die is entertaining in two main factors. The first being that it plays out like a good old-fashioned action packed thriller. The main downfall about Live and Let Die was the abominable boat chase between Bond and a bigoted redneck named Sheriff Pepper (who happens to have a brother who ironically is a Sargeant. See the connection?). Pepper was brought on for some comic relief who's mission is to catch Bond and his pursuers. The other entertaining factor is the very dated humour provided which is also sad because this Bond movie did not age very well as we are treated to jive talking, thick side-burned blaxploitated antagonists although it may seem clichéd, but very nostalgic to say the least. "},{"Title":"The best of the old-time Bond movies","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What I like about Live and Let Die is not just the famous Paul McCartney song that begins and ends the movie--but the famous Bond lady, Jane Seymour, who plays Solitaire.Jane Seymour was especially good when Mr. Big (also known as Kanaka) threatens Bond (by order of Tee-Hee) with torture by Kanaka's pincers if Solitaire misses any of the questions asked by Tee-Hee. Especially when she utters one of the famous words, I speak the truth. The way Seymour says these words seem very, very innocent.The boat chase scene was probably the best chase scene in most of the Hollywood movie literature. The boat chase helped the viewer avoid the common cliché of the famous car chase scenes in most action movies. The scene where the evil Billy Bob on his bee-colored (yellow and white) motorboat goes on an assassin's chase against James Bond's white motorboat with brown trim was especially exciting.. I like that trick Bond uses to stop Billy Bob---throwing a can of gasoline at him to blind his eyes, and then switches on the main boat engine to disorient him, and then, forcing that boat to crash as it goes into the mouth of an unmanned ship. Then the gasoline blows Billy Bob's ship up and I liked how the reprise of the Live and Let Die music sets the whole thing up.In the San Monique scene, the compressed gas pellet was demonstrated with fearful results by Bond first. When the bullet fires into an object, the object blows itself with air so fast that it won't hold any more air, and then, like a powerful M-500 firecracker, the object bursts (which usually happens when you blow too much air into a balloon).Like a fireworks display with a false finale, you think that when Bond killed the evil Tee-Hee with one of the gas bullets, you thought it was the end of it. But when Bond and Solitaire go on an innocent train, and try to take a rest in a sleeping car----the evil Kanaka bursts forth into the sleeping car with his deadly pincers on his prosthetic arm. And Bond has to fight back against him and he does...and eventually immobilizes Kanaka's pincers and throws Kanaka out of the train. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore introduction as James Bond is likable and sympathetic in this spectacular adventure","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Various agents MI6 have dead. M(Bernard Lee) sends to 007 with license for kill to investigate it.Suspicion lead to Doctor Kananga(Yaphet Kotto) whose public image is a humanitarian person who defends his country into United Nations.He governs the island of San Monique.There lives totally submitted from infancy by Kananga,Solitaire(Jane Seymour).She is a psychic tarots cards reading and doesn't know about the life and acts as a marionette craving make his own way of life.His tutor(Kotto) believes that his virginal state originates her a sixth sense and he trusts the guesser quality to dodging the law.Others characters appear in the film are Baron Samedi(Geoffrey Holder).He's a Voodoo's chaman who controlled to San Monique people for executing the Kananga's orders .He takes his name of death's Voodoo God. The villainous Tee Hee(Julius Harris) , a giant killer copied posteriorly by others Bond films(Richard Kiel in ¨Spy who loved me¨).He enjoys deeply murdering with his steel arm that hooks the victims. Rosie Carver(Gloria Hendry) is an explosive CIA agent who brings to Bond towards the lush jungle of island.James Bond will confront against numerous dangers,odds,risks like the taking on starving crocodiles located in breeding place where there's a cartel saying Trespassers will be eaten¨.Besides a breathtaking speedboats pursuit developed on everglades(in New Orleans,Louisiana)with bounds and leaps and intervention even of a headstrong sheriff(Clifton James)who pursues them with a police car.As always 007 will utilize several gadgets delivered by ¨Q¨ like a prodigious watch and an air bombing cartridges,both objects with special importance into the film. Spectacular and exciting final confrontation among Bond and enemies in the underground cave is narrated with moving and stimulating manner. Roger Moore as new James Bond is cool,lacked coldness and toughness characterized for Sean Connery however earned in irony,suavity and smoothness.Agreeable title song by Paul McCartney and Wings and sensational music score by George Martin. Colorful cinematography by Ted Moore.Movie is well directed by Guy Hamilton who also made others James Bond films. "}{"Title":"His name is Moore, Roger Moore","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  His name is Moore, Roger Moore and this was his first time as Bond, James Bond.The movie was Live and Let Die.The villain in the movie is played by Yaphet Kotto and Jane Seymour plays Bond's lady friend.The movie has some brilliant scenes like the bus chase.Paul McCartney sang the title theme and it is one of the best title themes ever.Roger Moore was an excellent choice to play James Bond after Connery.He was as good or even better than Sean was.He made the character more comical.He killed the crooks, he got the ladies and he said a joke every now and then.That's how it worked.I recommend Live and Let Die for every James Bond and Roger Moore fans. "},{"Title":"It has one of the best Bond themes and the rest of the movie isn't bad either","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore, who was always more of a clown in a tuxedo than a believable secret agent despite the occasional good moment, kicks off his run as James Bond in Live and Let Die, which has him fighting against a heroin smuggling operation. Live and Let Die is a slightly above average and overall a good Bond flick. This time it feels smaller scale and slightly less over the top although it has the action comedy tone which would define the Roger Moore era. Ludicrous yet rooted in the real world and centred on a very real issue rather than world domination or diamond lasers, LALD manages to get the tone right. I have never liked Roger Moore as Bond although he's not completely awful here. He would get really terrible in some later films though. There are 3 main action sequences (The film has a fairly quiet first half which is pretty effective) before the finale and all 3 of these are solid and entertaining. The finale is a let down although it does have That immortal one liner.The villain is fairly dull and the film is arguably the most sexist Bond movie of them all. Anyone who has watched even only a few of these films will know that is truly saying something. LALD does feel dated at times and doesn't always feel like a Bond film although that doesn't let the film down particularly. The novel was better and it's strange some elements from the book were left out. LALD suffers also from over length and pacing issues but overall, even if it doesn't match the book it's a good Bond film and a very watchable one. It's better on a second viewing as the lack of action in the first hour is surprising the first time you watch it. This stands as the third best of the Roger Moore era behind For Your Eyes Only and The Spy Who Loved Me. There's still a hint of Ian Fleming in the movie, unlike the other Roger Moore Bond films with the exception of For Your Eyes Only. To conclude, this is a good time and an entertaining Bond film although not one of the more memorable outings in the franchise.7/10 "},{"Title":"Best Bond","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Loved this one. Great theme song by Paul McCartney at the height of his Wings period. Best looking Bond babe ever &#x96; Madeline Smith. And was Roger Moore the best Bond ever? I kinda think so.There's a 70s flavour to everything (reel-to-reel tape, brown suits) and the film is none the worse for that. I actually wasn't so keen on Jane Seymour in her role as Solitaire &#x96; too posh, too detached. Gloria Hendry seems to struggle a bit too as Rosie Carver.Yaphet Kotto makes a good bad guy. Julius Harris is good as Tee Hee and Clifton James adds some comedy value as J.W. Pepper. David Hedison is this film's Felix Leiter and he is also good.Some great chase scenes. Great one-liners. Good cinematography by Ted Moore. Well directed by Guy Hamilton. "},{"Title":"Maybe not the best Bond, but easily the most fun","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Let me say right up front that Live and Let Die is my favorite Bond movie. I know it's not the best movie in the series- that honor belongs either to From Russia with Love or Goldfinger- but it's far and away the most fun. With the over the top blaxplotation elements, the colorful villains, and not so subtle humor that defined Moore's tenure as Bond, Live and Let Die is a thoroughly enjoyable enterprise from start to finish.The film begins with the murders of three British agents, within days of each other, all on assignments related to the island nation of San Monique (read Haiti). Bond is sent to investigate, and it doesn't take long to realize that the island's dictator Kananga (Yaphet Kotto) has deep ties to the Harlem underworld and the international heroine trade. His plot to break into the US drug market is actually quite ingenious in its simplicity, and makes for a refreshing change from the standard world domination plot. Kananga is also interesting in that his power doesn't depend on stocks of weapons or advanced technology, but on his ability to create fear and gather information.Most gangsters create fear through acts of brutality and by making examples of those who cross them. Kananga does plenty of that, but he has much more effective method as well voodoo. With a few ceremonies, he keeps the entire population of San Monique under his thrall, and eliminates his enemies to boot. His intelligence source is equally unorthodox but effective; the beautiful priestess Solitaire (Jane Seymour), whose mastery of the cards allows her to make predictions without fail. This appearance of the supernatural is a departure from the usual Bond formula, and some critics complained that it wasn't a good mix, but I like the air of mystery it adds.I also love the campy blaxplotation, with the 'fros, jive talk, and secret hideouts in soul food restaurants. And I enjoyed the local flavor they provided of Harlem and especially New Orleans, down to the Jazz funerals and Times Picayune slots on the mail boxes. This being the South, there of course had to be a bumbling hick sheriff, which was another point of contention for many critics. I admit that sheriff J.W. Pepper takes the hick sheriff shtick about as far as it can go, and that his presence in Golden Gun was totally uncalled for, but here he fits.There are plenty of good action sequences, the most famous being the iconic speedboat chase, which is too long for its own good, but fun nonetheless. And yes, they really did jump those boats across the road; no green screen involved. The bus chase in San Monique is also worth noting, as is the 'gator walking' stunt at the crocodile farm. And the final confrontation with Kananga, with perhaps the most unusual fatality of any Bond film, is sure to raise a smile.It may not be as polished as some of the earlier entries in the series, or stick as close to the popular image of James Bond, but Live and Let Die is truly a rollicking good time. "},{"Title":"Not Bonds Finest,but Certainly has its Moments,","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die is a good movie with a very well written storyline and a great cast.It certainly isn't the best James Bond movie,but it's not the worst either.It is the first Bond to star Roger Moore in the main role,and while i like him as Bond in general,he isn't as great the first time around,he certainly improves as in later movies though.The movie certainly has its flaws,but it is action packed and also has several bits of humour throughout,which were certainly the most enjoyable parts.My favourite part of the film was certainly the villain Mr. Big,he was a great Bond villain and the actor really embraced the character.Live and Let Die is an enjoyable movie that James Bond fans will like but won't love.James Bond uncovers a plan by a drugs kingpin to get the world addicted to heroin.Best Performance Yaphet Kotto Worst Performance Clifton James "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Bond","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Diamonds are Forever Sean Connery left the role of James Bond officially with the words Never again( a foreshadow to his final but unofficial role as James Bond but thats for another review). The producers once again had the task of looking for a new Bond and who to pick but The Saints Roger Moore.Lets just say that the plot is more strange and bizarre than the previous films as it involves sadistic murders, drug trafficking, an annoying redneck sheriff who is rarely funny, a virgin tarot card reader and a voodoo witchdoctor who may or may not be immortal. Not to mention that all the villains are black save for two allies that Bond meets in the film. This was to cash in on the blaxploitation genre that was popular in in the early 70s.Roger Moore's take on Jame Bond was very different from Connery's as he played it with more humor and charm. Jane Seymour as the bond girl was very beautiful but her character was only there as a damsel in distress for Bond to save at the end. Yaphet Kotto was an okay villain but his plan made little to no sense. Clifton James as Sheriff J.W. Pepper was only funny a few times but most of the time was very obnoxious in what was supposed to be a serious boat chase. David Hedison plays as the fourth actor to play Felix Leiter and does a great job.Guy Hamilton returns as director for the third time and makes an improvement after the disappointing Diamonds are Forever. Surprisingly the tone is less campy but more surreal, strange and somewhat uneven.Live and Let Die is a decent start for the Roger Moore era and I give it good points especially for the catchy Live and Let Die song by Paul McCartney and the Wings. "},{"Title":"Live and Let Die","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first stint as James Bond, 007, embarks on a different kind of series of films based on the adventures of debonair, wise-cracking, sexually active, and seemingly impeccable at thinking on the spot when all hope seems lost British Intelligence super agent, going for a definite tongue-in-cheek, totally absurd approach. I have always liked Moore's Bond and For Your Eyes Only can be used as a 007 film that shuts up his critics who consider him a failure as the elusive secret agent.Yaphet Kotto is in fine form as Ambassador of a Caribbean island of San Monique, with a major heroine operation extending to both American cities New York and New Orleans. Kotto's Kananga has eyes/gunmen/spies everywhere, his advanced network has quite the tentacles so Bond will certainly have his hands full. While I cringe at the Voodoo culture exhibited on display as the cultural stereotypes are exploited to their maximum, there are characters who make the most of their roles, such as claw-handed Julius Harris as Tee Hee, Geoffrey Holder (and that devious smile) as dangerous Voodoo Priest, Baron Samedi, and the seemingly a sweetheart agent in the Caribbean, Gloria Hendry (who turns out to be working both sides out of fear of what Kananga will do to her). Others show up such as Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea's David Hedison as Bond's New York, American CIA contact, Clifton James in an ill-advised tobacco-chewing hick sheriff, JW Pepper (always spouting Boy! to everyone he finds egregious) , and the incredibly beautiful Jane Seymore as Kananga's tarot card reader, clairvoyant Solitaire (who becomes Moore's Bond girl).The action sequences include an extended motor boat chase (that seems to go on forever, played for humorous effect, such as when it flies across roads causing wrecks by those chasing him, leading one boat into a rich man's pool, another into Pepper's cop car, and a third through a wedding reception!), Bond's ingenious (if totally ludicrous) escape from encroaching crocs, and Bond's use of a Cessna plane to avoid Kananga's boys killing him. A funeral procession in New Orleans cleverly is used by Kananga to rid himself of spies guarding his headquarters, Bond puts a magnetic watch to good use on several occasions when in hairy situations, and how a gas pellet is used to pop Kananga has to be seen to be believed. That double decker bus and hand glider establish the kitchen sink rule that the filmmakers wanted Moore's Bond to use every form of transportation possible in his first outing as 007. "},{"Title":"James vs Ju-Ju.","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As an avid fan of 70s horror and exploitation, I have no problem at all with Live and Let Die's voodoo plot elements and many blaxploitation trappings as far as I am concerned, they only serve to make this a very unique debut for Roger Moore as cinema's greatest secret agent, setting it well apart from everything Connery did as Bond.In addition to superstitious mumbo jumbo and jive-speaking soul brothers, this adventure also benefits from a kick-ass theme song from Paul McCartney, an appearance by big-breasted Hammer babe Madeline Smith, the casting of a hot-as-hell Jane Seymour as sexy Tarot reader Solitaire (so called because, until meeting Bond, she'd only played with herself?), and some classic, corny quippery from an impossibly suave Moore.Unfortunately, despite all of this, the film must be considered something of a disappointment, suffering as it does from a weak storyline/script, dreadful pacing and sub-par action, including a soporific, overlong speed boat chase, during which we are introduced to Clifton James' irritating Sheriff J.W. Pepper, surely the most ill-advised character of the whole Bond franchise. "},{"Title":"Good start for the Roger Moore era","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die (1973) is the eighth James Bond movie in the official series. It takes its name from the second Ian Fleming book, but aside of that has relatively little to do with the book. It is directed by Guy Hamilton, his third Bond movie, and stars for the first time Roger Moore as the secret agent. The opening theme is by Paul McCartney.Three different secret agents are killed and James Bond is sent to New York to investigate. Bond becomes convinced that Dr. Kananga, prime-minister of small Caribbean island, is involved in the killings. Bond follows Kananga to his island where he finds that Kananga uses an old voodoo cult to keep the superstitious locals from finding his heroin fields. Bond also meets Solitaire, a young priestess working for Kananga.Live and Let Die used to be one of my favorite Bond films as a kid and it's a good start for the Roger Moore era. It's got plenty of action starting with Bond trying not to get killed in Harlem, then trying not to get eaten by alligators and having a nearly epic boat chase scene. Looking this film now, years later, however does make me realize that it is a bit longer than would really be needed. Still it's a pretty entertaining movie and not as silly as the previous Diamonds Are Forever.Roger Moore's take on Bond is one of those things that people seem to either hate or love. Some people complain that Moore made Bond too comical, too humorous, even a joke. While it's true that Moore does bring more humor to the character than any other actor I've seen, he's by no means bad. Moore's Bond is still charming, witty and always ready to take action.In other roles we have young Jane Seymour as the priestess Solitaire, a potentially interesting but ultimately rather forgettable Bond girl and Yaphet Kotto seems to be having fun playing the villain Kananga. Clifton James has a funny little role as the redneck sheriff who thinks of Bond as the enemy of humanity number one.All in all, Live and Let Die is not a bad Bond movie, it just doesn't reach its full potential either. It's still a good watch and a fine opening for the Roger Moore era. Above average. "},{"Title":"Excellent Beginning to the Moore Era of James Bond","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die is one of the most overlooked Bond films. Connery die-hards tend to abhor Mr. Moore, but his era, taken on its own merits, has quite a bit of fun to offer. Particularly for latter-day Generation X kids (born in the 70's), Roger Moore was the first Bond they got to know, and just as 'legitimate' as Connery's portrayal. The film takes various liberties with the original Fleming plot Here, a multinational heroin operation is the scheme Bond has to foil, as opposed to smuggled gold coins; the scheme's country of origin is now the fictional caribbean isle of San Monique instead of Haiti; head villain Mr. Big is given the alter-ego of Dr. Kananga, prime minister of San Monique. The original novel, first published in 1954, arguably had dated/offensive depictions of black Americans and Caribbean culture, and was updated in screenplay by Tom Mankiewicz (who contributed to other Bond films, as well as the first two Superman features). Aside from Bond, the main cast includes familiar faces Bernard Lee as M, and Lois Maxwell as Moneypenny. Jane Seymour makes her film debut here as Solitaire, the mysterious tarot-reader and adviser to Kananga. Paul McCartney's title song became a classic-rock staple, but viewers should take note of a scene where a lounge singer performs a Soul interpretation. The towering henchman Baron Samedi is played by the stage-trained Trinidadian Geoffrey Holder, who went on to win two Tony awards in 1974 (for directing & choreography, respectively), and even 'greater' acclaim as a 7-Up pitchman. Another formidable foe, the metal-clawed Tee-Hee, is played by Julius Harris. He was a regular in several black-action genre films, with roles in Superfly, Black Caesar, Trouble Man, and more, eventually playing Idi Amin in a TV film by the end of the decade. Clifton James is hilarious as the boisterous, chaw-spitting Sheriff J.W. Pepper. Broadly played, he would show up again in The Man with the Golden Gun. The fight scenes and the chase scenes are very good, especially the boat race in the New Orleans bayou. In this writer's estimate, there are some minor quibbles to be found 1- Bond's gadget-master Q doesn't show up here; instead, M himself hands Bond a high-tech watch that will come in handy throughout the film. 2- Kananga/Mr. Big isn't as fleshed out as he could have been. It would have been interesting if more of his background had been revealed. 3- The final confrontation with Bond seems a little rushed (at least Scaramanga made time to chat with Bond over dinner before staging the 'final' deathtrap). Dated special effects make the demise of the head villain unintentionally humorous. Skeptics may decry Connery's absence, the bandwagon-jumping onto black-action (though several settings & characters legitimately come from the novel), and the vague camp sensibilities inserted into the series, but overall, this was a satisfying beginning to the Moore era of Bond. "}{"Title":"Welcome Back, James Bond","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To all the 'Sean Connery is the only James Bond- get over it. Roger Moore takes over the role with a BANG! This may not be the best Bond, but it is by far the most fun of all Bonds (maybe until Casino Royale which may have been the perfect blend of all Bond eras). From the opening song (McCartney's best rocker outside of The Beatles and the best Bond theme song ever), the movie rocks and rolls.No super-villains here out to rule the world, just a drug lord out to conquer the heroin market. Bond must trace the heroin route and find out what the connection is between a drug-lord in Harlem named Mr. Big, the death of three agents, and the Dr. Kananga, the leader of a small Caribbean nation. This is what Bond movies of this era shouldhave been. Connery's first two films were perfect to their era, andMoore's first two are also perfect to their era. Live and Let Die hasa truly believable plot, true espionage work and scheming. A proper andbelievable villain whose machinations are set in the real world. somecritics claim the dabbling in the voodoo arts was silly, but there isno dabbling. Some people believe in voodoo and the bad guy plays uponit, and even follows it himself. Notice how those who do not buy intoit are not affected by it... just like horoscopes and other fortune-telling.Moore brings in his slick and wry humor and the dead-pan puns flow more frequently than in Connery's last installments (and Lazenby's singular effort). Overall, maybe the humor is less enjoyable than the more gallows-humor of Connery in the first three or four Bond movies, but it works here like no other movie. Yes, Moore is still as much Simon Templar here as he is James Bond, but the name says it all and there is more real espionage work (spying, investigating, deducing and undercover) than the Bond who beats up a guy, gets the info, shows up and leads a strike force against the bad guys- all stretched out to fill 2 hours. Here, Bond really works- albeit it a bit glibly- and gets into the real concept of secret agent work. Yaphett Kotto almost steals the film in his dual role as Mr. Big and Kananga. The henchman are clever and entertaining, yet scary as needed. The screenplay folks did a heck of a job taking one of Flemings more racist and controversial books and make the undertones more real and palatable. Yes, there is a bit of the blackploitation element to it (you have to see it to understand), but Bond films have always jumped the bandwagon of popular trends at the time of the filming, but again, it works and works fine here. Reading some negative reviews on this film, i always picture another bitter Sean Connery fan who refuses to accept anyone else as Bond. Bond was a fictional character, and all actors (from Connery to Craig) had their great portrayals and poor ones. Moore does a great job bringing in the new era, and while Moore may say The Spy Who Loved Me or 'For Your eyes Only was his best... I still think his first two outings are the two best interpretations of Bond as a secret agent since From Russia With Love. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's Bond Premiere","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film is much like a pilot for Roger Moore. His first bond girl is Jane Seymour, not a bad way to start. This is kind of like dreaming to me as Jane is wonderful in her role. I appreciate the way Jane is stacked as well as the stacked deck that goes with her.The plot in this one is a little different as it is the one Bond that deals with the occult, Tarot Cards, & Voodoo. It is one of the first Bonds more centered with the revenge of losing an agent & illegal drugs, & less centered on saving the world as a plot device. David Hedison (from Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea) is the latest Felix Lightner of the CIA. The stunts are very well done as veteran Guy Hamilton is in charge of the directing. Moore's sense of humor is gotten into the script. This film tells you right away this is not you Sean Connery type of Bond. The action does get a little comic strip in the Crockodile escape sequence.This film features all the regulars from M's Bernard Lee, Moneypenny, & of course Q. Overall, this pilot proves that Moore can do Bond quite nicely. The stunts other than the comic one have plenty of good action. While this is not Connery, not Goldfinger, it proves to be a fun trip & for Moore's fans, a great pilot for him. "},{"Title":"Moore's first 007 outing","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die was Roger Moore's first outing as James Bond being almost three years older than Sean Connery (Moore himself looked younger at the time) whom he replaced as the super spy 007 after a previous outing as Simon Templar in the TV series, The Saint. So here's the film's typical ingredients added in with Moore's joking sense of humour together with voodoo and tarot cards being set in New Orleans and Louisiana with San Monique being a fictitious island in the Caribbean. Yaphet Kotto does it reasonably well as a menacing Kanangoo or on the other hand Mr Big and so does Julius T Harris as the metal-armed henchman Tee Hee (his whole real arm was severed by the crocodiles during feeding time at a crocodile farm and it is worth saying a word about several rehearsals had taken place with tied-down crocodile stunts and I've seen several clips of this). Some of the most memorable features on this film is the maniac laughter from Tee Hee etc, the sound tracks and background music from Paul McCartney in the early years of his post-Beatles era. Another was when Tee Hee asked Jane Seymour's Solitaire if Bond was armed when she picked the Tarot and said; Yes when his gun was crushed. The Bond getaway stuff is good particularly with the unusual use of a rickety looking AEC double decker bus, the small plane and the boat chase scenes through the Levies with lots of slam bang action and his usual gadget was a watch equipped with a powerful magnetic force and small circular cutters. Moore's reign as 007 was not the most memorable except for his sense of humour and when he tried other roles, many of them did not proved to be successful. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore takes over the role of James Bond in the 8th installment to the series. In this film, James Bond goes to New York to investigate the mysterious deaths of some British agents. He feels there is a connection between a big time Harlem gangster named Mr. Big and Kananga, the mysterious owner of a small island who is trying to sell self produced heroin. As he gets deeper into the case, he discovers that Kananga and Big might be more closely connected than he originally thought. This is a pretty good installment to the Bond series.After Diamonds are Forever, the James Bond series needed a serious boost so it could be a serious spy series again. Though this movie isn't as good as the early Connery films, it's certainly better than the last two in the series. For the most part it sticks close to the Ian Fleming novel, though there are a few differences, mostly in the beginning and the end. The last film was more like a dumbed down action movie than a James Bond movie, and I was glad to see that they fixed that with this film by putting James Bond on a serious case. One thing that bothered me though was the dialogue. The writers kind of overloaded on the jokes and one liners, which made almost every line out of Bond's mouth corny.The acting isn't bad. Roger Moore gives his best performance as James Bond in this movie, and though he's nowhere near Connery, he's miles above Lazenby. David Hedison plays an average Felix Leiter. Jane Seymour was an alright Bond girl, and Yaphat Kotto wasn't too bad of a villain.Overall, this movie had room for improvement, but it wasn't bad for the most part.7/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasantly suprised","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *** May contain spoilers ***After reading some of the comments here, I wasn't sure what to expect from Live And Let Die. I think the voodoo thing was a little over-done, but overall I rather enjoyed this movie. Solitare is definitely one of the more interesting Bond girls. As for the story, it was refreshing to see one where the villan wasn't interested in taking over the world.My biggest problem with this movie (and MWTGG) is Sherrif J.W. Pepper. He really is over-done and over-used. Maybe it would have been funny if they had only used him up to the point where the speedboat crashes into his car. After that he just becomes annoying.Anyway, a rather enjoyable Bond. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Live and Let Die (1973) Review","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This Bond film probably has the best intro song in the series. IT'S JUST SO GOOD! If you haven't at least heard the song&#x97;not even going to mention not seeing the movie&#x97;GO LISTEN TO IT! Now that that's out of the way, the review for the film.This was Roger Moore's first Bond film, replacing Sean Connery. Luckily, he wasn't as bad as George Lazenby&#x97;HERE HE GOES'S AGAIN&#x97;no, I'm not going to do that. If you want my review on his performance click HERE, and if you want my review for the followup to that film&#x97;which I am still ranting about him in&#x97;then click H3RE!Roger Moore is a REALLY GOOD BOND! Or, from what I remember he is. This film was a great start for him. It's a very entertaining adventure that makes you wonder how big is this gang going to be? The film still has its classic Bond humor with Moneypenny, one-liners, and, of course, the girls.One of the best parts about this film is the SUPER (and when I say super, I really mean super) boat chase! Not only was it SUPER awesome, but it was SUPER long! I thought it was going to be a short 3 minute chase. BOY WAS I WRONG! This chase was a good 15 minutes and easily a highlight of the film!I give Live and Let Die an 8 out of 10, for having great humor, great action, and being a fun Bond film for everyone (ages 10 and up). "},{"Title":"Best Bond film Ever","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's debut as Ian Fleming's James Bond in Live and Let Die a film made in 1973. Moore replaced Sean Connery who chose not to continue as Bond. In the film, James Bond is pitted against Dr. Kananga who is giving away heroin under the disguise of Mr. Big. This is to eliminate competition in the drug trade. Yaphet Kotto played Dr. Kananga/Mr. Big. Bond investigated the deaths of three agents. They are some how connected to Kananga's drug activities. It is up to Bond to find the connection. The film takes you to New York, New Orleans, and a Caribbean Island. Each of these locations was where an agent was killed. Bond travels to San Monique where he discovers the Heroin. In New York he encounters a voodoo shop, in New Orleans, he finds Mr. Big and connects the dots. The film had the first African American Bond villain. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song. The Live and Let Die by Paul McCartney is one of my favorite Bond themes, because it really connects scenes though out the film and is one of the most popular and more recognized Bond theme songs. The special effects, stunts, and opening of the film are still amazing even in this era of computer generation. Roger Moore is the second actor to have played James Bond not including one hit wonder George Lazenby. It was also Jane Seymour's first film where she played the fortuneteller Solitaire. It also had Bernard Lee as M and Lois Maxwell as Moneypenny. Bond film producer Albert Broccoli should be proud to have produced this film. I say that if you can find it give it a watch; it's a true recommend, for James Bond fans. "},{"Title":"Classic Bond","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond meets Blaxploitation is one of the all-time great entries. Based half-heartedly on Fleming's novel of the same name, 'Live & Let Die' sees Bond travel to Harlem and the Caribbean to stop kingpin Mr Big from bringing a lifetime's supply of heroin to the US.Largely considered to be among the best of the Bond movies, this baby has some classic moments; the speed-boat chase across the swamps of Louisiana, the bus chase in San Monique, Baron Samedi striking fear into the heart of man, Sheriff JW Pepper spitting and sweating all over the place, Jane Seymour looking utterly divine and Yaphet Kotto lending huge gravity in what is possibly the best incarnation of a Bond baddie.George Martin's score was a departure from the Barry scores that preceded it, but it works nicely in the context of the film, alongside Roger Moore's new Bond.There's a reason that some of the Bond films have outlasted others. This film is rightly considered one of them. If you haven't seen it, stop wasting time reading this and go watch it to discover those reasons for yourself. "},{"Title":"awesome bond movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is an another awesome James bond movie because of all the same reasons it has lots of action in it it has a good screenplay to it this is roger Moore first time playing James bond and he does a great James bond the acting is good in it and the actors are good in it. I'm sure that you will not be disappointed with live and let die. Im sure you will have a good time watching this movie and you will watch it again and again. So make sure that you buy or rent this James bond movie because it is an awesome James bond movie. Great adaption of live and let die.Overall score ********* out of ************** out of ***** "},{"Title":"The Best of Series","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore, the often derided James Bond. Why? I don't know why, he had wit, he had charm, he was capable of pulling off a decent action sequence followed by a quality one-liner. Often, those who don't like him will point to a particular thing he did once, maybe twice, and exaggerate it into a really big deal. He is often seen as the Goofy Bond, not really so, in fact he was usually playing it straight. Sure there was humor, but there has always been a certain amount of self-aware wit in the series. Here we are introduced to James Bond as played by Roger Moore, and he's tough, he's believable, he's driven, and although we're watching the most unrealistic and over-the-top film creation until Rambo, he's real. I've always liked Roger Moore as James Bond. I must confess that a part of it is nostalgia, his were the first films I saw with the recognition of it being a Bond picture (I was 7). But I always liked his style, I forget exactly where I first heard it, but his take on Bond was different from Connery's and Lazenby's because although he was handsome and charming, you didn't just know he'd end up in bed with his leading lady, but you also suspected that if things could work out just right, he'd end up happily married with her. That particular aspect is from and center in Live and Let Die, his particular leading lady, Solitaire is young and naive, but she is also clearly in love with Bond, and Roger seems to portray a sensitive, though playful version of that back, showing that he too really cares about her. Aside from the fine performance by Moore, we have all the other actors giving good performances. Lois Maxwell again returns as Miss Moneypenny and gives the opening of the film a little more heart, playing up her flirtatious relationship with James, and acknowledging his lady-loving lifestyle without really condemning it. Bernard Lee give M his usual dignity without taking it too far. The only of the regulars missing is Desmond Lewellyn as Q, and although I miss him, it's nice to see some decent, though not too absurd gadgets that were created by him. Round out the 007 Support Crew is David Hedison as Felix Lieter, the only actor show up in the role twice, and he does a good job. Our story features the duel investigations into crime boss Mr. Big, and head of an island nation, Kananga. It turns out that the two cases are connected as Kananga is Big, and that Bond is drawn into a tale of Kananga smuggling drugs into Harlem, using VooDoo as a means of keeping the locals in fear of him. Working with Kananga is Solitaire, played by a very young Jane Seymore (who I maintain is the hottest Bond Girl ever). Solitaire is a master of the tarot card, and can apparently see the future. Which Bond uses to his advantage, stacking a deck so that he and Solitaire appear destined to be lovers. They quickly grow together, creating one of the stronger Bond screen relationships. Kananga's efforts to get rid of Bond create some of the most memorable stunts of the series (which itself if known for many high quality stunts); Bond escapes certain doom on an alligator farm in Louisianna by running over the heads of several partially submerged alligators. And he escapes several thugs through one of the most amazing boat chases ever filmed. Of course things turn out alright for Bond, as they are often to do. As we are treated some of the great moments of the series. First and foremost is the greatest theme of the series, the title tune, sung by Paul McCartney and his group Wings. We get some of the better gadgets, including the watch that is both a powerful magnet and a buzz saw. We get some of the better one-liners, and did I mention the hottest Bond Girld ever? "}{"Title":"Bond number 8 Roger cometh, voodoo and crocodiles...","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For his 8th official outing, James Bond is now played by Roger Moore (fresh from TV series The Saint) in this new adventure helmed by Goldfinger director Guy Hamilton. Dr Kananga (Kotto) a banana republic dictator wants to become king of the US drug market via some nebulous plot that calls for the foresight of soothsayer Solitaire (Seymour) and voodoo magic. Bond arrives, distributes violence, gets the girl and redefines what 007 will be like for the next decade and a half.There is much to enjoy in this film, not least of which is the theme song by Paul McCartney, easily the best after Goldfinger and Goldeneye. Still finding the role, Moore doesn't reach Connery's stellar charm, but handles the humor admirably. If Kotto is a bit underwhelming, it is only because he has to compete with titanium-clawed Tee-Hee and the crazy Baron Samedi. The voodoo element makes this film unique in the Bond canon and are nicely integrated, and the setting is superbly used to full effect boat races in the bayou, machine gun turrets concealed inside voodoo totems, and most memorable of all, the crocodile farm trap. Jane Seymour is also one of the most disarming Bond girls ever to grace the screen.Some of it is arguably less successful the mad redneck sheriff will annoy most viewers (he seems to have wandered off from a Loony Toons cartoon), and some of the fighting is now a bit dated, but for sheer class, Bond still packs a mighty punch.Overall, Live and Let Die is up there with the best of Bond, silly, pretty dark in places and unendingly playful. "},{"Title":"This ever-changing world in which we're living","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how LIVE AND LET DIE rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title LIVE AND LET DIE It has that wonderful twist that turns a cliché inside out. And it certainly captures the spirit of the Bond films and their casual amorality. 10 points.Pre-Credit Teaser Among other things, it has a jazzy New Orleans funeral that begins before the deceased is even deceased, an indication that the film isn't going to take things all that seriously. And it nicely introduces the themes of the movie politics, voodoo and black pop culture. 8 points.Opening Credits With flaming skulls and writhing beauties, the reliable Maurice Binder is back in form again with a clever montage tying together images of sex and violence with a bit of gruesome black magic. A nice mix of the exotic, erotic and the grotesque. 8 points.Theme Song A post-Beatles Paul McCartney steps up to deliver a hard-edged Bond anthem that is more Band on the Run than All You Need is Love. Far less coy than the lush ballads that proceeded it, Live and Let Die is nonetheless just as cynical. Definitely not a silly little love song. 9 points Bond, James Bond Sean Connery is gone, once and forever (yeah, right). But Ian Fleming's first choice for the part, Roger Moore, slips into the part with very little fuss or bother. It would be a couple more films before he is completely comfortable in the role, but he does establish that his Bond is as unflappable as his predecessor -- and he is snappier dresser. 7 points.Bond Babes Rosie Carver just might be absolutely the worst female agent with which Bond ever crossed paths and not a particularly alluring Bond Girl either. And Gloria Hendry's terrible performance doesn't help much. Fortunately, her near hysteria is balanced by Jane Seymour's subtle, low key performance, putting her on par with Diana Rigg as a Bond Girl who is more actress than pretty set decoration. The odd gimmick that Seymour's Solitaire is a tarot-reading psychic who garners her powers from her virginity is a dubious twist -- though not an obstacle for Bond. 8 points.Bond Villain Perhaps in response to the then-growing trend toward blaxplotation films, LIVE AND LET DIE gives us the first Bond villain played by an African-American. And Yaphet Kotto seems to have no reservations about mocking the black stereotypes. He plays the Jekyll-Hyde role of Kananga, a seemingly respectable diplomat from some obscure Caribbean island, and Mr. Big, a pimp-daddy crime lord. Kotto seems to be enjoying his role, while not letting things go over the top. He's worthy of an 8, but dock him one point for dying the most unbelievable death in any of the Bond films. 7 points.Bond Baddies As colorful entourages go, Kananga's posse can't be beat. A not-so-gentle giant named Whisper; a cheerful assassin named Tee-Hee, who also sports a mechanical claw for a hand; and seemingly half the black people in the United States. Best of all, Geoffrey Holder's flamboyant voodoo priest, Baron Samedi, is both classy and campy. 8 points.Sinister Plot As Kananga he keeps his Caribbean nation under control with voodoo superstition; as Mr. Big he wants to flood the U.S. market with free heroin with the intent of driving the competition out and increasing the number of addicts. Definitely an original plot, though just why the British secret service is involved is never made clear. 8 points.Production values Apparently not wishing to burden Moore too much in his first film in Bondage, the filmmakers have focused on action, especially several above average chase sequences. A speedboat chase across the bayou is very well staged, as is a race involving a double-decker bus and an airplane chase that never gets off the ground, but is nicely destructive. Nice locales and well paced action dominate. 8 points.Bonus Points Since almost all the bad guys here are black, there must have been a compelling need to toss in at least one racist stereotype aimed at whites. Enter Clifton James as J.W. Pepper, the cliché image of the big-bellied, tobacco-spitting, none-too-bright southern sheriff. Whether intended as a social commentary or just a cheap joke, Sheriff Pepper is horribly unfunny and vaguely insulting. Minus 5 points.Summary Not that any of the Bond films have any great depth, but LIVE AND LET DIE is as superficially entertaining as any. It certainly served it purpose well at introducing Moore to the role (his opening scene at his apartment is cleverly done) and at establishing that this Bond's approach to humor will be dry wit, stirred more than shaken. A new era in the Bond series has been established.Bond-o-meter Rating 76 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"This is a cook 007 film with some cool villains!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's first Bond film is excellent! The story is good and the villains are very neat especially Tee Hee!Yaphet Kotto acted very well! Live and Let Die is a good 007 film and if you like James Bond and Roger Moore then look no further to Live and Let Die!  "},{"Title":"Why Is This One Always Rated So Low?","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've never understand the generally disparaging remarks passed on LaLD (and it's followup, Golden Gun).  It's an adequate performance by Moore in first Bond movie.  The villains are what steal the show, however, from Yaphet Kotto as a major villain who isn't an obsessed psychopath, to the enigmatic Geoffrey Holder, to the menacing Julius Harris, and even the soft-spoken Earl Jolly Brown.  Plus David Hedison is the only Felix Leiter to be called back.  Quite frankly, the plot is a welcome relief from the typical rule the world schemes of previous (and subsequent) Bond villains. "},{"Title":"The Unsurpassed 007 Movie. I Kid You Not.","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At the *very* least, it's better than Thunderball. But, of course, this film (which, if I'm not mistaken, introduces us to Roger Moore as James Bond) beats the rest of them, even the Connery ones! Dr. No and Goldfinger are amazing, but they still can't surpass the absorbing, outsider-friendly world of Live and Let Die, a world of pure action in which 007 battles voodoo drug dealers. From explosive cliffhangers to dazzling ritual scenes, this film has it all.It even has great performances. Moore is all right, but the real winners here are Jane Seymour as the tarot-reading Miss Solitaire and Yaphet Kotto as Dr. Kananga (and with a name like Kananga in a movie like this, you know he's got to be trouble).On an impossible front, this film *even* has the best 007 theme song in the oeuvre... no small feat, considering I myself have never really been able to stand Paul McCartney.Say Live and Let Die! "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Bond Film","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first Bond film is a pretty good start. The plot is really the only thing keeping this one alive. The humor is pretty good too. Overall not Roger Moore's best, but it works. The other high point is in the film is the theme song played by Paul McCartney and Wings. Its definitely one of the best Bond theme song ever written. It's also interesting the return of Guy Hamilton as director (Goldfinger (1964)and eventually The Man With Golden Gun (1974) and he also has a cameo in the film too. It's funny watching these older Bond films, this one came out 9 years before I was born and Jane Seymour, is probably the hottest Bond girl in the series, I feel funny saying that because now she's Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman. The film also makes some careful selected racial jokes that are really funny. Definitely a good film. "},{"Title":"Bond meets Shaft in Hazzard County","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Since I recently enjoyed watching the latest 007 film (Die Another Day), I thought it would be fun to check out some of the older Bond films that I hadn't yet seen. I've always enjoyed From Russia With Love, Dr. No, Thunderball...What I've discovered is that the 1970s were not very kind to Mr. Bond nor to any of his fans over the age of 9. True, this film isn't as mundane as the previous one in the series, Diamonds Are Forever, but it's still pretty damn awful.Live and Let Die begins promisingly enough with three sinister murders and an exciting '70s-style car chase on the streets of the Big Apple. From there the film abruptly descends into a silly Shaft-like rip-off where apparently all black people in New York City are working together to bring about the demise of 007. When the villains in Bond films are white men with British, German or Russian accents, they are usually scheming to take over the world. In this film, the villains are black. Do they want to take over the world? Of course not. They just want to sell drugs!When the action moves to Louisiana and the bumbling, slobbering local sheriff joins the chase, the film you've been watching for the past hour is suddenly interrupted by what seems to be a mediocre segment from a Dukes of Hazzard episode. Any remaining hope for the classy sophistication usually associated with James Bond films sinks into the bayou like a dead crocodile.Speaking of crocodiles, when James Bond is stranded on the tiny island surrounded by them, did anyone else notice the ravenous, man-hungry beasts lining up like stepping stones in the background so that the death-defying Mr. Bond could tiptoe calmly to safety without so much as getting his feet wet? What adventure! And I'm all for a gruesome demise for the primary villain in these films, but when Yaphet Kotto blew up like a balloon, floated to the ceiling and then exploded, I burst out laughing! I had to rewind and watch it again because I couldn't believe my eyes. It is truly one of the stupidest things I have ever seen on film.As James Bond, Roger Moore is so light-hearted and care-free, he gives the impression of being on a guided tour at a 007 theme-park. He is probably trying to make us believe that his Bond is brave and always in control. Instead, he seems either naive about the dangers that surround him - or aware that he is James Bond and that James Bond just doesn't die. When Moore's Bond is tied to a platform that's about to be lowered into a pool filled with man-eating sharks who are already hungrily lapping at his dripping blood, he is able to carry on a conversation as calmly as if he were waiting in line at the Department of Motorized Vehicles. This is not the sort of performance that good action films are made of. "},{"Title":"Moore action than usual!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although Sean Connery had decided to leave the James Bond-series for good after having played the British secret agent five times, he came back one more time in 1971 to star in the film Diamonds are forever.  It must have been the huge amount of money they offered him that eventually changed his mind.  But after having done this film, he got really fed up with it and the producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman had to go and look for a new Bond.  They thought about getting George Lazenby back (who had played James Bond in 1969 when Sean Connery had left), but eventually they selected an actor who had been described as the ideal Bond by no one less than Sean Connery himself.British actor Roger Moore, who had become famous with the television show The Saint, proved to be more than an excellent choice for the part of 007.  Ultimately he would appear in as many James Bond-movies as his forerunner Sean Connery; a total of seven!  The reason why Roger Moore truly deserves his title as 'second best Bond-actor' is because he's nearly as good as Sean Connery ... who himself, of course, has always been the absolute number one.Still, there's a clear difference between a Sean Connery-007 and a Roger Moore-007 movie.  Overall, the first one has a better storyline with more interesting dialogues and very good acting whereas the latter provides you with more action and better villains.  Also, Bond-films with Roger Moore have always been a bit more of a comedy, because the actor has added his own share of irony.Roger Moore's first appearance as the British secret agent is just as good as any of the others that were about to follow in the years to come.  His first Bond-film is a good one despite the unusual,  almost 'non James Bond-like' atmosphere.  This film has no beautiful locations whatsoever, but instead they decided to maintain a rather eerie tone throughout the entire picture.  To make it as real and creepy as possible, they only picked colorless, seemingly uninteresting locations Harlem in New York and some deserted places in Jamaica; not particularly the sort of environment where you'll normally find James Bond adventuring.  Practically all of the characters are simply too weird for a James Bond-film; especially when throwing in a voodoo culture with its own bizarre way of life ... and death!  The weakest scene of the film is a tribe of dancing body-painted Africans who join a ritual.  Fortunately, wacky moments like these are very rare.Naturally, Roger Moore-007 movies are full of many great action scenes.  There are quite a few interesting ones such as the car chase at the beginning of the film through the streets of New York or the speedboat chase that looks really good at first, but unfortunately tends to get a little boring after a while.  The very best scene of Live and let die is, beyond any doubt, Bond's remarkable escape from a dozen ravenous crocodiles.  If it weren't for the brainless script, this film may have been somewhat better.But that is where the many interesting characters come in.  After having used the same evil character Blofeld in the last three Bond-films, they thought about creating a new, fresh enemy for James Bond.  In Live and let die the big boss goes by the name of Mr. Big and he's not only a black person, but he also happens to be a normal guy with no side effects whatsoever.  Typically he tells everyone what to do, but does not get anywhere the action is.  I didn't quite like this Mr. Big although I do have to admit that he died an awesome death.  What the point of his other character Kananga was, is beyond me.As usual there's always an intriguing, seemingly indestructible henchman around the corner sent out by the big boss to kill James Bond.  This time we're treated with a guy who has a steel hook for a hand.  Of course, he doesn't die until the very end of the film; even after the big boss has been killed.  James Bond-films always seem to be using the same pattern over and over again. But Bond's toughest opponent is the card-reading girl Solitaire who's aware of every single step he takes.  With her in the film, we get the only yet very beautiful Bond-girl.Last but not least despite Q's absence in this film, there are still quite a few of his handy tools he's left behind.All in all, Live and let die is a pretty good film with some nice features (such as the great title track written by Paul and Linda McCartney), but it's a pity that the atmosphere is so dark and alternative and also that Roger Moore doesn't play in a more jokey way since this suits him best. "},{"Title":"Bond &#x85; Blaxploitation Bond!","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Say what you want about James Bond movies, that they are traditional or clichéd or predictable, but if you look at them in the spirit of their age you'll notice that there is often a lot of clever market research and marketeering involved. Bond's interstellar adventure Moonraker, for example, got released around the same time as the immensely popular Star Wars films and thus at the height of the Sci-Fi cinema revival. Well, Live and let Die also cashes in on a contemporary very profitable movie trend, namely the rise of the so- called Blaxploitation cinema. These are films with an ensemble cast existing almost entirely of black actors/actresses and often dealing with organized crime and gang wars in New York City. Of course James Bond himself is still white and typically British, but for the first time in eight films his opponents are Afro-Americans with heavily pimped cars. 007 is sent to the United Stated in order to find the connection between the murders of three British secret agents in New York, New Orleans and a small Caribbean island named San Monique. He quickly finds out that all heroin sales in Harlem are being controlled by a certain Mr. Big, and he gets his deliveries straight from President Kananga of San Monique. Kananga is surrounded by large henchmen with arms of steel, petrifying high Voodoo priest and sexy virgin Tarot Card readers. Live and let Die is a hit 'n miss Bond classic, in my humble opinion. Some vital aspects are disappointingly weak, like the predictable plot twists or the awful attempts to insert redneck humor, while other aspects are very unique and even downright genius, like spectacularly staged action sequence and an overall fantastic cast of characters. Yaphet Kotto is terrific as the evil but superstitious Kananga, but his accomplices are even cooler, most notably Julius Harris as the humongous Tee Hee and Geoffrey Holder as the spooky Baron Samedi. Jane Seymour, in one of her very first on-screen appearances, depicts one of the most breathtaking Bond girls ever and her character &#x96; Solitaire the vulnerable card reader in custody of President Kananga &#x96; is also quite absorbing. Highlights in Live and Let Die undoubtedly include the (fake) funeral rite in the famous streets of New Orleans, the chase with the typically British double- decker bus and the rather tense execution attempt at the crocodile/alligator farm. The famous speedboat chase through Louisiana is far too overlong and over- stuffed with lame comical interludes (although hillbilly Sheriff J.W. Pepper was apparently popular enough to re-appear in next year's The Man with the Golden Gun), but the voodoo rituals and artifacts are effectively scary. None other than Paul McCartney wrote and sang the beautiful title song and Roger Moore does an adequate job in his very first Bond performance. He was already 45-years-old in this film and by the time of his seventh and last Bond film in 1985 &#x96; A View to a Kill &#x96; he was embarrassingly overaged. "},{"Title":"First Roger Round.","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a one-show comeback by Sean Connery, the same said thank you and goodbye to the 007 factory. The baton was handed over to the graceful actor Roger Moore, who's sleek profile role as Lord Brett Sinclair got canceled, as the rejection of a TV-show named The Persuaders was a fact, after just 24 episodes. Besides some good response in a few European countries, it never hit the big time in such important markets as the U.S, and therefore got scrapped. Roger accepted the offer and submitted himself some changes, due to demands from the 007 team. Loose weight, cut that thick wavy hair of yours, get into some assassin mood. During 1972 it was tough being Roger Moore (recalling to his great fun biography) but the hard work paid off then. The set off for what was to become a twelve year long journey had started. J.B Mk. III. The era which everyone who was born between mid 60's to early 70's remember with warmth and great nostalgia from their childhood. Roger Moore as the easy-going, elegant but dangerous MI6 agent James Bond. The gadget Bond. The globetrotter Bond. Well, in my opinion, Live And Let Die is quite weak compare to what was on the way, if you give it some wide '73 - '85 oversee today. I can't help thinking that the movie feels a lot more aged today than - let's say - it's successor, though released just the year after. Freshman Roger Moore does it quite good, and his actor colleagues too, but.....it feels just a little bit corny when I watch it in present times. Just a year after this, a much fresher, homogeneous 007-movie entered the cinemas. "}{"Title":"The best of Sir Roger","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was a good start for Roger Moore in his first debut of James Bond and this film certainly at first demonstrated this optimistic potential from his experience at acting in the classic series the Saint and the Persuaders. This is the only film that follows the tradition of the Connery years when the films were directly based upon the novels to which they were based. The acting and storyline is certainly good making this one of the best original Bond films ever with action and adventure that keeps you entertained throughout. The other cast such as Jane Seymour and Yaphet Kotto are well cast in their roles with good music and effects. I also have very fond memories of this film as it reminds me of the Bond season that ITV did in 1999 during the summer. After Live and Let Die however Sir Roger started to play it tongue and cheek not keeping in with the action tradition of the Connery years thus making it pretentious to the themes of the novels on which they were supposed to be based upon. This previous approach would of made him a better Bond of the seventies, which suits the iconic character. An example of this being The Man with the Golden Gun should of been done in the style of Licence to Kill but mildly. However this film is the best of the cinematic James Bond franchise and the best of Roger Moore who was rightly well cast as the character. "},{"Title":"Bizarre blaxploitation first outing for Roger Moore.","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You've got to hand it to the Bond producers, they never do miss a trend they can exploit. In 'Licence to Kill' it was the contemporary 'War on Drugs'(the entire thing feels like a feature length episode of Miami Vice), in 'Moonraker' it was the sci-fi craze kicked off by Star Wars, in 'The Man with the Golden Gun' we just had to have some martial arts to cash in on Bruce Lee's posthumous celebrity. So, it's the early 70s and that means we just have to have some superfly cool blaxploitation. Hence utterly wonderful dialogue such as Names is for tombstone's baby, take this honky outside and waste him! Ian Fleming has often been criticised for his depiction of non-white characters and we see it here pretty blatantly, even with all the updates made between the novel and film (in the book one of Mr Big's heavies decides to spare Felix Leiter's life because they have a common love of jazz!). Women aren't much better off, we have the first Afro-American Bond girl but she is depicted as both incompetent and traitorous, gets slapped around by Bond (Roger has a reputation as being much more of a gentleman than Sean was but not here) and then murdered. Jane Seymour is lovely but also pretty insipid, Yaphett Kotto is a decent if not too remarkable villain. Nice to see Quarrel junior though, presumably the son of the character killed in Dr No. David Hedison is also fine as Felix Leiter and will make a return in 'Licence to Kill', the first actor to repeat the role. Bond's run across the crocodiles is a terrific stunt. All told, good stuff but as with Sean, Roger's Bond got better as he went along. "},{"Title":"A fresh new start","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-6/10Live and Let Die the first time we get to see Roger Moore as Bond is a fun if not not slightly more humorous than previous Bond films with a villain who is not a super villain, but a mere humble drug kingpin. The film is a fun watch and although by far not the best Bond, can still be considered Bond that felt more like Bond was a police detective rather than a Spy. The film is OK, and here is why I thought so.The story is not the strongest by a long shot in the Bond series but still serves to give us what we want, action, crime and adventure and Bond is still using his big gadgets and nice cars to crack down on the villains. I felt the story was a bit slow but started to maybe speed up toward the end with an ending that is just well, go and see what I mean. I did enjoy the plot and I commend it for being a more realistic villain, but with the horrible racial overtones, it made for a Bond that wasn't anywhere near the best, and not Moore's best performance either.I enjoyed Moore in this film and as I said with the humour thing, he knows just what to do in this movie, with his quick and witty remarks and calmness in a bad situation Moore excerpts confidence even in the face of probable certain death. The cast aren't that great and although we are focusing on Moore more than anyone in this film, cast such as Jane Seymour are poor and seem to overly done as characters to be serious, that goes for the villain too. I did like some of the more petty villains Bond encounters before he meets the main villain as Bond finally got to deal with knives and clubs rather than lasers and just guns all the time.It was written well and directed all the same but not so much praise must be given to this as it isn't as good as it could have been done. The stunts in this are good if not great and one of the first Bond's that nearly over does the stunts, but manages to balance the suave nature of Bond with his more testosterone filled half. The action sequences are OK too and serve the film well in it's pats that are turning boring, the action gives us much thrills and enjoyable action that isn't too dark for kids for example.The film isn't great as I was saying and far from it, with an acting cast that sometimes seem to be in the wrong film and characters that just seem to take the mick of the film(Sheriff Pepper does that) it could nearly be said it wants to be laughed at. It isn't that bad to be fair but as we get so many times, the villain is too ambitious and plans to massive to ever be possible, here we have it even more so with a medium sized drug cartel planning well, no spoilers but a big thing to happen.I think those who like Bond films and especially Moore will enjoy it as sometimes on reflection it seems Roger Moore got more lighter in his films as they went along, with only really A View To a Kill being more dark than this Moore film. Those who don't like Bond always may like it though with it's un gory action but still people do die, it mixes up well so that younger audiences can also enjoy this as well as elder viewers too.Overall I give this a 6/10, solidly a movie but not really quite near being good, but I felt it was much better than just being another OK film. Not the best Bond and won't set sparks off with the fans as although it is enjoyable, it can be passed off as briskly entertaining adventure but never getting to the heights that the earlier Bond's get to. "},{"Title":"There Really Isn't Too Much to Dislike About This Movie","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When three MI6 agents are murdered within a short period of time James Bond (Roger Moore) is sent to New York to investigate. Once there he discovers evidence that a man by the name of Dr. Kananga (Yaphet Kotto) may be responsible and so he heads to New Orleans to continue his investigation. It is here that he is abducted by a gangster by the name of Mr. Big (name deliberately withheld) and meets a beautiful psychic named Solitaire (Jane Seymour) who works for Dr. Kananga and keeps him informed of future events by the use of tarot cards. After managing to escape from the clutches of Mr. Big he then travels to a small island in the Caribbean called San Monique where he meets up with another agent named Rosie (Gloria Hendry) who is there to assist him. From then on events begin to rapidly overtake him as he encounters an assortment of hoodlums, crocodiles, a voodoo priest named Baron Samedi (Geoffrey Holder) and even a Louisiana sheriff by the name of J.W. Pepper (Clifton James). So essentially what we have is an action-packed movie that has elements of previous James Bond films mixed with a blaxploitation theme and some very good humor as well. Throw in some good performances by Roger Moore and Yaphet Kotto along with one of the most beautiful and talented actresses to appear in a James Bond film in Jane Seymour and there really isn't too much to dislike about this movie. That said, I rate it as above average. "},{"Title":"Moore's Bond is suave, charming and witty!","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the first film with Roger Moore starring as MI6 Secret Agent James Bond 007, where he is sent to New York to investigate the mysterious deaths of several British agents. There, he discovers that the self-producing heroin addict Dr. Kananga (Yaphet Kotto) is linked to the case and as Bond tries to unravel his master plan, he meets Solitaire (Jane Seymour), the beautiful Tarot card reader whose magical gifts are reluctantly crucial to Kananga. What follows are some nice action sequences involving voodoo and witch doctors.While Sean Connery is, of course, the first and original actor to play James Bond and is regarded by many to be the best one, I actually like Moore's portrayal of the secret agent better. He gave his own unique personality and charm to the character, but also kept Bond's iconic characteristics of suaveness, womanizing, deadpan humor and funny one-liners. His acting was charming and comedic, which helped him engage in all the action scenes and provide touching chemistry between him and the beautiful Jane Seymour.Tom Mankiewicz did a pretty nice job on the screenplay, providing us with a story that is interesting, and Guy Hamilton did a pretty good job directing. Much of the movie delved on Bond and his partners roaming around the streets of New Orleans and the Caribbean Island, looking for clues leading to Kanaga and his scheme. There is lesser action in this movie than other 007 films, but the voodoo scenes where Moore does some nice butt-kicking action with Kanaga and his henchmen are among my favorite parts in the feature. The boat-chase scene was exciting at first, but gets drawn out later on in the scene; it also lacks a much needed music score accompaniment. The loudmouth Sheriff Pepper (Clifton James) is a very annoying character and didn't serve a real purpose in the movie; but, I guess he was needed for comic relief.Overall, it's a pretty lively and amusing first 007 film to feature Roger Moore.Grade B "},{"Title":"fair start to the Roger Moore era","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore is taking his first turn as the iconic Bond. Bond is called in to investigate the killing of British agents. In New York, Bond is attacked, and we're introduced to Kananga (Yaphet Kotto) the dictator of San Monique, and his virgin tarot card reader Solitaire (Jane Seymour). It turns out that Kananga or Mr Big controls large concessions of businesses in Harlem and beyond.The title song from Paul McCartney jolts the series into the 70s. It is indeed a start of a new era. There is a definite black urban influence at work in this one. I love the juxtaposition of the impeccable Lilly white Bond clashing with the hip black culture. I also love Yaphet Kotto but I wish he had more to do. Baron Samedi (Geoffrey Holder) has to be one of the most interesting looking villain ever. Even better than Tee Hee (Julius Harris) with his claw hand.Lois Maxwell is showing her age as she becomes more of a mom figure to the younger Bond. There is a chance of Bond doing the same. He is certainly out of place. So Roger Moore is playing a lot of this off as a joke. It's a different take on Bond than the one from Connery. And this franchise is now part parody especially with the comical Sheriff Pepper (Clifton James). This is an interesting start to the Roger Moore era. "},{"Title":"Excellent intro to Bond for some of us &#x85;","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live And Let Die was my first introduction to James Bond. By this time, I was @14 or so. My grandmother was murdered in January 1973, during the time the movie was filmed, and I could not stomach the Sean Connery films' brutality as a youngster, as I felt they were too intense. I would overcome that later, but that is for another time.While the blaxpoitation theme has not aged well for me at all, I found the film itself a great Intro 101 for those of us who are not familiar with the world of 007. It's not overbearing, has plenty of action and a lot of unusual, crazy features to keep your attention. It is also a cool capsule of late 1972, when this was filmed, because you get to see a wild car scene on the now-gone West Side Highway in New York. And I liked the movie, because it was a reminder of fun times I had in 1973 as well.Sir Roger Moore and the rest of the cast do their job well. While I thought Sir Paul McCartney's theme was a little overbearing, I liked what Sir George Martin did, though I am curious as to why John Barry did not score this.And for director Guy Hamilton, this movie would prove to be his third successful effort for the Bond series. The next movie would prove to be another story altogether &#x85;2016 RIP Sir George Martin and Guy Hamilton. "},{"Title":"An excellent film.","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Live and Let Die, 1973, Caribbean black magic and bayou mysteries twist around two powerful underworld figures an island nation Prime Minister Kananga and USA crime czar Mr. Big. Heroin being made and imported into the US becomes the mission.*Special Stars- Roger Moore, Jane Seyour, Yaphet Kotto, Clifton James.*Theme- International balance of power will not tolerate heroin.*Trivia/location/goofs- Jane Seymour's first film appearance at a lovely 19 years old. Sean Connery turned down 5.5 million dollars to do the role and Mr. Connery said that Mr. Moore would be 'an ideal Bond'. The snakes scenes were particularly hard to do due to Mr. Moore's and the voodoo dancer's fears of snakes. Jane Seymour voice was dubbed.*Emotion- Essentially an American urban & bayou and Caribbean island locations. Nice use of island voodoo and bayou magic in this plot. The Lousianna local sheriff was great and stole the scenes away from Mr. Moore. Louisiana Sheriff J.W. Pepper was played by Clifton James. His sheriff character comes back in a later Bond Film maybe due to the strength of his portrayal with Bond. The new villains in this film are top notch and memorable. An personal favorite and excellent film with Roger Moore as Bond. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's first outing as Bond","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When three British agents are killed Bond is assigned to find out what happened. As they were all looking into a man called Kananga, the Prime Minister of the Caribbean nation of San Monique he first heads to New York where Kananga had been addressing the UN. He hasn't been there long when an attempt is made on his life. It isn't long before he comes to the attention of local crime lord 'Mr Big'. By the time he is free again Katanga is back in the Caribbean along with his fortune-teller Solitaire. Bond follows them there and after an encounter with a snake he heads to find out what Katanga is up to. Bond being Bond he has to pay Solitaire a visit too. After a night with Bond she is keen to leave Kananga and they discover the truth about his activities; he is going a huge quantity of heroin with which he plans to take over the US drugs market. Once off the island the head for New Orleans where Bond will have to survive a crocodile attack and a spectacular boat change before heading back to San Monique to confront Kananga one last time.This was a fine introduction to the 'new Bond' Roger Moore is very different to Sean Connery and George Lazenby but still makes a fine bond. The role is quite a bit lighter now with far more quips and light hearted moments. More humour is provided by Clifton James who plays the stereotypical southern Sheriff; he is a character viewers will find very funny or very annoying; thankfully I thought he was funny. The villain Kananga was played by Yaphet Kotto who did a great job and certainly wasn't playing for laughs. Jane Seymour proves to be a fine Bond Girl in the role of Solitaire; a character as mysterious as she is attractive. The story might not be about somebody trying to take over the world but it was still exciting and had some of the best action scenes yet; I can't think of any other film that has a better boat chase scene. I suspect most Bond fans will really enjoy this even those who are still missing Connery. "},{"Title":"Bond at his best!!","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Many people disparage Moore's Bond generally and this movie particularly, but in my opinion this is one of the, if not THE, best of the Bond movie series, certainly it's my favourite. It has some minor problems perhaps, but these are exactly that - minor; and they don't prevent me enjoying all the film has to offer.I would argue that simply taken as a fast-paced action thriller, Live and Let Die stands up well against any other action film, but, if you're a Bond fan, seen in the context of the Bond series it delivers much more.Bond is suave, incisive, resourceful and tough, as well as arrogantly confident, calculating, devious, manipulative, cajoling and cold to the bone. Not necessarily the nicest guy on the block, but definitely the man to send to get the job done. And that's exactly what he does, blazing a trail through claustrophobic New York, sweltering Louisiana and the sultry, intoxicating Caribbean.The story speeds along like a lit fuse; the action sequences are knockout and inventive; the direction and cinematography are adroitly engaging; the score and theme are smokin'; and the script is lively, edgy and often very amusing.And we encounter some terrific and beautifully portrayed characters such as quiet, efficient, reliable Bond compadre Quarrel Jr.; a lippy, irreverent, in-the-know cabbie; seductive, inept, wavering and terrified C.I.A. turncoat Rosie Carver; wistful, trapped occult high-priestess Solitaire; ominous and vindictive Baron Samedi; poor, bedraggled Sheriff J. W. Pepper; ever-amused bone-crunching Tee Hee Johnson; and the explosive and menacing villainous mastermind Kananga.All this along with nice series touches like one of M's best ever appearances, Miss Moneypenny delicately helping Bond out of an indelicate scrape, and Bond brandishing a show-stopping .44 Magnum.All in all, I think Live and Let Die is a flamboyant, stylish, gritty Bond movie that crackles with tension, smoulders with sensuality, erupts with explosive action and delivers big time. "}{"Title":"Gritty 007 with Lasting Appeal","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 007 is sent on a mission to stop a heroin drug baron Kananga and smack dealer Mr.Big but after a chance encounter he also finds himself in a race against time to rescue a young and beautiful tarot card reader.Albeit Roger Moore's first outing he's slips right into the role of James Bond effortlessly, in retrospect it a shame they omitted to some of Bond's earlier trademarks, there's no Martini, no hat and no cigarettes. Felix Leiter appears and has a few one liners. As a side note the same actor (David Hedison) would return in Licence to Kill (1989) which incidentally shares many themes with Live and Let Die.There are many stand out scenes notably Bond using crocodiles as stepping stones, his home briefing by M, the train fight with metal armed henchman and boat chase with Moore clearly visible in the action in a few places. Yaphet Kotto's Kananga is one of the more grounded villains (possibly inspired by real life Gangsters Nicky Barnes and certainly Frank Lucas) and gives an emotional underrated performance. Jane Seymour is sufficient as Solitaire but hasn't the screen presence of previous Bond girls, coming across weak in places, something that her older self would have execute with ease.There's a handful of memorable supporting characters, Baron Samedi, Tee Hee and Sheriff J.W. Pepper who has some genuinely humorous lines (and is much less annoying here than in 1974's follow up The Man with the Golden Gun).George Martin's score replicates the traditional theme tunes while incorporating Wings original music from the title theme song adding to the atmosphere. It's packed with stunts and action synonymous with the James Bond films. Live and Let Die even with it's voodoo shenanigans and baddie lair is one of the grittier, evenly paced and rounded of the instalments.The real locations, plausible drug cartel story line and Moore's Bond give it lasting appeal. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Top Fun","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die was Roger Moore's first appearance as Agent James Bond 007, a role he so obviously relished over the years. Then he was better known as a TV star following his role as the Bondesque Simon Templar in the Saint, and the follow up as Lord Sinclair in the less successful The Persuaders.When the film starts, Bond's briefing is not in the familiar office of his boss M, but in his apartment where he had just finished cavorting with a delectable Italian agent.M gives Bond the unfortunate news that three British agents have been murdered presumably by one Mr. Kananga, the dictator of a Caribbean country called San Monique. Bond is then ordered to investigate the deaths.Bond's assignment takes him to New York where he meets the beautiful and mysterious Solitaire, a tarot card reader with seemingly possible powers to predict the future. Solitaire played by Jane Seymour (her first acting role) was a virgin who will lose her power if she loses her virginity.He also encounters Tee Hee, the henchman with a hook instead of a hand. (In the Bond novels, Bond's friend Felix Leither had the hook); the seductively menacing Baron Samedi, supposedly The Man Who Can Never Die, and finally the big bad guy himself, Mr. Kananga played charmingly by Yaphet Kotto. Both Julius Harris and Geoffrey Holder who played Tee Hee and Samedi respectively were sadly underused but still their performances as the grotesque bad guys were arresting.Sadly, Desmond Llewlyn did not make an appearance but his character, Q, was still referred to in a comic altercation between Bond and M.Kotto has the distinction of being the first and only black villain in the James Bond franchise. And it was a role he played with equal measures of charm and menace. Kotto always has a magnetic screen presence and it show in this movie, almost matching that of Roger Moore himself, despite his lesser screen time. It was obvious that the Bond film makers were cashing in on the successful blaxploitation movies of the 70s, (although in a reverse order since the black guys are the villains). The racist theme was prevalent in the movie and which begs the question- were they black because they were villains or where they villains who just happened to be black? Roger Moore's interpretation of Bond was radically different from Connery's. He eschews Connery's sardonic wit and roughness to assume a more affable finesse and comedic persona. That charm is what made Roger Moore a more likable Bond in Nigeria (not in my opinion though).He smokes cigars, struts through the street of Harlem dressed like The Prince of Wales, speaks in refined English (his one liners where excellent like when his quip sheer magnetism, darling as he pulls down a zipper with a magnetic watch), shows no anxiety in being in the midst of violent black drug runners (when he is being taken away to his execution, he calmly advises Solitaire not to leave as he shan't be long) and tells a massive henchman called Whisper to keep the change when the henchman serves him with drinks and takes his gun in exchange.LALD is a fast paced movie which unusually for the superficial Bond movies skirts the supernatural world of voodooism, occultism and human sacrifices. The drug theme is also explored via Kananga who wants to monopolize the drug world in US by an operation that does not really make sense.As Kananaga puts it I sell to anyone&#x85;black, white-I don't discriminate Like most Bond films, LALD has its plot holes. It is never explained why the British Secret Service was interested in Kananga in the first place that led to the murder of their three agents, or even why their agents were murdered. Fantastically, one was murdered right in the General Assembly meeting of the United Nations! Or why Kananaga's dummy killers would kill one of their own agents on the verge of revealing information to Bond when they could have nipped the whole problem in the bud by just easily killing Bond. Wrong strategy, bad guys.Despite these plot holes, it is still an arresting movie with such highlights as the climatic boat chase, Bond's nifty watch that could emit a magnetic field, his nerve wracking entanglement with the alligators and a brilliant disco cum spooky song theme song from Paul Marcartney.It is better that its predecessor, the silly Diamonds Are Forever; not the best of the Bond movies but still a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's debut as Bond is a good one.","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I finished reviewing the first series of 007 films with Connery and will now move on to Live and Let Die. I can imagine that many viewers and maybe critics really didn't know what to expect from this one. For starters, a new actor getting contracted to appear as James Bond for the next several films posed the question of Will Roger Moore bring changes to the character of the 00 Agent? Well, the answer is YES. I could go into further detail on this but I will save that for my review of 'Man with the Golden Gun'. As for Live and Let Die, there is somewhat of a mixed bag here yet the overall movie is still great as far as I'm concerned. What stood out to me for this film were the villains Katanga and Baren Samedi (spelling?). Katanga is not anything extraordinary but I enjoyed seeing him get angry throughout Live and Let Die. As for Baren Samedi, the magician who couldn't die was a great yet short lived addition to the Bond villain legacy (Catch the irony there?). Now for the Bond girls both were really bland in my opinion. The agent who Bond worked with in this film wasn't much of an agent at all. She was a bit cowardly and ill-prepared. Those who have seen this know what I'm talking about. As for the character of Solitare, she brought nothing in terms of of a much needed character but maybe that is why she wasn't focused on so much. Now one character that probably doesn't get much credit in this movie is the cop known as J.W. Pepper. That guy brought some good redneck humor to the main action sequence following the second half. Once thing viewers will notice about the Roger Moore 007 flicks is the comedic overtone that is often used. The theme song to Live and Let Die could be what is most remembered concerning the movie but I don't mean that to come off as a negative critique. To end with that comment, I might still have liked the theme song had I not heard it so much over the years. "},{"Title":"colourful blaxploitation gloss","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Moore's charm smooths over the inevitable comparisons with Connery and is in keeping with the lighter tone that the films had already been accustomed to and which they would go on with throughout his tenure. The film is especially intriguing in that it is the only entry in the series which features metaphysics (Solitaire's ability to read the Tarot cards and predict the future) as a credible plot device. Otherwise, LALD's colourful blaxploitation gloss, confident pace and a few modern touches give it a vigour which was missing from its predecessor, Diamonds Are Forever. Plus, it features an all-time great moment Bond's escape from the crocodile pool. A winner. "},{"Title":"Hey man, for twenty bucks I'd take you to a Ku Klux Klan cookout!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've read all the reviews from Bond fans enumerating their many problems with Live and Let Die, but I'm sorry, I don't agree. To me, James Bond has always been about having fun. Yeah, like most people, I prefer the earlier films. But for pure unadulterated, sugar-coated fun, it's hard to beat something like Live and Let Die. These films were never meant to be brain surgery anyway. Some of the highlights for me include the voodoo ceremonies and Baron Samedi (played by the wonderful Geoffrey Holder), the New Orleans funeral procession and band, Jane Seymour, one of the best boat chase scenes ever put on film, the funky 70's feel and the Blaxploitation meets James Bond vibe, Paul McCartney's title song, the Filet of Soul, a couple of really underrated henchmen in Tee Hee and Whisper, and a truly effective performance from the amazing Yaphet Kotto. Unlike a lot of other Bond fans, not only do I not rate Live and Let Die near the bottom of my list of favorites, I've got it near the top. It's an entertaining, action-filled, good time.On to Roger Moore &#x96; while I prefer Connery, Moore is more than capable in the role of James Bond, especially in 1973 when he was still young enough to pull it off. He gets a lot of criticism (some from me) about the direction the character and the films took during his time in the role. But when I think about it logically, the groan-inducing quips and the lame attempts at comedy should be blamed on the producers, directors, writers, and editors &#x96; i.e. the people with the power. I've got no complaints with Moore in Live and Let Die.Finally, if I have one negative to mention in regards to Live and Let Die, it's with Sheriff Pepper. He's a one note character whose shtick gets old real quick. The fact that the producers saw fit to bring him back in another James Bond film (instead of the original idea of brining back Baron Samedi) is jaw-dropping in its idiocy. Clifton James may have been fine performer, but Sheriff Pepper is a grating character that wears out his welcome within the first minute of appearing on screen. "},{"Title":"Good Start for Roger Moore as 007","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was the first James Bond movie starring Roger Moore. When I learned that Sean Connery would not be making more Bond films, I were disappointed. However, I had enjoyed Moore in a TV series called The Saint back in the 60's, and I enjoyed him as Agent 007 in the Bond series. Jane Seymour and Yaphet Kotto were new to me, and both did an outstanding job in this movie. I have liked watching them both in films and TV shows since 1973. One of the neat surprises in this film for me was seeing Geoffrey Holder. This was the first movie I recall with him in it; he had done several 7-Up commercials for TV, and his bass voice was very distinctive. He was very good in his role in this movie. This is a good Bond film, and I will watch it often. "},{"Title":"Let's meet our next contestant....","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore was set to debut in the job he'd hold for the next 12 years... and still people don't want to admit he played a good James Bond.He was softer, yes. Writers had to re-write many of the Connery driven scenes for his more natural comedic persona, true. But when times called for it, Moore made Bond a bastard. Afterall, he did trick this powerful psychic with poor self-esteem into giving up her virginity and stripping herself of her powers all in the name of getting' some tail. You cheeky bastard! 'Let Die' wasn't the best Moore vehicle, neither was it's sequel... but it did give Moore a firm foothold of a character he made great strides with improving on film.His debut effort did in fact serve as the place setting at the Bond table and the main course would indeed test Sean Connery's true believers.Add in the first non-John Barry score, a little ghetto voodoo and a kick ass title song... Popcorn baby! "},{"Title":"A reasonably impressive Bond film, better than the last couple that came before it","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Sean Connery starred in the first five official James Bond movies, was replaced by George Lazenby for the sixth one, and then came back to star in one more film in the franchise, he was finished with the official Bond movie franchise, and would only reappear in the role once more, in the unofficial 1983 film, Never Say Never Again. In my opinion, Lazenby turned out to be disappointing as Bond in the one film he was in, and sadly, after that, Connery didn't have a very good film to finish with. So, I didn't care much for those two films, but Live and Let Die, introducing Roger Moore (who would continue in the role for quite a while afterwards), showed some improvement.Three British agents are killed within 24 hours of each other, all in different places, but all while investigating the actions of Dr. Kananga, the mysterious dictator of the Caribbean island of San Monique! One is killed in New York, another in New Orleans, and the third in San Monique! James Bond is informed of these mysterious killings and sent to New York City to investigate. His mission takes him to an American crime boss named Mr. Big, who seems to be linked with the dictator of San Monique! After Agent 007 is caught by Mr. Big but manages to escape, he finds himself in various places on the west side of the Atlantic during his mission to try and foil Kananga's evil plan, which involves self-produced heroin, and often finds that Kananga and henchmen of his are after him! This eighth official James Bond movie is quite long, perhaps a bit TOO long, but at least it's not as tedious as On Her Majesty's Secret Service and Diamonds Are Forever. I'm not sure how to describe any other problems with the film. Sure, it has some rather silly moments, but that can obviously be expected. Despite shortcomings, Moore's first Bond film has a number of memorably thrilling sequences, especially later on in the film, with the likes of the double-decker bus chase, Bond with a bunch of hungry crocodiles, the boat chase, etc. There's also some humour in the film, such as Bond in a plane with a pilot in training as his foes chase him. I also found Sheriff J.W. Pepper a humorous character, with lines like What are you? Some kinda doomsday machine boy? Yes, I know he is a very stereotypical American Southerner, but the last movie I watched before this was The Adventures of Bob & Doug McKenzie Strange Brew, a comedy in which the main characters are two stereotypical Canadian dimwits, and I got a lot of laughs from them. As a Canuck, if I'm willing to laugh at fictional stereotypical idiots from my country, then I don't see why I should feel guilty for laughing at other stereotypes that are used for comic effect.At approximately two hours, this adaptation of Ian Fleming's novel (which, like the rest of them, I haven't read) isn't exactly super long, and I've been blown away by longer films (ones approximately three hours long), but still, it seems like it could have been at least just a tad shorter, and may seem a bit longer than it is. Nonetheless, it is a reasonable romp for the most part, and while it must have been difficult replacing Connery in the famous role, Roger Moore managed to pull it off, even if he's not QUITE as good in the role. The movie's theme song by Wings (which I've been familiar with for many years), is another highlight, as it is one of the memorable Bond themes. While inferior to some of its predecessors starring Connery, Live and Let Die could definitely give viewers some good thrills, if that's what they're looking for. "},{"Title":"Bond #8 Voodoo visions","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Kicking off with one of the best title songs ever (by no-one less than Paul McCartney), Roger Moore entered his first Bond adventure. After the cynical and modern Diamonds Are Forever, Live And Let Die was made in a different vein, not only because Moore portrays Bond differently, developing the ironic side of the agent with a license to kill. The biggest difference is the strangeness of the voodoo world that adds more fantasy to the movie, even if the Hocus-Pocus is provided with a natural explanation. The run over the crocodile bridge is nothing completely impossible, either, yet surely a case of don't try this at home.Clever disguise you're wearing, remarks the CIA agent mockingly when he meets Bond, the only white man around in Harlem - even though he may feel out of place, the producers always tried to make Bond contemporary, not a lonely survivor of the 50s when the novels were written. So Moonraker took him into space when Star Wars was huge, while Live And Let Die made a bow to Shaft and the like; thus it seemed in no way repetitive. To sum it up, Live And Let Die makes a good transition from the more serious Connery movies. "},{"Title":"Roger Moo7re is James Bond","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Wow, such a different interpretation of Bond. n this movie, Bond is so much soft, romantic, and so much British! His accent his manners, everything! I think it was a good thing that they finally choose a British actor to play Bond... After all, that's the way it should be.Looking closer at that plot, it really is quite unusual, Bond-wise, for a bit of dabbling in Voodoo and the occult. It creates a spooky atmosphere not normally a part of the average Bond experience. The heroin-based impetus behind the plot serves only as a sensible explanation for the eerie goings-on. Baron Samedi and Tee Hee cannot fail to both amuse you, frighten you and make you go oooh!; whilst the ever-dominating Kananga is nice 'n' scary &#150; played by Yaphet Kotto. Sheriff Pepper is a touchy subject for Bond purists, but I like him - and Solitaire is a Bond girl with an intriguing touch (!). Oh! - and this is surely the best Felix Leiter. The set-pieces are spectacular in all the ways you would expect them to be (the bus chase, speed-boat chase and the infamous crocodiles stand out in particular), and the action is fast-paced throughout. "}{"Title":"Goofy but Good","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The thing i like about old Bond movies is they are just so fun to watch. People are now trying to take Bond movies into the real world like Casino Royale which was great! Live and Let Die is another goofy but yet great Bond movie. Most of all the Bond movies in the past have a lot of made up stuff which i like about the old Bond movies.Live and Let Die is one of the best Roger Moore movies (i think). It has some very good villains. The story wasn't confusing at all.But if you don't like goofy, but yet good Bond movies i would say not to watch it (unless you really want to). But if you are a Bond fan and don't really care if its a little bit goofy then it would be a great Bond movie to watch! "},{"Title":"When Bond Became Saintly!","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By the early '70's, it looked as though the Bond franchise was doomed. Though 'Diamonds Are Forever' had been a worldwide hit, Connery was not coming back, and the hunt was on for a new leading man. American stars such as Burt Reynolds were being considered. On top of that, the series itself was widely perceived to be outdated. Clint Eastwood's 'Dirty Harry' had arrived, so Bond had to move with the times - or die.Roger Moore, fresh from the 'The Persuaders!' series, landed the role of 007. At the time I was horrified. Moore was too well known as 'The Saint' - though the series had ended in 1969, it was still being shown round the world. Could he cope with the challenge of Bond? I need not have worried. He made the part his own very quickly. He is surprisingly good as a harder-edged 007, though with a penchant for witty quips. Making him look different to his predecessor was a wise move. No white dinner jackets or Martinis on view here. Towards the end, Bond is seen wearing a stylish black outfit with holsters which puts one in mind of Jim Steranko's version of 'Nick Fury, Agent Of S.H.I.E.L.D'.Based on Ian Fleming's second Bond novel, 'Live & Let Die' takes Bond into the orbit of the mysterious gangster 'Mr.Big', who is funding SMERSH operations with pirate treasure. His associate 'Solitaire' can predict the future by reading Tarot cards. Writer Tom Mankiewicz threw out most of the plot, and brought in a drug angle more in keeping with the times. The story provided an opportunity to cash in on the 'blaxploitation' craze of the time, epitomised by films such as 'Shaft' ( 1971 ). Yes, the villains are black, but to confound charges of racism, Mankiewicz introduced a good black character in the shape of C.I.A. agent 'Harold Strutter' ( Lon Satton ) and made a comic figure out of redneck police chief 'J.W. Pepper' ( Clifton James ). If 'Diamonds Are Forever' was 'Goldfinger 2', then 'Live & Let Die' is 'Dr.No 2'. The Jamaican setting, the murder of one of Bond's colleagues, the naive heroine, a deadly creature used as a murder weapon, Bond being assisted by a black man named 'Quarrel', all had been done before, and yet, strangely, 'Live & Let Die' manages to feel fresh and exciting. It was decided to distance the new film from its predecessors, hence no briefing in M's office, or gadget lecture from Q. Even the villain's grand master plan is not particularly extravagant. Instead of holding the world to ransom, he wants to corrupt society by flooding the market with free drugs.Yaphet Kotto is a fine villain, as are Julius W.Harris and Geoffrey Holder ( the latter's 'Baron Samedi' is a classic Bond villain. Though he does not say much, the sight of his painted, laughing face in a top hat is genuinely disturbing ). Jane Seymour's bland performance as 'Solitare' is probably the film's only weakness. Diana Ross was mooted originally for the role, and I suspect she would probably have been better. David Hedison is the latest ( and best ) in a long line of actors to play Bond's American chum 'Felix Leiter'. 'Live & Let Die' is bigger and better than its predecessor in every department. The boat chase, the crocodile farm scene, the voodoo ceremony and the destruction of Dr.Kananga's poppy fields ( great effects by Derek Meddings ) are wonderfully thrilling. After a run of six Bond movies, John Barry was given a break from scoring, and 'Beatles' producer George Martin took his place. Again I think this worked to the film's advantage, as Martin's score has a more contemporary feel. The theme song by Paul & Linda McCartney became a worldwide hit. It is my all-time favourite Bond song.'Live & Let Die' was the shot in the arm the Bond series badly needed, turning Moore into a major film star. Next to 'The Spy Who Loved Me', it is easily the best Bond picture of the '70's. "},{"Title":"James Bond In Da Hood","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've always thought of Roger Moore as perhaps the weakest of all the 007s. Only ten years before his first bout as Bond, he was deemed as too much of a pretty boy for a role like that. I don't feel like he ever necessarily grew as an actor to merit a role like James Bond. However, his first performance as Bond, here in Live and Let Die, is not bad. He does not have the magnetism of Connery, but he passes.This eighth film in the 007 series is interesting mostly because of the element one wouldn't expect a James Bond adventure to have, that being a trip to the mean streets of Harlem, the straw-chewing farmlands of Louisiana, and the eerily supernatural settings of voodoo practice of Africa. What's ironic is that that's the sort of thing that I think put the series through a slump during Moore's tenure. His portrayal may not entirely be the fault of it. It just so happens that Roger Moore's share of Bond time was the time Albert R. Broccoli decided to turn the series into a franchise similar to that of Abbott & Costello or other sorts of popcorn entertainment for the purely light at heart. For instance, we could just as easily call this film James Bond In Da Hood, Moonraker is James Bond In Outer Space, and The Spy Who Loved Me is James Bond's Wild Underwater Adventure. When the series went in that direction, it was easier to be turned off a little by the fact that things so easily blow up, among other things. For instance, even though the whole ceremony of Bond tailing Kananga's car in a taxi is a popular movie moment, it in fact makes no sense in two regards. In essence, the men tailing him demonstrate right away that he's tailing, so they're aware that Bond is going wherever Kananga does. Furthermore, Bond's driver is one of Mr. Big's men, so also aware of where they're headed. What is the purpose in requiring all of the other cars if everyone already knows where Bond is going, outside of the showy surprise reveal of one of the tails? Fortunately, Live and Let Die still has edge and Roger Moore has yet to dilute Bond into a country club playboy.Live and Let Die also happens to be blessed with one of the all-time greatest James Bond theme songs. Live and Let Die by Paul and Linda McCartney is an infectious, timeless, head- banging ear worm that is not to be forgotten. It almost makes the movie. "},{"Title":"Moore gets off to an impressive start....","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A million times better than the mess that was Diamonds are Forever, Live and Let Die does stumble a little with its attempt to cash in on the Blaxpolitation films of the time.  Despite this, the characters are pretty well put together and a decent script keeps the action moving along at a good pace.Some decent action sequences including probably one of the best speed boat chases of all time set off beautifully by the comedy relief of Sheriff J W Pepper Did ya ever think about getting a drivers licence boy?!? was off set by a remarkable performance from then newcomer  Jane Seymour who more than earns her money here in a solid and well scripted performance.Another decent John Barry soundtrack, David Hedison making his first of two appearances as what I feel to be the best of the many Felix Liters and Moore doing a good job first time out make this one of the best in the series.  "},{"Title":"To Die or Live?","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's first foray into the world of James Bond (he was actually considered for Dr. No but deemed to boyish at the time) has him tracking down the drug dealer Mr. Big (Yaphet Kotto) who was responsible for the murder of some of his fellow agents. Car chases, Southern sheriffs, men with fake arms, snakes and crocodiles abound. Bond also meets his first real virgin, Jane Seymour's character Solitaire.This was probably the most serious of Roger's Bond films and he's okay if not exactly exceptional here. Jane Seymour isn't bad as the only official virgin that Bond has slept with, and since her character WAS a virgin I can forgive her not being like the usual batch of Bond girls.The real eye candy though is Madeline Smith, an uncanny look alike to Lana Wood from Diamonds Are Forever, in her small role in the opening as the beautiful Italian agent Miss Caruso. Yeah it's funny watching Bond unzip her dress with his magnet watch, but that's nothing compared to seeing her 5'5 body almost completely unclothed with only her frilly blue panties and a yellow robe to cover her. And yet she still has an odd innocence about her which only surfaces when Miss Moneypenny catches her almost completely naked and she desperately/silently asks Moneypenny to keep quiet so she can hide in the closet.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but very strange.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's debut as James Bond is a strange film. Having already established itself by 1973 as a popular series of action films in which the villains were mostly over the top megalomaniacs with nefarious schemes, Live and Let Die introduces us to the Moore era, an era full of over the top plots and villains that eventually peaks with Bond going to space in Moonraker. The film is not reflective of the next twelve years in the big screen life of James Bond. The film is about a villain who is a drug dealer, who uses a clairvoyant whose powers are linked to her virginity to his advantage, and who also uses voodoo as a means of control over the population of the island he is living on. Overall Live and Let Die is a very strange film. For a Bond film it is extremely surreal, featuring moments of voodoo inspired murder, the villain (a great Yaphet Kotto) masquerading as a New York drug dealer called Mr Big and the revelation that everybody in Harlem are all in league with Mr Big/Kanaga. For all its strangeness, it is enjoyable, however, the film has dated in several regards. Being set in the 1970's, many of the female characters have afro hairstyles, the music is so 1970's it hurts and feels very dated in today's age. In saying that we have a great theme tune from Paul McCartney and Linda McCartney (doing the writing duties as John sings) and some wonderful action sequences and set pieces in the second half when it returns to something resembling a normal Bond film, including a great boat chase over the Louisiana Everglades and Bond and Solitaires about to be fed to a shark, and of course let's not forget Jane Seymour's feature film debut as Solitaire, looking beautiful and lovely throughout.It's not a perfect film, and it sure as hell ain't as good as future Moore Bond movies, but it does what all Bond films should do and gives the audience a couple of hours escapism that works a charm. "},{"Title":"Jokey but good beginning to the Moore era","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When Roger Moore debuted as James Bond in this film,he wisely decided not to imitate Connery as Lazenby had done but to approach the role differently. Moore's approach was far lighter,and,because the films also became lighter,this worked very well. It's easy to criticise Moore and the Moore films,for becoming increasingly silly and comical,and for getting further and further away from Fleming,but he and his films still provide plenty of entertainment.Live and Let Die is one of his best. There are times when the film feels more like a 70s 'black' film than a Bond film,aided by George Martin's funky score,but it works,giving the film a fresh style rather than rehashing previous Bonds,although of course there are plenty of traditional 'Bondisms' too. Slightly unusual plot elements such as voodoo are well worked into the film,too. Jane Seymour's Solitaire is one of Bond's most intriguing women but her characterisation is somewhat muddled. The action,although not always that exciting due to the amount of humour,is pretty non-stop,highlights being chases by bus,car,plane and boat,and one sequence of Bond escaping from a small island by walking over alligators,is one of the great Bond moments,silly but totally cool. There are at least three other terrific stunts in the film,and much of the comedy is indeed funny,especially Sheriff J W Pepper. One can almost forgive the climax being such a damp squib.Allegations of racism are ridiculous-the black villains are for the most part portrayed as being more competent than Bond! Not a perfect Bond film than,but a hugely enjoyable one and with the best non-John Barry theme song of the entire series! "},{"Title":"Roger Moore makes a good debut.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Moore makes a good debut as Bond in this exciting chase filled film. The stunts are good, but the story is rather generic for a 007 adventure. Entertaining all the way through, especially the final half hour which takes us on a boat chase through the Bayous of Louissiana.***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Best Roger Moore Bond.","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is my favorite Roger Moore Bond movie. It doesn't skimp on anything. It's fast-paced all the way. Which is something to be said since this was Roger Moore's first Bond movie. Great action sequences and characters,this is in my top three! "},{"Title":"Not bad at all. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Moore's best. Actually, of Moore's Bond films, only  the Spy Who Loved Me and Octopussy are better. It introduces Moore, who is a great new Bond. It has some of the better villains in the series. Recommended. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Three Bonds stand out","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  And this is one of them - the other two are Licence to Kill and Die another Day, which I have already commented on.For the record I do not have a problem with the Connery Bonds! Given their age they are generally consistant in their quality.However this Bond has something about it. In one corner, you have James Bond, old Etonian, suave, fan of high culture etc etc(Moore empasised these traits).This has to be the only Bond film I've ever seen in which the bad guys seem to have absolutely nothing in common with Bond. You've got  the world's best known suave spy up against bad guys who've come out of another type of film entirely.And despite this film being nearly 30 years old, this unusual combo definately works still.Just WHY did Moore have to follow this up with Golden Gun???  "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's first outing as Bond a fast paced thrill ride","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die marks the end of Sean Connery's tenure as Bond and begins Roger Moore's reign as 007&#x85;the longest run of Bond films without interruption. George Lazenby would try to become Bond, but did not succeed and Connery came back one more time in one of his weakest Bond films, Diamonds Are Forever. It was enjoyable, but they did a lot of things wrong in that one including having Bond in one of the worst sports coats in the history of the franchise. That film also did not quite feel like a Bond film. This one does and for me, marks a span of Bond films with the man whose Bond movies were the fastest paced and fun. Not saying they were all great or that there were not some bad moments, just saying when I see a Roger Moore film on I can tune in and watch it from beginning to end or just snippets here and there. While other Bond movies I have to be in a mood to see and rarely watch if I only catch it midway through. Perhaps, my fondness for Moore's Bond stems from the fact that when I was a kid he was James Bond. Sean Connery was long gone and when a Bond film was coming on or out it was Moore. His first outing as Bond sees the series go in some different directions. Gone is Spectra as the main opposing force, in is an island diplomat who has a nefarious scheme that does not involve ruling the world. Thus a new era begun.The story has three British agents being killed. Bond is called in to see if there is connection between the killings and his trail leads him to New York where he is immediately targeted by a mysterious woman who seems to be able to tell the future. An island diplomat and New York's Mr. Big seem to have joined forces for some reason and it is up to Bond to find out what it is as he must go to the Caribbean and then to New Orleans to find out what is the secret of Kanaga's island. James will have to elude capture many times as he must escape Kananga's and Mr. Big's forces at every turn by car, bus, plane and boat!Roger Moore got a much better start than Lazenby did which is probably why he was able to hold on to the role for so long. They just did so many things wrong with Lazenby by having him reference the fact he was a different guy, by making the film have a different feel than other Bond movies and also by having him thrown into the middle of Bond's battle with Spectra. Roger on the other hand never references 'the other guy', has a completely new villain and it plays more like a Bond film usually does. It also did not hurt Moore that Sean Connery's last outing was a bit weak itself. Still, they did some things in this one that were simply strange like having a priestess who could tell the future and the way Bond disposed of Kananga at the end was simply silly. For the most part though, things were done right and the movie would fly by for me.So this one was a nice start for Roger Moore, whose Bond films for the most part can be watched in any order as there is usually a whole new plot each time. Granted, the Sheriff Pepper character would return for the next film, but one could still watch that one without seeing this one. One would probably wish that character was not in that film at all as here it made sense, in that one not so much. Yaphett Kotto made a rather good villain and he had lots of cool sidekicks like Tee Hee who had a claw for a hand, Whisper a quiet but strong henchman and Baron Samodin who laughed about as much as Tee Hee did. The action was good and featured a lot of nice chases and this film is the only Bond film I can recall where Bond uses a 44 magnum! Suffice to say, this Bond film was quite the blast! "},{"Title":"#3 on my list of best Bond films","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched all the Bond films in order from Dr.No to World is not Enough. After watching Diamonds Are Forever(worst Connery) I wasn't very excited to move into Roger Moore's films. A lot of people say he wasn't that good, and while I think he was good, he is no Sean Connery.  Anyways, Live and Let Die did not disappoint me. I loved the boat sequence and the sherriff was hilarious. The only two I think are better are 1.Goldeneye                2.Goldfinger            Beware Moore's next film Man With the Golden Gun is terrible and so is Moonraker.Live and Let Die gets an 8/10 "},{"Title":"A fun movie to watch","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I have to say that this movie is an entertaining show. Although I wasn't incredibly wowed by Roger Moore at first, watching this movie is a lot of fun and the theme song is wonderful. In this movie, Bond is sent to investigate the deaths of three MI6 agents in Harlem, New Orleans, and San Monique. This sets him on the trail of drug lord Dr. Kananga, a madman ruler of San Monique who plans to start a major heroin operation. The scenes throughout the movie are wonderful, such as the classic boat chase (Which probably could have been a little better with some music) and the battle between Bond and Kananga. This film also features great villains such as Baron Samedi and Tee Hee and one of the best (and prettiest) Bond girls named Solitaire (Jane Seymour). Also, as if it really mattered, the Felix Leiter in this film is good too. All is well except for the incredibly annoying Sherriff J.W. Pepper (I hope I enjoy The Man with the Golden Gun, but bringing this guy back won't make it any better). Although my highest Bond recommendations are The Spy Who Loved Me and Goldeneye, I definitely think you ought to watch this. I give it 3 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"My favourite Bond film","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  You see, I never found Austin Powers films very funny. This is because for me, Bond films were exactly like that. The Roger Moore ones generally are total cartoons (Moonraker, From A View To A Kill) best appreciated by the under 10's and the Sean Connery ones were hardly Harry Palmer or George Smiley.But if you want fun, great big grainy early 70's images, a fab song by Macca (one of his few solo songs that actually COULD have been by the Beatles thanks to George Martin's production), some genuinely disturbing images (the funeral scene at the start) and some real laughs then this is the one to beat. Oh, and no stupid gadgets. It's quite dry and dark at points but also quite cool too. I don't find it racist because I'm not American. As far as I know, Harlem was just like that - it just looks like someone else's culture to me.As a Bond film, 5/5. As a movie, 3/5. "},{"Title":"The Deck was Slightly Stacked, but This hand was good!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My mission was simple.  To watch all the Bond movies before the new one came out in the 2002 Christmas Movie season.  Having watched two other actors (Sean Connery in the first five, then in Diamonds are Forever and George Lazenby in On Her Majesty's Secret Service under-rated performance) I was a bit skeptic to critically judge Roger Moore's performance.  Knowing that Moore was the producer's original choice for the role, He was dealt a winning hand.Bond is sent to to the carribiean islands, New Orleans and NYC for this film on the trail of a heroin smuggler named Mr. Big  (Yaphet Koppo, more recently known for Homicide Life on the Streets) and his fortune telling girl Solitaire (Jane Seymore from Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman).This film is an instant Bond classic with all the makings of a good film for non-Bond followers.  Great music Scored by George Martin of Beatles fame (Maybe he coerced Paul McCartney and Wings to do the theme?), a Villian we love to hate (Much like Ernst Stavro Blofeld), Exotic Locales (The Jamacia Islands, New Orleans complete with Authentic funeral band and the best city on the Planet, NYC, baby!), great acting and wonderful stunts (Who needs computer efx?) But the only downer was JW...He was too much.All in all, Very good.  I give it 8 stars of 10 "},{"Title":"It's one of the best!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  &#145;Live and Let Die' is everything you want in a Bond film &#150; exotic locations, interesting villans, loads of action and a good balance of fun and humor. &#145;Live and Let Die' is one of my favorite Bond films, mostly because it was the first one I ever saw &#150; and it got me hooked. I remember watching this when it was on TV one night with Dad, and we both loved it. Moore shines in his first appearance as Bond, and some of the sequences, especially the classic half hour long boat chase, which may be the best action sequence ever filmed, will keep you watching right through to its conclusion. When I went to see my first Bond film at the movies, which was &#145;GoldenEye' in 1995, I was disappointed, because to me it was unexpectedly not as fun as the earlier ones I had seen like &#145;Live and Let Die'. To my amazement, however, many so-called Bond fans dislike this film, and its precedor &#145;The Man with the Golden Gun'. To me, however, these are two of my favourite Bond films, mainly because there is more action in them than some of the Connery films, and they are more fun and enjoyable to watch. They may not be as serious as some of the Connery ones, but they are more fun, and Bond films are supposed to be fun! Roger Moore is my personal choice for the best Bond, but I am not saying I dislike Connery either. Connery was simply made for the part in the early 60's with great entries like the classic &#145;Goldfinger' and &#145;You Only Live Twice'. But I find that his other films are a little dated &#150; &#145;From Russia with Love' and &#145;Thunderball' are prime examples of two of the most boring films in the series, and if either of those was the first Bond film I watched, I probably would not have been hooked on the series as much as I had after watching &#145;Live and Let Die' first.  Sure, Connery was a much leaner and meaner James Bond, but Moore put the necessary elements into the series to maintain its survival, and his films contained more action and less long boring bits. Those so-called fans who loath Roger Moore must remember that if it wasn't for him, the series would not be as popular and going as strong as it is today, and that's why many other people choose him as their favorite.I recommend for anyone who wants to get into the Bond experience to make sure you include &#145;Live and Let Die' and the fun cult classic &#145;The Man with The Golden Gun' on your list, as well as the more action orientated Connery ones and the two best post 1970's Bonds &#150; Daltons &#145;The Living Daylights' and Brosnans &#145;Tomorrow Never Dies'. &#145;Live and Let Die' got me hooked, and I'm sure it will do the same for you!  "},{"Title":"Silly, but entertaining on the balance.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When watching this film many years after I saw it in the theater, I am compelled to step back and take an objective view.  (WARNING Possible Spoilers within the following text)I had seen several Connery Bonds before this one was released in 1973 and was conditioned that Connery IS 007.  With that in mind, I expected to be disappointed when I went to see Moore's maiden voyage into the Bond world.  I was pleasantly surprised at the time, but mainly due to the overall movie and not so much with Roger Moore.  Although he did some decent movies later as 007, he DOES appear stiff in this one.It is almost like watching a movie version of his THE SAINT TV series. That aside, I think it is an entertaining film.  There is a mass-appeal flavor to it with the humor, although perhaps it gets distracting at times.  (Like the Hick JW Pepper character as a southern sheriff.  This should have been a one-shot only deal.) The boat chases are excellent, save for some major lapses of continuity throughout.  The idea of putting James Bond in Harlem is rather humorous, and I have to give it to Moore on this one.  Nobody could have stood out MORE than when he walks into the local Soul Food cafe to start his investigation.   This series has always managed to give nods to current events, and it DID seem relevant that the heroin industry was booming at that time.  The idea of Kananga (Yaphet Kotto) trying to achieve a monopoly on the market is no more far-reaching than Goldfinger for its time.  There are some moments of painfully lousy acting (Gloria Hendry as Rosy is an example), but I think that this film keeps a decent pace overall. It's not the best in the series, but it is certainly one for your collection.  Jane Seymour is stunning as Solitaire from a visual standpoint, Bernard Lee is his usual crusty M character, and Lois Maxwell is Moneypenny, which tells us it IS a real BOND film.  (Why was Desmond Lewellyn missing as Q from this one is my only question.)  This film is more of a sum of its parts, rather than one that has clear stars throughout.  If you've missed it, it's worth a look.   Rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"VooDoo Bond","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite only one scene for M and Moneypenny and the total absence of Desmond Llewelyn as Q, none the less this is a good Bond movie.  007 Is threatened with not only mundane guns but also poison snakes, alligators, crocodiles, sharks, and if that is not enough, a mechanical arm for good measure.  The movie has some interesting characters and possibly the best boat chase scene in the annals of Hollywood, beautifully photographed in the Louisiana bayou's.  The Paul McCartney title song sets the mood for this Roger Moore thriller.  I rated this a 7.  Good viewing for everyone.  "},{"Title":"Roger Moore`s first Bond-film is good.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sean Connery did his last Bondmovie with Diamonds Are Forever in 1971. In 1973 Roger Moore became the new James Bond with the release of Live and Let Die.  Bond is sent to investigate Dr. Kananga, the president of an African Nation.  Dr. Kananga plans to give away 2 tons of free heroin to the population in the USA. Roger Moore does a good role, but he doesn`t seeem to BE James Bond, yet. The action is good, the women are okay and there are plenty of exotic locations. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Decent debut","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Playing Bond for the first time, Roger Moore makes a decent debut as James Bond. Moore was already an established actor when offered the role but it would take until The Spy who Loved Me before he was able to perfect the acting (the second best Bond movie).Live and Let Die is not bad but it never really takes of. The cast is uneven, from very good Solitaire to very bad Rosie Carver to ridiculous Sheriff Pepper. Comment suggesting that this movie is racist are hard to understand. If the crook comes from Harlem and an Island inhabited by coloured persons, what else is to expect.The story is odd for a Bond movie, he should help the world get rid of master villains (like Goldfinger)not get involved in stopping drug trafficking. Doest the Secret Service reallu do these things. As i said a decent debut. But things would get worse; the next film being The Man with the Golden Gun "},{"Title":"The most funny and best Bond-movie ever made!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Live and let die was a very special Bond-movie, due to the introduction of the best Bond-actor so far, Roger Moore. He gave the character Bond a very special image; Bond became actually funny with Roger Moore. The introduction of sheriff J.W.Pepper(Clifton James) was also a very good move. It gave the movie a very funny twist. Too bad he only played in two Bond-movies. The only thing I dislike of the film is the missing of Desmond Llewelyn(Q), who died last year in a car-crash, my opinion is, that you can't make a good Bond-movie without Q and his gadgets. Jane Seymour also acted very good, for her first great role, that is. All in all was Live and let die a very good and funny Bond-movie! "},{"Title":"Major Spoilers.....007 versus VOODOO guys","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  LIVE AND LET DIE is perhaps one of the best 007 movies ever made. The plot was somewhat of a refreshing change of pace. YAPHET KOTO plays a evil UN diplomat who embraces the criminal trades and voodoo black magic. Koto's hired lackey's have been bumping off secret agents left and right and it's up to 007 to foil their evil plan, and woo the beautiful JANE SEYMOUR at the same time. In the sequences involving VOODOO, it is my understanding ACTUAL voodoo priests were used. A interesting addition to this film was CLIFTON JAMES, as a backwards, redneck sherrif. (A role he would reprise in THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN) The film jumps between NYC, NEW ORLEANS, and the HATI-like island used in the film's resolution. It was nice to see James Bond go up against someone who wasn't bent on world conquest (a plot device that has been run into the ground). If you haven't seen this one check it out. The boat chase on the bayou is worth it. "},{"Title":"If You Can't Get Connery, Get This","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond is bigger than one actor.  Connery established the role for most people, but on the short-list of those up for the part in Dr. No was a young actor with a growing body of work, Roger Moore.Moore debuts in this role in Live and Let Die and the movie is an impressive addition to the series. The Paul McCartney theme song is one of the series' best.  Yaphet Kotto is a superb villain, cast at a time when Dr. King's vision of a world where people could be judged by the content of the character rather than the color of their skins still seemed a possibility.  His villain is evil because of the content of his character.  If Katanga has a problem, it's that he has too many good henchmen.Moore may try to be too serious in this one, and for most of the movie he looks like he's suffering from heartburn.  But he proved that another actor can be a legitimate Bond, and this outing, with its fine score, villain, and Jane Seymour, proves to be the best in the series after the first four of Connery's (anyone who has seen You Only Live Twice and Diamonds are Forever and still says Connery is the only choice for Bond is being partisan).  It also gives another CIA operative with the best of the Felixes (David Hedison) in Harold Strutter, well played by Lon Satton. Moore would make some more first-rate Bond adventures (and make a fool of himself in a few) in a role he determined, over more than a decade, to make his own.  But this first one ranks with the best. "},{"Title":"Today's yo' lucky day, Jim!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The cucumber-cool Roger Moore makes his debut as Bond and handles the often-corny dialogue better than any other 007 player in the series would have. You just love to groan at some of his bad puns. There's plenty of action and the motor vehicles, boats and 'planes don't exactly get returned in mint condition. The supporting cast is very entertaining, especially Yaphett Kotto, Geoffrey Holder (famous at the time for his 7-Up ads, like the 'Uncola Nuts' spot), Clifton James (peppery!), Julius Tee Hee Harris, and Arnold Williams (as a Bonded Driver).-Tony "},{"Title":"The first Roger Moore Bond film and very good.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is amazing. It was fabulous. The boat chase, the island surrounded by alligators. The action was very good too. The coffin that lifts up people and the tombstone plus the underground cave and the shark swimming pool. It was very good a movie. The bad guy was terrific and the Bond girl was beautiful but in this film out of all the Bond films 007 didn't have to do much to get the woman and seduce here. Besides that though it really is a great movie with some great and exotic locations. "},{"Title":"Maybe the most perfect Bond-film!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies that holds a special value to me. Live and let die is the very first James Bond film I've seen and even though the first time I saw it was over ten years ago the wonderful impression still remains. It was because of this movie I grew up to be the huge Bond-fan I am nowadays. Live and let die is full of thrilling chases, (I think more action than in any other Bond-movie) stylish humor, lots of different vehicles and incredible characters. Some of them are dark and maybe just a little bit scary, some of them are simply hilarious! (Well, check out J.W. Pepper) It's not hard to understand that I was stunned when I saw it as a little boy. Plot is exciting and even the enjoyable theme song is too perfect to be true. Only Q is missing... God I love this film! Of course I do think that the legendary Sean Connery was a better 007 than also quite fabulous Moore. There's always films like Dr. No, Goldfinger and Thunderball so I don't (necessarily) think this is the best Bond-film of all times, but it will always be my personal number one favourite. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a campy movie","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Live and Let Die is a very nice action-thriller that keeps you out of your seat.  Roger Moore is nice as his first James Bond role but is never into that character until the Spy Who Loved Me.  It manages to excite me and keep me happy with all that voodoo and stuff that's around New York, Haiti, and San Monique.*** "},{"Title":"A Thoroughly Enjoyable Debut for Roger Moore","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was the first Bond film to star Roger Moore as James Bond, and it is a really good one. I may be a little biased, because Bond goes to New Orleans in this one, and I've been to New Orleans dozens of times. However, the film has plenty of other things going for it.Roger Moore's debut performance is very good. He isn't quite as comfortable as we would later become, but he is able to step into the role quite well for his debut.Dr. Kananga is a pretty cool villain, even if the Mr. Big gimmick is somewhat questionable. I also really enjoyed the henchmen. Tee Hee is a suitably intimidating villain and Geoffrey Holder's Baron Samedi is an absolute delight to watch. Jane Seymour is nothing special as Solitaire. She's just kind of there.As I mentioned earlier, I got a kick out of the setting in New Orleans. New York and San Monique were also nice. There's really something to the atmosphere of this film.There are also some good action scenes, with the most notable being the chase scene with Bond driving a plane, the final showdown with Tee Hee, and of course, the epic boat chase. It also has one of the best Bond theme songs by Paul McCartney and Wings.By all means, this film is a marked improvement over Diamonds Are Forever and is a great debut for Moore.8/10 "},{"Title":"The Debut Of Charming & Most Entertaining Bond Roger Moore","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery left the bond franchise in 1971 after diamonds are forever was released producers finalized their long time favorite contender Roger Moore for the role of Ian Flemming's James Bond 007.Roger Moore makes one hell of a entry here in his first outing as 007 he is charming playboy type guy who gets all the women,gadgets but the best thing about this 007 is that he appears weak only to tricks his enemies make no mistake about this bond guys he blows everyone one up i have seen this film many times yes it is slow paced and required some editing but the acting in it is mind blowing and this is a very well made serious 007 film.I don't get the hate on live and let die this film rocks honestly to the people who say this film is racist i have a question for them are they totally blind or what this film features the most coolest black cast as villains but they are amazing to watch so forget the skin color the talent speaks for itself here.For director Guy Hamilton what can i say he is one of the best director ever he kept a balance here unlike Sam Mendes who ruined new James bond films.I am not gonna go in long debate here but i will say Roger Moore is one of the best bonds ever forget that ugly Daniel Craig guys that is not bond that is some Jason Bourne or Ethan Hunt wannabe be nonsense.The Plota lot of British agent are getting killed worldwide mi6 sends their best agent 007 James bond to new Orleans to investigate what is going on when he meets Solitaire a tarot card reader girl he suspects there is much deeper story hidden then drug smuggling when it is finally revealed that Mr Big & Kananga are the same person 007 puts everything online for a final showdown with Kananga at his base free the world from his evil schemes & also save Solitaire.Baron Samedi just laughs in whole film he is the only guy who gets the last laugh in the climax when he is riding on the train escaping,Tee Hee is not that much of a threat to bond but he is dangerous with his mechanical arm.The highlight of any bond film is action & no doubt this film features one of the best ever to keep the viewer hooked specially the boat chase scene it comes late but worth the wait no one can catch 007 here the police gets mad bond tricks everyone here plus his luck works as one boats fuel runs out he finds another one very soon and causes havoc the whole sequence is brilliantly shot the cinematography is superb.This film got everything good music,action,funny dialogs like what kid of doomsday machine are you boy,sexy 007 Roger Moore & a lot of hot girls.The CastRoger Moore man i can go on forever about him he is cool as ice the charm & ruthless style he brings in the role of 007 is sadly missing from new films he created a flavor i guess that everyone can taste and enjoy,Jane Seymour is every mans fantasy she is the sweetest bond girl ever to appear on screen & finally Yaphet Kotto gives the most powerful performance as a negative role of Dr.Kananga he enjoyed every moment of it i loved him here,the rest cast did well along with Clifton James as funny police sheriff who yells a lot but important thing is the chemistry between all these actors is so strong you can feel it.Those who hate this film must be Daniel Craig fans because Craig's films will never be exiting & entertaining as this one.Overall Live And Let Die 1973 is a classic bond film its so damn entertaining never for one moment a boring scenes comes so get the DVD and enjoy the adventure of James Bond my rating is 10/10Highly Recommended. "}{"Title":"Roger Moore makes a very impressive debut as a new Bond for a new(ish) decade","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Given the fact that the reaction to the unknown George Lazenby in On Her Majesty's Secret Service was decidedly mixed, Cubby Broccoli and Harry Saltzman erred on the side of caution in casting Roger Moore, a well established actor with several popular television series (most notably The Saint) to his name, as the third James Bond. Moore was considered for the role in the aforementioned film and, back at the very beginning, Dr. No. He makes for a great Bond, wisely choosing not to try and imitate Connery. I've never seen The Saint so I can't say how his performance as Bond compares to his performance as Simon Templar. In contrast to the complete neophyte Lazenby, he already had an almost 30 year acting career under his belt at this stage and was therefore confident enough to immediately put his own stamp on the role. He plays Bond in a more light-hearted manner more than either of his predecessors and the script plays to his strengths, mostly portraying Bond as a witty, charming lovable rogue. I had no trouble accepting him as 007 from his (very funny) first scene. At 45 years old, Moore was the oldest actor to make his debut as Bond. Conversely, the main Bond villain and main Bond girl are among the very youngest, given that Yaphet Kotto and Jane Seymour were 33 and 22 at the time. Kotto, whom I know best as Lt. Al Giardello in Homicide Life on the Street, is wonderful as Dr. Kananga, the first Bond villain since Goldfinger who is simply out to make a quick buck. He is very charismatic and yet suitably menacing in the role of the tyrant and gangster who tries to paint himself publicly as a selfless leader who is merely trying to improve the lot of people of San Monique and foster friendly relations with his neighbours.Jane Seymour, in her first major film appearance, is enchanting as the (initially) virginal Solitaire. The character represents the classic damsel in distress but her naivety - which seems entirely appropriate to the character, in contrast to Tiffany Case in Diamonds Are Forever - makes her a very sympathetic character, as does the fact that she is essentially the prisoner of Kananga who uses her extrasensory perception as a weapon against his presumably numerous enemies. She is a character who is easily manipulated by all those around her, even Bond who fools her into sleeping with him for his own purposes, thus robbing her of her psychic powers. However, Bond grows more and more of fond of her as time passes. Interestingly, she is the first character who is confirmed to have lost her virginity to Bond. I'd like to think that the character grows stronger over the course of the film but this isn't made too explicit.The rest of the supporting cast is very strong. On his eighth film, Bernard Lee is reliably gruff self as M and the scene in which Bond tries to prevent him from finding the missing Italian agent Miss Caruso in his bachelor pad is a delight, hitting all the right notes. Also on her eighth film, Lois Maxwell's appearance as Miss Moneypenny is even shorter than usual and mostly lacks the customary byplay with 007. The absence of Desmond Llewelyn, for the first and only time between From Russia with Love in 1963 and The World is Not Enough in 1999, is a major disappointment. Gloria Hendry is hugely entertaining as Rosie Carver, even if the character is a rather unconvincing one! She's notable as being the first black woman to have a romantic interlude with Bond. After the poor casting of Norman Burton as Felix Leiter in Diamonds Are Forever, the character returns with a fifth incarnation in the form of David Hedison, who plays the role with intelligence, charm, wit and charisma. He's easily my favourite Leiter so far and I'm glad that he had so much screen time. I'm looking forward to his return in Licence to Kill.Speaking of the depiction of black characters, the blaxploitation elements in the first half an hour or so of the film are rather cringeworthy and embarrassing. I found them a bit hard to watch, if I'm honest. Those scenes were more politically correct than the ones with Mr. Wint and Mr. Kidd in Diamonds Are Forever but not by much! My least favourite part of the film, however, is definitely the inclusion of Sheriff J.W. Pepper. He adds absolutely nothing to the film. In fact, he detracts from it. For about 15 minutes (during the needlessly long but otherwise very impressive boat chase scene), I felt that I was watching a different film in a different genre. Clifton James is good in the role and Sheriff Pepper would have worked well as a secondary antagonist in The Cannonball Run or one of the Muppet films or the like but he doesn't fit into either the film or the Bond universe at all. He's better suited to chasing Kermit and Fozzie than James Bond! I'm really not looking forward to his return in The Man with the Golden Gun. The rest of the film toned down the over the top humour present in Diamonds Are Forever but the Sheriff Pepper scene is the nadir of the film series to date. Kananga's death is played for laughs as well and, while it was perhaps a bit too silly, I didn't mind it all that much. Overall, this is a hugely enjoyable film and my fourth favourite after Goldfinger, From Russia with Love and On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Either this film or the Lazenby one would have made a much stronger swansong for Sean Connery than Diamonds Are Forever. If the blaxploitation elements were toned down and the Sheriff Pepper scene was cut entirely, I'd probably have given this full marks.9/10 "},{"Title":"Best James bond since Thunder-ball","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 9th April and 8th James bond movieLive and Let Die (1973) For the second time now, we have another new face to play James bond Roger Moore, I wasn't to keen at start but as the movie went on,I thought he did a great Job playing James bond and way to start! This movie was great, I loved start of the movie, really clever, dark and fun all at the same time. This as got to be freakiest James bond movie ever, some very strange scenes in this movie. There were some great actions scenes in this movie and there were some very tense moment in this movie, that me on edge of my seat! The plot was not all that great however, they won me over with all the action, I found this movie action packed from start to end. Again this movie did have some dark humour in and there and some actually funny moment. The acting was great from the whole cast! I am giving this movie 8 out of 10, "},{"Title":"Excellent 007 Movie","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" TITLE LIVE AND LET DIE was released in theaters on June 27 1973 and the time it took to watch this movie was 120 minutes. Live and Let Die (1973) is the eighth spy film in the James Bond series, and the first to star Roger Moore as the fictional MI6 agent James Bond. Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman produced the film although the producers had wanted Sean Connery to return after his role in the previous Bond film Diamonds Are Forever; he declined, sparking a search for a new actor to play James Bond. Roger Moore was signed for the lead role. The film is adapted from the novel of the same name by Ian Fleming. In the film, a Harlem drug lord known as Mr. Big plans to distribute two tons of heroin free so as to put rival drug barons out of business. Mr. Big, however, is revealed the disguised alter ego of Dr. Kananga, a corrupt Caribbean Dictator, who rules San Monique, the fictional island where the heroin poppies are secretly farmed. Bond is investigating the death of three British agents, leading him to Kananga, where he is soon trapped in a world of gangsters and voodoo as he fights to put a stop to the drug baron's scheme. Live and Let Die was released during the height of the Blaxploitation era, and many Blaxploitation archetypes and cliché are depicted such as afro hairstyles, derogatory racial epithets (honky), black gangsters, and pimp mobiles. It departs from the former plots of the James Bond films about megalomaniac super-villains, and instead focuses on drug trafficking, depicted primarily in Blaxploitation films. Moreover, it is set in African American cultural centers such as Harlem, New Orleans, and the Caribbean Islands. It was also the first James Bond film featuring an African American Bond girl to be romantically involved with 007, Rosie Carver, who was played by Gloria Hendry. Despite mixed reviews due to the racial overtones, the film was a box office success.SUMMARY Three British MI6 agents, including one on loan to the American government, are killed under mysterious circumstances within 24 hours while monitoring the operations of Dr. Kananga, the dictator of a small Caribbean island called San Monique. James Bond is sent to New York City, where the first agent was killed, and where Kananga is currently visiting the UN, to investigate. As soon as Bond arrives in New York City, his driver is killed while taking him to meet Felix Leiter of the CIA and Bond is nearly killed in the ensuing car crash. The driver's killer leads Bond to Mr. Big, a gangster who runs a chain of Fillet of Soul restaurants throughout the United States. It is during his confrontation with Mr. Big that Bond first meets Solitaire, a beautiful virgin tarot expert who has the uncanny ability to see both the future and remote events in the present. In disguise as Mr. Big, Kananga demands that his henchman kill Bond, who manages to escape unscathed. Bond follows Kananga back to San Monique, where he subsequently meets Rosie Carver, a CIA double agent, who is subsequently murdered on the island by Kanaga's scarecrow men after Bond suspects her of working for Kananga. Later he meets the boatman Quarrel, Jr. who takes him to Solitaire's home. Using a stacked tarot deck of only cards showing The Lovers, Bond tricks her into thinking that seduction is in her future and then seduces her.QUESTIONS Why did Solitaire lose her ability to foretell the future? What was Kananga producing and what was he going to do with it? Who was Mr. Big and how did he fit into all of this? Where was Bond and Solitaire taken hostage and why? Who did Kananga turn Solitaire over to and why? What was Kananga doing with a crocodile farm? MY THOUGHTS I love this picture. I thought that Roger Moore was one of the best James Bond agents ever. As in all typical Bond movies, the action was intense from beginning to end. This was also the introduction of Jane Seymour who was excellent in her role as Solitaire. I also love the roles of Kananga goons especially the guy with the hook. Because of the action and drama and the Beauty of Jane Seymour I give this movie 10 weasels stars "},{"Title":"Where Live And Let Die Stands","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Well, for me its a breath of fresh air to finally see a somewhat more entertaining Bond film from the previous 3. Live and let die has a great theme song, great characters, brilliant bond girl and brilliant first performance by Roger Moore. It has very exciting scenes like the suspenseful crocodile scene. It has the best henchmen and a very cool storyline. With the humor of Sheriff J.W Pepper its also a funny adventure. For me its Roger Moores richest performance as 007 and maybe Roger Moores best adventure.Live And Let Die stands 13th on my list where I have ranked the Bond films from worst to best. Its main title song makes it stand along side my favorites.Solitaire is a very memorable Bond girl but to me ain't one of my favorites. There are few things I don't like about the film which makes it stand 13th. There's the weird death of the main villain which really bugs me. Other than that the film is great.-DavorinLonac "},{"Title":"Roger Moore","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" this isn't a bad James Bond film,, just a little out of the ordinary for a Bond film, I guess for me it had to do with all of the voodoo stuff which I really didn't understand,, I liked all the scenery of New Orleans . Yapphet Kotto was good in this and Jane Seymour was wonderful, especially falling out of bed with her slip revealing well a lot to see. I always liked Roger Moore in the Bond films but this one to me is a little weaker than the other ones,, sure there's comedy, action,, fast cars, and hot women in here, but for some reason I really couldn't get into it like I can other roger moore bond's, maybe after I watch it again I will like it better. I 'm not saying it's bad at all,, just average for a Bond movie I guess. "},{"Title":"One of the big Bond films","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In some ways this films has a lot of quintessential Bond moments in it. But then in some ways it's very forgettable. Allow me to explain. There are moments in this film that stick with you, that are very memorable. The magnetic watch, one of the more well-known Bond gadgets, for example. Oh it's never fully utilized, not really, but it's a very memorable gadget and allows for some cool scenes. The bayou chase scene is another and certainly one of the more well-known Bond chase scenes. Plus the film is the first Bond film to star Roger Moore, so naturally the style and the acting were both something completely new to the franchise.The problem is that I had no idea where the plot was going half the time. A lot of the Bond films have this problem where the plot is really there only to move the film from one exotic location to another and to allow room for more action scenes. And this film does just that. This starts to become a problem when the viewer cannot remember just why Bond was chasing after this particular criminal immediately after the movie has ended. There was something about dead agents and the film was pure blaxploitation, but that's about it. I remember most of the individual scenes and some of them were very good, but the film has problems tying these scenes together.That being said, it's not a huge problem. If you're watching a Bond film, furthermore if you're watching a Roger Moore Bond film, it's pretty much given that you're watching it for the action, the girls, the gadgets and the locations. An interesting plot is a bonus, but not strictly necessary.What was a bigger problem was the fact that the villains in this particular film were not particularly interesting. Much more focus was given to the fact that they were black than it was given to pretty much anything else. A few weeks later and I have problems remembering what they even looked like, much less what their names or agendas were. Still, this is regrettable, but doesn't ruin the film completely.This is a Bond film worth watching, mainly because it's the first Roger Moore Bond film and it has some really cool scenes in it. It's not the best James Bond film there is, not by far, but I had fun with it. "},{"Title":"Live and let try to watch this movie","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let's Die' is probably the best version of Roger Moore's James Bond series as the Bond movies tend to get progressively sillier, blander, and dumber. The first movie which he portray James Bond, is far the less stupid of all his James Bond movies. Roger Moore was hired to replace Sean Connery whom star in the previous film 'Diamonds are Forever'. During this time, they only try to replace Connery before with George Lazenby. It was really up in the air, whom was going to become the new bond in the oncoming film 'Live and Let's Die'. They choose Roger Moore. What made Roger Moore become a better Bond than George Lazenby are because of two reasons first off, he was an actor, not a male model which Lazenby was. Roger Moore is able to play suave, debonair, sophisticated, dashing adventurers due to his works in the successful TV series 'The Saint' and 'The Persuaders.' that made him seem a perfect fit. Second, while Lazenby copycat a bit of Connery. Roger Moore made Bond fit to his own personality and strengths as an actor by having a quick of wit and beguilingly charm. Live and Let Die' was created trying to cash in on the Blaxpolitation genre created by movies like 'Shaft'. The opening song Live and Let Die' by Paul McCarthy of Beatles fame, is one of the most favorite Bond's opening songs ever. It even nominated at the Academy Award for Best Song of that year. The plot finds Bond traveling from Harlem to New Orleans to the fictional Caribbean island of San Monique somewhere near Jamaica on the trail of the Prime Minister Kananga (Yaphet Kotto) that also lives a secret life as Mr. Big, a jive-talking' pimp drug trade crime lord. Following Kananga around, are a series of henchman with outlandish character such as soft-spoken Whisper, the claw-armed Tee Hee, and the dancing Voodoo priest Baron Samedi. The Bond Girls are play by afro 'Cleopatra Jones' Rosie Carver whom work for Bond's CIA pal Felix Leiter. (David Hedison). Then there is Solitaire (Jane Seymour of Dr. Quinn fame) as Kananga's virginal Tarot reader. Returning characters also comes to come back as Quarrel Jr. is the son of the character from 'Dr. No, Miss Money Penny and M. Sadly, Desmond Llewelyn does not appear as Q in this film. There are a bit of silly scenes, once and then. Pill shark explode? No need to spoil them, but the scene with Mrs. Bell and bigoted hick Sheriff J.W. Pepper (Clifton James) is die hard funny. The character of J.W Pepper was the basis for Jackie Gleason's character in the 'Smokey and the Bandit' movies. Other memorable moments include the chases between double-decker bus chase, Bond racing a grounded plane around a runway, and the speedboat chase through the Louisiana levee system. The ending is very memorable. So give it a watch and you find yourself liking this movie as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Yaphet Kotto Does That Voodoo So Well","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My favorite essayer of James Bond debuted in this film. Live And Let Die marked the debut of Roger Moore as intrepid British secret agent 007. I've always thought that Moore perfectly fitted the public's idea of what to expect from James Bond than any other actor who portrayed him, although purists who faithfully have read the Ian Flemming novels would no doubt disagree.Moore was in an interesting position with this film. With Sean Connery finally and as he thought irrevocably never playing 007 again and with George Lazenby not capturing the dollars of the movie going public, if Moore had failed in the role, no doubt the James Bond series would have come to an end. When you think of some of the plans of world domination that Sean Connery foiled in his films that SPECTRE had, Moore's assignment in Live And Let Die is kind of minor league stuff. Three British agents are killed almost simultaneously in different parts of the world, one at the United Nations in New York, one in the New Orleans French Quarter, and one on the Caribbean island nation of San Monique that is ruled by Yaphetto Kotto. That's what 007's mission is, to find out what links these deaths in these disparate areas of the globe.Kotto is our head villain and while his ambition isn't quite SPECTRE domination of the world, it's still pretty extensive. He has some connections with a Harlem racketeer and also with some voodoo priests in all these areas. In fact voodoo and the fear of it forms a great piece of his method of keeping power and part of the plot as well.Roger Moore and Jane Seymour who was 'introduced' in Live And Let Die have more narrow escapes in this film than they did in some of those old movie serials. His wrist watch becomes a very valuable weapon in his arsenal. And not only does 007 have to deal with human predators, Moore has to both play tag with some alligators and nearly swim with some hungry sharks.Live And Let Die got an Academy Award nomination. The title song written by Paul and Linda McCartney became one of the biggest songs to come from a Bond film. It lost however to the Barbra Streisand classic title song, The Way We Were in 1973.Because it introduced Roger Moore as 007 to the movie going public, Live And Let Die has an enduring significance in film history. But even if it were not a milestone film, Live And Let Die is one of the best of James Bond films to come out with any actor playing 007. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's best","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Sean Connery left the Bond Franchise for good (I do not count Never Say Never Again), the series was in need for a new lead actor. They were many candidates, including Burt Reynolds, Michael Billington and Robert Wagner. They was even talk about casting an unknown, someone who had serviced in the army or navy, but that idea never went anywhere. It was Roger Moore who had found fame through the television series the Saint. Moore was a different type of Bond, making the character more comedic and the plots became sillier under his reign. I'm not a fan of his style of Bond, leading to some bad films like Moonraker. However, Live and Let Die was a good film and a good start to Moore's career as Bond.Live and Let Die starts with the murder of three British agents investigating the Prime Minister of San Monique (a fictional country in the Caribbean) and his links to New York gangster Mr. Big. Bond is sent by M to New York to investigate and Felix Leiter is assigned to help. When he arrives into the city Mr. Big sends an assassin to kill Bond, before all his people monitor his movement. When Bond meets Big in the Harlam he also meets his psychic, Solitaire, who can predict the future and see events far away using Tarot Cards. When Bond escapes he goes to San Monique and finds out that the Dr. Kananga, the Prime Minister was growing Poppy Flowers and then supplied it to Mr. Big who made it into Herion and sold it in the US. As well, Solitaire was attracted to Bond, and Bond, is also on a little personal mission. However, her powers are linked to her virginity, and with Bond around, it won't be round for long. Bond and Solitaire team up and go to New Orleans and working with Felix to stop Mr. Big and Dr. Kananga.One of the things that I like about Live and Let Die is that plot is realistic, it's hardly out of the realms of possibility. It could easily happen. As well the action is non-stop, and with very enjoyable scenes, from the boat chase in Louisiana, to all the fights, to the fight at the end of the film. They is sadly no Q in this film, but Bond does have a gadget, a magnetic watch, something that isn't unrealistic. As well, whilst this film is light hearted, it's not campy, and most of the jokes work. Humour isn't overplayed or substitutes action, which is what Bond is all about. This film also has a good villains, which is important to all good Bond films, who has some very good henchmen. It is also pretty violence for a PG, so it would be advisable to not let young children watch this film. Finally they is a very good song performed by Paul McCarthey.However, there is negative aspects to the film. It is surreal, which is basically weird for a Bond film; whilst I think most of the time it just be faked by the villains, they are others which don't work, like the dancing at the funeral in the beginning of the film. The film is heavily influenced by blaxploitation, which in itself not bad, is felt to be a little forced. It also shows how bad 70s fashion was. The film has been criticised for its portrayal of Voodooism, focusing on negative stereotypes. As well, at times the film is borderline racist and is they is only one black face who was a good guy. As well, I did not like the character of the Louisanian sheriff played by Clifton James, who was only in the film for comedic relief. I can accept it in this film, but there was no need to re-introduce him in The Man With the Golden Gun.This is, as I said is Moore's best Bond, and it tries to be a down to earth in the scale of the villains plot. It has good action and this should have been the way that Moore's Bond should have gone, and not the campy route which it ended up taking, i.e. The Man With the Golden Gun. "},{"Title":"Wow! What a Comeback!","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is Roger Moore's first attempt as Bond, James Bond, and I must say that he is at home in Bond's shoes from the first moment. This was fantastic! Yaphet Kotto is Mr. Big, a nefarious gangster, drug runner, and Voodoo Priest in this Bond stylized blaxploitation film.Filmed primarily in New Orleans, one can view our beloved NOLA as she once was, complete with tenetiary decor. This was a beautiful installment, actually. Moore is a smooth operator who isn't afraid to take a hit, plays the Cassanova aspect of Bond's character quite aptly, yet shines equally as well in the venue of the high-speed actioner. I think the franchise has found its Bond.This story actually drew me as well as Moore's perpetration of it. The story is interesting, well fleshed out, and executed with a great panache. I really enjoyed this one. Better than any of the Connery installments, actually. And here I had a preconceived notion that Connery's Bond would be the best. Hmm...It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"A decent debut","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die was the first debut of Roger Moore as James Bond. Watching how Roger Moore portrait James Bond, I was amazed how comfortable he is in that role already. It's quite unique also how the filmmaker introducing him not directly in the action scene, but on the bed with his lover on his home. Rather than James Bond visiting M (Bernard Lee) in his office, this time it is M and Moneypenny (Lois Maxwell) who visited James Bond in his home. It is very fun to see how James Bond, M and Moneypenny interact in this movie.The movie able to maintain its uniqueness at least until half part of the movie. This is the only James Bond movie where 007 must encounter something supernatural. In terms of the use of gadget, we can consider it as minimal in James Bond world. Again, it seems like James Bond movie usually gets better if the filmmaker not equipped him with too many gadgets.It's quite a pity that during the boat scene, the movie become again ordinary James Bond movie. Trying to maintain the light approach that established in Diamonds are Forever, right now the filmmaker try to introduce Sheriff J.W. Pepper (Clifton James) to generate laughter during the boat scene. Although Pepper able to bring laughter, I found his overall appearance distracting. Same thing happen with the ending scene. I found the villain appearance near the end of the movie too cliché.Overall, I found Live and Let Die to be a decent Bond movie. "},{"Title":"BOND#8 Long Live a new Sir James Bond","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN corner the heroin market with a lot of poppy fields. When this latest Bonder first came out, I dismissed it as getting on the bandwagon of the blaxploitation trend of the seventies, a rather lame attempt to give Bond some more edge after Diamonds Are Forever. Viewing it again (on DVD), I now see a freshness to the whole Bond formula a new Bond, a new kind of villain, a new locale in New York City's Harlem, and even a new approach - instead of Bond going into M's office, M and Moneypenny go to Bond's apartment in this one (the reason is unclear, except M seems to be in a rush and, possibly, looking for a female Italian agent). Q doesn't appear at all, merely sending Bond a special watch. Most of this angered the Bond purists, including me, but now, so many years later, I can look at it dispassionately. The title song, by McCartney, is terrific, perhaps even surpassing Bassey's Goldfinger rendition. This was actor Moore's first Bonder and he would return in a half-dozen more. He was a more proper British gentleman than Connery; Connery's version seemed to be a rough bad-ass who became sophisticated after reaching adulthood; Moore seemed to be born into the upper class and had to learn to be a bad-ass later - or act like one. Moore, therefore, lacked the real undertone of threat Connery posed to villains, henchmen and even femme fatales Moore seemed more apt to arrest the bad guys than to actually kill them. He was certainly more urbane and sophisticated than Connery's version, perhaps even more debonair - and perhaps too smooth, wherein lies the dilemma with his interpretation. As we begin to see here, everything's too easy for Moore's version of Bond; he gets through all the life-threatening instances without breaking a sweat and this lack of tension would get worse in the forthcoming films (especially with Moonraker and on).M sends Bond to NYC first, where the urban squalor and Harlem gangsters offer a sharp contrast to Moore's polished presence. Yet, even as he strolls amid these dangerous elements, very out of place, we sense he is in no danger; he'll either joke his way out or place a well-timed kick at just the right moment. Moore's line delivery is much better than Lazenby's (from On Her Majesty's Secret Service), of course, due to a lot more experience, emphasizing an amused tone, usually (his remark after a henchman breaks his gun, for example, is a gem). Moore was actually older than Connery and it's just as well he didn't get the role earlier, a problem associated with the Lazenby version, who was a bit too young. After his foray into the Big Apple, Bond heads out to the fabricated island of San Monique (in reality, we're back in Jamaica, the location of the first Bonder, Dr.No, anticipating the Quarrel Jr. character). Bond encounters voodoo hijinks, an inept female CIA agent and a female clairvoyant who uses tarot cards while in the employ of the main villain. These elements seem too out of place even for a new approach to Bond adventuring, as they slant things towards actual mysticism. There's also a lame snake threat, copying the spider attack in Dr.No - Bond appears to overreact. Bond also uses his usual charms more blatantly and crudely than before, deflowering the Solitaire character as a specific strategy in his mission. There's a darkly satiric tone here, including the scenes involving killings, but it doesn't always work as expected. There are two which stand out, involving a funeral procession in New Orleans (Bond's 3rd destination) and the murders of a couple of agents. It's well done, with a gallows humor, but it's also uncomfortably chilling, especially when I first saw this, because it looks as if everyone in the procession, including grandmothers and kids, are in on these assassinations.On the plus side, there are two interesting henchmen in this one, rather than the usual single one Tee Hee is the brawn with a mechanical arm - pincers to snip off fingers or puncture agents. Baron Samedi is the larger-than-life giant, using either supernatural powers or clever trickery, depending on your perspective. The actor Holder is an especially striking presence as Samedi, with a weird, unsettling laugh. There's even a third henchman, the overweight Whisper, who appears non-threatening but is nonetheless lethal. Recalling the use of sharks and piranha in earlier films, here Bond is placed in the middle of alligators & crocodiles - it's suitably suspenseful and Bond's escape is a great bit - and there's even a return to sharks at the climax. The boat chase is different but continues for several more minutes after we think it's about over. The main villain, as played by actor Kotto, can be intense, yet he also doesn't make an easy fit into a Bond thriller. Instead of some intricate plot involving high-end technology, he's involved in drug trafficking. While this was a conscious attempt to stay away from huge sets and outlandish gadgets, it's almost too sharp a turn after several films with Blofeld and megalomaniacs like Goldfinger. Bond exists, after all, to tackle certain types of villains, certainly not the kind suited for a local police force and with names like 'Mr.Big.' Kananga is ambitious, however, with his own sense of theater, and even his own version of a master villain's lair. This was also the 1st Bonder with actor Hedison as CIA liaison Leiter, who would be the only actor to reprise the role later; he and Bond have an easy camaraderie. Bond would return in The Man With the Golden Gun. Bond8 Villain7 Femme Fatales7 Henchmen8 Leiter8 Fights7 Stunts/Chases7 Gadgets5 Auto6 Locations7 Pace7 overall7- "},{"Title":"Good Bond Film","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like the beginnings of most Bond movies except the new ones.This Bond has a lot of sentimental value for me, I remember first seeing it in the mid-80's. and thought it was great.Seeing it now, it's easy to see why people don't like it. The story is highly original and exciting, bringing James Bond into the computer age. The incidental music is undoubtedly among the best of the Bond's.It has all the makings of a classic Bond Movie and this shows through. If they could just improve the script, then it would be a classic Bond. Finally, I think Bond would be better without the sex and adultery - the newer ones seem to relish it. Is this good for society? "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good Roger Moore/Bond entry.","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take Although it bizarrely ventures into the supernatural, this odd Bond entry provides the goods and occasionally thrills. It may take a couple more viewings for a viewer to actually like Live and Let Die, but this film not that bad, although incomparable to the Connery Bond films that preceded it. Live and Let Die is still great as stand-alone entertainment. This is Roger Moore people, not Sean Connery, difference is expected. But for me though, Live and Let Die is differs very little to any Bond film, for it still has class, like every needed element for a Bond film. Slick direction by Guy Hamilton, some fine acting (especially by Geoffrey Holder as Baron Samedi) and a wonderful title song by Paul McCartney and his band Wings also helps this to become a minor classic.This film is way better than The Man with the Golden Gun, the Bond film that came out next. That one was pretty boring and relies on Christopher Lee's superb Bond villainous acting to be entertaining. This one doesn't have much of a special villain (Dr. Kananga/Mr. Big played by Yaphet Kotto), but this movie is still excellent with fantastic stunts and a faster pace that it's hard to resist.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Live and Let Die (1973) **1/2","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore takes on duties as James Bond for the first time in this strange and unconventional 007 outing. This one can be tossed into the mediocre bin of Bond adventures, and there are so many reasons for this that it's difficult knowing where to begin. The story is rather confusing, for a start. It seems that a British representative at the United Nations in New York has been killed along with another one in New Orleans and one more on the island of San Monique, so this takes Bond on an investigation into New York City, including uptown Harlem. There he first runs afoul of a black crime boss operating as the pimp-like Mr. Big, and then journeys onward to the voodoo island of San Monique, where he squares off with an African leader named Kananga (Yaphet Kotto). Kananga's woman and Tarot Card consultant is the beautiful young Solitaire (Jane Seymour), and his right-hook man is Tee Hee (Julius Harris) who lost one of his hands to the crocodiles and sports a deadly metal hook in its place. Somehow the usual plot line of drug trafficking also figures into all of this, don't ask me how.With the dawn of the 1970s we first got to see the change into a more comic book direction for the Bond franchise with the previous film DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER; but LIVE AND LET DIE really takes it to a whole new level. This film plays more like an early seventies blaxpoitation pic, where you'd expect to see Pam Grier or Shaft arrive into any next scene. Black characters recite such stereotypical lines as man, for twenty bucks I'd take you to a Ku Klux Klan cookout! (said gleefully by a taxi driver when 007 offers him a twenty to follow another car), and keep your hands up, Honkey! (when Bond is approached at gunpoint). Not that any of this in itself is a bad thing for the times, because I do dig these types of films, man; it's just that James Bond himself seems so uncomfortably out of place in such an untypical environment. This is made even more obvious when having newcomer Moore in the role for such a storyline, as he is much more refined and gentlemanly, not nearly as dangerous and street-smart as Sean Connery, or even George Lazenby, were. Roger would get better as his tenure in the series would progress, but here he has some big shoes to fill and is just finding his footing. To his credit, Moore sensibly didn't try to imitate Connery, but his own brand of Bond would require a few films to perfect. One thing Roger was excellent at was giving little comical quips and one-liners, and here he delivers a few good ones (butterhook he non-chalantly throws Tee Hee's way while the henchman fumbles trying to take Bond's watch off his wrist).One of the best sequences in the movie is when Bond is left standing on a small island in the center of a group of hungry crocodiles and alligators. Unfortunately, another sequence involving speed boat chases goes on much too long and does not have the desired effect of enthralling us. Kananga's ultimate fate in the end comes off as utterly ridiculous and laugh-inducing in the way it's handled, even if the idea itself was inspired. The worst offense of all, though, has to be the addition of a really stupid and annoying backwards southern sheriff named J.W. Pepper, who is an embarrassing disgrace to this series as a comedic foil, and who was incomprehensibly brought back for next year's THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN! I wonder if he was the inspiration for Jackie Gleason's character in SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT?The best thing about LIVE AND LET DIE turns out to be the classic title song by Paul McCartney. Too bad it wasn't used to accompany a better Bond film. Former Beatles producer George Martin takes on the score, but it's not a very good one. The constant re-use of the Live and Let Die instrumental theme becomes grating after awhile. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A different,yet likable Bond.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore had an unenviable task in his first outing as James Bond.The character had been introduced by Sean Connery some twelve years earlier,so we were already well familiar with the character.Moore's task was to bring his own unique style to the role and not end up looking like a Connery wannabe.He pulled it off rather well in story much different than previous Bond films had given us.The villains here,are for the most part,black,which was a gutsy move.Although the film is guilty of looking rather like a cheesy blaxploitation film,due in part to it's dialog,it does,at least in my opinion,turn out rather likable and exciting,with Yaphet Kotto making an excellent villain,and the ever lovely Jane Seymour as Solitaire is very easy on the eyes.Also,you have to love Clifton James' performance as J.W. Pepper,even if the character does seem rather stereotypical.Overall,a very different and likable Bond experience. "},{"Title":"A New Era of 007","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Sean Connery departed from the series after a career making turn as suave British secret agent James Bond, producer Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman found themselves in need of a new actor to fill Connery's considerable shoes as 007. Their decision, Roger Moore, although no Sean Connery has proved himself to be a more than adequate replacement, playing a distinctly different Bond, with a strong humorous streak next to Connery's more gritty and serious Bond. Moore's approach to the character works well with director Guy Hamilton's more light hearted approach to the story and plot, with several joking, more more comedic moments placed in the storyline. All in all, it's quite the enjoyable Bond foray, one of the more enjoyable of those from the 70s, touching on some distinctly different themes for James Bond, such as voodoo and drug smuggling. Some complain that the African American characters are portrayed in a racist fashion, which I suppose is ultimately a matter of opinion, but personally I didn't find that to be the case at all, (especially contrasted with the portrayals in Fleming's novel) and found said characters portrayed in a tasteful, and believable enough fashion for 1970s Harlem. Indeed, the sets and locations are excellent, perhaps less fantastical and exotic than the usual Bond formula, but the scenes shot in Jamaica, posing as Dr. Kananga's island are beautiful and lush, and the crocodile farm is a wonderful suspenseful setpiece as well. While Moore proves himself worthy of withholding the title of 007, the rest of the cast similarly impress. Yaphet Kotto makes an excellent, dignified and on occasion genuinely threatening villain (although his death scene is just plain ridiculous, a prime example of outdated special effects ruining crucial scenes in older movies). British actress Jane Seymour makes her film debut playing Solitaire, the innocent tarot card reader, though sometimes the innocent girl act becomes a bit much and starts to get somewhat annoying, not to mention hypocritical once she predictably enough succumbs to Bond's seduction attempts and loses her virginity. Julius Harris also makes a memorable villain as the metal clawed second in command to mysterious villain Mister Big, and Geoffrey Holder almost walks away with the show as an eccentric voodoo Baron with a memorable booming laugh. The absence of gadgetmaster Q is lamentable indeed, but Bernard Lee gives yet another excellent performance as M, Bond's constantly incredulous superior. There is, of course, the completely unnecessary and stupid to the point of being offensive addition of the redneck sheriff character J. W. Pepper, who comes across at exactly the wrong time to ruin an excellent speedboat chase and just about the whole picture. While he may have been labelled an audience favourite back at the time of the film's release, it is extremely difficult to see why... or how he can come across as anything but painfully unfunny, obnoxious and very unnecessary to the story. It's a shame he was inserted into the story as a feeble attempt at comedic relief, as his character is easily the weak point in the movie... that and the terrible special effects concerning Mr. Big's death, as mentioned above, both really come across as not just bad, but bad to the extent where they stand out and threaten to dampen one's perception of an otherwise quite good movie. Live and Let Die, despite its occasional shortcomings, is still the dawning of a new age of Bond movies - the Roger Moore era of light hearted silliness rather than the somewhat serious and more edgy Connery era, and this is a strong, quality start to it. Moore gives a strong performance breaking in the role of everyone's favourite secret agent, and faces up against some excellent menacing villains with a more tasteful and classy Bond girl, bereft of a name like Pussy Galore, and a great, catchy title track by Paul McCartney and Wings. All 007 fans should definitely give Live and Let Die a watch, as well as fans of Roger Moore or those who enjoy slightly older, but still quality action films.-8/10 "},{"Title":"Bond enters the world of voodoo!","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Following the rather poor 'diamonds are forever', it became apparent that Sean Connery would never again play the role of 007 (incidentally, he would later star in 'Never say never again', a 1980's spin-off of 'Thunderball'). This presented producers with a problem. A new Bond would mean three different Bonds in three different films. Roger Moore, who finally was chosen for the role, had a lot to live up to.Amongst all the anxieties and concerns, it must be said that the 'Live and let die' team made one of the best Bonds ever. Not only does it have a strong cast, exciting action sequences and stunning women, but it also has one of the most in-depth and boldest plots in the entire series. The character of Sheriff Pepper, who is very politically incorrect, is hilarious at times, but his character is often deemed as rubbish. Viewers should note the line 'Introducing Jane Seymour' in the opening credits, which looks very strange today. This is top Bond. "},{"Title":"Best James Bond film of the lot","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and let die is one of the Best James Bond films ever. I haven't seen every Bond movie, but i have seen the Big Hit movies like Dr No and Goldfinger. I found these movies boring, with just a few good scenes. In my opinion Rodger Moore was the best James Bond out of the lot. Sean Connery is popular, maybe because he started the trend and remains classic. Timothy and Peirce were the worst, good graphics and stunts but lame movie. Live and Let die has plenty of action and comedy with breath taking stunts. One of the best scenes include, the famous crocodile stepping stone. Does have a good looking Bond girl, there have been better (World is not enough). This Bond movie has the most entertainment and is worth the watch. "},{"Title":"A  Life Changing Experience!  No, really....","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A superb debut as James Bond by Roger Moore. Although I had previously seen Diamonds Are Forever (and loved it), this, at the age of 9, was my first real introduction to James Bond, the first time I actually realised that it was James Bond I was watching rather than a particularly cool film, which is what I'd remembered about DAF.I walked out of the cinema a James Bond fanatic. I've lost count of the number of times I've watched this movie, and no doubt on nice sunny nights, after a good family barbecue, or a day at the beach, I'll settle down to watch this masterpiece of 'popcorn for the eyes' again. Probably with my little boy who has developed his Dad's love of all things James Bond. And everybody should have a film or two which is just 'popcorn' for their eyes, too, don't you think? Is my review of this film based on sentimentalism as much as anything else? You bet! Does it change anything? Nope! And it never will! "}{"Title":"Bond gets involved with voodoo and witch doctors","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Liva and Let Die was Roger Moore's first appearance as James Bond and is one of my favourite Bond movies.In this one, Bond is sent on an assignment to investigate why three agents have been killed. This takes him to, amongst other places New York, the Caribbean and New Orleans. Here, he gets involved with voodoo, witch doctors and tarot cards.Highlights of this movie include the bus chase where Bond does a bridge bash, taking the roof off, the aeroplane sequence, taking the wings off the plane, the speedboat chase in the Everglades where he is being chased by police cars at the same time and several of these are destroyed and that mad Sheriff, J W Pepper.Joining Roger Moore in the cast are Jane Seymour as the main love interest, Yaphet Kotto, Clifton James as Pepper, David Hedison (The Fly, Voyage To The Bottom of the Sea) and Bond regulars Bernard Lee and Lois Maxwell. Unfortunately, Desmond Llewelyn didn't appear as Q in this one.The excellent Live and Let Die title song is sung by ex Beatle Paul MaCartney.This is James Bond at its best. Excellent.Rating 4 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"One of Roger Moore's Best Contributions to the Series","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although I have always regarded Sean Connery as the best of the actors to play Bond, I have never (unlike some Connery diehards) regarded the casting of Roger Moore as his successor as a mistake. Moore brought a different interpretation to the role, one which owed something to parts he had played in two adventure series on television, Simon Templar in The Saint and Brett Sinclair in The Persuaders. Whereas Connery's tough, gritty Bond allowed something of the hard man below the surface to show through, Moore played the character much more as a suave, sophisticated English gentleman. (Connery's Bond, like the actor himself, was definitely Scottish).The villain of Live and Let Die is Kananga, the leader of the small Caribbean island of San Monique. (Shouldn't that be Sainte Monique?) For a Bond villain, Kananga's ambitions are surprisingly limited, with no scheme for world domination. He has, however, close links to the New York underworld, and has hatched a plot to flood the American market with heroin. Kananga is deeply superstitious, and employs the services of Solitaire, a beautiful young woman with the power to foretell the future through the use of tarot cards. As with a number of the other films, much of the plot of this one revolves around Bond's ability to win over the villain's female accomplice.The Bond films, of course, are all dependent upon a stylised formula involving adventure (especially chase sequences), exotic locations, beautiful women, evil villains, memorable music and a generous (but preferably not too generous) helping of humour. When all the elements of the formula come together, the result can be a highly enjoyable piece of entertainment. Live and Let Die has, by and large, got most of the elements right. Its main asset is the lovely Jane Seymour, one of the most beautiful as well as one of the most talented of the Bond Girls, as Solitaire. She was one of the youngest of the Bond Girls, being only 22 a the time the film was made (Honor Blackman and Maud Adams, for example, were both in their late thirties when they starred in a Bond film), but despite her lack of experience turns in a very good performance. Her Solitaire is not a strong action heroine like Pussy Galore or Anya Amasova, but a passive figure, melancholy and fatalistic, troubled by her psychic powers but at the same time frightened of losing them. As such she has rather more depth than the average Bond heroine.Roger Moore is also good in this film; in 1973 he was still clearly youthful enough to be convincing in the role and makes the most of it. As the villainous Kananga Yaphet Kotto is adequate, but he does rather suffer the fate of being outshone by the two secondary villains, his henchman Tee Hee (the man with the metal arm and claw for a hand ) and Baron Samedi with his demonic peals of laughter. (Curt Jurgens suffered a similar fate in The Spy who Loved Me, where Richard Kiel's Jaws turned out to be more memorable than his own Stromberg). There are some exciting chase sequences, particularly the one in the old bus across San Monique, and the waterborne one through the Louisiana bayous. I didn't much care for the character of J W Pepper, a rather stupid redneck Louisiana sheriff with a thick Deep South accent who was obviously intended as the film's main comic relief. (He makes another appearance in The Man with the Golden Gun). Nevertheless, there was some successful use of sardonic humour, such as the scene where a man, watching a traditional New Orleans jazz funereal, asks Whose funeral is it? and is told Yours immediately before being stabbed to death. The music was also good, especially Paul McCartney's brilliant theme song. My overall view is that this is, together with For Your Eyes Only, the best of the Roger Moore Bond films. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Live and let live the new Bond","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Welcome to the year 1973, the decade of Vietnam war, the rise of equity for black people in US and Watergate affair. And also the year, where the 007 series lost it's best actor Sean Connery, who chooses rather to play golf instead of going into dangerous 007 missions. Overall, a hard job for producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman, to find a truthful substitute. Did they succeed in this task?Well, they did okay...They knew that it will be hard to replace the charm of Connery, but they solved this problem with some minor changes . The new James Bond, Roger Moore, cover that deficiency by being just the way he is in real life. A true English gentlemen, with a touch of wittiness. Enough to make him convenient for 007 role.-SPOILERS-Opening scene offers us some questions, surprisingly not showing the new bond, but as we follow the movie with a nice Paul McCartney song, they finally reveal him in the cool, funny London scene. The path leads us towards New York city, offering us a great seventies look in this metropolitan city including a short tour in Harlem (plus introducing us the beautiful soon to be Bond woman). but the finest scenes are kept for New Orleans (unforgetable plane airport scene, the car and boat chase, crocodiles...you just can't ask for more) and the exotic location of San Monique. -END OF SPOILERS-The producers and director decided, that by introducing the new Bond, there will be more humor (which is good), but sadly, they've lost that 007 Connery roughness and smoothness. Connery was simply just more believable when facing the villains and seducing women. That's the reason, that I just can give this movie better grade than in Connery ones, but hey, it's the first one for Moore and the better ones are still to come) "},{"Title":"Living Up To Expectations","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die seems to have become better with age. Certainly, compared to some of the other films in Roger Moore's history of Bond films - The Man With The Golden Gun for example, or the god-awful Moonraker - it is a much better film than you may first think.The story is very well written in fact, taking some of the elements that made up Ian Fleming's second James Bond novel and updating it with more relevant issues as per usual in the Bond series - in this case the topic of heroin smuggling. Where the difficulty comes is the matter of racism. Some critics on this website have condemned the film, claiming that it provokes racism by all the villains being black. This is not the case at all - the original story is quite racist, certainly, but this film has African-Americans on Bond's side, fighting against the villain. To be honest, I think we should forget these critics claims and just enjoy the fact that Live And Let Die has a very good selection of villains, all perfectly acted by very good actors. Yaphet Kotto is superb as Kananga, typically refined but deadly at some very tense moments. He very rarely lets his anger show as Kananga, leaving that to his alter ego, Mr Big. But when Kanaga does get angry it's unsettling. In the final scenes with Kananga we see the true insanity of the character as a whole. His death is rather humorous, but interesting, and I love interesting deaths for a good bad guy! Kanaga's lackeys are a good mixture as well, from the Bondesque Tee-Hee (played by Julius Harris), to the wonderful Baron Samedi (Geoffrey Holder), who fits in very well with the voodoo elements of the story.Roger Moore starts off his reign as 007 quite well in this film. With a good sense of the Moore charm and humour with his portrayal, there is also something rather cold and militaristic about it. Take for example the scene where he confronts the treacherous Rosie Carver (not a very well written character played by Gloria Hendry).A lot of criticism has also come for Jane Seymore's Bond Girl, Solitaire. Although she does nothing really to help Bond in his mission, the idea of her being a weak, defenceless woman is rather absurd. She starts off very well, with the tarot cards adding to a very mysterious presence. She is also attractive in many very nice gowns that the costume department has cooked up for her. Yes, she does need rescuing, but only at the end, and towards this we see a good portrayal of a woman in the power of Koto's vicious Kananga. It is at the end, however, where the script lets her down. Also, after losing her virginity, she seems to suddenly become rather amorous!Some of the scenes in the film are superb. The crocodile farm is very well done, and the stunt is fantastic to watch, especially knowing that it took around five takes to film it, and that the stuntman - the real life owner of the farm whose name was actually Ross Kananga - almost lost his life several times. He deserved the honour of having the villain named after him. The boat chase, however, does not work for me. I feel that it is too long overall, and it is not helped by George Martin's rather weak score where large parts of the film have no music whatsoever. Paul McCartney's title song, however, is a brilliant Bond song, bringing the sense of rock and roll truly into the Bond series along with that great orchestral instrumental part in the middle. A shame about the title sequence.Overall, Live And Let Die is not as bad as some might say. There are problems, certainly, one of them being the introduction of Sheriff JW Pepper (has Clifton James ever done Shakespeare?), but then, what Bond film doesn't have problems. And even JW sums the character of Bond up pretty goodWhat are you? Some kind of doomsday machine, boy?7/10 "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My personal favourite Bond Movie, and along with Moonraker, the most bizarre outing for the secret agent. Bond is sent to America to investigate the deaths of several British Agents, and his search leads him to Mr Big, a Harlem crime lord. With further investigation, Bond finds a drug-smuggling link between Mr Big, and Dr. Kananga, a mysterious man from a Caribbean island. Bond flies to Kananga's island to stop the massive Heroin dealing. There he meets the beautiful Solitaire played with great power by Jane Seymour, a virgin who has been enslaved by Kananga as her mystical powers bring him success. Bond soon finds himself entwined in voodoo forces he can barely fight, and struggles to complete his mission.Plenty of stunts and action sequences, chases and humour make this an instant Bond classic, but the characters and performances of Yaphet Kotto and his various goons make it one of the best. Tee Hee is mysterious, Whisper is memorable, and Baron Samedi is a strong Villain as he seems to be immortal. This marks the appearance of Sheriif GW, and his comic escapades which are either annoying or very funny depending on your point of view. Moore gives a good performance, bringing the series in a different direction, and Seymour is one of the most beautiful Bond girls. There are many memorable moments, including the famous train fight, and Kanaga's explosive end. Probably the most scary Bond film so far, in fact there has not been another one like it, and when i was a kid it was always the one i most looked forward to seeing. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very good first outing for Moore","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the master has finished as Bond (Connery), and his only replacement thus far had failed (Lazenby) in steps Roger Moore. With a completely different approach to Connery, Moore made a good impression as the new Bond (although i don't believe he had the same sex appeal, not according to my mum anyway.) What helped Roger Moore was as he took over the Bond role, our favourite Secret agent's gadgets got better as well.Live and Let Die, is still one of my favourite Bond outings (it has my favourite stunt in it - you know the one i mean), and Roger Moore's new tongue-in-cheek humour was born here, to bad he out lived his sell by date by a couple of films.Great Bond movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"Bond!","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Plot James Bond is called upon to investigate the accidental (?) deaths of three MI-7 agents. The deaths took place on three different places of the world and they seem however to be connected in some way. Bond's path is crossed by witchcraft, voodoo, tarot, drug dealers, men with metallic body parts (in a Dr. Strangelove fashion!) and the gangsters (not angels) of Harlem.Roger Moore's first outing as Agent 007 emerges not as an action flick but rather as a comic one. While most Bond movies have a darker tone, this one relies on light comedy, with Moore getting close to slapstick á la Blake Edwards. I like it, and I give it 8 stars outta 10. "},{"Title":"Live-ly","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The best Bond for me is Sir Roger Moore. His first outing, Live And Let Die, is a remarkable production...especially the soundtrack. I liked the score here by George Martin, and the story itself was good---it was the first time in the series that a villain had two characters credited to him....and I liked Jane Seymour's acting...she really portrayed here that she is an innocent fortune-teller. And the villains themselves...they make me really angry, which is their primary goal...to make the audience angry. Although this film is not as glamorous as Moonraker or The Spy Who loved Me (where Bond has to save the world) here he needs just to stop Kananga from spreading heroin. An original work. Four stars out of five.  "},{"Title":"one of the greatest Bond movies","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  People who describe this movie as 'racist' are clearly deluded. Ok,the entire set of villains are black, but this in fact is a positive. In previous Bonds, there were few noticable black characters, and those that did appear were mainly stereotyped as simple and superstitous.This time, although some of the minor baddies seem very blaxploitation, some of the most memorable villains were spawned here, including Yaphet Kotto's Dr Kanaga, steel clawed giant Tee Hee, and the mystical Baron Samedi. For the first time, black people are considered to be worthy of a serious feature in James Bond, as serious opponents. This is also the first Roger Moore film of the series, which makes it more watchable. The mood is lighter and there is a trace of comedy, which helps things immesurably since the wooden and colourless Sean Connery years, which although they set Bond on the way, were surpassed by Moore in the 70s and 80s. Moore gave the series a real flavour, and that begins here with some of the most memorable sequences of the whole Bond era. The plot may not be totally cohesive or even coherent, but some of the images and performances in this film will live in movie history, and rightly so. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Premiere For Roger Moore","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I guess the fights will never stop about wether Roger Moore was a worthy successor to Sean Connery. Funny, though, because the solution is ever so simple Moore's Bond was extremely different to Connery's. Why not take it as that and rate the Moore Bonds in their own class?Ok, now that I've stated my position as a fan of both Bonds, we can proceed.LALD is a truly worthy introduction of the new Bond. It is lighter, more ironic, rather than cynical, and it gives Roger Moore the opportunity to show what he's best at Playing himself. That's far better than it may sound. Moore is taken like a duck to water. This is 'his' Bond - for better or for worse. I, for one, like him. He's got style, impeccable timing and a real presence - virtues not to be underestimated, if you please. LALD gives us a slick push into the 70's - into the Moore era. I didn't forget Connery's Bond - not even poor George Lazenby's - but I didn't begrudge Roger Moore his excellent introduction nonetheless.And LALD has its unique merits as well. The 'Voodoo' atmosphere. Wonderful photography fitting the subject. A good script. And one of the best title songs ever, written and performed by Paul McCartney's Wings.Ah... I admit it... I like the 'new' Bond. I still do..., even though I deem Pierce Brosnan's incarnation as good as the original... the REAL Bond Sean Connery.Roger Moore will still keep his place as the definitive 'light' Bond, and anyone thinking that's not much of an accomplishment - think again.Schogger13 "}{"Title":"ROGER MOORE SLIPS INTO THE ROLE EASILY","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've always considered Roger Moore as the best Bond. He made his debut as 007 in this film and he slipped easily into a role I think he was born to play.The Roger Moore years were exciting and the action became more and more fantasy based. In this film 007 goes up against voodoo, crocodiles and a man with a metal arm. The action scenes are great particularly the escape from the crocodile farm and the fight with Tee-Hee (the metal armed guy) on the train at the end.Roger Moore's interpretation of Bond was brilliant. Bond was fearless in the face of danger and he always overcame the odds. And who can forget Roger Moore's facial expressions?As usual there was the gadgets and the girls and the car chases which are the essential ingredients for any Bond movie. Felix Leiter was back played by David Hedison but he didn't see much action.Great start to the Roger Moore era-and it got much better. "},{"Title":"When Bond and Blaxploitation meet ...","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ...the result leaves everyone involved shaken, not stirred. Seriously, though, this first of the Roger Moore Bonds, even if it does show its age in some places, still remains solid entertainment almost thirty years after it was released.Released at the height of the early-'70's Blaxploitation genre (Trouble Man, The Legend of Nigger Charlie. C'mon, you know 'em all.), Live and Let Die retains all the stereotypes of that particular genre, stereotypes that would be amusingly sent-up in 1989's I'm Gonna Git Ya, Sucka! What seemed timely, to some, in 1973 now seems quaint at best, racist at worst. Still, this only mildly detracts from the usual Bondian antics, which include at least one car chase, a lot of explosions, and a spectacular 20 minute boat chase through the Louisiana bayous that is, for me, THE action highlight of the picture.Then, there are the performances. Although this was Roger Moore's first time out as 007, he already seems very much at ease with the role, already giving it the light, good-humored feel that would carry through all his Bond portrayals over the next twelve years. Almost as good is excellent, underused Yaphet Kotto as the principal villain of the piece, island despot Dr. Kananga/Harlem despot Mr. Big. Jane Seymour, in her film debut, is little more than the usual Bond Girl window dressing as Solitaire, and both Julius Harris and Geoffrey Holder lend their considerable presence as secondary baddies.In short, enjoy this movie for what it is, good middle-period Bond in which the good parts outweigh the defects by a considerable margin. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's 007 debut","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Live and Let Die (aka Bond 8) marks the debut of Roger Moore as James Bond. This is not one of the best in the 007 series, but it's still a mostly entertaining adventure. This time Bond follows the trails of a heroin smuggler known as Kananga (Yaphet Kotto) thru New York City's Harlem, the Louisiana Bayou, and an island in the Caribbean. In the middle of his search he meets a Tarot card reader named Solitaire played by Jane Seymour (her film debut) who just happens to be working for the bad guy. Live and Let Die gets good mileage out of the performances by Kotto and Seymour as the main villain and beauty, and Moore is just adequate as 007. But the other actors don't really make much of an impression. In particular, Clifton James gives the film's (and maybe the series') goofiest performance as Louisiana sheriff J.W. Pepper, a character straight out of a comic book. It's impossible not to laugh at this character. Sheesh, he practically had me rolling on the floor the moment when he yelled at that old guy driving that oyster truck Did ya evea think of gettin' a driver's license boy! The other supporting actors (Kananga's hencemen) aren't all that impressive either. Still, there's plenty to like in Live and Let Die. The action scenes are well done, and the film on a whole is fun. Plus, it has an excellent title song sung by Paul McCartney. I've got one big question where's Q at?*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Elite","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My favourite Bond adventure and one of my top 5 favourite movies of all time. I found it amazing how they could fit so much originality and entertainment into the one flick. I still enjoy every minute of it each time I watch it. "},{"Title":"Excellent performance,Mr Moore","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore took over the mantle of James Bond in this cracking tale where he does battle with Mr Big, a small-time diplomat and smuggler. The story is well written, with plenty of scope for one liners. The trademark villain is almost friendly, but that aside this is the best Bond to date. The title is almost symbolic as it is Bond's code of honor. Unlike it's predecessors, Live and Let Die has believable performances and an atmospheric soundtrack! If You like Bond,you'll love this!  "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleased with Roger Moore in his first Bond film, as I was pleased with the film itself. The thing that confused me was all that voodoo stuff, who was who on the bad side, and that bizarre ending. I did however like how all of Mr. Big's men kept an eye on Bond. I also liked Bond's gadgets in this film. One thing I didn't like was that they never really showed Q's face. They more the less talked about him. I liked that one guy who had the claw for his hand, and I also liked how Solitaire predicted the future with cards. This was a good film and I recommend this to any Bond fan. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best terrible movie of all time","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond has always existed in an entirely homogenic environment. Not even mentioning the cursory roles given to women, all the James Bond villains are either 1. foreign; 2. physically disabled; or 3. physically outside of the norm. Bond goes through his missions encountering an army of villains that fail to match his perfect form. The first film, Dr. No, involves an oriental professor with metallic hands, while the previous film to Live and Let Die, Diamonds are Forever saw it's screentime split between the (previously bald and scarred) Blofield and the homosexual Mr.Went and Mr.Kidd. Even the mighty Goldfinger is overweight and possesses red hair. This all comes to a head with Live and Let Die. Featuring a cast of very talented black actors, they are all either voodoo-practising, snake-charming, black-magic wielding witch doctors from a jungle colony or Harlem residents who say such patronising dialogue as brother, honkey, mother and traffic heroin. Top of the list is Tee-Hee, a black man that is also bald, bespectacled and the owner of a metallic arm. Added to this is a resounding lack of plot and a protracted 13 minute boat chase with overstated sight gags and a hick sheriff.So why did I enjoy it so much? Maybe it's Moore's appearance, especially bearing in mind the context. Whatever one may say about Connery in his first five movies, Moore is better here than Sean was in Diamonds and definitely superior to Lazenby in Secret Service. Whatever extremes his reign may have gone to, for the purposes of this film, Moore (possibly the greatest non-actor of all time) revitalises the series. In box office, this only comes to an extra three million on the previous entry, but who else but Roger could get away with the scene with the crocodile stepping stones, or lines as corny as I don't want to go off half-cocked. He succeeds because he is the only actor who didn't play the part as if it was STILL Sean's. The gadgets are silly, but underused, except where they operate as necessary plot devices, and the theme titles are magnificent. Much better than the overrated and lyrically underdeveloped Goldfinger, Paul McCartney's Live and Let Die adds the finishing touch to what is an absolutely awful - yet fantastically entertaining - James Bond movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad; Roger Moore is the best Bond.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Originally, Sean Connery was my favorite Bond, and Goldfinger was my favorite Bond movie.  Then, Pierce Brosnan, being sleeker and more action hero-ish, became my favorite, and The Spy Who Loved Me was my favorite Bond flick.  TSWLM is still my favorite, but after seeing L&LD, it's evident to me that Moore is the only Bond.  Combining ruthlessness with a sense of emotion, he fleshes out the character in a way Connery never did (you never see Sean lamenting his lost wife!).  While still not like the Bond of print, this is the most interesting one in the movies.  And the best thing about L&LD, in my opinion, is Solitaire, Jane Seymour's character; her pregognitive powers hinge on her virginity, and with Bond around, you just know that's not going to last... "},{"Title":"The cards have followed you for me.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good choice if you want to see a Bond film. Roger Moore does very well in his first turn of Bond and so does everyone else. With a little Voodoo to shake things up, this is more than your average Bond.   "},{"Title":"Best Bond Movie!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I too have a hard time figuring out why this movie is rated as one of the worst bond movies.  My and my dad can watch this movie anytime.  It is far better than the other Bond movies.  I also think that Roger Moore is far better at playing James Bond than Connery ever was.  This movie has the best role playing characters of all the Bond movies.  J.W. Pepper is a great redneck character and I love the way the villains are all supposed to be pimps or something.  All in all this is the best Bond movie of all time. "}{"Title":"All the stops are pulled halfway out at best...gotta love parts of you'll be bored by the end","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die (1973)If you're not a James Bond fan in particular, how would this movie hold up? That's exactly my point of view here and so read on accordingly.I've seen a dozen 007 films, and tend to like some aspects of them and hate others. This is a purely middle of the road, halfhearted movie in nearly every way. And if there's something a Bond film should be, it's not middling. Start with the man himself, played by Roger Moore, who lacks the charm, the physical power and elegance, and the smarts, frankly, required of the character. (I think he does better in his later films.) In the very first scenes, this top notch agent is led along, duped, and outsmarted in every step of his return to New York. He gets away only when the bad guys let him.The other great things about Bond films are restrained here, as well. There aren't gadgets (except the silly magnetic watch) and he doesn't have his car. His sometimes hilarious deadpan interactions with his superiors (M and Moneypenny) are drab and cut short. His affairs with women are numerous of course, but pretty routine stuff.And I don't mean the women are routine. This is actually a benefit of being halfhearted--the movie isn't as demeaning to women as most of the others, score one for mediocrity.Finally, the plot, the plot! That is to say, what plot? So he's somehow interested in this gang of crook on a Caribbean island, but why? They followed him from the airport and killed his chauffeur, sure, but there is no really compelling reason for this long chase after the obviously evil mean. And it surely doesn't seem like secret agent stuff, more like the usual drug running gang. With the twist that they are going to flood the U.S. market with free heroin. Yes, free.Okay, so there is a long, long, did I say long boat chase near the end, including some ridiculous flying over bits of land that get in the way at various times. The Mississippi sheriff stereotypes are fun for those who don't hale from there, I'm guessing. But it all goes on forever. And there is the shark cage and the threat of being eaten alive. Wow is that a lame game and played out with no sense of flair or suspense. You'll see.So, now that I think of it, what the heck is there to enjoy here? Well, it's a high budget Hollywood movie with a cute leading man set in an attractive exotic local. The secondary actors, all of them, are peculiar and interesting and not always the best actors but they keep their heads above water. The cast and some of the sub-themes are distinctly blaxploitation stuff, which I liked a lot, and I only wish it had been pushed harder. The pivotal movie Shaft had been out and successful before filming began on this one, but it seems only the superficial aspects were picked out of the genre. (It might matter that Shaft was directed by a black American, the great Gordon Parks, and this was directed by a white British bloke, the redoubtable Guy Hamilton, who did direct Goldfinger and other Bond staples.)There is Solitaire, the reason I actually picked this Bond film instead of something else--not for her (she's a generic pretty object who really barely acts at all) but for her cards, the specially made James Bond Tarot deck. This deck is now kind of famous in the Tarot world because it's been released (and re-released) as a working, fully illustrated, and rather good 78 card deck. There's the famous moment, as well, where Bond reveals he has a special deck made of 78 cards all the same--the Lovers. Clever fellow. And pretty quick printing job, I say.Roger Moore fans, I apologize. He didn't have the aura of Connery or the physical energy of later Bonds like Bronson or Craig. In this first of his several attempts, he did however make Bond dignified. I'm not sure that's a good thing. Oh, and this is the Bond film with the McCartney theme songs (which you can hear morphed in little ways throughout the movie, under George Martin's hand). The music is certainly good stuff, and some of the sets underground make for exciting chases. As well, the voodoo aspects are totally fun and (if unrelated to Tarot) they give the movie a different tilt at times, including the very last five seconds. You'll see. "},{"Title":"A nice entry for Roger Moore","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and let die is the first Roger Moore picture as James Bond. The suave British super spy has to fight against a sort of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hide villain -a minister and a drug boss at the same time.In general everything you expect from a Bond movie is here wonderful ladies, good stunts and magnificent landscapes. Roger Moore is good in his first entry -which wants to be very different from the previous one, Diamonds are forever with Sean Connery. Moore brings a more English tone and is more sarcastic than Connery; the film abandons a little the classical Bond atmosphere -Roger never wears a tuxedo, Q is absent from this adventure, John Barry doesn't compose the music... The film gives the series a fresher look.Sometimes it seems that director Guy Hamilton and producers Broccoli & Saltzman take too much Shaft and blaxploitation movies as a model... The film is more humorous than the previous ones -after all cinematic Bond is 11 years old...! The seriousness of Cold War Era thrillers (which was stronger in the Sixties episodes of the series) is put away.But this film is entertaining and still worth to watch. I love Live and let die also for the wonderful Paul McCartney song -whereas the score is written by George Martin...the Beatles producer and arranger!I think nevertheless that The spy who loved me is the first really excellent Bond movie with Roger Moore, a movie which can be considered as classic as From Russia with love, Goldfinger, Thunderball and On Her Majesty Secret Service. Because The spy.. contains ALL the essential ingredients of the cinematic Bond. "},{"Title":"james bond 8","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Live and let die is the frist james bond movie from the fantastic actor Roger Moore. This movie was made in 1973, i really enjoyed this movie and i loved what was put into the movie. This movie is the 2nd james bond movie for the 1970's. Roger Moore became James Bond for 12 years (1973 - 1985) his last ever james bond movie was view to a kill. He did other james bond movies such as Live and let die, the man with the golden gun, the spy who loved me, moonraker, for your eyes only, octopussy, and a view to a kill. Roger Moore was the 2nd actor to play James bond. Overall i thought he was brilliant and i give live and let die 10 out of 10. The song Live and let die was sung my Paul McCartney "},{"Title":"Fairy tales and horror stories meet Blaxploitation and The Saint!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Live And Let Die has always been my favourite Bond, perhaps because it was the first one I ever saw. having just watched it again on DVD after a gap of quite a few years, 'm still hugely impressed with what is one of the strangest and most inventive of Bond movies. It's a curiously unglamorous affair, with Bond a million miles away from casinos and Tiffany Cases. Yaphey Kotto's brilliant villain is half the time a Harlem gangster, and half a vicious politician exploiting local superstition to support his heroin smuggling. but Live And Let Die takes prosaic crime plots and pours a dose of strange brew over them, with creepy supernatural overtones and perhaps the scariest, most thuggish and least gentlemanly Bond villians of all. The soundtrack is gorgeous, and just watch that magical scene between Bond and Solitare when he tricks her with the tarot cards. Jane Seymour's expression as she turns to look at Moore is marvellous, and the love theme is magnificent, if all too brief. That scene alone is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Good 007 flick","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warningpotential spoilersIn his first appearance as Bond,Roger Moore battles a drug lord named Mr.Big,with the help of Jane Seymour.Good action scenes include a boat chase on the Louisiana bayou.Yaphet Kotto is an alright villian,who dies a little bloated.Title song by Paul McCartney & Wings.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Pretty solid Bond","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This really is one of the better Bond films. The story is good, so are the locations, the action and the humor. The two things that really makes this one different from numerous bond films though, is that Bond's nemesis is more normal than for instance a nemesis with a bullet in his brain that makes him feel no pain (The World is not Enough) or a screwed up experiment (A view to a Kill). Also there the use of gadgets is reduced to almost basic level and no stupid, almost impossible gadgets are used. Plus this film features the best and most famous Bond theme songs ever (next to Goldfinger).7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The New James Bond...Roger Moore.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Live and Let Die was released in 1973 and featured Roger Moore in his debut as 007, taking over the role from Sean Connery. The plot has James Bond investigating the island diplomat Dr. Kananga (Yaphet Kotto), who the CIA suspects of having a connection with Mr. Big, a popular drug dealer, and the murders of three British and American agents on his island of San Monique. It seems that Mr. Big and Kananga are the same, he plans to smuggle heroin into the U.S. to distribute freely and boost the number of users to drive rival drug sellers out of the business. Dr. Kananga also uses the beautiful Solitare (Jane Seymour) as his own personal psychic and has a weird assortment of henchmen that TRY to kill Bond. Roger Moore does quite a good job for his first role in the 007 role. He has a dry sense of humor and he brings his own style to the Bond character, not trying to imitate Connery in any way. Yaphet Kotto does well as the villain Kananga, but his death scene is absolutely hysterical, I don't know if the filmmakers were just using that as a humorous touch to the film, but it is pretty ludicrous. Jane Seymour is astonishing as Solitare, she is one of the better Bond girls to grace the screen, she is beautiful and sensitive as well.This is the only Bond film that is extremely dated. With Bond being called names like Mother, Honkey, Baby, the huge hairdos, the clothing, the music, the cars. When you see this film you KNOW it's from the 70's, not that there is anything wrong with that. This film is definitely superior from it's predecessor, Diamonds Are Forever and it's successor, The Man With The Golden Gun. Second best of the Roger Moore era. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Bond films.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore kicks off his 12 year PPK carrying and vodka martini drinking, and what a fantastic start!.  In my opinion LIVE AND LET DIE Is the best James Bond film I have seen so far.  There's everything; memorable villains and sidekicks, being one of It's most strongest.  Kanaga Is a 'love to hate' criminal and Mr. Big Is a truly chilling villain.  Plenty of wit and classic scenes also make this an unmissable Bond and adventure film.  4/5. "},{"Title":"Start the unnecessarily slow moving dipping mechanism!","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although super-slow and plodding for a 007 film, Live and Let Die is notable as Roger Moore's debut in the role of james Bond, and the first movie with anyone other than Sean Connery as the famous secret agent. It takes a good hour before anything happens resembling any kind of action sequence, even the traditional opening action scene doesn't really happen. It starts with an interesting introduction to the story, where several secret agents are killed in mysterious circumstances in various places around the world, and Bond's mission, should he choose to accept it, is to investigate the killings and determine any connection. Since they happened within 24 hours of each other, some kind of connection is pretty likely. People complain about the voodoo content in this movie, but it has a bit of a black-sheep feel relative to its counterparts, if only because it's so slow and action-less. It is one of Roger Moore's best performances in the role, although that's not saying much since he was so disappointing in most of his roles, but here he just isn't given much to do. More importantly, much of the movie feels more like a soap opera than an action spy film. Whenever I watch a Bond film I'm always curious to see what kind of elaborate action set pieces they come up with, because love them or hate them, these are some of the most inventive action movies ever, but this has to be an exception.There is a short bus chase where Bond drives a double decker bus, some nonsense involving some crocodiles that are astonishingly easy to get away from, and your basic, run-of-the- mill speedboat chase that was about as exciting as your average Marine World ski show. You get a lot of speedboats chasing each other through some tropical marsh, constantly running up over some spits of land, through people's yards and swimming pools and weddings and whatnot. Yawn. I couldn't stop thinking about Police Academy, which at least was funny.But in the movie's defense, at least it has an interesting enough story, although it passes by in the background, behind the periodic love interests, the half-hearted action and the bizarre voodoo element. And what was the deal with that guy with the painted face?I know it sounds like I'm being really harsh on the movie, so I should say in the movie's defense that I really appreciated it's having a black villain and the first black Bond girl. It's too bad that so many of the bad guys were black, but I liked the African American presence in the movie. I have read that this cost them some southern viewers, but I have no problem with that. Anyone who wouldn't watch the movie because there are black people in it can just stick their heads back in the sand, as far as I'm concerned. I should admit that I tend to criticize Bond films a little harshly because I am less tolerant of some of the more childish elements than the target audience is supposed to be, but I still think that Live and Let Die is one of the lesser films in the series. It's a strange combination of James Bond and the Hollywood voodoo films of the 1940s, although I couldn't help thinking about bad movies from the 1980s, like Gator Bait and I Spit on Your Grave and those cannibal movies that Ruggero Deodato kept making. Next comes The Man With the Golden Gun, which was disappointing for entirely different reasons.... "},{"Title":"Bond surviving the seventies","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Guy Hamilton and with a script by Tom Mankiewicz, this is the eighth film in the franchise and keeps Harry Saltzman and Albert Broccoli as producers. In this film, the first in which Roger Moore embodies the British spy, franchise tries to survive at two powerful factors of danger the departure of Sean Connery after several years giving life to 007, and the unstoppable evolution of the world, with the seventies bringing a radical change in the audience. Thus, producers and screenwriter tried to attract new audiences, in particular the black public, attracted not only by black actors but also for some locations. Another subject that the film will address, and that was on the agenda during these times, are drugs and trafficking.In this film, the British agent will fight an American drug baron but gets lost in the black neighborhood of Harlem, where he cannot pass unnoticed and almost finds himself in danger. The track eventually leads Bond to Louisiana, where the persecution of bandits brings us the hilarious Sheriff J. W. Pepper, who worked not only as a film comic element but also as a severe criticism against the conservatism of white society in the southern states. We must remind ourselves that this movie was released at a time when American society was in deep transformation, largely thanks to the struggle of black society for respect, equality and civil rights, which were denied until then, particularly, in the South. The film then heads to the Caribbean, to an island that was probably inspired by Haiti and where the audience is faced with superstitions and beliefs as voodoo or magic.In these film, Roger Moore proved that could hold his role, and the agent could survive Sean Connery. In fact, he even manages to be much more English, while maintaining the habit of never losing his composure whatever the situation. The villains were in charge of Yaphet Kotto and Julius Harris, the latter in the role of Tee Hee, the man with the metal arm. Geoffrey Holder embodies the Baron Samedi, Haitian voodoo character who enters this film. The bond-girl was Jane Seymour, the role of the tarot reader Solitaire.For many people, Live and Let Die is one of the oddest films in the franchise because of the amount of unusual elements featuring blaxploitation, magic, voodoo, superstition, drugs. And these people aren't without reason. Today, this film is strange and doesn't leave many memories, like many films of the seventies. There are even those who think that is the worst movie of the franchise. Perhaps. But it helped to keep Bond alive and adapted him to a new era. For posterity stays the good performance of the elegant and humorous Roger Moore and the introduction song, written by Paul McCartney and who would receive, years later, a new life through the cover of Guns N'Roses. "}{"Title":"An interesting and fun little story","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the enjoyable game with Bond in Diamonds are Forever, Live and Let Die keeps that streak up nicely, combining quite a complicated plot with some good music, camera-work and most of all, good acting, especially from Roger Moore, who had only just taken up the role after Sean Connery made a last minute comeback in the previous film. Being the oldest Bond so far to take the character (Moore already being 45 years old), he certainly is able to keep up with the various stunts and fight scenes that even younger actors find themselves struggling to keep up with.The film begins with a string of murders across the Americas. The British Delegate to the United Nations is electrocuted, a Secret Service agent in New Orleans is murdered, and an agent in a Caribbean Dictatorship is brutally killed in a voodoo ritual. Intelligence gathers that it is possibly due to a drug ring that is operating on both the Island and in the US mainland, so Bond is sent to investigate. The Dictator of the island, Dr Kananga, uses a girl called Solitaire to predict the future using an ancient magic of Card Reading. He predicts the arrival of Bond and sends out the muted 'Whisper' to assassinate him by putting a bullet in his driver, which sends his car flying out of control down the FDR in New York. Bond is able to stop the car and he escapes unscathed. Felix, who is monitoring a voodoo shop in Lower Manhattan, tracks Whisper to it and Bond goes to investigate. Following his 'Pimpmobile' in the back of a Taxi, Bond is lead to a sleazy bar in Harlem and is confronted by the insidious gangster Mr. Big and the mysterious Solitaire. In his usual cocky nature, Bond asks her to predict something with them, and she predicts that they will be lovers, which causes Solitaire to be distressed. Big puts Bond to death but an FBI agent has been following Bond and saves him at the last minute. It is reported that Kananga has returned to his island and so Bond follows, believing there to be a connection.On the island, Bond finds himself at a hotel where the mad voodoo wizard Baron Samedi is performing. Whilst Bond showers, a poisonous snake is put through his door (or should I say vent), but Bond quickly subdues the serpent, only to be confronted by the initial love interest, Rosie Carver, a ditsy FBI Agent who is assigned to the same case. The pair investigate the island, but it is revealed remarkably quickly that Roise is a double agent working for Kananga. Distressed by one of Baron Samedi's voodoo heads, she runs into the woods with Bond following, but she is killed by a covert pistol inside one of the Voodoo heads (why they don't just shoot Bond at the same time is still a mystery to me). That evening, Bond hanglides into Solitaire's Palace by the sea and confronts her again about the card predictions. He asks her to predict again and again she finds the Lovers card, but it is revealed that Bond had switched the entire pack to be Lovers (cheeky). The pair make passionate love, but Solitaire is distressed that her powers will have been stripped from her with the loss of her virginity and that Kananga will kill her for being no longer a use to him. Bond and Solitaire escape from the Palace and discover a concealed field of Poppies which are used to make Heroin. The pair soon find themselves escaping the Police in a London RT Bus. After ripping off the top deck with a low bridge, they escape on a boat back to New Orleans. Bond finds himself captured at an airport in New Orleans as the group intend to take him up in a Learjet and throw him into a lake at 10,000 feet. Bond manages to escape and steals a small plane which he speeds around the taxiway with. Eventually eluding his pursuers, he and Felix investigate another sleazy bar in New Orleans. Bond finds himself captured again by Mr. Big, who demands to know whether Bond had taken Solitaire's Virginity. Demanding to see Kananga, Kananga reveals himself as Mr. Big in an elaborate disguise as part of his drug running organisation. But Kananga asks Bond if he has slept with Solitaire. When he finds out that he has, Kananga turns Solitaire over to Baron Samedi to be sacrificed, as her ability to read tarot cards is gone.Meanwhile, TeeHee takes Bond to a large alligator farm in the Bayeuxs and he is left on a small island to be devoured. Can Bond escape the nasty looking crocs and save Solitaire in time? Will Kananga's evil drug dealing business be shut down? Only the film has the answer...Again, it's an enjoyable film and one I'd recommend for a rainy afternoon. The acting is enjoyable, the characters are fun, the story is believable and there's just a general sense that a lot of effort was put in by this director and crew to try and emulate the success of Diamonds are Forever. I enjoy watching this film and I recommend it to anyone. Be you in for a laugh, a crime thriller, a good action scene, you'll find them all here. "},{"Title":"Return of Bond","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After DAF, Bond is Back with a younger dude. This means of course, no Connery... but this guy is also quite good.The music I am one of the few people, who actually didn't really liked the theme song. I might be the only one, but I wasn't really amazed by it. The story I liked the whole story. The drug baron dude, voodoo... everything. The craziness which comes with voodoo, I liked that. The story, which I won't reveal, has some interesting things in it. But again... Bond is surrounded by the dumbest villains. Nobody ever learns... they really should kill Bond once, or at least try without the whole world domination discussion. Nonetheless, I liked the rest, and this movie combines a part of From Russia With Love, DR. No and Thunderball.Action I liked action. I liked the boat chase, the train crap, the shark part, the crocodile part(really well done!), etc.The VerdictBond delivers, and I am happy to say, it has been a good one. Well... on to the next one! "},{"Title":"Silly but entertaining when Moore debuts","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first film as James Bond is certainly less serious than the previous ones, but once you accept that and take it less seriously, it is pretty much on par with some of them. Moore lacks the elegance of Sean Connery but he has a lot more wit. However, it is not just because of him that the film is silly; the plot overall seems to take itself less seriously than usual, and many scenes are really weird, particularly the ones that take place in the Caribbean island San Monique and contain voodoo elements. There is also the redneck sheriff J.W. Pepper, a terrible character who is unsuccessfully played for comic relief where none is needed (after all, we already have Roger Moore's one-liners and the crazy voodoo rituals). Having said that, for every aspect that is different with Live and Let Die, there is one that is similar as well. The villain (here played by Yaphet Kotto, who is adequate but somewhat forgettable) has the same objective as usual, Bond still knows his way with women, and there are plenty of gadgets and chase scenes.Live and Let Die has many problems; sometimes it feels a bit too silly for its own good, the death of the villain feels really unworthy (not to mention that the effects are extremely poor) and the depiction of black people is borderline offensive with far too many stereotypes. All Bond films are a product of their time, but perhaps this is truer with Live and Let Die than any other. Here, they try to ride on the success of the blaxpoitation genre, but it feels like a rather forced decision. I can easily overlook most of these complaints though, since the film is so entertaining, indeed, it is probably one of the most entertaining films of the entire franchise. Some of the future Moore films would refine the style of Live and Let Die further, but it is already a fun film as it is. "},{"Title":"A new take on Bond.","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond changes his act, story, and actor in Live in let die, my favorite Bond film besides Casino Royale. I don't know why I like it that much. It's filled with so much excitement. There is also a new actor as Bond, Roger Moore. Who I like just as much as Sean Connery. Live and let die is a really original film that we never thought we'd see from James Bond. The past James Bond films have been about some sort of world domination. Or it seems like that. But Live and let die is something new... it has voodoo. Live and let die has an understandable plot and creeps me out sometimes. Also, the theme song sang by Wings is my favorite of all of the Bond theme songs. I know most people will disagree, but I liked it more than From Russia with love and Goldfinger. i am not going to give my rating out of 4 because I know that when I do i'll have an angry mob on my ass. But I love Live and let die, and i give it a huge thumbs up. Not a huge thumbs up but a big thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Live and Let Smarm","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I can remember as a kid being somewhat frightened by Live and Let Die. I'm not sure what it was &#150; whether it be the freaky Baron Samedi, the crocodiles or seeing more black people than you'd see on an average episode of Sesame Street &#150; but like the supposedly kid-friendly Raiders of the Lost Ark, it freaked me out somewhat. Now, though, I'm not quite sure what the fuss was about. Live and Let Die is more camp than a row of tents.Although, to be fair, the film does have it moments. For example, the opening sequence features three brutal slayings. Fair enough, the first one, with a British ambassador getting zapped, is rather comic, but after that we have a guy getting stabbed and a man getting bitten by a snake. No wonder it had me browning my pants as a child. And then there's the sadistic moment towards the end when Kananga (Yaphet Koto) slices Bond's arm. Once again the darkness is immediately relieved by the ludicrous way in which Kananga is dispatched, but all those years back the damage was done.There was also something rather unsettling about the rubber faced Mr Big and Tee Hee. And those scarecrows, too, gave me the creeps. But one thing that made me laugh as a kid and which still gives me the giggles now is Kanaga's lackey Whisper. You'd be hard pressed to find a more amusing Bond subordinate. Indeed, I only have to say to myself, Anybody home?...Your champagne&#133;Shall I open it?...Shall I oooopen it? and I'm laughing like an idiot. And what about the inflating couch that explodes from under him? Bloody hilarious.Also hilarious is Bond's attitude to sex in this film. Everything single lay is achieved via nefarious means &#150; with the Italian girl he indirectly forces her to hide in the cupboard and then sneakily unzips her as she coos over him like a schoolgirl; with Rosie he lets her make a fool of herself before nailing her and then shoving a gun in her face; and with Solitaire he steals her virginity via a set of trick cards. What a rake! But the very idea of Jayne Seymour playing a meek virgin makes me laugh as well. She's one of those women, like Elizabeth Taylor, who made a habit of playing the English rose &#150; women of principles and purity &#150; who behind the scenes were getting more knob than a squad of streetwalkers. You just can't believe that Bond's the first to go there. But it says something for Bond that he's prepared to break her in. Black or white; good or bad; virgin or slut &#150; Bond will shag them all.But to be honest, the Bond girls in this film are rather sub-par. Rosie is played as a dimwit and Jayne Seymour is, well, Jayne Seymour. She's just a poor actress with too much hair. And it says something about her and her character that after her first shag she becomes obsessed with sex &#150; all she goes on about is sleeping with Bond or finding a bed in which to sleep with him. And, of course, Bond is happy to comply. And this actually leads to a rather funny moment in the film. In a roundabout way Seymour asks Bond to service her again, and after acquiescing, he says there's no sense is going off half-cocked. How right you are, Rog.However, Bond doesn't get his way with every woman. In one of my favourite moments in the film, Moore is watching a cabaret singer sing a rendition of 'Live and Let Die'. Moore smarms it up like crazy &#150; as he nods his approval you can see him thinking, I'd do her - but before he can start working his magic, he disappears through a hole in the floor. The one that got away, eh? Oh well, there's plenty more fish in the sea.Another detail that makes me laugh is the fact that there's only one point in the film where Bond looks genuinely worried. I mean, he faces crocodiles and sharks and does it with confidence. But when he's captured by Kananga and it's suggested that his more vital extremities might get cut off, a flicker of concern flashes across his face &#150; for Moore's Bond there's no fate worse than having your cock snipped off.Another amusing part of this scene are the chair restraints that hold Bond down. They look like they wouldn't hold back Stephen Hawking. And I also love the way that Bond gets knocked out by Tee Hee. He doesn't get hit so much as brushed, yet he goes down like a sack of spuds. Oh, and the 'butterhook' line a few moments earlier in the scene is delivered with toxic levels of smarm.Perhaps the biggest laugh in the film, though, comes during the boat chase. Sheriff J. W. Pepper, hick extraordinaire, is waiting by the riverside for his brother-in-law to come round the bend and chase Bond in his speedboat. Pepper is proudly telling his pals that if one side of the family doesn't get him, the other side will. And it's then, as Pepper's back is turned, that you see a big black guy driving the boat. It's a wonderful bit of comedy.Having said that, as funny as the film is, I do prefer the more serious Bond films &#150; with the Moore films I'm usually groaning as I laugh. However, Live and Let Die stands up as one of Moore's best entries. And after having seen the film more times than I care to mention, I only just noticed a wonderful detail rather late on in the film. In the fight at the end with Tee Hee, Bond defends himself by throwing a deck of cards in his face. A deadly weapon that &#150; paper cuts are lethal. "},{"Title":"But you used to say live and let live, oh you KNOW you did you sod.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's eyebrow takes over the role of James Bond in this above average entry in the series that sees the world's least secret agent take on an international smack ring, voodoo and worst of all Jane Seymore.From the opening that sees some poor guy late for his own funeral, LALD bobs along at a fairly decent pace with the occasional pause for some above average stunt work and a few decent one liners. The plot is irrelevant as always but a good theme from Wings (!) and Felix two legs good, one leg bad Lighter are among some the higlights in addition to a villian who can survive having the uppermost portion of his head blown off. Disturbing.Not a classic but not a complete waste of time either. It's not a patch on some of its predecessors proving Less really is Moore. "},{"Title":"Moore swims easily in the counter-cultural deep end","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Finally playing the role he was always destined to own, Roger Moore confidently assumes his place as the greatest of the Bonds with Live And Let Die. He understands what the franchise had become by this stage and how to balance its commercial demands. In this blaxploitation genre- hybrid, he triumphs not by assimilating urban cool but rather by emphasising his alien characteristics. This lets the excellent black cast breathe playing a range of entertaining idiosyncrasies around Yaphet Kotto's magnetic and insidiously soft-spoken Kanagna.Of course, There are the usual trappings which Moore embraces readily. Literally, in the case of Gloria Hendry's Carver, Madeleine Smith's Italian agent and of course the pale-yet-smouldering Jane Seymour, a fine Bond girl. A pragmatist, he tramples all over the supernatural trappings which shackle and propel the staff of the illicit San Monique industry although his inability to engage with the (fillet of) soul which is the vernacular of many of the antagonists lands him in as much trouble as he manages to wriggle out of. It's a good fun, nicely produced, excellently scored film whose only real drawback is the surfeit of action rather than its quality. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's first outing","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  007 Secret Agent James Bond is not in a hurry. He's balancing three women on his bedposts, searching for closely guarded information about a drug-smuggling kingpin / Harlem crime-boss known as Mr. Big, and exposing the infractions of a certain international diplomat known as Katanga. Heroin's the name of the game this time around. Somebody with power wants to double the number of junkies in circulation. And his able-psyche-ed fortune teller companion has just the right tarot card for every occasion. By the fate cast of the cards, she sees failure for Bond. But, he's very sure of himself. And he has yet to botch up an assignment. He's also the sort of English gentleman who would cheat a hand or two, to have the deck stacked in his favor.So, he dashes off into many dangerous situations. The bad guys know that he's coming and are preparing some devious delights for him. All his rides and rooms are hijacked, and it turns out that maybe he can't trust certain people who are supposed to be helping him. He takes the kingpin's precious psychic fortune teller after he shows her a night of cheating. They run off together on a wild adventure, thwarting danger everywhere it lurks. Finally, he meets the boss of the business, and is running from his life out in the open.Roger Moore's first outing as Bond is interesting. Since the original Bonds weren't very attractive, I didn't feel Roger Moore was an exception. I was off, Moore is indeed sexy in this film. But that doesn't stop him from being a dirty, dirty man. Sexist content is oddly low in this Bond movie. And I'd say the compensation is compelling. We get some genuine horror in our action-thriller this time around. Live and Let Die features freaky voodoo performers, black scarecrows, quite a few snakes, and great death scenes. Notably, the funeral that isn't a funeral but a veiled execution- one in which the victim is not aware he is going to die. The greatest moments bookend the film, including the opening credits and the shock twist of the end credits.Live and Let Die is too long, but makes good use of action sequences and voodoo element. Jane Seymour's debut. Outstanding black cast- Yaphet Kotto (Alien), and Julius Harris, who returned to a similar plotline in Shrunken Heads. Thumbs up. I see it, it's in the cards. If you're a fan, pick up the DVD... it's loaded. Bond will return in The Man with the Golden Gun. "},{"Title":"The Moore the merrier","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die is the first Bond film to star Roger Moore as James Bond and pretty much every Moore Bond movie after it has similar style. Guy Hamilton who previously directed Goldfinger and Diamonds are Forever returns and delivers one of my 10 favorite Bond movies. In this movie we have some of the most memorable Bond characters Baron Samedi, Sheriff J.W. Pepper and Tee Hee. Sheriff J.W. Pepper played by Clifton James is a racist, silly, redneck police officer, who always cracks me up somehow. He is my guilty pleasure from the movie. Baron Samedi played by Geoffrey Holder is one of the best Bond henchmen ever. Is he some kind of a spirit? who knows? but he's definitely entertaining in all the little screen time he's got. Tee Hee played by Julius Harris is also a great henchman, kind of similar to Oddjob in a way. Jane Seymour plays Solitaire, a simple but a memorable Bond girl. The main villain is played by Yaphet Kotto, a great villain with two faces - Dr. Kanaga and Mr. Big. But the best thing about this movie is definitely Roger Moore himself, he brought wits and humor to the character making him my favorite Bond actor. Paul McCartney's theme song is probably the most popular Bond song and I even listen to it when not thinking about Bond at all. It's a fast song that always gets you excited. While it may be a bit too strange and racist. I give this Blaxploitation adventure a 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Different Kind of Bond","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond 007 (Roger Moore) is sent to stop a diabolically brilliant heroin magnate armed with a complex organization and a reliable psychic tarot card reader (Jane Seymour).For something so British, this is an oddly American film (though that is not unique among the Bond films), almost more like a Dirty Harry picture. Heck, some parts even border on blaxploitation, which I suppose is not too strange for the 1970s.Although Roger Moore is no Sean Connery, and many people seem to dislike this installment, it has its perks. Bond fighting voodoo and drug smuggling rather than global domination through nuclear warfare? A nice change. And, of course, a theme song that still remains strong forty years later. "}{"Title":"part 8 is better then  the first 7","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is part 8 to the James Bond movies. And it is better then any of the James Bond movies that came before it. They are better James Bond movies that came after that are better like The man with the golden gun. The spy who loved me is also better. Moon r.a.k.e.r is also better. Still this is great movie. Sean Connery and Daniel Craig are great as James Bond. But Roger Moore is better. This as a great story line. This is a great movie. For your eyes only is better. O.c.t.o.p.u.s.s.y is also better. A view to a kill is better. Living daylight is also better. License to kill is also better. Golden eye is better. Tomorrow never dies is also better. The world is not enough is also better. Die another day is also better. But still it is a great movie. See it. See all the James Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Bond, James Bond.  Wait, that's not Sean Connery","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Yes, Roger Moore's first Bond film. Live and Let Die is standard Bond in the most not standard settings and moods. The first Bond film to deal with drugs, pimps, and a largely black skinned bad guy force make this Bond film unique in look and feel, but the story has been repeated again. The film has a few strengths though. The villain works on a basic level, and the film has some nice moments in its screenplay with one-liners and play on words. But by far the best thing is the action scenes, sometimes inventive, sometimes slightly contrived, but I must mention one of the best boat chases I've seen on film. But the weaknesses of the film are common as well. The Bond girl doesn't work for me, the comedy and racial elements seem either outdated or just not right, and one of the most annoying screen characters of all time, Sheriff J.W. Pepper, poisons the film in the scenes he's in. Despite that, I liked it. "},{"Title":"Hefner. Hugh Hefner. Or Philip. Prince Philip. Another bland debut","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 8th of 23 Bond moviesBoth the original actor who played James Bond - Sean Connery - and new boy Roger Moore had rather dull debuts in their roles. Connery's debut in Dr. No at least had an element of realism to it. We first see Roger Moore as Bond in this movie 'on the job' so to speak with a beautiful woman. Wearing his night-robe and acting very sensual, Moore comes across as a Hugh Hefner type playboy (that's the founder of the soft-porn magazine Playboy for those too young to know or care about these things). Pretty soon this scene evolves into a type of Carry on movie with all the attendant 'mirth' of Bond's situation. It's a really poor way to introduce the new man playing Bond. And the general dullness of the movie suggests this story could have been given a miss for superior stories...ones which made Roger Moore the actor with the most entertaining Bond movies. Unfortunately for Moore, in this movie he also has to wear another fashion nightmare...a powder blue suit...groan! Things will get better for him...in subsequent movies.Exotic locations Jamaica.The plot Bond must investigate assassinations of UN members, which brings him to Jamaica and powerful politicians...and voodoo. Whilst the evil scheme revealed near the end of this movie is quite ingenious (a la the one in my favourite Connery Bond movie Goldfinger) it isn't enough to lift this movie out of the dullness that permeates it. Maybe it's the setting...never really enjoyed any Bond movie set in the Caribbean! It would be amiss of me not to mention that this movie does have some social commentary in what it depicts, which is a plus for the movie.Moore as Bond More annoying than his Hugh Hefner schtick at the start of the movie, Moore has a Prince Philip type of persona throughout the movie...an 'up himself' aristocrat in other words...full of his own sense of superiority and talking down to those around him. He comes across better in future movies, but it shouldn't be forgotten that Connery also had a wide style in playing Bond...sometimes equally annoying (think his cartoony turn in Diamonds are forever...but that was what the script was calling on him to do). Moore does deliver some amusing lines in this movie though.Returning characters If you are an infrequent viewer of these movies you may forget that some characters have appeared before...and been played by different actors! E.g. I'm pretty sure that Quarrel from Connery's Dr. No returns...he's called Quarrel Jr here though. Felix Leiter also returns from the first Connery outing. He's not quite so gobsmackingly different as he would be in Connery final outing as Bond (Never say never again).Bond clichés Gun barrel intro Moore is a definitely an improvement on the wobbly legged Connery for this Bond cliché...he is quite compact and direct when shooting at us in the start.Pre-title theme sequence Perhaps surprisingly, Moore does not appear in this part of the movie. The plot of the movie is set up here...assassination is afoot in the UN and another man is assassinated in the street.Title theme song Whilst this song, Live and let die by Paul McCartney's band Wings is a favourite amongst many Bond fans, it holds less appeal. Moore's reign as Bond would see the last of the great Bond themes in my view.Things to watch out for * Bond's awful fashion sense * Bond perhaps misspeaking when he says Possession being nine points of the law...it should be nine tenths of the law I believe.* Maybe the most ludicrous scene in any Bond movie...concerning crocodiles. I get the feeling that maybe this scene gave Nintendo ideas for its Mario video games! * Solitaire - a particularly intriguing love interest for Bond...it's a pity I tend to forget about her due to me not rating this movie very highly at all.* The most annoying character in any Bond movie...the American. He's the Jar Jar Binks of Bond movies! I wonder what American audiences made of him!* The end credits mention The Black Stuntmen's Association. Hollywood. California. Wow! * Is it just me...or do we never really work out how the assassinations at the start of the movie fit into the plot as it unfolds? If I had been a producer of this series looking for a solid start for Moore, I would have been inclined to start him off with The man with the golden gun. Not sure I'd view Live and let die as good enough to turn into a movie. As the end credits say, Bond (and Moore) will be back. Fortunately it will be bigger and better in future. This movie does have absurdity (but so did Connery's movies!), cartoony elments (but so did Connery) and science fantasy elements. Not sure, but this movie may have featured a car that turns into a plane. That seemed very science fantasy to me...but the other week here in the news was a story on this concept being created. So, whilst the execution of the idea in this movie seemed a bit silly, the concept had wings, so to speak. "},{"Title":"Not as Good as Goldfinger or Diamonds Are Forever But Entertaining","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore made his cinematic debut as Ian Fleming's James Bond, Agent 007, in director Guy Hamilton's Live and Let Die, the eighth official entry in the Albert R. Broccoli & Harry Saltzman franchise for United Artists. Yaphet Kotto, Jane Seymour, David Hedison, and Geoffrey Holder co-starred with Moore in this above-average outing. Chiefly, the sudden rage in movies about African-American heroes prompted Broccoli & Saltzman to exploit the black angle to market the film's appeal across cultures. Moore ranks Live and Let Die as his second favorite 007 escapade after Lewis Gilbert's The Spy Who Loved Me. In my opinion, however, Live and Let Die qualifies as above average as a movie, but least impressive as a Bond movie, edged out the ninth Bond opus, Guy Hamilton's The Man with the Golden Gun. Basically, nothing either surprising or electrifying occurs in this installment. Nevertheless, Live and Let Die boasts several assets, for example, the careening speed boat chase through the Louisiana bayous, Tom Mankiewicz's witty dialogue, the notorious villain's heroin trafficking scheme, the various predicaments that Bond finds himself in from Harlem to the Caribbean with voodoo witchcraft shading in the background, and Paul McCartney's Oscar nominated rock song title tune. Additionally, the editing by Bert Bates, Raymond Poulton, and John Shirley is exceptionally crisp.Live and Let Die featured a number of firsts for the James Bond franchise. The producers lensed this entry in 1.85.1 screen format, after they had converted to the Panavision widescreen process of 2.35.1 with Thunderball, You Only Live Twice, On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and Diamonds Are Forever. The smaller screen ratio cramps the epic scale of adventure that made the previous James Bond sagas the larger-than-life series that it is. The producers sought to contrast Roger Moore's Bond from Sean Connery's. According to Mankiewicz, Connery was more aggressive while Moore was more suave. Moore smoked cigars rather than the cigarettes that Connery puffed. Bond receives his briefing his own flat under tense conditions rather than in at M's office. Moore shuns hats unlike Connery. Indeed, Moore appears in the gun-barrel sequence without headgear. Moore's Bond hang-glided here as well as in Moonraker. Q is conspicuously absent from Live and Let Die. Bond travels to an imaginary country for the first time, and Moore's Bond cuddles up with an African American woman, Rosie Carver (Gloria Hendry), 007's first interracial romance. Sheriff J.W. Pepper blurted out the first profanity in a Bond movie. George Martin produced an inferior orchestral score, compared to John Barry's superb scores. Live and Let Die also incorporated a supernatural theme, something that no other Bond has ever done.The opening gambit qualifies as one of the least provocative. British agents at the United Nations in New York City, in the French Quarter in New Orleans, and in San Monique&#151;a remote island in the Caribbean&#151;die under mysterious circumstances. M barges in on Bond at 548 AM to brief him, while Miss Moneypenny helps a female Italian agent hide from M. No sooner does 007 lands in the Big Apple than Mr. Big (Yaphet Kotto of Across 110th Street) sends his henchmen to kill him. They kill his driver with poisonous dart in New York traffic and our hero struggles to control his swerving car from the backseat. Later, Bond blunders into Harlem, walks into a trap at the Fillet of Soul restaurant, and encounters, Solitaire (Jane Seymour), who can predict the future. She works for Mr. Big, but she doesn't sleep with him. Actually, Mr. Big and Dr. Kananga, an island diplomat, are one in the same, but their dual personality doesn't come as much of a surprise. Nevertheless, the unmasking scene pre-dates Tom Cruise's Mission Impossible. Bond escapes from Mr. Big and meets an African-American CIA agent Rosie Carver in San Monique. Our hero escapes narrowly from a snake in his bathroom and wields a rather handy bottle of after-shave. When Bond gets rough with Rosie, Kananga has her executed. Eventually, Bond meets Solitaire again, makes love to her, and tries to help her escape. Since she is no longer a virgin, Solitaire cannot foretell the future so she flees with 007 to Louisiana. The double-decker bus scene is a revision of the Diamonds Are Forever car chase where the villains think that they have Bond cornered. Bond discovers that Mr. Big wants to give away a billion dollars worth of heroin to run the Mafia out of the junk business.Momentarily, Bond eludes Mr. Big's thugs during an amusing chase around a hanger in a propeller-driven plane and later in a bayou boat chase that goes on too long but ends explosively. Bond and Mr. Big engage in hand-to-hand combat in Mr. Big's underground headquarters where he blows the villain to smithereens. Tee Hee (Julius Harris of Looking for Mr. Goodbar) makes a menacing villain with a steel pincer that can bend gun barrels. They tangle briefly on a train at the end. Clearly, their train tussle recalls Sean Connery's free-for-all with Robert Shaw in From Russia, With Love on the Orient Express and later Roger Moore's Donnybrook with Richard Kiel as Jaws in The Spy Who Loved Me. Unfortunately, David Hedison does little more than deliver exposition as Felix Leiter. Sheriff J.W. Pepper&#151;a forerunner to Jackie Gleason's redneck cop in the Smokey and the Bandit movies&#151;is strictly comic relief and a little too broad. Actually, Pepper is a variation on the Las Vegas cop that pursues Bond down a back alley.Live and Let Die was above-average, but this PG-rated Bond lacked the tenacity of earlier Bond movies. Guy Hamilton helms the film with his usual smooth style, but Live and Let Die nor the next Bond in line The Man with the Golden Gun can compare with Goldfinger or Diamonds Are Forever. Roger Moore came into his own with the vastly superior Bond epic The Spy Who Loved Me. "},{"Title":"Long live Moore","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die was Roger Moore's debut as 007 in 1973.As a whole, it's not a bad movie. Moore is okay in his first outing as James Bond, but the role was still written with Connery in mind. It would take two more films before Moore really settled in the role.The storyline isn't that good and the villain isn't very convincing, nor is the Bond-girl Seymour.But the great stunts make up for something and the fun that Moore brings to the role, makes that Live and Let Die is way better than Diamonds Are Forever.It's fun to note that though Moore was in '73 already 5 years older than Connery was in '71. Still, Moore looks younger. A new era has begun. "},{"Title":"An OK start for Roger Moore's career as Bond","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live And Let Die was the 8th 'official' James Bond movie and the first of Roger Moores career as the hero. Although it's not a bad film, it's also not a great one. It's still watchable. The plot of the film can be quite confusing at times. The pre-title sequence for the first time ever doesn't feature Bond. It shows 3 sequences of 3 different agents getting killed. Bond is then sent off to track down Kananga (Yaphet Kotto). Eventually he goes off to try and kill him and doesn't really explain clearly how all the murders are connected.The theme tune, sung by Paul McCartney & Wings i feel is one of the weaker Bond themes. The soundtrack is based off this song. Again this lets it down but not that bad. There's no lack of action, but there's too much. This is really noticeable especially during the boat chase. If a piece of music was included, it might have been a bit more exciting, but without it it just drags on. The villains are a highlight too. Tee Hee is a memorable villain as well as menacing. Geoffrey Holder also brings to life a brilliant Baron Samedi. Solitare (Jane Seymour) is also a memorable Bond girl, but isn't as involved with action that others in the franchise.Its not a fantastic Bond film, but still enjoyable to watch. James Bond will return in The Man With The Golden Gun "},{"Title":"Live And Let Sigh","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Not as tightly written or directed as OHMSS, Live and Let Die hurls Bond into the 1970's with polyester suits and big time shoes. The Voodoo angle is an interesting one but only seems to be thrown in just because parts of the film takes place in Martinique/New Orleans. The run-away car scene in NYC is memorable and fits perfectly into the Bond mythos but for whatever the reason, someone (the producer/director or both) just can't resist tinkering with this franchise and throw in characters such as J.W. Pepper (a leftover from Smokey and the Bandit no doubt) as comic relief. Who needs or wants that? A tightly knit story with great action scenes is what James Bond was built on but with each passing movie the formula changes and verges on the edge of comic relief. Sprinkled throughout with some memorable scenes and characters, LALD is one of the stronger 70's flicks, although it could have benefited with tighter editing. The boat chase scene goes on far to long, eating up 20 minutes of movie time. "},{"Title":"The Roger Moore era begins","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's reign as Bond began, unfortunately, with a bad film. The villains are not inspired (it's hard to even take them seriously what with them hiding out in the ghetto), the plot to use drugs to take over the world is not plausible even for a Bond film, and while Jane Seymour looks good, she doesn't really have much to do other than play cards. I didn't really care much for the boat chase either. The hick sherrif (was he here or in The Man With the Golden Gun?) showed the whole series had become a farce On the positive side the scene with the alligators elicited a real sense of danger. I should note, I am not a Moore basher. He couldn't be Connery being Bond. He had to find his own interpretation for the character. But the fact remains most people don't consider him to be the definitive Bond. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Auspicious debut for Moore","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's debut is favorable, setting his tones of a humorous, softer touch, but still witty and all conquering.  I liked the humor in this movie a lot--it is funnier than most comedies, not just Bond films.  The best contributor to this is Sergeant J.W. Pepper, representing a character portrait unfamiliar to the Bond genre.  Jane Seymour as Miss Solitaire, the lead Bond woman, is a bit too spaced out, I guess because of the nature of the role here.  However, she delivers a very memorable line as Bond prepares to put his conquest of her on ice.   Paul McCartney's eponymous hit song is the most distinctive of the Bond scores.  We get a final touch of humor just as the credits set in.For those who say that voodoo and type of villain do not fit in with Bond, I say, bully for you--what Bond films need is variety, not the same old thing.  The New Orleans location, the persona of the villain--more amusing, interesting than Blofeld and most villains.  This is the best Moore Bond movie, but I still say his less grim, more tongue-in-cheek Bond fits in well because over time, we realize, as Moore himself has said, that Bond films are silly, even if we like them.   "},{"Title":"Names are for tombstones","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It took a while for the Bond films to get back into form, but Live and Let Die was a big leap forward toward the greatness that were the first 3 films. We had a new Bond in Roger Moore here, and a great one I may add. I never really bought into Lazenby as Bond in 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service', but it took a matter of minutes before I bought into Moore as 007. In many ways I think this film hearkens back to Dr. No. It has the one villain focus, instead of the Spectre approach (which is good in its own right). But it also takes place on plenty of mysterious locations, very similar to Dr. No.While the plot doesn't have a global scale like almost every other Bond film does, Yaphet Kotto gives us a menacing turn as a drug lord who's killing ways are different than anything we have seen before in a Bond film. For me, it was a good change of pace from the Blofeld movies. Even though it's a much different story than the other films, Mr. Big was perhaps my favorite villain since Goldfinger, and most definitely the best overall film since then. I even found the smiling sidekick to be entertaining. I will say, I found it strange as to the drug lords obsession with using reptiles and amphibians to kill their enemies. First snakes, then crocodiles, and sharks?This film is famous for a few reasons, but it's theme song being near the top. It flows well with the themes of the actual film to go along with it's catchy hook. But I think some recognition should be given to Jane Seymour, who at 22 years of age, holds her own against Moore and Kotto. Not to mention the fact that she is still gorgeous to this day. Most of all, I think this film is more fun than the past few films. It's not as dry and far more realistic than previous entries. The action scenes aren't anything extraordinary and the few policeman sequences are just plain dumb, but Live and Let Die is loads of fun.+Refreshing entry+Good and unique Bond villain+Seymour+Theme song-Kooky police officers-Not a ton of action7.3/10 "}{"Title":"Names is for tombstones baby!!!!!","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When Bond investigates the murders of three fellow agents, he soon finds himself a target, evading vicious assassins as he closes in on the powerful Kananga. Known as Mr. Big, Kananga is coordinating a globally threatening scheme using tons of self-produced heroin. As Bond tries to unravel the mastermind's plan, he meet Solitaire, a beautiful Tarot card reader whose gifts are crucial to the crime lord.........After the traditional opening credits, it takes about five minutes until you realise that Moore will play his Bond with tongue firmly in cheek. And on several occasions, it's a good thing, because if it wasn't for his wit and flamboyance, a few of his later movies would have fell flat.LALD is one of his finest entries, easily amalgamating the popular blaxploitation efforts from that era, and implementing them in this. And the outcome is Bond not being too unstoppable, after all, these criminals answer the man back, and give him just as much sarcasm.Aside from the borderline racism, and sexism included in the movie, it's exciting, with a brilliant speedboat chase. And any film that features an exploding sofa AND an exploding villain in the space of five minutes, isn't going to be bad.Moore looks totally at ease as the secret agent, Kotto is okay as the main villain, but his henchman more than make up for the lack of charisma he has.Plus, it has one of the best Bond scores from the Moore era. "},{"Title":"Filet of Soul","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore is James Bond and Jane Seymour is Solitaire and Yaphet Koto is the heavy. Locations include New Orleans and the fictional island of San Monique in the Caribbean.How, you ask, could Monique, a feminine French name, have acquired a male Spanish honorific? Right. In any case language will not be a problem because everyone speaks English anyway, sometimes with a Caribbean lilt to it -- water become wah-tah -- but not always.It's a little screwy, true, but not moreso than the plot. Yaphet Koto more or less runs the island and grows opium poppies under vast nets of camouflage. A beautiful and sexy black girl leads Moore to the island and is promptly, but almost bloodlessly, murdered because we can't have white Roger Moore ending up with African-American Gloria Hendry. They wouldn't like that, either in Newark or Macon.Jane Seymour is the more appropriate dish. Not only is she young and creamy here but a virgin too, a sexual spatlese, a problem that Moore puts an end to as quickly as the plot allows. Don't worry, though. There's no nudity or simulated sex.Solitaire has the virtue of being able to foresee the future through the use of Tarot cards. She loses this ability when she loses her virginity, as happens in all fairy tales.Lots of action, running around, cars chasing an airplane around an airport, a double-decker bus, voodoo, speedboat pursuits, shootings, dummies, Bond-style wisecracks, and assorted mishigas.Best thing about this movie Opening credits in the Grand Manner, with Paul McCartney and Wings doing the very listenable score. I fell asleep somewhere down along the time line. "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Bond","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Two British agents are killed in separate locations across the world, and Bond is assigned to find out who killed them and why. He begins with a car chase in Harlem, New York, because Blaxploitation was a popular genre at the time, as were car chase movies a popular genre. Bond is then sent to a small island in the Caribbean where another agent was recently killed. The screen story has something to do with heroin dealers on this small, unnamed Caribbean island killing British agents all over the world, but it is a fairly meandering screen story, so it's difficult to tell.The film's voodoo theme works well at some points (and, I'll admit, it scared the hell out of me when I was a younger) but at other times, it is played strictly for laughs, and seems quite dated now.This is one of those times when the cast and on-location photography are what makes the movie work, as the story meanders quite a bit. The screen story follows the plot of Fleming's novel quite closely in every regard, except the actual plot; the same characters and locations, even the same clothing (notice when Bond is being fitted with a new wardrobe in Harlem, even down to his black leather gloves) but there remains only a ghost of the plot of one of Fleming's strongest novels, only the same basic framework as in the novel, and comes off as a Blaxploitation/ car chase flick. Ian Fleming's original novel deals with gold coins being smuggled into the US to fund Russian activities, but for some reason, the writers abandoned that idea and came up with this underdeveloped story about heroin dealers in the Caribbean.More highlights include a snake in the bath, and a nearly 20 minutes long boat chase through the Louisiana bayous- but that sequence doesn't have anything to do with the rest of the story, nor was it in the book, and it could have been edited out completely and you wouldn't even notice.Yaphet Kotto is perfectly cast here, as he looks almost identical to the villain's description in Fleming's novel. The theme song, incorporated quite nicely into the score, is exceptional, one of the film's strongest points.I do enjoy this movie, but it would have been even better if the producers had followed the plot of the original novel, instead of working on the stunts. The stunts are good, but with an unfocused screen story like this, the movie could have fallen apart, had it not been for the very likable Roger Moore, in his debut as Bond.I give this a 7 out of 10, but it's a weak 7. "},{"Title":"Moore, Roger Moore","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  LIVE AND LET DIE (1973) *** Moore in his first outing as Bond makes a unique interpretation as an unbound sexy and carefree agent out to stop heroin kingpin Yaphet Kotto involving voodoo and some lush locales in the Caribbean and the Everglades.  Jane Seymour is the Bond girl, Solitaire, who aids James.  Best bits crocodile leap-frog and a neat speedboat chase.  Pop ditty tune by Paul McCartney & Wings. "},{"Title":"the best thing about it is the song","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The best thing about this film, sadly, is the theme music Paul McCartney's legendary 'Live and Let Die' song. In this film, James Bond meets up with some drug dealers from the Caribbean, and romance and action endures in the form of motorboat chases, crocodiles, and mysticism. Generally, this film has everything that you would expect out of a James Bond film, but it lacks in the creativity and good storyline. I sat through a lot of the film thinking that it was dull and hoping that it would get better, which it never did. I would not necessarily recommend this film. It's not bad, but it's not good either. I give it a 4/10, and the best thing about the film is the opening song. "},{"Title":"This is a crap way to start out as James Bond","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK,  I can get over the fact that Roger Moore is the James Bond in this movie.  Roger Moore is a good James Bond if you compare him to the books. He is suave and graceful and unlike Sean Connery doesn't barge into every situation like a bull in a tea shop.  Unfortunately I hate this movie. Bond is horrible to the Jane Seymour character.  And that cop is just horrible to watch.  And may I mention how cheesy the end is.  Its positively painful and so unlike a good Bond film.  So good riddance to bad rubbish. "},{"Title":"Black and white in more ways than several","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first outing wearing the James Bond trousers is a real curate's egg. When it's good, it's very very good, but when it isn't - oh dear.The plot shows this off to perfection. It avoids the starting World War III plot which dogged both the final Connery Bonds and most of Moore's, and (thankfully) contains recognisable elements of Fleming's source novel, but it still manages to wander all over the show.Then you have Jane Seymour - weakest Bond girl ever - and Moore himself, suave but not menacing (please unload that raised eyebrow, mister!). You have a risible finale (blimp-ising the villain!) in a set which looks left over from You Only Live Twice. And you have Clifton Webb's Sheriff JW Pepper - hugely entertaining, but a complete irrelevance.Conversely, you have Yaphet Kotto, an excellent villain, you have the atmosphere of New Orleans, you have some effective voodoo gubbins (also brought in from the novel), and some spectacular action set pieces.And let's not forget the most fab-tastic Bond theme song of all! The change to light-heartedness is already pronounced, however, and stays in place throughout the Moore years. Oh dear. "},{"Title":"Good but nothing special","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die is a 1973 spy film. It is the 8th film in the James Bond series, and the first to star Roger Moore as MI6 agent James Bond. The film was produced by Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman. In the early 1970s, Broccoli and Saltzman wanted to choose a new actor to portray the Bond character, to replace Sean Connery, who portrayed the Bond character in several films from the 1960s. After a substantial search, they picked actor Roger Moore for the lead role.The film is based loosely on the novel of the same name by Ian Fleming. In the film, a drug lord known as Mr. Big plans to distribute two tonnes of heroin free so as to put rival drug barons out of business. Bond is soon trapped in a world of gangsters and voodoo as he fights to put a stop to Mr. Big's scheme.7/10 "},{"Title":"An intense film","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first outing as 007 is an all around interesting and entertaining film. Plot-wise it is perhaps a change from the typical Bond-plots but it does give the film some character. Also the motley cast of henchmen will keep you entertained.On the whole the film's only real weakness is the usual camp that Moore always brings with him in his Bond-films. As such the story never reaches a satisfying level of seriousness but the film luckily doesn't become a self-parody like 'The Man with the Golden Gun'. Unfortunately it just feels detached from anything real and from an outside observer seems very cheesy in places.On the whole, the film is very entertaining but nothing special. "},{"Title":"A flawed, but acceptable, Bond film (SPOILERS)","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For most people, Sean Connery was James Bond, secret agent 007. So when Connery decided to leave the role after 1967's You Only Live Twice, producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman had to find a replacement. After searching long and hard, they came upon male model George Lazenby. Unfortunately, for numerous reasons, Lazenby's first film, On Her Majesty's Secret Service turned out to be his only one and the producers were back to square one. The duo scored a major coup getting Connery to return for Diamonds Are Forever, but after that, Connery said that he was definitely done. So where to from there? The solution came with the casting of Roger Moore, best known for his role on The Saint. Moore had first been approached to play Bond way back in the early 1960's; the actor had even been one of Ian Fleming's original choices for the role. Moore would go on to play Bond for a record 7 times, but with his debut, 1973's Live and Let Die, the actor sought to put an original stamp on the character. The stories became more light-hearted, the gags were multiplied, and the overall tone became more comical. While it's a matter of personal taste as to whether or not this was a positive change, I believe that a good, if inconsistent, balance was stuck with LaLD.The movie opens with a laid-back pre-credits sequence in which three British agents are murdered in New York, Louisiana, and the fictional Caribbean island of San Monique. Bond is assigned to investigate the deaths; he travels to New York and is immediately a marked man. He soon learns that the architect behind all of this is a mysterious gangster known as Mr. Big, who we find out is actually San Monique's diplomat, Dr. Kananga, both played by Yaphet Kotto. After teaming up with old CIA buddy Felix Leiter and converting Kananga's psychic, Solitaire (Jane Seymour), Bond learns that Kananga hopes to increase the heroin market and make himself a multi-millionaire.After the convoluted disaster of the last film, Diamonds Are Forever, the small-scale nature of the plot of Live and Let Die is a big relief. Unfortunately, the movie meanders around a little too much in the first two acts and doesn't really get anywhere. The threat of a nuclear holocaust or WWIII is absent and while this isn't necessarily a bad thing, Moore doesn't convey the sense that his life is danger, even when he has a gun pointed at him. Director Guy Hamilton attempts to make up the lack of tension with several action scenes, but, like in all the other Bond films he directed, these come out forced and flat. The exception is the boat chase in the Louisiana bayous--while it's far too long and not terribly exciting, the stunt work is top-notch and it contains the infamous sequence where Bond jumps over the backs of crocodiles to escape certain death.The worst offenders include a bizarre action scene on an airport runway and the downright terrible finale in some second-rate underground base. The faults with the ending are almost too numerous to list it feels tacked on, the dialogue is hokey, Kananga comes to possibly the dumbest end in the series, and any sense of adversity is erased as the villain treats Bond like an old chum. Remember, this is after Bond has just ruined Kananga's operation, not to mention the two of them had been at odds since the start. But it's not just the climax that's a disappointment.Barring the fact that the movie takes little from the excellent novel of the same name, the pace is at times sluggish, with subplots being developed that don't amount to much. The Rosie Carver affair is one such case; not only does it feature horrendous acting from Gloria Hendry, it also doesn't make a whole lot of sense. The fashions and expressions are almost permanently stuck in the 1970's and while every film becomes associated with the time period they were made in, LaLD's bell-bottoms and Afros are distracting. Finally, the character of J. W. Pepper (played by Clifton James) is superfluous, and it gets annoying when attention is placed on some redneck sheriff instead of our favourite spy. So in spite of all these complaints, why do I still rate the film so highly?Clearly, I'm not a fan of Guy Hamilton's directing; I personally would've campaigned for a change of direction after Diamonds Are Forever. That being said, Live and Let Die is Hamilton's best Bond movie for a number of reasons, chief among them being the low-key nature of the plot. The film doesn't contain any killer satellites or clones; there isn't even any Q. But this of lack of gadgets forces Bond to rely on his own skills, like when he improvises a flamethrower. That's not to say that there are no toys for Bond to play with; there's the usual inventive use of a watch.Probably the best and most memorable aspect of the film is the title song, performed by Paul McCartney and Wings. The tune is instantly recognizable and so good that Guns'N'Roses even recorded a cover version of it. The supernatural elements are interesting and give the film a distinct feel while the actors/characters are perfect for the setting; Yaphet Kotto makes a menacing Kananga (before the character assassination at the end), David Hedison is one of the better Leiters' (he would later return for Licence To Kill), and Jane Seymour is stunning as Solitaire (and gives in a good performance as well).What we've got to remember is that Bond movies work best when they entertain, and Live and Let Die definitely does that. Aside from the inevitable faults, the film's style fits Moore's interpretation and while the actor was just finding his footing, the movie is still entertaining to watch. 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"In this ever changing world in which we live in","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In a series hardly noted for the quality of its special effects ( remember those Space Shuttles in Moonraker? That erupting volcano in You Only Live Twice? The back projections through the speeding boat window in Thunderball? The death of Goldfinger? The surfing in Die Another Day?) can we agree that the death of Kananga is the absolute rock bottom special effect in any Bond Film. Not only does Bond's weapon of choice kill the bad guy, it also turns him into a Helium balloon! What were they thinking?And really, what were they thinking expecting Roger Moore to act as the sexually irresistible Bond? He was in his mid 40s at the time and looked it. Seeing him seduce women with a flick of his impeccable linen shirt cuff is pretty dubious (it got worse as the series went on)The plot seems just an excuse to hang a series of set pieces on - something to do with flooding Harlem with heroin and somehow voodoo cults and alligator farms and dixieland jazz and pimp mobiles and hang gliders and fortune tellers all get mixed up in it with no immediate relevance to the original idea. David Hedison seems to spend most of the movie assuring people We've got everything under control just before things go wrong.The racial politics seem pretty woozy as well. At one pint Kananga has to disguise himself and without so much as a flicker of irony, reaches for a leopard print suit and a big matching hat because, obviously, that's what a big afro-American crime boss WOULD wear. The whole drugs / Harlem / soul-food connection seems a bit stereotypical and the voodoo stuff is just bizarre. And did we really need a comedy relief Southern Sheriff who keeps referring to the black crims as boy? It's like Jackie Gleeson's sheriff from Smokey and the Bandit is doing In the Heat of the Night.Whereas the great Bond movies - Goldfinger, From Russia with Love, Casino Royale for instance - take Bond seriously, this does the whole thing with a smirk at the audience. By the time of Octopussy, with Bond running around in a clown suit and Q saving the day in a hot air balloon, the whole thing seemed terminal.It's all a long way from something as taught and lean as From Russia with Love (and I seem to remember that movie as having a boat chase that was half the length of the one in this movie and far more effective.) and yes, the stunts are outstanding but otherwise... Bond had been a lot better and would be better again. But this was the start of a long downhill slide. "},{"Title":"Far-fetched Bond, but still good fun","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond Review. Title Pretty much Bond's motto at this stage and suits the character well.Pre-Titles We see three agents get killed, one at the United Nations, one during a New Orleans funeral march and the other via snake bite on a Caribbean island. The sequence is certainly an effective way to start things off and does genuinely draw your interest as to why these agents were killed. It's just a shame that Bond isn't involved in any way.Theme Song Paul McCartney and Wings deliver one of the series best themes. The song is both urgent and mysterious with a fantastic rhythm running throughout, managing to capture Bond's attitude and the tone of the film almost perfectly. The lyrics are memorable and the instrumentation is excellent, easy to see why it is remembered so fondly.Plot Bond in sent to investigate the agents deaths in the United States and later the Caribbean. Bond begins to suspect that there is a link between heroin smuggler Mr. Big and Caribbean island diplomat Kananga that led to the deaths. The plot is relatively straight- forward and has a nice change with the concentration on drug smuggling which the series hasn't really covered before. Also played up are the themes of the occult and voodoo which really give the film a unique edge. Looking into these areas might be a bit far- fetched and not fit Bond, but at least it feels fresh and original.James Bond Roger Moore makes a decent enough debut here. The issue is that he doesn't quite know how to play the role at this point. He always delivers the witty lines perfectly and he is extremely charming, but he struggles to be convincing in the action scenes and doesn't really come across as that competent an agent. Beyond that he certain looks the part and is a likable presence.Bond Girls Jane Seymour is very good as card reader Solitaire. She really captures the vulnerability and confliction of the character, and she has a really expressive face that lends itself to the role well. She and Moore have good chemistry too. Gloria Hendry however is pretty terrible as CIA agent Carver. She just delivers all of her lines so woodenly and all of her emotions are way too theatrical.Villains Yaphet Kotto is always a reliable figure and he does a really good job here. He plays Kananga as very calm on the surface yet with a sense of malice that is always ready to burst out. He's a physical match for Bond and is more conscious of his future than most villains. Julius Harris is good fun as the claw-armed Tee Hee, his constant smile and calm demeanour make him memorable. Geoffrey Holder is great as the voodoo influenced Baron Samedi. It's a silly character, but Samedi has such a mysterious and creepy quality about him that he also becomes very memorable.Support David Hedison does a good job in his first turn as Felix Leiter. He seems much more capable than prior and is involved in the plot quite a lot, while he and Moore do seem like friends. Clifton James plays up every Southern stereotype as sheriff Pepper and somehow it works. He mugs for the camera at every chance, but he delivers the lines with such enthusiasm and it gets to the point where it is so daft that it's actually quite funny. Action The action has just the right balance of goofy and exciting. The main set-piece is a long chase across the bayous that features some excellent stunt work and is very entertaining despite its length. We also see Bond fight off snakes, members of the occult and run to safety across the backs of crocodiles, which features another impressive stunt. However the climatic fight with Kananga isn't very exciting and features one of the dumbest deaths in the series.Score George Martin scored the film and does a decent job. It has a more soulful flavour that fits the film well and offers it another unique features, but the excitement John Barry brings is missed and some of the tracks do feel a bit out of place.Production Values As this was during the time that Blaxploitation was popular it plays up a lot of troupes. We get the first black lead villain, black henchmen and mostly black areas like Harlem are featured. This is certainly one of the most varied and at times strangest of the series. Bond seems to fight everything imaginable and it delves into many aspects that would usually seem out of place of a Bond film. Visually the film is pretty basic and there aren't many spectacular shots, but it doesn't look rushed. We also get a good variety of locations with Bond moving from the US to the Caribbean and back again with all of them looking stylish enough. Some of the added humour doesn't quite work out, even though many of Moore's reactions are unintentionally funny. There aren't many truly memorable moments but the few there are, like the crocodile farm, are entertaining. Conclusion Live and Let Die is many things, but never is it boring and that is what truly matters. Many of the films elements are too out there or silly, but the pace doesn't slow to let that sink-in and it always stays entertaining. There is a rich selection of villains that are all memorable, Seymour is convincing and there is some really excellent stunt work here along with some exciting action. Moore might be a bit hit and miss, but he is never boring or unengaging. This is probably the point where the films accepted that being more light-hearted was the direction to go in for the foreseeable future. If you can accept the sillier aspects, then Live and Let Die is an enjoyable entry. "},{"Title":"Moore's first Bond film is probably one he'll like to forget.","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I actually appreciated that this series wanted to go a different route. The plot was outlandish for a Bond film, and I dug it's tenacity, and audacious style. Too bad its way too mundane to be as effective as it should have been. The pacing flags much too often for my liking. The movie is filled with chase scenes, but they started to get redundant after a while. It does have one scene that I really liked involving evasion of crocodiles on a farm. I have to admit that was pretty intense. I also got annoyed by Clifton James. He grated my nerves badly, and I can't understand why this guy has such a following. His performance as Sgt. Pepper is one of the worst Bond characters to ever grace our screen. That's just my opinion though. Roger Moore looks visibly uncomfortable at times on how to play the role in his first outing as Bond. That would change dramatically in the future, as he would evolve into a very good Bond, but this is not one of his best performances. Yaphett Kotto plays a good villain. Jane Seymour plays a good Bond girl, whilst Geoffrey Holder gave me the creeps as the voodoo nut.Final Thoughts I really wanted to like this film. It was different, and had so much potential, but Sgt. Pepper and dumb comedic sequences ruined all of that, along was inconsistent pacing.5.4/10 "},{"Title":"Roger Moore Is Now 007.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore debuts as secret agent James Bond 007 in this eighth screen adventure, which sees him sent on a mission to New Orleans, where several of his colleagues were murdered, which leads him to a predominately black section of the city, where a heroin magnate(played by Yaphet Kotto) plans to flood the streets with his cheap drugs, get people hooked, only to hike the prices, thereby putting his competitors out of business, and making him even richer and more powerful. Bond of course must stop him, and is aided by old friend and CIA agent Felix Leiter(David Hedison this time, the best actor in the far too frequently recast role, and the first of two for him.) The beautiful Jane Seymour plays a psychic tarot card reader and love interest.Roger Moore tries, and would grow in the part, but makes little impression otherwise, and film suffered from the same silliness that hurt Diamonds Are Forevor, and tone just felt wrong. Memorable title song can only help so much. "},{"Title":"In some respects, a bit of fresh air.","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Following Diamonds are Forever, it really was essential that the producers revamped the James Bond series. They needed a new Bond, and they needed to move with the times. I think that Roger Moore is an acquired taste, but I do like him in the role, even if he's and the films he starred in were hit and miss. Live and Let Die is a hit, fortunately, and plays to Roger Moore's strengths rather than his weaknesses. Several MI6 agents have been murdered in America, and an island called San Monique. MI6 suspect DR Kananga, the leader of the island of San Moniqu, is responsible. James Bond is called into action, and sent to New York to begin his investigations. He soon discovers that Dr Kananga is involved in drugs and voodoo in Harlem, and also New Orleans and the island of San Monique. Naturally, Dr Kananga can't allow Bond to stop this, and he tries to kill him several times in several different ways. Bond escapes each time, and is finally able to beat Kananga in a suitably over-the-top way that only Moore could get away with. So, was Moore a good replacement? My opinion is that he was, but he is very different. Connery's strength was his ruthless streak, Lazenby's strength was his sensitivity, Moore's strength was his ability to make comical ideas seem ever so slightly plausible. Voodoo on a Bond film? Wouldn't have worked at all with any other actor other than Moore. Somehow, Moore makes it works and goes a good job of it. This also benefits from a real return to some very good action scenes. The boat chase in Louisiana is first rate, and I think the best Bond stunt is in this film, where stuntman Ross Kananga (the villain was named after him) runs over live crocodiles to get away. Paul McCartney's first rate score (possibly one of the best) also adds to the action, and the showdown is fun. No, it's not serious, and no, it's not Connery. But Moore did manage to carve out his own, enjoyable Bond with this film. I think it's a worthy Bond. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Moore is Less","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Moore's first turn as 007 starts right where Connery left off with Diamonds Are Forever, meaning another middling entry in the series. The script is lackluster and tends to drag between action scenes, particularly in the romantic interludes. The centerpiece is a long boat chase sequence that has its moments but goes on too long and runs out of steam. The alligator scene is pretty good. Moore looks rather ill-at-ease, although he would get more comfortable in the role in later films. In her film debut, Seymour can't match some of the more memorable Bond girls. The best thing about this forgettable film is the title tune by McCartney. "},{"Title":"Bond Goes AIP Style","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die (1973) *** (out of 4) After several British agents are killed, James Bond (Roger Moore) is called in to try and find the connection between a Harlem drug dealer (Yaphet Kotto) and a voodoo master on a Caribbean island. Soon he's matched up with tarot card reader (Jane Seymour) while trying to stay clear of not only the voodoo guys but a strong man with a steel hand. This eighth film in the series could be called a lot of things ranging from stupid to energetic to perhaps bizarre. Unlike the previous films in the series, this one here is clearly working with a much smaller budget but I must say the lack of budget didn't stop the screenplay from coming up with some very bizarre situations and in the end this here plays out much more like a blaxploiation flick from AIP than an actual Bond movie. I must admit that I was rather shocked at how different this movie was from the others but this is what really set it apart and made it entertaining no matter how silly it got. You could call this a blaxploitation film but you could also compare it to the various serials made during the 30s and 40s as Bond and his woman are constantly put into situations that appear to have their death coming but they manage to find someway out. One of the best scenes in the movie takes place at an alligator farm where Bond is on a large rock surrounded by the creatures yet manages to pull out some magic. Another good scene happens early on when he checks into a hotel and a poisonous snake gets free in the room. I thought the film had a terrific sense of humor from start to finish and it's this humor that Moore really works wonders doing. I must admit that I found Moore to be extremely good in the role as he managed to make it his own without trying to copy anything that Connery did in earlier films. He certainly plays up the playboy angle but I didn't think they over did it and instead he made Bond more funny than anything else. I've read some reviews that were unhappy with how much this resembled a comic book but I thought the difference made it entertaining. Seymour is easy on the eyes but I didn't feel too much for her character and never really felt too much chemistry with Bond. Black actress Gloria Hendry is without question the perfect match for Bond as the two have some great chemistry and make for some very entertaining scenes but I guess certain political climates at the time prevented her from being in the entire movie, which was a real shame. Kotto is extremely fun in his role as he eats up each scene he's in and really makes for a fun villain. I said the movie was strange and the weirdest bit comes from a redneck sheriff who tries stopping both Bond as well as the black boys in some rather strange, politically incorrect scenes. I must admit that I found a few of these scenes funny but for the most part they seem like something from a different movie and in the end I think the movie would have worked better with this stuff on the editing room floor. I do wonder how much of these was the inspiration for the stuff in SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT. George Martin's score is a really enjoyable and rocking one and we've got the classic title song from Paul McCartney and Wings that works beautifully well with the terrific opening credits. I guess a more sensible person would probably drop the rating down half a star but I must admit that the movie kept me entertained from start to finish. I do think it ran a bit too long but it's certainly unique in what it tries to do and for the most part it worked. "},{"Title":"Time has not been kind to this one","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While there are many people I know who view this as the quintessential Bond flick, I am in the apparent minority that feel Live & Let Die is one of the 007 series' weakest entries. First and foremost, the film has not worn well over the years, likely due to its inclusion of many '70's-era styles, cliches, and expressions. I also was turned off by the New York and New Orleans scenes...very ordinary--almost like those of a going-rate TV cop show--and the sets in particular seemed downright cheesy and slapped together. No such gripes can be made of the other locales used in the picture. Secondly, I have to say that while I am Connery-biased when it comes to the greater scope of the series, and as far as the Moore films go, this is one of his lesser performances. He seems to be a bit too suave, and his English accent just the slightest bit artificial--though certainly it isn't. For me, Moore hit his stride with the filming of Moonraker, continued with For Your Eyes Only, and peaked with Octopussy, one of my series favorites regardless of actor. Still, there are compelling reasons to see Live & Let Die. It is the screen debut of Jane Seymour, certainly one of the top five Bond babes. The opening title is one of the best in the series, with its sinister flaming head/skull motif and the rocking Paul McCartney theme song. And the sequence just after the main title is memorable as one of the few that puts M and Moneypenny out of their usual in-office element, visiting 007's home and nearly catching him in the act with another country's secret agent. I don't see any of the Bond films scoring below a 5...this one garners a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Below par","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore became the third cinematic incarnation of James Bond 007 in this lacklustre entry in the long-running series. The problems with this movie are ones which can be generally associated with the Moore films (and, to be fair, some of the later Sean Connery films too) it's too hammy, the characters are caricatures and the plot is too cartoonish.First things first, Live and Let Die tried to be too funny too often. The humour in the Connery, George Lazenby, Timothy Dalton and Pierce Brosnan films has, for the most part, worked because the writers did not go out of their way to add humour; rather, the humour flowed naturally from the script. Not here. Granted, it is not as glaringly bad as in some of Moore's subsequent films, but jokes like the redneck Sheriff, JW Pepper, are irksome.On that note, Pepper comes across as a redneck with no individualising qualities. In short, he's a caricature. And he's not the only one. Most of the African-American characters have Afros, huge sideburns and are all very blaxploitation, for want of a better word. Not only that, but I cannot remember a single African-American character who was not villainous. Nor were any of these characters particularly memorable. While it was a refreshing change of pace to have Bond do something other than save the world from a megalomaniac villain, the plot is somewhat lacking. It's altogether an excuse to hold together a series of action sequences which, while enjoyable, do little to further the film or the characters therein.The movie is not altogether without it merits. The theme song, written by Paul and Linda McCartney is one of, if not the, best of the series. Roger Moore's Bond is better here than in many of his subsequent films. Jane Seymour, as the main Bond Girl Solitaire is beautiful and shows flashes of the raw talent which has kept her in the business longer than many of the other Bond Girls of her era.On a side note, this film toned down many aspects of 007 which Connery made so famous. As a result, there is, for example, less gadgetry which is a mixed blessing in that it does away with much of the sheer lunacy which the Connery films reached, but the absence of Desmond Llewellyn's wonderfully acerbic Q is disappointing. Of course, this would not last, as contained in the Moore films are some of the most outlandish gadgetry of the series.** (out of *****) "},{"Title":"Just about the weakest of the James Bond films.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore is a surprisingly stiff James Bond, and lacks the humor most of the other Bonds have brought to the role. The movie is clumsy, and (from the perspective of 1999) terribly dated--rooted as it is in its own times swinging pop culture. The movie is slight--with such events as the power boat race occupying a disproportionate amount of screen time, and the cute but clumsy use of the southern cracker sherriff.In short? Give the film a miss if you possibly can. "}{"Title":"Good Bond movie with a few minor problems.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Of all the Bonds that have been made, this one is probably the darkest.One of the things that I am missing is the humor. It misses the typical Roger Moore James Bond humor with as a result that the movie becomes a bit too serious. Sure it has some funny moment but it just misses the Roger Moore touch he added to the later Bond movies. But that's no wonder since this was Moore's first Bond, it looks like both actor and crew were still searching for the right character for Moore's Bond.Another minor problem is the story. There happens too much in a too short amount of time. They could have resolved this by making the movie just 10 minutes longer.But still it is a very solid Bond movie. It has some amazing character such as Baron Samedi and the legendary Sheriff J.W. Pepper that later returned in The Man with the Golden Gun. The villains are one of the very best from the Bond series even though Kananga is a bit underused. Jane Seymour plays a great and beautiful Bond girl but again also she is a bit underused.The atmosphere is pretty dark, mainly of course the scene's in Harlem. It's interesting but I still prefer the lighter Bond.The movie is full with famous Bond scene's with the speed boat chase as one of the best. It's funny, spectacular and tense in other words Typical Bond. I also always enjoy the scene's between Bond and M and this movie is no exception. Their relationship and the certain tension towards each other is priceless and always good for some hard laughs. It's pure comedy that not all people will understand.The music by George Martin is different but it suits the movie and it's atmosphere really well! The main title song by Paul and Linda McCartney is also very good and one of the very best Bond theme songs.Solid Bond that could have been excellent.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Live and let live...","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***After the departure (again) of Sean Connery , the production team went a resoundingly different direction with agent 007 , enlisting Roger Moore (AKA Simon Templar or The Saint). Moore Debuted as the Third James Bond in Live and Let Die (1973).In the middle of a wonderful evening with female company , Bond is visited urgently by M at his home. Several operatives have been killed trying to dismantle an international drug ring. Bond is sent to America to confront the drug king pin Mr. Big (Yaphet Kotto), and gets more than he bargained for.Very straight forward and raw feeling script for this movie , which was done intentionally because producers felt Roger Moore might have been viewed as too light hearted for James Bond. Clearly , not an issue as he is very good at hanging Solitare (Jane Seymour) out to die. Intense storyline and spectacular speed boat races add to the enjoyability of this film.Three stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"I liked this only for the speed boat chase","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the first of the Roger Moore bond films and also the first of the post SPECTRE movies. Personally I actually think it is a good thing that the James Bond franchise was forced to dump SPECTRE because by this time the whole SPECTRE plot was starting to get a little thin (Blofeld has another plan to take over the world, but Bond stops him, though Blofeld manages to escape by the skin of his teeth).. Now they are forced to resort of other things, and I guess by doing this has made James Bond the success that it is.The beginning of the film has three agents murdered, one in New Orleans, one in New York, and one in a small Caribbean island. As such James Bond (who is in bed with an Italian Agent that has gone missing, though Miss Moneypenny is nice enough not to reveal her existence to M) is called in to solve the problem. One must feel sorry for Bond though because he is home alone was a lovely Italian secret agent when M and Miss Moneypenny burst in and give him his new orders and tells him that he has to leave immediately (though he seems to always have enough time for a quick roll in the hay).This used to be one of my favourite Bond movies, namely because of the extended speedboat chase that they had near the end of the film, however these days I find myself simply drifting through the movie waiting for this scene. Also, it seemed to me that it involved some scenes that were simply tacked together. The whole New Orleans/Louisianna episode simply seemed to be placed in there to make the movie longer than it would have been (though the speed boat chase, as well as the chase with the airplanes at the airport do add spice to the film).The other thing I found a bit odd, and it sort of killed my suspension of disbelief, was when Bond stumbled upon the heroin plantation. I actually did not realise that it was Heroin until they mentioned that it was Heroin because, honestly, when they first showed it, it looked like Cocaine. I even wonder if they grow Opium Poppies in the Caribbean because I always thought that it was grown mostly in Thailand and the Middle East. "},{"Title":"Not too bad an introduction for Roger Moore","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While not the best Bond movie, this is one of the better Roger Moore Bond movies in my opinion. It isn't a masterpiece, but as an introduction for Roger Moore as 007 it ain't half bad.Yes it is overlong, yes the story is frantic and yes the villain's scheme could have done with more development. Not to mention the fact that Dr Kananga's death is probably the silliest yet most epic death in a Bond film.But it is visually striking, has some cool gadgets, some amusing one-liners, a fun theme song, a sexy Bond girl beautifully played by the lovely Jane Seymour, good direction and a credible turn from Roger Moore as the title character. Personally I consider Sean Connery the best Bond, but Moore doesn't do too bad a job.In conclusion, a fun and above decent entry in the series. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"an unintentional contribution to blaxploitation","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me say first that I'm not a Bond fan, so I'm not about to comment on whether this was a good Bond film or not. What makes this film unique is its choice of locales Harlem, New Orleans, and the Caribbean.  Its like an odyssey through the black diaspora.  While I thought the film was pretty racist insofar as it showed black people (in any of the 3 locales) running the drug business (a stereotype which is believed in real life by many to be accurate but isn't), that's not as interesting as the sheer number of images of black street life in Harlem in the early 1970s, along with the melancholy mood of a funeral procession in New Orleans, and rituals or symbols of voodoo in the Caribbean.  This is almost a better blaxploitation flick than self conscious ones of the same period like Superfly, etc.  But the movie doesn't stop there.  Towards the end, there is an obviously self-concious (on the part of the director) over the top characterization of the Louisiana police force as a bunch of overweight, tobaccee-chewin buffoons.  This along with a bunch of other 'useless' scenes and characters made this film enjoyable but also made you wonder what the directors and writers were thinking.  Were they doing all of this on purpose?  If you haven't seen this one, check it out when you've got a few extra hours some day. "},{"Title":"A Dark...and Not very Satisfying Bond outing","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Besides the Bus chase and the Boat chase scene...there really isnt a lot of reason for anyone to wanna watch this film. Its a rather dark film and never has any uplifting moments. Yaphet kotto and Julius harris make pretty good villians but that is hardly a great reason to sit through this....and the now ritual pre credit action scene is absent here. In its place is a Story set up which is hardly interesting.Although oddly enough, I would still watch this one, over the Campy DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER and the almost pointless THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN. Roger moore breaks into the bond role rather well, though one scene where he threatens to shoot rosie carver if she doesnt give information..(which leads the poor girl scurrying to her death)..turned me off him a Bit.Film does boast the usually bond imagination...like the leap over the crocodiles...Bonds air pellet gun....and kanaga's inflatable death.But all in all,The later moore films, like Octopussy and For your eyes only, had moore the way he should have played it..in a more Jokey way...cause it seemed to suit him BestAll in all.....6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"'Live and Let Die' passes - but only just!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'Live And Let Die' is often regarded as the first of the jokey episodes in the successful Bond film series, but the rather dreadful 'Diamonds Are Forever' deserves to take that honour. Roger Moore gives a refreshingly comic interpretation to the Bond role, but everything is played for quick laughs that the tension is non-existent. Despite the popularity of the musical score, it is only the lead song which is good and that is by Paul McCartney and Wings. The musical score was not written by the masterful John Barry but George Martin, who created a rather dull score. Overall, a reasonably enjoyable movie which heralded the Roger Moore era - which meant the the intregity of the bond movies went into decline! Marks of out ten 6/10 "},{"Title":"he was 9 feet tall I swear!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This marks the debut for Roger Moore as James Bond, the Actor to go on and portray Bond for a total of 7 Bond movies.This one is a sequel in many ways to Dr.No.It is based partly on the island of Jamaica, like Dr.No, and Bond is accompanied by Quarrel Jnr, who`s father was killed by the mysterious dragon in Dr.No. This film has Sheriff.J.W.Pepper who appears again in The Man with the Golden Gun. Jane Seymour stars as the very beautiful tarot reading Solitaire, who is treated as a possession by the master villain Dr.Kananga/Mr.Big. Good fight with a very new ending to it! I almost forgot the short fight with none other than Baron Samedi.This is the debut for Roger Moore and it isn`t all that bad so... I give this a Mr.Big 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Definitely NOT a Must Watch !","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this Movie after Watching first 5 Movies from Dr No to You only Live Twice and The Living Daylights and was very disappointed. Agreed... This was Moore's first Movie as Bond but he never looked as comfortable in the Movie as Connery did in Dr No. He made the debut as Bond at the age of 46 in this Movie and looks quite old. The plot is Good... This time Bond is dealing with Kananga , the Drug Lord. There aren't many action sequences in this Movie but there is an overlong Motor Boat Chase. I'd not want to watch the Movie 3-4 times as I would if it were any of the other Bond Movies except for The man with the Golden Gun and A view to Kill. This Movie is certainly NOT a Must watch. If you want to watch Moore really in Action then you must see The Spy who Loved me.  "},{"Title":"Obvious, limp and cheap debut for Moore as 007","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first outing as 007 seems designed to highlight all the things which made him a TV star in the first place. Tall, suave and well-spoken, able to give dignity to even the poorest script and even the most unlikely scenario. This is really pretty much the same-old, only with a slightly larger budget. Although the gadget budget must be the smallest in the history of Bond, consisting of little beyond a magic power watch.Looking decidedly middle-aged and packing the kind of clothes that nobody under 40 would want to be seen dead in (even then), Moore/Bond is on the trail of another Mr Evil (twist respected) who wants to mass produce heroin and give it away. Thereby eliminating all competition. Which it might until he started charging for it again, when it would re-appear. Clearly not a serious proposition and Moore doesn't even raise his famous eyebrow to this bizarre school of thought.Looking sexy and baffled is a young (introducing?) Jane Seymour who is best playing strong women with a brain rather than bimbos who can be tricked by tarot cards. Still she is nice to look at, although for reasons not altogether anything to do with common logic she seems besotted by our old-enough-to-be-her-father hero even with his safari suits and tired puns. But such is the lot of most Bond girls.CIA agent Rosie (Gloria Ellis) is so stupid that you wonder if she really is a CIA agent at all. While she is black (and we know that clichés are allowed in 1973) why would they employ a numb skull? Mind you the full CIA is not much better rarely doing anything but put Bond in danger.Boat chases are the worst type of chase because there really isn't anything in the way. You just go very fast and try and outrun the next guy. This seems the budgets biggest expense and we have to watch it with all the excitement of a powerboat DVD we didn't want for Christmas. Things are destroyed and onlookers are shocked, but that is the problem with the series. Driving a car fast was shocking in 1962, by 1973 it is simply nothing to write home about.What really follows is the, now, much laughed about capture-escape-capture-escape which Bond often engaged in. Never asking for back-up or help you wonder whether he is driven by a death-wish. Making the same mistake twice even.Still it has a rocking soundtrack and Moore tries not to laugh at the lines which come tumbling out of his mouth. He gets the job done (with the help of a stuntman or two), but then again we knew that at the start. It really didn't get any better did it for then on in? Same old formula being refitted and retreaded until we were all sick of it and the box office told its own story.In the cold light of day, Moore's Bond was really a nasty user and abuser never mourning much over a death. Even if he caused it. Luckily he never seemed to take himself or the script seriously and that is what saves him. Indeed probably what saved him in his acting career, because he was so good looking he never needed to learn to act. "}{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really did not know what to expect with this one, as it seems to be one of the most polarizing to Bond fans. Turns out this is actually a darn good James Bond Movie, even if it does not even come close to the classic formula, and it filled with some of the most downright weird moments in any Bond Film. This Movie works for several reasons. The plot is not very complicated, and is actually rather grounded in reality, despite the voodoo stuff, which surprising does not hurt this film at all, and just adds an extra sense of mystery and foreboding to the plot and the locales. The Acting is actually some of the strongest in a Bond film, with a good, and very funny, and for the most part confident Roger Moore as Bond. Moore's Bond may be not very much like Fleming's character, but he is still my favorite portrayal because he is easily the most interesting and likable of the lot. Don't get me wrong, Connery, Dalton, Craig, Lazenby, and Brosnan are good in their own ways, and are far superior as the literary Bond, but I find that Moore is best all around action hero in general, and is the most accessible to outsiders/non-fans of Bond. Acting from the villains are great, especially from Yaphet Kotto as Kananga and Julius Harris as Tee-Hee. Geoffrey Holder did not have a whole lot to do, but he left his mark on this film as the awesome Baron Samedi. His part in the ending is classic, gets my vote for the best bond ending of all time. Jane Seymour here does a decent, if a little bland and forgettable, performance as Solitaire. Still, she is far better than most of the other leading ladies like Britt Ekland, Tanya Roberts, Carole Bouquet, Cary Lowell, Halle Berry, Jill St. John, and Denise Richards, not to mention that she is easily one of the most attractive. The Stunts/fights are uniformly good especially the fight with Tee-Hee on the train, and the bus chase. The Boat Chase was literally jaw dropping, but was nearly ruined by the worst part of the movie; Clifton James as Sheriff Pepper. He was funny for the first few minutes, but the scene just keep on going and going until he became a nuisance. He had nothing to do with the plot, and it would have been better if they just cut him out. The second worst thing is Rosie Carver, who was pretty enough, but had an annoying and grating character. Thankfully she is barely in the film, so it is not that big of a deal. The film occasionally drags, but is never really boring, and the writing stays relatively strong and focused Despite what others may have said, the humor actually works very well, and is mostly subtle, (except for the boat chase and Pepper, and while Bond uses gadgets, he uses his wits more than you may think to escape situations. Overall this is actually a very good Bond film, and action film in general, and it is one of Moore's best, and actually one of the series' best too. "},{"Title":"Good Acting by Moore but not much else....","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore did good by this film. He looks the part, unlike later films Octopussy and A View To A Kill. I think they could have had him star one film earlier and two less later. He acts the part well too (see The Man With The Golden Gun for bad acting). The rest of the film leaves little to be desired. Everyone finds Sheriff J.W. Pepper to be funny or annoying. I think hes very annoying. Exactly what does he do that has any impact on the outcome of this movie? The same can be said for Baron Samedi. The whole voodoo thing is way too long, whereas in the book it is almost nothing. Kananga is a alright villain, not the best or worst. Tee-Hee added to the film. Quite a freak really. I liked his pincher arm. (Fleming could have had him in the book longer). David Hedison is very good as Felix Leiter, they should have had him in the role for at least 5 or 6 films instead of just 2. One of the parts I dislike most of the series is not establishing one actor as Leiter. Actors playing Bond come back again and again, so why not him? Anyway, there isn't much here. Bond eliminates a snake by lighting it on fire....yawn...A bunch of lovemaking, a car chase scene with a double decker bus, JW Pepper and his pathetic police force running around like idiots... Some of the racial slurs are kind of humorous even though they are slurs. 5 out of 10 only because some of Moore's other Bonds are worse (see A View To A Kill, The Man With The Golden Gun and Moonraker). The book is much better. "},{"Title":"Live and Let the series Live","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  ***Starring Roger Moore, Jane Seymour, Yaphet Kotto, and Julius Harris.00-agent James Bond travels from the swamps of Louisiana to the island of San Monique to capture the suspected killer of three other agents, Mr. Big.  There he finds the beautiful psychic Solitaire held under Kananga's control and his right hand man Tee-Hee, who really fits the definition of right-hand man.Roger Moore's first outing as Bond breathed fresh (needed) new air into the withering franchise after the below average Diamonds Are Forever.  This movie is filled with action, a good plot (that was actually believable), and the best villains in the series.Rank in the Series 3rd "},{"Title":"Re-invention of Bond for the next decade","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  May contain minor spoilersDiamonds Are Forever tried to bring in a new era for James Bond, but ended up a very poor end to the first style of James Bond. The 60s were over. The elegant, ruthless James Bond played with just a bit of humor by Sean Connery, and George Lazenby's compassionate, Fleming Bond was not yet viewed as a hit with audiences. This film brought in the light-hearted, witty James Bond that would become the definitive characteristic for Roger Moore. The film brings in the new decade rathe nicely.Again, a new actor takes over from Sean Connery. Roger Moore is not the best Bond I've seen, but he isn't the worst. He gets a 3 out of 5 (Sean got a 2 out of 5, and George got a 5 out of 5). His Bond isn't like Connery's. Connery could either kiss a woman or kill a woman, and took pleasure in killing his opponents. Moore's Bond can kiss the woman but he can't kill her, and doesn't take pleasure in killing. He doesn't like it. This way of portraying James Bond is pretty effective, and probably more acceptable with the hippies in 1970. After the whiny, witty Blofeld and his homosexual wierdos as villains in Diamonds, it is refreshing to get a truly nasty and unforgiving villain in the spirit of earlier portrayls of Blofeld. Kananga is a very wicked and ingenious man. He kills those who fail him, he rules over the island with voodoo threats, and easily manipulates the people around him. Felix Lieter was the best he's ever been played. I liked the comical Sheriff J.W. Pepper. Never has a more idiotic and bumbling character been in a James Bond film. And of course, M and Moneypenny. The story is much better when compared to Diamonds, and all this gets the film 7 out of 10.However, I don't like a few things about this. They added in some optical effects to the gun barrel to show fading and rotating light by On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and it's taken out in this film. Moore's gun barrel opening is the most boring one. Q is not in this film, a major disappointment for anyone who likes 007. And again, wimpy girls. Solitare I understand; Kananga's ruled her for as long as she can remember, and this is a very trying time in her life. But even so, a little too wimpy. And if Rosie was a CIA agent, you'd expect her to be tougher. The world domination plot was what was on the DVD box, but agian, it wasn't. It was drug smuggling. The only Bond film I've watched that HAS a plot getting world domination is You Only Live Twice.Despite shortcomings, I did enjoy the reinvention of Bond. I look forward to watching the next Roger Moore film. "},{"Title":"Badly dated, but a reasonable debut for Moore","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Live and Let Die marked the start of a new era for the Bond franchise, as suave Roger Moore finally took over the role of OO7. Moore had first been considered for the part when the franchise was launched a decade earlier, but now he faced the unenviable task of following Sean Connery and trying to ensure the survival of the series. In this he would succeed, and he got off to quite a good start with this moderately entertaining, if flawed, film.Just like Connery's first outing, Dr No, LALD finds Bond travelling to the Caribbean, this time to foil the villainous schemes of drug baron Kananga. After Diamonds are Forever, legal complications prevented the Bond producers from making any further use of Blofeld and SPECTRE, and Kananga is a refreshingly different kind of villain. Yaphet Kotto plays him in an understated but menacing way, and proves himself a tough match for Bond, as does Julius Harris as the memorable henchman Tee Hee, who has hooks instead of hands. Tee Hee belongs in the great tradition of silent Bond henchmen, and Harris plays him with real charisma. As for Moore himself, he wisely avoids trying to imitate the macho toughness of Connery's Bond, establishing his own identity in the role by adopting a more laid back persona. Moore would eventually go too far in doing this, making his Bond seem tame and wooden, but here he shows genuine charm, as well as his knack for the witty one-liner.  Although he was in his mid-forties when he made the film, Moore also appears younger than Connery did in DAF, even though Connery is actually younger than Moore.Overall, the film is a considerable improvement on DAF, with some great locations and stand-out scenes, in particular an excellent and intriguing pre-titles sequence and voodoo scenes which are actually quite disturbing. Bond also gets put in some genuine danger in this film, most notably when he is marooned on an island surrounded by alligators (the alligators nearly did Moore some damage when the scene was being filmed). Against these positives, however, are a number of serious weaknesses which prevent the film from being one of the great Bonds, in particular its very dated feel. LALD seems to have been conceived in part as a homage to the Blaxploitation movies of the early 70s, and there is no way you can watch the film without constantly being made aware, from the fashions and some of the dialogue of the black characters, that it was made in 1973. Apart from this, the film goes on too long and makes the mistake all the 70s Bond films made of trying to inject too much humour into proceedings. In this case the comedy is provided by Sheriff JW Pepper, a loathsome redneck who is monumentally unfunny. As bad luck would have it, Pepper shows up in the worst stretch of the film, an overlong and tedious boat chase; why did Guy Hamilton always have to include these boring chases in his Bond films? The other major flaw is the Bond girl. Jane Seymour looks stunning with her flowing hair, but Solitaire is painfully weak and feeble, constantly relying on Bond to save and protect her. She has none of the steel and toughness of a Pussy Galore, and is one of my least favourite Bond girls.LALD is also an unusual Bond film in several ways. It is the only one to have a large number of black characters, and also the only one where Q does not make an appearance, although Bernard Lee and Lois Maxwell once again return as M and Moneypenny.  It is also the first Bond in which John Barry had no hand in the score, the job going instead to ex-Beatles producer George Martin. Through this connection Paul McCartney and Wings ended up doing the theme tune, but it does not rank among the great Bond themes.All things considered, however, LALD gets the Moore era off to a solid start. Moore would go on to make better Bond films, but LALD does have its moments, and is certainly one of the better 70s Bonds, a decade which was generally not kind to OO7. "},{"Title":"Live and Let Die","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The disappointing Live and Let Die is a classic example of what happens when films rely too much on a particular formula. Admittedly, there are many things to like about Live and Let Die, such as the voodoo cults, rituals, the beautiful Solitaire (played by Jane Seymour), snakes, crocodiles, Baron Samedi, the lush scenery of the Caribbean, Harlem and the funky background music. Yaphet Kotto also makes for a very interesting villain.On the other hand, Roger Moore does not do a good job in his first try at being James Bond. He lacks the charisma and he comes across as cold, indifferent and even dull. Since James Bond was meant to be the heart of movies, like Live and Let Die, Roger Moore's shortcomings as an actor (or the fact that he was miscast) really bring the movie down. But the real downfall of this film are the chase scenes. Admittedly the first chases in the 1960s were fun to watch, like the ones in Peter R. Hunt's On Her Majesty's Secret Service. But there is nothing entertaining about watching a speedboat going across a river (one can witness such things on a camping trip). Similarly, a chase involving a double-decker bus and police cars on a small island cannot be considered an eye-popping experience. Yet, this film is full of chases like these and they drag on for most of the movie. There was some attempt -- perhaps by the director (Guy Hamilton) or the writers or both -- to make the chases less than dull by adding in some jokes, like when the speed boat rudely interrupts a wedding. But most of the jokes do not work; they just seem desperate. In conclusion, Live and Let Die really marks the point where the Bond series went into decline. There were some rallies with The Spy who Love Me, Licence to Kill, and Casino Royale. But for the most part, James Bond movies have become sub-par, weighed down by long chases, explosions, action scenes that lack excitement, and James Bonds who really lack the coolness and the charisma that we admired in Sean Connery. I may be nostalgic, but I think that the 1960s got James Bond right and the period 1973-2009 wrecked a good thing. "},{"Title":"MOORE'S WORST BOND FILM","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I will preface by saying Roger Moore has always been my favorite Bond. Of 7 movies he starred in as James Bond, this is the only one I did not like. It didn't really have the feel like some of the classics. (I.E. GOLDFINGER, DR. NO.) For the first twenty minutes, I felt like I was watching SHAFT or FOXY BROWN. Positives Jane Seymour. Looking good in her younger days; excellent opening song by Paul McCartney and Wings; the redneck sheriff had me cracking up. As did the cabbie. For $20, I'd take you to a Ku Klux Klan picnic!!Negatives Bad, boring henchmen; Bland villian. Yappet Kotto. Good as Parker in ALIEN. BAD here as Mr. Big/Kananga. Bland, boring, uninspring villian in every way. I was just waiting for him to jump and say Me and Brett think we should discuss the bonus situation! One of the worst Bond villians; bland plot. Poppy fields of heroin? Give me a break.When you make 20 movies (21 if you count NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN), there has to be some bad ones. This is one of the bad ones.  "},{"Title":"Middle of the road...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  and therefore inferior to most of the James Bond films.  It seemed like at times I didn't know if I was watching James Bond or Shaft.  The Blaxploitation era of the early '70's is obviously a heavy influence.  Done right, I can enjoy one of either of these kind of films, but the two prove to be as incompatible as oil and water.  Not a terrible movie, but nothing special.  Roger Moore is my favorite actor to play this role, but here he doesn't seem right.   "},{"Title":"Mediocre Bond outing","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Mediocre seems to be the best word to describe this movie as Bond flicks go, it's nowhere near the bottom of the barrel (Diamonds Are Forever, The Man With The Golden Gun), but it's not at the top of the list (Goldfinger, For Your Eyes Only) either. It certainly begins promisingly enough, with lots of humor, and contains perhaps more offbeat elements than any other Bond movie (the voodoo rituals, the funerals/celebrations, the fact that EVERYBODY seems to be on Bond's tail). But in the second half dialogue and plotting are forgotten (something that, contrary to popular belief, never happened in the best series entries), and the film degenerates into a series of frankly boring chases. Moore makes a comfortable and assured debut as 007; Jane Seymour is a lovely but bland Bond girl; and Yaphet Kotto may be one of the best actors ever to play a Bond villain, but his part is underwritten. (**) "},{"Title":"A disappointing attempt","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I´m one of the old guard Bond fans who think that Connery was the one and only Bond (though Lazenby did also very well). Moore brought too much humour with him and the latter films lack the atmosphere which the first seven films had, also the plots became very thin and too much focus was put on Bond´s toys and gadgets, Live and let die is a real stereotype of that latter genre. I give it a one star out of five. "}{"Title":"One of the Worst","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I gave Live and Let Die a score of 1.  Even if I were only comparing it to other Bond films, I'd still give it a 1.This movie has two problems--the plot is silly and it taints the bond series with mysticism in the form of voodoo.  Magic, miracles, and mysticism are great for vampire films, but it doesn't belong in a spy movie.  Even though the Bond genre is more of an action series than a spy series, it does have an element of spy-story thriller to it.  Adding the mysticism is a statement that the Bond genre shouldn't be taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent outing for Roger Moore","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This won't be a classic like few previous Bond films with Sean Connery as the lead. But it does have it's moments and it has quite a bit of upgraded action sequences. Sure, some parts are still quite cheesy but it wasn't all that campy either this time around. This is a pretty decent outing for Roger Moore as the new James Bond for the new era. I think Roger Moore is quite a likable guy and it's not all that surprising why the producers wanted to keep him as Bond for such a long period. I mean Roger was like 45 when it took on the role of the International Men of Mystery. I even liked the opening and the opening theme song song for this installment. However Moore just didn't convince me as James Bond, he was a pacifist after all. He played Bond as this giddy normal guy than a cold super spy. He is watchable but just didn't convince me as Bond. I did like the setting though, which takes place in Louisiana, especially the New Orleans area. And Caribbean island while dealing with some supernatural stuff with some sort of voodoo chanting and dancing thrown into the mix. The plot isn't difficult to follow though and it has quite a bit of action sequences that entertains. I will say some parts just comes off a bit odd, I will even go as far as to call it weird during certain points in this movie, but it's coherent enough to make it work. It's like watching Scooby-Doo, except it's a James Bond Adventure. Overall this is a decent Bond film and a decent outing for Roger Moore. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Bond Month #8 A Nice Debut for Roger Moore","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Sean Connery retired as James Bond, series producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman turned to Roger Moore, a TV star who's character on The Saint, Simon Templar, was considered adequate training for Bond. It wasn't completely unwarranted, as Moore is a very good James Bond in this movie. Lets take a look at Live and let Die.The story, more modern than some of the other Bonds, involved James Bond (newly minted Roger Moore) must stop a dictator's heroin selling scam which involves a local belief of voodoo. The dictator's tarot card-reading virginal adviser Solitaire (played by the very beautiful Jane Seymour) decides to join forces after her power is gone (or depowered by James if you will), but she also realizes that its bad what he's really doing.From what I have written, the story seems pretty basic, but it's really not. There'a some great action scenes to boot, and the villain and the heroine are really interesting. Yaphet Kotto as Kananga really injects the soul with a delicate blend of menace and smooth charm to great effect. Solitaire is also one of the better Bond girls because she, much like Honey Ryder, is an innocent thrust into a situation which she cannot control.Then there is Baron Samedi. God god Tom Mankiewicz and Guy Hamilton, THANK YOU for Baron Samedi. He is so cool and has a laugh that will get your adrenaline going and the hairs on the back of your neck standing. He's not even the main villain, but somehow he is awesome.Unlike Sean Connery and the other cast form Diamonds are Forever which makes the script and everything else seems silly, the cast here, especially Roger Moore, make it sound like it deserves to be in the Bond universe. Tom Mankiewicz's work is better here than in the previous film so I won't mention that anymore.However, there are some glaring problems with this one. The most noticeable is the unnecessary and unfunny character of Sheriff J.W. Pepper. He has one good line and he is brief, but the other lines and appearance is so alien to this film it makes absolutely no sense, even with the setting of Lousiana he seems over-exaggerated. The boat scene, featuring said Sheriff Pepper, is really too long and runs out of gas very quickly so to speak. And then the ending seems a bit too cheap, I mean cheap in terms of special effects to make Kananga blow up. Well whatever.Live and Let Die is a very good Bond entry. It was Tom Mankiewicz and Guy Hamilton's last hurrah before going out on a whimper with the next film. here is some good action and a great start from Roger Moore, but it is too bad he didn't really get any better in the later ones. But Bond month continues with the film that supposedly almost killed the franchise (the first time) The Man with the Golden Gun. "},{"Title":"Vastly better than Diamonds are Forever","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first Bond outing, where he thwarts a heroin dealer/ Caribbean president's attempts to flood the west with a billion dollars of heroin. Yaphet Kotto takes a brilliant dual role as gangster Mr Big and President Kananga.Well, after the letdown of Diamonds are Forever, which descended into a camp farce with Blofeld about as threatening as Danny La Rue and Sean Connery's Bond looking bored with the whole film, United Artists had to get it right with Roger Moore's first Bond. Except for the worse than useless Rosie Carver, they got it right.Firstly the theme tune is widely regarded as Paul Mc Cartney's best work since The Beatles and really is light years ahead of the Frog Chorus. 38 years later this mixture of rock and reggae still stands up well.Secondly the stunts and the action never let up with the London bus chase in the Caribbean, the boat chase in Louisiana and Bond running over a river full of alligators being exceptional.Thirdly the incompetent comedy sheriff, Mr Big's OTT gangster characterisation, the metal armed Tee Hee and Jane Seymour as Solitaire make the film, as without them the film would be far poorer to watch.Fourthly Live and Let Die sets the template for Roger Moore's next 12 years as Commander Bond. While he can be ruthless at times, his role is more light hearted than the dark Bond sometimes portrayed by Sean Connery and Timothy Dalton and the quips and jokes are even cornier( but we love them all the same). Also there is a huge reliance on gadgets and vehicles in Live and Let Die that would build momentum throughout Moore's tenure and the films would become adverts for companies such as Seiko and General Motors.However, Mr Big is going to take care of you so enjoy Live and Let Die as it is a mixture of fantastic action, comedy and gadgets and is my favourite Moore Bond. "},{"Title":"In which Roger Moore  looks -and fights - like Mr Darcy.","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What is James Bond doing strolling through the tall grass with his shirt half open and wearing high - waisted trousers?Looking like Mr Darcy is what.That's bad enough but there's worse to come - he even fights like Mr Darcy after 55 rounds on Hampstead Heath with Black Jack Garrity the Norwich Ploughboy.Foppish and effete,Bond somehow manages to overcome a veritable army of alumni of the Shaft school of speech and deportment to save America from a tsunami of free heroin courtesy of Mr Yaphet Koto who brings a certain amount of dignity to his somewhat stereotypical role.Mr Moore,too charming by half for a ruthless spy,plays Bond as a continuation of his character in The Persuaders.Sadly Live and let die has no Tony Curtis to deflate his Pomposity and he lords it over the rough and ready Americans in the manner for which the English have become despised all over the world. Miss Jane Seymour is very beautiful but unconvincing as the virginal soothsayer who succumbs to Mr Moore's rather sleazy 46 year old charms. There is nothing remotely funny about voodoo and the graveyard sequences are at best patronising.The speedboat chase goes on for far too long and the redneck sheriff an embarrassing unamusing irrelevance. The only time I laughed was when Mr Moore skipped across a pond full of crocs and gators as blithely as Wayne Sleep. What started with the sharp and splendid Dr No was already showing signs of terminal boredom and lazy - minded indifference.Unfortunately it was soon to become endemic and last for the next decade until the return of Mr Connery. "},{"Title":"The best Bond song, but not the best Bond film","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's debut as secret agent 007 is intriguing and exciting as he portrays the infamous James Bond in a very charming and secretive way, more so than Connery who was very professional and more rugged in his role. I'm personally a bigger fan of Connery and Brosnan but Moore still does the role justice in this 1973 adventure about Bond trying to track down a fate believing drug lord.The plot is slightly confusing the first half an hour in or so but once speed boats, helicopters, crocodiles and Solitaire are added the film takes a turn in the right direction, becoming exciting throughout. Its one of the more mysterious Bond films, with mystery surrounding significant characters and events right until the very end.This film features, in my opinion, the best Bond song ever written. Paul and Linda McCartney's Live and Let die is exciting and passionate, and deserved the Oscar nomination for Best music, original song.The action sequences are mesmerizing, if slightly dated now. The characters are excellent. Despite not having much dialogue, Jane Seymour's (Dr Quinn, Medicine woman) portrayal as card reading Solitaire is sophisticated and interesting to watch.The use of voodoo and fate are very strong and portrayed well, if somewhat bizarrely.I couldn't help but feel disappointed as a few questions were unanswered at the end of the 2 hour film. I also felt certain situations and scenes could have been directed and handled better but regardless it's a good Bond film, not the best but an interesting one and fairly exciting adventure nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Bond","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first thing that comes to mind when thinking of Live and Let Die is how abominable the score is. Seriously, what was George Martin thinking? More importantly, why hire George Martin and not a more acclaimed and well-known film composer to replace John Barry, arguably one of the very best film composers of all time? Even the quite spectacular and hugely enjoyable action scenes are partly ruined by the almost unbelievably horrible music, and really, I love the title song, but I was so sick of the multiple uses of it by Martin here, including an awful scene where it's sung by a club singer, that I don't think I'll listen to it for months.Live and Let Die doesn't keep much of Fleming's plot, but it somehow still manages to be a more faithful adaptation than some other Bond films. That's not necessarily a good thing in this particular case as Fleming's plot is his weakest, I think, and this film's plot doesn't do much to improve on it, and still includes the obnoxious voodoo and supernatural elements. It's a pretty standard plot, with hints of blaxploitation sneaking in, but the script is still a vast improvement over Diamonds are Forever, although the same sort of dumb humor geared for 12 year olds is still present here, but it's nowhere near as intrusive.This film, of course, marks Roger Moore's debut as 007. I actually think it's probably his best performance in the role; he is quite good here, and there's a mean streak in his performance that doesn't show up much in some of his later performances, where he's so suave he becomes completely unbelievable as a spy. He is still my least favorite Bond (in the EON series, at least), and also one of the best actors to play the part. What a sad, sad waste of talent. I blame the producers and writers first. Regardless of later performances, his debut is solid here.In spite of my dislike of much of this film, the general plot, the villains/henchmen, the Bond girls, the 'humor' (which breaks the momentm of the excellent speedboat chase thanks to Sheriff Pepper and his unbelievably unfunny antics), it's still a well-made film with some real high points. Most of the action is very good, and it never really becomes intolerable, and the scene with the crocs and alligators is very good. Guy Hamilton's direction improves drastically on his lazy work for Diamonds are Forever, and at least makes the film look somewhat better than your average TV movie. Sadly, the high points are easily canceled out by the insultingly horrible score and J.W. Pepper. It's not a bad film, just mediocre. Not one of the better entries at all.5/10 "},{"Title":"Shaft, John Shaft ... er, wait a minute...","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Released at the height of the blaxploitation craze, Live and Let Die is one of the most dated Bond films. There are a lot of black actors wearing clothes and hairstyles that no one would be caught dead in today. In fact these fashions were passé within a year or two of the film's release.But that's part of the film's charm. Its real problems are the sloppy editing and incoherent plot. Bond films generally aren't heavy on the plot, so that's not a big deal, but LALD jumps from one scene to another with a breezy insouciance that almost disregards natural story flow. It's basically a collection of set pieces stitched together. The overall feel of the film is as tacky as those early 70s fashions.This was the first Roger Moore film, and it's interesting that it didn't torpedo the franchise altogether. I've come to appreciate Roger Moore, but at the time the switch from Connery to Moore was jarring. Moore's natural urbanity is actually somewhat closer to Ian Fleming's characterization, but it's offset by the filmmakers' decision to take almost nothing seriously. It's almost all high camp, and there's no sense of menace or suspense.For all that, it's still entertaining. Part of the magic of Bond films is that even the slightest of them manage to be absorbing. There's always a spectacular chase sequence or hair-raising escape, a gorgeous scantily-clad damsel, and a crazed super-villain, and so what if doesn't make much sense? And there's the Paul McCartney score... "},{"Title":"Some nice elements but pretty dull","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  That Live and Let Die offers a glimpse into African-American street culture is a nice twist, much like the Octopussy cult in Octopussy, but Live and Let Die suffers from too much walking around and not enough action.  Roger Moore is fine as Bond, even though he's not given much to do, and Jane Seymour makes for an interesting and very classy heroine.  What action there is in the movie is fairly basic and rather dull.  There is some decent comedy and JW Pepper isn't as grating in this as he is in The Man with the Golden Gun.  The stereotyping in the movie in all directions is a little annoying and betrays that the characters don't have much to say that's interesting.  The relationship between Bond and Solitaire also turns the drug dealing into a subplot and it's not a big deal when Bond blows up the field.  Quarrel Jr. is a nice touch and David Hedison is good in his first turn as Felix Leiter.  Not an awful movie but should have had more to it.6.3/10  "},{"Title":"Incongruous","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This 007 adventure seems out of place when compared to the rest of the films in the Bond series.  This is because the film is tainted with fatuous voodoo that has no place in a Bond adventure.  Moreover, it doesn't seem to adhere to the Bond formula at all.  Firstly, there are no exotic locations in the film; Harlem is not a place that I would like to be and the island of San Monique is not redolent of the picturesque nature of the Caribbean.  Secondly, there is no action in the pre-title sequence to whet the appetite of the audience.Roger Moore makes his first appearance as Bond and this seems to allow the series to progress.  We have an impassively nefarious nemesis called Kananga who makes a refreshing change from Blofeld, who was ubiquitous in nearly all Bond movies hitherto.  While his plan is undoubtedly heinous it does not appear to be disastrous or apocalyptic in any way.  As I have said, the voodoo scenes prove to be tedious rather than interesting and this attenuates the movie.The musical score and style are redolent of the 1970s.  The way in which the Bond theme is amalgamated with the Live and Let Die theme is perspicacious but I would have liked to have seen the original Bond theme used to make the viewer more at home.  Q is absent from this film and consequently the humour is ineffectual.  The set of M's and Moneypenny's office was not used in this film and this results in the film losing the distinctive Bond style somewhat.This offering is bizarre for a Bond adventure and you will need a compass to find out where you are.  Fortunately, this didn't taint Roger Moore's Bond career and he was able to put this one behind him with later espionage classics. "}{"Title":"A poor start for Moore","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Now that all the James Bond movies are on DVD, I have gone back to watch each one chronologically. The first of the Roger Moore films as Bond is disappointing. Aside from a great boat chase near the end of the film, the entire movie lacks the constant sense of danger and thrill that are trademarks of the original Bond films. Moore seems unsure of how his version of Bond is to act and he creates a Bond that his both weak and uninteresting. His lust for the Tarot card reader Solitaire, is nothing more than just a cheap excuse to get laid and he shows none of the growing passion for her that he shows in later films (for a truly sexy Roger Moore as Bond, go back and visit For your eyes only). In this film, the villains are inept,stereotypical pimp baddies, the plot stupid and the entire film is a sort of bad version of Bond meets Shaft. Connery was consistent in all of his films and to be fair, Moore does better in later attempts as 007. As for this film, Live and let it Die.  "},{"Title":"007 and Voodoo Magic Do Not Mix","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It was Roger Moore's chance to step into the shadow of Bond after the likes of Connery and Lazenby had played their part. Moore's comedic approach never sat well with me and his outings cannot be taken seriously. He is undoubtedly good fun in the role, but he is also the last person that springs to mind when I think of Bond.This is the first Bond film where we do not see the organisation of SPECTRE for a lengthy period. Bond instead goes up against a heroin manufacturer who uses the threat of Voodoo dolls and black magic as a front to disguise his true business and intentions.Live and Let Die feels like a product of its times. It is a wacky Bond entry that was made in the 70s. Yet it is embarrassing in its treatment of the material. The voodoo elements ring false on several occasions and make it likewise hard to buy into. For me personally Roger Moore is the weakest Bond. So why was he granted seven separate entries? Seems a bit much considering that Sean Connery had six.No one can deny that the racial slurs used throughout the film make you feel uncomfortable and awkward. Mentions of the word honkie and jokes regarding the Ku Klux Klan make the film more of a chore than a pleasure to sit through. You can rest assured that no other Bond film would be this unwise. Although I have many issues with the treatment of the story, Live and Let Die is not a total loss, just impossible to recommend to the casual viewer. The villains; Mr Big and Kanaga make for an excellent pair coming across as egotistical, twisted and mad. The girl Solitaire is a favourite for many and it's easy to pinpoint why. Her fragile nature, natural beauty and virginity make her a heavenly creature. The set pieces are inventive using many elements that provide sufficient thrills, such as sequences involving crocodiles, speedboats and a bus! It is certainly not Bond, but by all accounts it is a hard film to dislike.Live and Let Die would prove the limit for most Bond fans. Can you stomach racial slurs and stereotypes? If you can overlook these factors and regard the film as a product of its time then you are bound to gain more joy watching it than I did. As for myself I have no desire to ever return again to Live and Let Die. But as a strange peculiarity it demands one viewing at the very least. "},{"Title":"I miss Sean Connery!","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I miss Sean Connery as bond, I am not a huge Roger Moore fan so I can't rate it higher my fingers won't click that high!OK that aside its not bad, its a very colourful adaptation of James Bond that's for sure even the bad guys are colourful that has to be said. Not a film to watch in Black and White.. There is the usual Bond action, good humour, love interests.I must say it has an element of mystery to it, which is good and its not as cheesy as some of the more modern incarnations of Bond. The action sequences in this film are pretty good. Paul McCartney's Live and Let die remains to this day one of my favourite Bond Theme Songs. "},{"Title":"Despite a Strong Performance From Roger Moore, Bond's Voodoo Misadventure is Silly, Shaky and Uneven","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore is surprisingly adept in his first run as legendary super-spy James Bond. While failed replacement George Lazenby may have better looked the part, Moore's understanding of the nuances and intangibles that define the character are dead-on. He feels cocksure, smooth and cunning, albeit not quite as deadpan as Sean Connery, and that makes him quite easy to swallow as the new leading man. Unfortunately, his first outing is not among the character's best. Overwhelmed with trendy stereotypes from the blaxploitation era, those connections seem mismatched and strained, as if the series is trying too hard to be fresh and contemporary at its own expense. Far too many outlandish characters crowd the screen, too, from the body-painted voodoo lord Baron Samedi to the gimmicky, iron-clawed henchman Tee Hee Johnson (who, naturally, giggles in every single scene). We've got a tarot card-reading virgin dubbed Solitaire, a soft-spoken behemoth named Whisper, an overzealous hayseed sheriff plucked straight from The Dukes of Hazzard and a villainous mastermind who specializes in Mission Impossible-styled makeup effects. It's too much, a wash of color so rich that the picture turns grey. Bond's wacky gizmos are sadly downplayed (poor Q doesn't even get to show his face), while the plot seemingly exists only to transition Moore from one drawn-out chase to the next. I'm still not entirely sure where Mr. Big's endgame was meant to carry him. Even the classic McCartney theme song, which I love on its own merit, is a bad fit for the series. An effective opening statement for Roger Moore's validity in the role, it's otherwise a groan-worthy batch of bad ideas and missed connections. "},{"Title":"Live and Let Down","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the release of Diamonds Are Forever the Saltzman-Broccoli corporation indicated that they intended to take the Bond series into a more campy and comical direction. It was Connery's last time playing the superspy and he showed that, even if from this film forward all the actor playing Bond was going to have to do is walk thru the part, you could still walk the walk with style and charisma. The studio had a daunting task on their hands attempting to find an actor who could step into the role the first time Sean left so, this time, they decided to not even try. Enter Roger Moore.Now Roger's probably a very lovely man and a credit to his profession but he has all the macho charisma of a junior accountant. Never in his many dreary appearances as Bond did I ever honestly believe he could kick anyone's ass. In this, his first stab at the role, he tries to force some information out of a double agent by pointing his gun at her head and telling her that he'll shoot her if she doesn't talk. Roger, you couldn't crush a cockroach and you sure don't convince me that you have it in you to shoot anyone. (And he doesn't either. The girl just runs away from him.) There are a lot of problems with this film. For instance it continues the unfortunate trend of the use of offensive stereotypes (the submissive sex doll Japanese girls in You Only Live Twice, the mincing gay assassins in Diamonds Are Forever) for cheap laughs. The death of Kananga is ludicrous and a very disappointing climax to the story. But by far the biggest problem with this movie is the introduction of Mr. Moore as the title character. You can see him struggling to get some kind of handle on the role in nearly every scene that he can't just simply be The Saint in. Near the end of his stretch as Bond (a stretch that even he admits went on for far too long) his Bond is dressed as a circus clown, big red nose, floppy shoes and all. He finally finds his handle on the role. If you enjoy Bond played for laughs then Roger's your guy. Everyone else should probably just skip ahead to Timothy Dalton's flicks. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's debut and a glimpse of the next decade.","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die gives us Roger Moore's debut as 007. Moore had been a contender when Connery left the first time, but was committed to the Saint. The Saint made him an international star and showcased his talents for action and comedy. He brought those talents here, for good and bad. With Moore in the role, we could say goodbye to the cool killer of the early Connery films. Now, we would get a lot more jokes, but they were somewhat compensated by bigger stunt sequences.The film is a pretty mixed bag. It starts out with a bang, as we see agents knocked off left and right, with horrific voodoo-inspired trappings. We are introduced to our new Bond in bed, establishing that Moore's Bond still enjoys the ladies. Then we see that gadgets will be everywhere and too many will exist for gags. We also get an attempt to cash in on the Blaxploitation boom, complete with racist trappings. Jane Seymour is a welcome surprise and Yaphet Kotto has moments, but they are too often undercut by bad comedy.Now, the film isn't all bad. The theme song, from Paul McCartney, is one of the best in the series. Felix Leiter gets a lot more to do here and is ably played. The speedboat chase is brilliant and there are many memorable lines. Many is the time I have quoted Sheriff JD Pepper's, Secret Agent? On whose side? Pepper actually serves a purpose here and is pretty entertaining. The henchmen Tee-Hee has some outstanding scenes, such as his introduction of the alligators and crocodiles to Bond, and the story of how he got his mechanical hand. The gator farm has some real menace to it, just as the island scenes have some real horror. Jane Seymour is fantastic as Solitaire, Kananga's seer and Bond's love interest. Yaphet Kotto is great as Kananga, both charming and menacing, in the grand tradition of Goldfinger and Largo. Moore handles the role well, deftly moving from comedy to action without missing a beat. In all, the good outweighs the bad; but, the bad is pretty heavy.The racial elements are pure stereotype and are sad to see. Kananga is undercut by appearing as Mr. Big and his death is beyond silly. His henchmen, apart from Tee-Hee, aren't exactly the cream of the crop. Whisper? Really? The villains shouldn't exist for fat jokes. The central plot of drug smuggling seems a bit beneath Bond, however topical it might have been. When you have stopped nuclear holocausts and World War III, a drug baron is small time. Finally, Kananga's scheme seems a bit overly complex for something as simple as drug running. It definitely feels like the script was the product of a committee, rather than the evolution of a good idea.In the end, the film mostly succeeds in entertaining that you can forgive its shortcomings. Moore proves to be good as James Bond, albeit a different kind of Bond. He would carry the franchise for over a decade and to huge box office and his films got better. It's still better than Diamonds are Forever, but I actually think OHMSS is vastly superior. It's a rough start, but it would pan out. "},{"Title":"Voodoo kids' stuff...the 8th Bond lacks spirit and snap","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When three British agents around the globe are mysteriously killed, Agent 007 of the Secret Intelligence Service connects the murders to a drug-trafficking cartel based on an island in the Caribbean. Roger Moore, formerly The Saint on television, makes his debut as James Bond; he's well-dressed and in good physical shape, but distinctly ordinary. Roger Ebert, film critic for the Chicago Sun-Times, wrote that Moore has the superficial attributes for the job...but who wants a superficial James Bond? Even more ordinary than Moore is the lackluster screenplay from Tom Mankiewicz; this meandering adventure plays like a Bond-imitator instead of the real thing. Jane Seymour is attractive as the psychic adviser to Yaphet Kotto's kingpin, and Julius Harris is an intimating henchman with a hook for a hand, but Gloria Hendry's perplexing double agent exemplifies the muddled rest. Action scenes are stilted and the editing is lax, causing the picture to grind along helplessly. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Moore's debut is one of the weaker entries","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore took over the role of Bond from the departing Sean Connery (which is a good thing considering his obvious boredom in Diamonds Are Forever). The result is a radical shift in tone and a Bond that is quite near a polar opposite. However, the series is one of the most adaptable in screen history and this would prove no exception.Bond Moore's interpretation is not for everyone. He is significantly lighter and plays Bond in a light-hearted, almost prissy manner. He completely lacks the tough sexiness of his predecessor, but he also knows it and does not try to enter into an area in which he will undoubtedly fail.The villains Yaphet Kotto, Julius Harris and company are pretty standard and largely forgettable. Geoffrey Holder is an intriguing presence, but his character has very little to do with the action.The women Jane Seymour is lovely and exotic, but does not have much to do as the villain's clairvoyant mistress who naturally succumbs to Bond's charms.Taking a beat from the new leading man, the film itself is largely tongue-in-cheek. Purists will either stomp around in a huff or put their brains on hold in order to enjoy this fast-paced, if underwhelming, effort. The locales seem exotic enough, but the characters (including the leads) seem more borrowed from a blacksploitation film of the period rather than the trusty spy genre. Clifton James is on-hand, apoplectic, sputtering and apparently auditioning for the future roles of buffoonish Southern sheriffs, like Buford T. Justic and Roscoe P. Coltrane. The semi-supernatural elements are unusual for a Bond film. The title song by Paul McCartney and Wings is arguably the film's greatest asset. "},{"Title":"My least favourite Bond film","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore makes his 007 debut in this mediocre Bond film that trys to be too diffrent from the others. A boring villain too even though he's played by a brilliant actor, a plot that doesn't seem fitting for 007, heroin smuggling surely thats more of a job for Shaft or Starsky and Hutch or someone. Plus wheres Q!, and what a rubbish pre-credits sequence Bond wasn't even in it! The first rule for Bond films is the pre credits must show Bond completing his current mission, don't meddle with the formula. I like Roger Moore as Bond but after this film I'm surprised they made another, luckily for him there was better Bond films to come, noteably The Spy Who Loved Me now that film knew what a Bond film was meant to be. On the plus side Jane Seymour is gorgeous and Paul McCartney delivered a cracking title song, Beatles producer George Martin is no John Barry though when it came to the score. Things can only get better for Bond after this outing. Luckily for Roger they did. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the (almost) end for Bond","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  To this day, I have never been able to sit through this entire film in spite of repeated attempts. To be quite frank, if I wrote a series of novels about a secret agent or a mercenary, and some producer had a man like Roger Moore portraying the character in any of the resultant films, I would disown those episodes of the film franchise. I'd make no secret of it, either.So where do I begin with Roger Moore? Well, for one thing, I find him about as believeable in the role of a secret agent as I find Denise Richards in the role of a nuclear scientist. It just doesn't work. I've met a number of individuals whom I would not be surprised to hear of working for MI6 or the CIA (or as free agents a la Ronin), and none of them get themselves confused with Hugh Hefner. In comparison to Sean Connery's dry, earthy humour and George Lazenby's tragic Romeo-like performance in a doomed romance, Moore has little of interest to offer. His rating as a Bond is further weakened by comparisons to the aggressive humanity that Timothy Dalton brought to the role, or the smooth professionalism that has become Pierce Brosnan's trademark (he is so far the only Bond actor I'd believe in the role of an assassin or secret agent). Thus, a rut was fallen into during the Bonds from 1973 to 1985 the same old boring sex jokes repeated over and over and over. If anyone believes for a second that anyone living in England, other than those in serious positions of power that is, during the 1970s and 1980s behaved like this, then I have a bridge I'd like to sell you.Maybe I expect too much from films, but when I ask to be entertained, I expect something refined and intelligent. Moore's films have neither of those things. Instead, they just have more women draping themselves around the sets, trying to make up for the lack of story with their sex appeal. The story here, such as it is, had something to do with James Bond investigating the illegal business activities of a heroin baron known as Mr. Big. This is the kind of plot I'd expect to see in an episode of The Bill, not an entry into the James Bond franchise. Think about what's happened in earlier episodes Bond has so far stopped plots to irradiate all the gold in Fort Knox (Goldfinger), to render whole strains of crops sterile (On Her Majesty's Secret Service), and a large-scale diamond smuggling operation (Diamonds Are Forever), to name the examples I am more familiar with. Since Moore's awful tenure, he's gone renegade to avenge a friend (Licence To Kill), and stopped a plot to destroy every electronic circuit in England (GoldenEye), just to name two. So why on Earth are we leaving this small-time garbage for Bond to clean up?My last comment relates to the usual correlation between the quality of Bond theme songs and the films that they are from. On Her Majesty's Secret Service and GoldenEye have the two best Bond themes ever, and not surprisingly, they are the best Bonds of all time simply because they add some much-needed depth to the character. Tomorrow Never Dies has one of the worst Bond themes in existence, and it is a very poor effort in spite of a heroic effort from Brosnan. Live And Let Die, on the other hand, is an exception. Paul McCartney has much more compositional talent than his tenure with the Beatles ever let on, and the Live And Let Die theme is a perfect example of this. It's hard to squeeze much musical ability into a two-minute song, but it works here. Unfortunately, this is all that can be said for this beginning of a real dark age for the Bond franchise. Millions of viewers claim to be saddened by Moore's departure from the role, but after having seen all the other Bond actors, I think I would have been cheering. "}{"Title":"Truly Awful","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Where to begin?  History lesson.1969's On Her Majesty's Secret Service is widely to be considered a failure. The first venture into Bond without Connery, despite being actually one of the best films, is taken as a lesson that Connery is Bond, end of story. So, not only did Connery return for 1971's Diamonds are Forever, but also other elements of OHMSS were quickly dropped.  Elements like, let's see now, plot, story, character, drama.  Useless crap like that.Live and Let Die is the first film to feature Roger Moore, and it continues both the grand tradition of crap set forward by the previous film.  It is truly awful in every conceivable way.  The stunts are horribly contrived and actually quite boring, the acting is terrible across the board (even from actors who have since been proved quite competent), and the story... well, the less said about that the better.As far as Roger Moore is concerned, his performance is totally flat, making him the worst Bond yet by quite a margin.  Later films (mainly For Your Eyes Only) would redeem him and his reign, but he starts in the basement. Nowhere to go but up.Nevertheless, the film was quite successful, as Bond fans have never been interested in good characters, good actors, or good scripts.  But perhaps someone in charge sensed that Live and Let Die was not the formula for lasting success, as the next two films got progressively better. Then came Moonraker, and the crap started rolling again.  More on that later.A truly terrible disappointment, especially from the director of Goldfinger.   "},{"Title":"One of the better Bond films starring Roger Moore","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Despite the film having a lot of mumbo jumbo (such as voodoo and fortune telling), it is a standout film and much, much better than the last Bond film, DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER. While I would agree that Sean Connery is the best of the Bonds, his last film was simply awful--with lousy writing and too much self-parody to be taken seriously. Here, Roger Moore steps into the role and was blessed with much better writing and a nice lack of the gadgetry that so hindered the franchise. Over the years, gadgets took precedence over intelligent writing--here, there is no 'Q' and the film seems more menacing and realistic.So what are the short-comings? Well, as I mentioned above, there is a lot of silliness with the fortune telling and voodoo. Also, the Southern sheriff bit with Clifton James (which was repeated, oddly, in the next film), was played for laughs--disrupting the general flow of the film.Still, it's a better Bond film--one of Moore's best. "},{"Title":"Last true Bond film for some time","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore was a joke.  According to this database, he was (and, of course, still is) three years OLDER than Sean Connery - a fact which alone makes him a bizarre choice for the role of James Bond.  He's English, but doesn't sound at all comfortable with the particular English accent he puts on here.  And he's a block of wood.  Just watch him as he walks into the `funky' black nightclub whenever he turned around I half expected to see a `Kick Me' sign sticky-taped to his back.Somehow the spirit of previous Bond movies has managed to survive (although it wouldn't for much longer).  How this happened I have no idea.  A few things are new the soundtrack is by George Martin, the girl Bond gets in the end (Jane Seymour) is unusually innocent, the villain is a drug baron.  All of this works well, even the drug baron thing.  Other experiments are in questionable taste.  This is the first Bond movie to contain a swear word - just one - and until you hear it you can have no idea how something so apparently trivial can ring so false.  There are comical Southern types who don't belong, either.  One of them is called Billy-Bob, or has a friend called Billy-Bob, or something equally ludicrous.  It's bad enough for James Bond to have anything to do with the police to begin with; and I don't care what anyone says, no-one is REALLY called `Billy-Bob' it just sounds too silly.`Live and Let Die' somehow manages to survive all of this.  But as we can all see in retrospect, it was the beginning of the end. "},{"Title":"Corny","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie starts off as typical James Bond movies do, sets off the image of how the movie is going to play out and that's fair. And then it goes from there to a man who tries to kill James on the highway. That's fair but the storie starts to get a little ridiculous when James Bond goes into Harlem. At this point you realize that there's no art no flair to this movie like you see in other James Bond movies. And if you thought it was bad in Harlem wait til Bond gets to the islands and He has to deal with a ghost, let me tell you that's about where I start to get up and take a walk. Now after Bond meets the ghost we are introduced to the sheriff from the Dukes of Hazard. At this point I got to tell you the whole thing is just ridiculous. Now I love me some James Bond, But I just don't think this movie was done at all artistically like some of the other James Bond flick's. The song is the only thing good about this whole move. "},{"Title":"More racist than L.A. Clippers owner Donald Sterling . . .","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" . . . LIVE AND LET DIE goes beyond the rap industry's ubiquitous use of the N-Word to flaunt the even more incendiary H-Word. An ancient contraction for hung like a donkey, this nuclear option of derogatory terms (formerly applied to plantation masters) is slapped at least three times upon Roger Moore in his feature debut as James Bond in LIVE AND LET DIE. This foot-long stereotype may have been widely circulated during the Antebellum days of yesteryear, but by LIVE AND LET DIE's 1973 release movie producers should have known enough NOT to Sexploit an entire class (White men, represented by Mr. Moore, in this case), no matter how scientifically valid what started out as an old women's tale might prove to be. The unquestioning perpetuation of such racial superiority myths by flicks in the mode of LIVE AND LET DIE helps to account for why an underachiever such as Mickey Rooney was plagued by eight wives, or a Mr. Cheesy (Bill Clinton) had to beat off interns with a stick. LIVE AND LET DIE is devoted almost entirely to jealous and over-compensating Black men killing and trying to slay White men. The past 50 years have been marked by enough racial tension in real life. Hollywood has no business trying to stir the pot even more. "},{"Title":"Let it Die...","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why fans put Lazenby & Dalton at the bottom of the list. Sure they were bad, but Moore transformed Bond from confident to annoying. Connery was cool - someone to admire and worth pursuing. Moore looks like a prissy drag who'd rather be at home ironing his pants; who'd rather be talking your ears off then getting on with it. It's as if for him, enunciating and just being British is the key to playing Bond.I find it hard to believe guys identify with Moore. The Moore films injected some really unwelcome smugness into the series. And like the 70s itself, this movie is Ug-LY. The palette is garish. Adventures like this are where bad 70s tv series got their ideas. "},{"Title":"Obligatory cast for the day !","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It wouldn't matter which James Bond showed up for this racial appeasement film of the decade. Its neither a good spy flick nor an accurate portrayal of ethnic culture. I was curious why Yaphet wasn't portraying Bond. If you can get past the smell on this one you are far better than I. Look for it as a cult flick on the black tv net. "},{"Title":"Sad Follow-up","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sad follow-up to a movie which should never have been (Diamonds Are Forever), Live And Let Die only makes matters worse. Connery is definitely gone now, with the eternal substitute Roger Moore filling in not so much as James Bond but as Roger Moore. It's impossible to not like Seymour, but Kotto's performance goes largely unappreciated because of the tired screenplay. Beware the assurances that Roger Moore slips into the role easily. Exceptionally sad theme by Wings - a song which would not have been even this good without the assured assistance of George Martin, who managed to salvage a bit of it. "},{"Title":"Racist and sterotypical","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Is it just me or did anybody find this movie racist? I think we overact today when anybody says the word 'racist' but this movie was just ridiculous for both blacks and whites!I turned on half way through the movie to see a bunch of blacks planning some evil scheme to kill all the white people (?!). They all have afro's and look like a motley crew. This group has also somehow procured a massive underground facility and it is hilarious to watch the black bodyguard to talk with his ridiculous accent and fill the stereotypical black role.I came back 10 minutes later to see the exact opposite - a bunch of redneck cops and park rangers! One of the cops has a ridiculous accent and acts so stupid that frankly I found it offensive. Then we see his brother (or was it cousin?), who is incidentally a park ranger, polishing up his brand new speed boat (maybe thats the business I need to get in??). Predictably, bond steals the boat and a boat chase ensues.I switched back to the movie about 10 minutes later to see a bunch of blacks dancing around like savages and performing odd ceremonies. Anybody else find it odd that there are 100 of these dancers and bond shoots one of them and they all suddenly back off? Then the black god rises out of his grave by an elevator (!!?) and bond shoots him and the movie is over! Of course, nobody asks questions about the stolen boats or the cars they destroyed.Some of the bond movies have been less than stellar (Tomorrow never dies, the world is not enough) but this one is a definite miss.  Relatively poor acting and unbelievable plot make this one to miss.  "},{"Title":"Get Less!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What the heck was this?!?! Roger Moore replaces Connery as Bond and Moore needs a lot of improvements in his performance as Bond.In this picture Bond is up against Mr. Big, a heroin smuggler and his voodoo gang.**out of****stars "}{"Title":"Moore steps into a dying series.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore replaces Connery who rightfully backed out of this series for a decade. Moore ensures that not only is the series ridiculously goofy, but now so is Bond himself. Moore is the ultra-goofy Englishman and with this movie it seems as if Bond is dealing with a street gang instead of the organized enemies of previous films. The series here continues to uncontrollably spiral downwards and the only good thing here is that Jane Seymour is hands down the best looking Bond girl up to this point. But Moore, who is 24 years older than her, looks ludicrous as her lover.  "},{"Title":"No more Moore!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first James Bond film featuring Roger Moore.  It also features a scissor-handed villain and an interesting coffee machine.  And it also has Yaphet Kotto of Homicide fame as the arch-villain.  Frankly, I'd rather see Moore get killed and Kotto ride off alive than the other way around.  "},{"Title":"Tales of a sex-addicted misogynist","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although I have no quarrel with Moore's Bond, it's hard to believe we ever tolerated or venerated the type of needy autistic womanizing this Bond indulges in. This of course before the days of recycling when females were disposable by the most convenient method available (Walther PP or shark). This movie has one message only, Women are weak. Men are strong.The delectable Madeline Smith is the first face we see in this movie, and there after we see too little of her. "},{"Title":"Just Doesn't Feel Right","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm an avid Bond Fan and this is one of my least favorite Bond films, it just doesn't feel right.Harlem, New Orleans, Bayou, Voodoo, Human Sacrifice, Heroin Smuggling. The ingredients seem more adapt for an Indiana Jones Film than James Bond. Roger Moore does a good job as Bond, a little too pretty, but the screenplay and pace just drag along. However the aspect that makes me cringe the most is the Louisianian Sheriff. He's unnecessary, annoying, stereotypical and in the movie WAY too long. I literally have to fast forward his scenes. His inclusion is the single worst mistake in James Bond Franchise. (not too mention his unwelcomed Cameo in Man With a Golden Gun, cringe!).This movie doesn't feel like a Bond Movie. It sounds like one, great Theme Song!Looks like one, good actors, good action sequences, love scenes...but it just doesn't feel like a James Bond Movie. 5 out of 10, I'd pick many other Bonds before this one. "},{"Title":"Weak Bond Entry","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Suffers from lack of clear narrative (I'm still unclear as to why the UN ambassador was killed at the beginning) & a weak plot (you mean there's drug smuggling going on in the Caribbean?  Stop the presses!!!).  Bond is sent to investigate what the connection between a Harlem hoodlum and a island ambassador might be.  The answer is heroine and a tarot reading Bond-babe (Jane Seymour in her film debut).  Roger Moore takes over the 007 role with style, but he's given a weak script, no Astin Martin, his PPK is crushed in the first 20 minutes and he gets only ONE, yes, ONE gadget...a magnetic watch.  OOOoooooo.... Q must have looked through 100 comic book ads to find that baby.For collector's only.  Unless you have a need to hear Paul McCartney's theme song or a desire to see Bond chased through the Louisiana Bayou by a backwoods, bumpkin sheriff in a rather sluggish boat chase, this one's a snooze. "},{"Title":"The best of the worst","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Moore films are so bad, I wouldn't even classify them as Bond flicks. They are more like the Saint come to America only more boring than the TV show ever was.  Roger Moore (or the producers) obviously wanted to lighten up the series, but it neither needed or was meant to have this levity.Live and Let Die is the best of the worst of these movies. I rate it a four out of ten and it only gets the four because of the great Boat chase... Other than that it is not worth watching. "},{"Title":"By Far, the worst of the Bond Films!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore as Bond 7 Music -13 Plot Line 1 Acting Lets Just say better luck next time! Overall rating barley a 2! Arrgh!  Where is Spectre when you need them? I'll even deal with Mr. Kidd and Mr. Witt and their gerbils! It's not Roger Moore that makes this a real stinker it's everything else. Actually, Moore as Bond is not so bad. Sort of a buffoon. Tolerable but Sean Connery is the class act!Live and Let Die sucks because, it's basically 007 mixed with Rowan and Martin's Laugh In and the puker Love American Style. This turkey on film proclaims once and for all yes, this is the decade straight out of hell the 70's. All that was needed was some lame drug humor with Cheech and Chong. Talk about a long over the top movie. And, no John Barry music! This ads insult to injury. Paul Mc. Cartney's theme is OK. Actually a keeper in comparison to his latest foray into movie music with that horrible, terrible awful Vanilla Sky. That one is like fingernails across the blackboard! Live and Let Die is basically an early 70's Black exploitation piece of dreck. Go see Shaft instead. Jane Seymour is hot, better than big haired Jill St. John but by this point, the doggy is barking and the skunk is raising his stinky tail at Live and Let Die. I actually feel that Man With The Golden Gun is far superior than this piece of you know what. By now most of you who read my reviews know my love for the 70's. Besides Cheech and Chong's vapid drug humor, only other gimmick missing from this dreck would have been tricky Dickey saying sock it to me. So far, the bottom of the barrel in the Bond series! In an earlier post, a fellow writer said that Ian Fleming was prohibited from using Blofeld. I thought Fleming died in a car crash back in 1966. Please set me straight on this.  "},{"Title":"Well, it made me laugh (at it, not with it)","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Unfortunately, Live and Let Die turns out to be an awkward, non-serious attempt at silly humor, sharply setting it apart from the Connery predecessors that emphasized tense espionage action and suspense. While the previous Bond films dealt with outlandish situations at times, they maintained a serious atmosphere with some subtle wit; L&LD is just one long, loud joke of a movie.The movie seems to be a collection of random scenes thrown together carelessly, and often does not seem characteristic of a Bond movie. The boat chase sequence was action-packed, but the excessive inclusion of comic scenes (the chaos at the wedding, the swimming pool incident) were unoriginal and tiresome. Who came up with the idea of Sheriff Pepper & Co.? I think Bond was unseen for about 10 minutes while the stereotyped sheriff and his pals (all of whom seemed fat and incompetent) droned on about Billy Bob and otherwise lowered the proceedings to a foolish level inappropriate for a Bond film. It all seemed like a bad precursor to Smokey and the Bandit.Moore was a satisfactory Bond and seemed ready for the role, but his debut is hampered by the goofy script he is subjected to. Did he walk onto the wrong movie set? Along with the overlong southern hick scenes, the glaringly awkward Harlem sequences are distracting, making Moore's ascot-and-blazer-wearing Bond look bumbling and drowning his image in eccentric 1970s culture. During one scene, my brother walked into the room and remarked, Oh, is this Dolemite?One wonders whether they were really trying to make a true Bond film. None of it even took place in England (unless the early scenes in the house were in England). M and Mrs. Moneypenny simply make cameo appearances, and the classic scene with Q showing Bond how to use the gadgets is omitted; Q doesn't even appear! Not that much gadgetry is used, other than the watch, which unexplainably gains the ability to act as a cutting blade at the end of the movie. And, surprisingly, Bond never asks for a martini, shaken, not stirred, but instead asks for bourbon on occasion. L&LD is more like a Bond film in regard to its rehash of sequences from old Bond films (the helicopter attack and the fight inside a train sleeping car from From Russia With Love; Bond's assault on an enemy island stronghold from Dr. No and You Only Live Twice).Also disturbing was the high number of gratuitous swear words, used in a manner unbecoming of the series. Of course, much time could be spent criticizing the plot holes and oversights, as well as the fact that the bad guys are presented with hundreds of chances to kill off Bond but instead radio messages to each other or wait until they can assassinate him as elaborately as possible.On a more positive side, the New Orleans murder scenes were clever and deceptive, and more in the tradition of the previous Bond entries (though they depended on the absence of any pedestrians). "},{"Title":"Live and Let Die","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With Sir Sean Connery out of the picture (unless you count Never Say Never Again) and George Lazenby forgotten, we needed a new Bond to fill the famous shoes. They chose a very good Sir Roger Moore. He's the one with just as much charm and humour as the original guy. This time he is in the Caribbean facing the only black villain of the collection, Kananga (Yaphet Kotto). Also he is introduced to the beautiful and mysterious card reader, Solitaire (Jane Seymour). This is a very good start for the new Bond, filled with marvellous scenery and very good action sequences, including a fight with the villain Tee Hee and his metal arm. Also including a good chase sequence involving boats. Also starring Bernard Lee as M and Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny, but no Q! James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 3 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Paul McCartney and Wings' Oscar nominated title song, and it was number 69 on The Ultimate Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"One Of The Worst Bond Films","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was Roger Moore's first Bond film and was released back in 1973. I have never liked him as Bond, because I always thought that he was far too smooth and never looked like a spy, who could be capable of killing anyone. I have never liked this film very much, the music is appalling, it has a boat chase that goes on for far too long and it is not globe-trotting enough. I also must be the only person I know who dislikes the title song by Paul McCartney And Wings, which makes me cringe whenever I hear it. The inclusion of the Sheriff Pepper character was also a mistake, in my opinion and reduces the tone of the film to little more than a parody. Roger Moore was the worst Bond, in my opinion and I actually preferred Timothy Dalton to him, because at least Dalton looked the part. The one saving grace of this film is the character Solitaire, played by Jane Seymour, who was truly beautiful and provides good eye candy. I give this three stars and I regard it as one of the worst in the entire Bond series. The only two official Bond films that I regard as worse than this are Moonraker and Die Another Day. My advice is to stick to the other Bond films apart from these three. "}{"Title":"One Of The Better Bond Films","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  LIVE AND LET DIE is an improvement over the two preceding Bond films . Humour is kept in its place , Guy Hamilton doesn`t reach the artistic heights of GOLDFINGER but improves on DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER , the plot has a relatively realistic idea with Yaphet Kotto playing one of the better villains with the right mix of charm and menace and with all the bad guys being black we get to hear lots of funky dialogue like  Yo , watch out bro you gotta honky on you`re tail  . In these PC times you aren`t allowed to write lines like that anymore which is a shame .Where the film falls down is Roger Moore as Bond . It`s through no fault of his own but Sean Connery is an impossible act to follow , cinema goers must have been shocked in 1962 when they saw a violent anti hero killing bad guys in cold blood in DR NO . Here however there`s no ruthlessness to Moore`s Bond and therefore no real impact , but I suppose both the producers and Moore didn`t want the part played as a Connery clone so this is forgivable and Moore is a lot better than Lazenby , and the series hadn`t developed into farce as we`d see in later Moore Bonds like MOONRAKER and A VEIW TO A KILLSo an entertaining film to watch if you`ve got a couple of hours to spare . Probably Moore`s second best film in the series after THE SPY WHO LOVED ME  "}]