[{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A good, decent film about leaving adolescence behind, and the threshold to adulthood.Sylvester Stallone is very good as Stanley, the pug of the gang, who is facing fatherhood and marriage, and tries to amiably go along. He's not too bright, but he understands there is much more out there. His scene on the roof with Perry King is his way of trying to communicate that the world they have been living in is coming to an end, but, through their dreams and imagination, they can go places and experience other things. Things are changing for him, and he instinctively realizes there is much more to the world than their little corner of Brooklyn.Perry King's Chico, on the other hand, is brighter than he lets on, and he understands all too well what is out there and is waiting for them. The trouble is, in the adult world, he will never again have the freedom and power that he has running the streets with the Lords. Growing up is not something he looks forward to. He resents what he sees as the end of the road. He wouldn't mind living out the rest of his life with the Lords, prowling the streets, knocking up girls, fighting with the clean cut kids. In this world, he is powerful and respected, but he senses it coming to an end. His argument on the roof with Stanley is his rejection of dreaming or imagining something, or somewhere, else. His unfortunate episode with Susan Blakely is his inability to relate to her as another human being. To him, she is still just a chick to be laid, not someone he may have to relate to. Everyone around him is growing up and passing him by, and Chico resents it. He basically wants things to stay just as they are.The final rumble at the football field is an example of the Lords in their element, when they are at their happiest. The aftermath of the fight (the accident) is a further reminder that this life is at an end, and adulthood awaits, whether they are ready for it or not.A decent, entertaining movie. Quite an interesting character study, well-acted, especially by King and Stallone. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to its promise.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here we have early film appearances from a number of guys who went on to varying degrees of stardom. I think this is mostly what this movie's good reputation is based on. But I didn't find it quite so compelling as a film.This flick is about four high school boys in 1950's Brooklyn who belong to a social-athletic club (others would say gang) called the Lords. As is often the case in movies, they all look like they saw the end of high school some years before. The four (Perry King, Sylvester Stallone, Henry Winkler, Paul Mace) are poised on the brink of adulthood and the responsibility that it will bring. The film is shot in a manner that is almost cinema verite, with lots of hand-held cameras getting grainy-looking closeups. The dialog also is obviously meant to be realistic, but I found it often less than scintillating. I waited around for the bigger issues to be tackled and the larger truths to be revealed, but they are not exactly enlightening, either. A faux-'50's music soundtrack doesn't help much.Despite these negative comments, I would give 'The Lords of Flatbush' a marginal thumbs up, mostly for effort. It does do a good job of depicting the culture and local color of the place and time it represents. But this is no definitive film about either coming of age or life in Brooklyn in the 1950's.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always had a soft spot for The Lords of Flatbush ever since I watched it countless times on cable in the late 70's. It's not really a good film in the true sense of the word, but it works well because of the charm of the actors and the fly on the wall style where there are many scenes where nothing much really happens or progressed, but you watch the characters just be themselves. Sylvester Stallone (Stanley), Paul Mace (Wimpy), Perry King (Chico) and Henry Winkler (Butchy) all play their roles with honesty and heart. It's interesting to see how the film pretty much centers around King's Chico first and foremost, with Stallone's Stanley a close second. Mace's Wimpy is there in a supporting role, and Winkler's Butchy disappears for a lot of the time. Mace and Winkler do have one good scene each without any of the other Lords around, when Mace talks with Moose Mombo in the poolhall (alone until the other Lords show up), and Winkler's talk with Eddie the egg cream guy, although this scene is pretty short. Stanley is the tough guy of the group, while Chico is the studly one, the best looking of the four (although Stanley's girlfriend is much hotter than Chico's, and they are both best girlfriends). It becomes apparent at one point that Chico is pretty much a jerk, and has a constant tension with Stanley. Chico is a jerk to Stanley before they trade hits and especially on top of the roof, where Stanley tries to communicate seriously with Chico about imagination. Actually, the last bunch of scenes of the film all revolve around Chico's inability to get along with almost anyone, from the guy dating the girl he likes, the girl herself telling him to grow up, and then with Stanley on the roof. It is a little odd seeing Chico and Stanley have all these tense moments, than seeing Chico at Stanley's wedding with his arm around him like they are the greatest of friends.Stanley is actually much more than a muscle-bound oaf, he's actually very sensitive and has a heart as well underneath the wisecracks. He doesn't have to marry his beautiful girlfriend when he finds out she's not pregnant but does anyway, and he tries to relate his ideas on traveling within your mind to Chico, who shoots him down. Stanley seems to always be the one trying to make their friendship work, even coming up with the idea of stealing a car for Chico so he'd have a better chance with Susan Blakely, the gorgeous new girl in class.None of he music is original 50's music, it's all new music made to sound like it came from that era but some of it is pretty good, especially the songs sung by the gravelly-voiced singer of the opening song.The film is gritty and more realistic because of the low production values. Especially giving the film a realistic feel is a lot of the background lines and things the actors come up with, much sounding very improvised.It was great to have this on a widescreen DVD. The short production notes inside the DVD are pretty interesting, saying that there were scenes reshot and even a whole new ending shot, because they wanted a more upbeat ending. If the original downbeat ending is still around somewhere, as well as the original scenes, they'd be great to put on a Special Edition DVD, which would make sense considering the star power of the actors. The picture on the rear of the DVD is of a scene not in the film, so that's a nice small bonus. There's also at least one thing not in the film that's on the trailer.I bought this on sale for 7 bucks, definitely a great deal. Many DVDs go way down in price because of a looming Special Edition so who knows? "},{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you grew up in this time and place, or a reasonable facsimile, you will understand and appreciate this little gem of a movie.  If you didn't, you won't.Those of us that did will instantly recognize the time, place and character types portrayed here.Its strong points are its accurate capture of the milieu and the characters. In that case, the lack of character development is a positive part of the characters themselves, not a shortcoming.  We know at the outset that most of them are not going to be able to break out from who or what they are, and the ones that survive Viet Nam will end up back in the neighborhood or a transplanted version  of it.  Even when one character recognizes his limited prospects, we're not really sure that he is going to be able to do anything about it.  That's what gives the story line, such as it is,  its bite.On the other hand, the meandering plot and the technical shortcomings keep this film from achieving all that it could have.  If the plot had come up to the standards of the characters and the period accuracy,  and if just a little more attention had been paid to technique, this would have been a classic.As it is, it's not quite there.  But despite its shortcomings, it deserves a place among others of its type. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile not-a-movie","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film really isn't a movie in the conventional sense of the word, in that it  doesn't really have a plot, character development, or even real dialogue. This  film is as if a little hole was torn in time and the viewer is allowed to peek  through. The film feels like  a documentary and the dialogue is largely ad-libbed  and not always well, which gives it a realistic feel. One feels like thesecharacters could actually be real and that they don't exist merely for the sake of  the story. Some may criticize this film for its lack of character development, but  these guys aren't the type to open up and pour out their feelings, and if they try,  it usually doesn't come out right. The realism and authenticity of this film make  up for its lack of character development and swiss cheesy plot. Definitely worth  seeing.  "},{"Title":"A must see film for nostalgia fans","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is Grease without the pop music, the glitz of commercialism or the poor costumes. One thing that makes any stage or movie production is the ability of the watcher to believe that the characters are actually not acting, but living the part they portray. Lords of the Flatbush fulfils this criteria as the audience is taken back to the 1950's. Strangely enough, the 1950's wasn't all about driving around in pink Cadillacs and wall to wall Elvis Presley. Lives had to be led life had to be faced, complete with it's problems and struggles. This wonderfully understated film shows all that and more. If you liked the idea of Grease, but found that it's presentation was about as believable as rocking horse droppings, then this film will satisfy your need much more than it's more celebrated counterpart can ever do. "},{"Title":"Strange And Impressive","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Fifties nostalgia craze started about 1971, and lasted all through the 70s, right into the early eighties, a whole decade of nostalgia devoted to half of a decade one decade previous! I thought it was insane at the time and still do, even though the nostalgic image reduced one of the most interesting decades in American history to irritating clichéd images of leather jackets. It hasn't really ended either, which is just as well, because no sane person could stand nostalgia for the 70s.Lords of Flatbush might seem like just a cheap cash in on a fad, but it's actually very well written. It features minimalist dialogue and slice of life vignettes with very honest performances by King and Stallone. It looks cheaply produced but to me that added to the attraction, it seems to be done in an almost documentary style. AS such, its not really a film about the Fifties---besides the leather jackets and hairstyles, it has little to say about a specific era, but a lot to say about the human condition.This tale of four friends could have been set at any period in history, and the dialogue for once is a true indicator of the mental states of 17 and 18 year olds, there's no breathless philosophizing here. The characters seem to struggle with what they want to say, unable to express their feelings with limited vocabulary and intellect. Watching it is sometimes painful. The best scenes involve Chico's relationship with Jane Bradshaw. (This guy deserves a medal for his taste in females) Chico tries to express his emotions, but hes too young and impatient. He thinks he knows what to say and do, but his words and actions just don't match up.In the end, his efforts at a relationship are too clumsy. I still feel bad for him.I was never a fan of Stallone, but I like his performance here. The main problem with this film is that it's too short. The honest performances make me want to know more about these guys, and it ends abruptly while everything is still going on. Still, taking a look at this movie is worth the time, especially nowadays when finding an honest film made with integrity is very rare. Its kind of---nostalgia for nostalgia! Besides, even if you hate it, you still get to look at Susan Blakely. "},{"Title":"Not so bad, a bit nostalgic!","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had seen this movie on TV shortly after Rocky appeared in theaters, which is ironic considering Lords was made two years earlier. However I had never seen Stallone in another role so this was kind of fun to see him in another role. I can't really remember if I thought the movie was good or bad, but it was definitely involving for a 9 year old kid. In hindsight I remember Winkler getting hit by a car when he runs across the street. That was rather sad. And in the end when there was Stanley's (Stallone) wedding with all his family and pals. Winkler was on crutches and drunk. That was funny. And I thought the ending with the collage of memories passing by was moving and effective. It made me want to relive my youth in a way. If you see Stallone's Paradise Alley which came out in 1978, you will see a similar and moving ending that usually only men could appreciate. I am not going to call this is a great movie, because it is not, but The Lord's of Flatbush has a place in my heart. "},{"Title":"Good Stallone performance","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie overall is pretty boring. There are long pauses accented by giggling and nothing of interest said. It could have been a better film if the script had went through a couple more rewrites. The fake 50s music is awful too, which doesn't help. But with that said, Stallone is really good in this film. There's no ego in the way. In fact, watch Driven, then watch this film and see the difference. You can see in Lords that Stallone was a hungry actor. When you watch him now, you just get a smirking ego who recites lines like cardboard. It's hard to believe this Stallone is the same guy. "},{"Title":"Early roles for future stars","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The 1970's saw a re-emergence of the 1950's and it started with American Graffiti and that spawned more films that I can remember but this effort is both a hit and miss but it is interesting considering the cast. Story is set in Brooklyn in the 1950's and we see four members of a local gang named the Lords but one of them gets his girlfriend pregnant and is pressured into marrying her. Stanley Rosiello (Sylvester Stallone) is the so-called leader of the Lords and his girlfriend Frannie (Maria Smith) tells him that she is late and the rubber band thing didn't work. Meanwhile, Chico Tyrell (Perry King) falls for Jane Bradshaw (Susan Blakely) who is the new girl in the neighborhood but he puts a lot of pressure on her to go all the way. The other two members are Butchey Weinstein (Henry Winkler) who may or may not be thinking about going to college and Wimpy Murgalo (Paul Mace) who is the shortest but doesn't lack in being feisty.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Chico goes out with Jane but she finally has had enough of his pressure and starts going out with another boy. Stanley manages to get Frannie a nice ring but later learns that she is not pregnant but he decides to go through with the wedding anyway. This doesn't stop the four of them from getting involved in a rumble with the football team but it ends with Butchey getting hit by a car.This film is directed by Martin Davidson and Stephen Verona who spent roughly $100,000 to make this with a 16mm camera and even though it's edited horribly and really has no rhythm in it's storytelling the honesty of the performances shines through enough times to make this a fairly effective film. Of course none of these actors look like they belong in high school and they all look like they are approaching 30 if they haven't hit that mark yet. While the cinematography is bumpy and badly lit it still gives the film some sort of realistic quality as if your peering back into time and I've always liked low budget quality camera work if it's done with the right story and I think a story that takes place in 1950's Brooklyn is perfect. I first viewed this film when it was released in the 1970's and at that time I thought Stallone's character was the rough one but after watching it again it dawns on me that King's Chico is the one that is having the most difficulty maturing. Stallone doesn't have to get married but he decides to do the right thing while Chico blows his opportunity with Jane that ends up with her yelling Why don't you grow up? That moment kind of sums up the film and what it was trying to accomplish in it's clumsy way. Blakely is pretty good in her role and the look of disappointment in her eyes at King was something I never forgot from this film. Stallone didn't write the script but he did add lines in certain scenes and his character is clearly patterned after Marlon Brando first with his name Stanley and secondly with the pigeons. Winkler comes off as kind of a laid back guy who gets along with everyone but his role is not written well and if it was it could have helped. Film doesn't have any real pace and it does come across as a bunch of scenes badly edited together but the sincerity of the story and the honesty of the performances make this a film that's worth a look. "}{"Title":"Swing and a miss.","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this film back in the Fonzie craze of the mid 70s , when it was in heavy rotation on TV, due to the fact it stars a fledgling Henry Winkler. I decided to give it another look , and it sure didn't stand up to the test of time very well. I really wanted to like this movie ....being a big fan of other seventies era flashback movies like American Graffiti, The Wanderers, etc. The quality of the film itself, and the sound, is lousy. The camera is often out of focus , and the dialog is unintelligible much of the time.They did manage to nail the greaser look pretty well, with the pegged jeans and pompadours , but the dialog shows little in the way of period correctness. Throw in a shmaltzy , bad soundtrack of meaningless 70s sounding pop ballads (which drown out the dialog,in many scenes),and any attempt to transport the viewer back to 1958 falls flat on it's face. The few lame attempts to throw a little Doo-Wop into the mix are just that  lame. The characters are universally shallow , and never do develop or capture the viewer. Unfortunate,because the film is rife with brooding silences which are supposed to be meaningful but are just plain awkward. We don't know these people, we don't FEEL these people, so the empathy and emotional hook we should feel during these dialog-free moments just isn't there.If you are looking for a plot , storyline, climax, or conclusion ....keep lookin', because this film has none of the above. So we have no compelling characters , no story , and bad music. Hmmm. One scene stands out to spotlight the mediocrity of this film  The Drive-In scene  Chico  What's wrong?(30 seconds of awkward silence)Jane  Nothing.(30 more seconds of awkward silence)Chico  What's wrong ?(30 more seconds of awkward silence)Jane  Nothing !(30 more seconds of awkward silence)I could hardly bear to watch.Really. This movie isn't even bad enough to be funny and entertaining for it's badness , it's just tedious and boring. I watched it through , more from morbid curiosity than anything,just to see if they could muster a meaningful ending. Nope. Just a horrible rooftop scene that has Sly rambling on about Tokyo then rasslin' around with Chico. Oh, then there was the wedding. Pfft. Let's face it  By virtue of having both The Fonz AND Rocky as co- stars, this movie should be a cult classic by default. But it isn't ,mostly due to the fact that it is almost unwatchable. It has gotten more attention than it deserves, due to the presence of those names on the marquee , for sure.... I'm glad I caught this for free on Crackle,but I kind of want my bandwidth back. "},{"Title":"Messy amateurish fifties type fun","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a slick movie. It looks like it was made with cheap handheld cameras, and probably was. The movie is primarily interesting due to the future stars seen here. This was Henry Winkler's first big movie as a greaser type ( this character was NO Fonzie ). Sylvester Stallone is his typical mumbly early self ( I vote for subtitles on his speaking parts on his first 6  Nothing really much happens, just an hour and a half of greaser posing and vague wonderings about futures. Only interesting from a historical perspective. Not reaslly strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Fascinating to see young Sly and The Fonz","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1958 Flatbush neighborhood of Brooklyn. High school friends David 'Chico' Tyrell (Perry King), Stanley Rosiello (Sylvester Stallone), Butchey Weinstein (Henry Winkler) and Wimpy Murgalo (Paul Mace) call themselves the Lord's. They ride motorcycle, wear leather jackets, and are overall juvenile delinquents. Stanley got his girlfriend Frannie Malincanico pregnant and she wants to get married. Chico is having sex with Annie Yuckamanelli. Then WASP Jane Bradshaw (Susan Blakely) is new to their school and Chico tries his best to get with her.It's a lower budget movie that is most notable for young newcomers Perry King, Sly, and the Fonz. Perry King is playing the lead and he's got the leading man looks. Sly shows off his acting skills and one can see Rocky in this performance. He's the most impressive of everyone there. The scene of him buying the ring is so great although the girls disrupted it too much. The Fonz has less screen time and more of a side story. The production is pretty poor and the writing is standard coming of age. Other than a couple of scenes, this is generally pretty slow and amateurish. "},{"Title":"The Lords of Flatbush (1974) **","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1958 Brooklyn, we follow the Lords (or grammatically incorrect Lord's, according to their jackets and the main title), a group of leather-wearing, greased-haired, immature, high school tough guys. At the head of the gang is Stanley (Sylvester Stallone), an intimidating thug with a guarded heart of gold, who's in a dilemma when his rough-talking girl Frannie (Maria Smith) announces she's pregnant. Her best friend Annie (Renee Paris) is dating the handsome Chico (Perry King), but Chico only uses her for sex while really setting his eyes on the new girl in school (Susan Blakely). Butchey (Henry Winkler) is the most bright of the Lords, and could make something better of himself if he wanted. Wimpy (Paul Mace) is a short member of the group who hangs out with his friends for the security it gives him.Most of what occurs on screen has no plot, and consists of vignettes with its cast members. Stallone fares best of all, and some good moments include him bullying a rival gang member in a pool hall, and especially the film's best scene near the end that takes place inside a jewelry store, when Frannie and Annie push Sly into buying a $1600 engagement ring against his will. Henry Winker's promising part was, unfortunately, under-written... but he's got one good scene occurring after hours alone in the local candy store hangout, where the shop owner tries to drill some sense into his head about how much more wisely he could be spending his time. Perry King's Chico is the main character, but he's such a jerk in the movie that he's hard for us to invest in.Ultimately, the movie has a good deal of problems and is only average. At best, this is watchable to me every few years as being one of those nostalgic guilty pleasures that I first saw in the theater when I was around 11 (it even featured the now-defunct Sunrise Drive-In, which was not far from where I lived back then). It's a very cheap film that was shot on 16mm and blown up, which accounts for its rough looking quality, and also for some poor sound issues that make it difficult to discern occasional dialogue. It's got a 1970s rock n roll soundtrack of made up '50s tunes of varying quality, some of which drown out moments of talking at times. But it's still worth at least one viewing to see a young Sylvester Stallone (who would later become ROCKY) and Henry Winkler (in a rough draft for his Fonzie character of HAPPY DAYS) getting to shine in a couple of brief moments. ** out of **** "},{"Title":".","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  LORDS offers a non-stereotypical view of the 50's.Touching, sensitive moments, especially with Stallone and Winkler, make this film linger in my mind...The FONZ was really born here, in Winkler's character. "},{"Title":"The Lord's of Flatbush- Where's the Beef? *","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely inane film dealing with a bunch of street hooligans who show their immaturity and lack of respect.The only good thing about this farce is that there is no violence.Perry King, who has gone on to become the king of television movies, plays Chico, riding around on his motorcycle and going nowhere quickly as is the case with this film.Talk of stereotyping. The film is demeaning to Italian-Americans. Annie and Frannie are the 2 prototypes for LaVerne and Shirley.Sylvester Stallone is gifted at playing hunks with IQ's around 2.The plot here is thin and the writing is even worse. The sound sounds like it is coming out of your local luncheonette.Topics such as teen pregnancy, fighting, unruly behavior in school, and the coming of age are poorly dealt with.Frannie wants to marry the Stallone character so they can watch American Bandstand together. The film suffers from a complete lack of maturity and should define itself as the coming of ignorance. "},{"Title":"this movie is POINTLESS","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie received kind reviews when it was released and it provided an opportunity for the pre-Happy Days Henry Winkler and pre-Rocky Sylvester Stallone to stand out as actors. They do a reasonable job, as does the star, Perry King.The only problem is,...WHY did they make this film in the first place?! No one in the movie is worth caring about one little bit. It is a slice of 1950s and tells the story about a group of four sociopathic gang members. King's only ambition is to lie and cheat his way into girls' skirts and steal cars. Stallone's only ambition to to act EXACTLY like his character in Death Race 2000 (i.e., beat up EVERYONE). And Winkler's job is to be less despicable than the other two. There is a fourth gang member who pretty much disappears in the movie.So once again, why did they make this film? At the end, they seem to try very hard look back fondly at our lost youth, but considering THESE guys were the one who beat up everyone else during high school, why would you want to portray THEM in a movie--and their youth was spent hurting everyone around them! "},{"Title":"Horribly choppy and empty","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Way before the Fonz, way before Rocky, there was this small film known as the Lords of Flatbush.  Set in the 50's it follows 4 guys who belong to a social athletic club known as the Lords (Flatbush being an area of Brooklyn).  Pinned up in Leather jackets, brylecream, and being juvenille delinquents the film follows their antics.  This movie is real void of any plot.  The film synopsis I read on the back of the VHS tape said it follows the lives of these 4 guys as they soon decide that  they have to grow up and join the real world and possibly let go of their friendship.  Problem is the film is mostly just ad-lib dialogue and empty of any story to follow.  One guy (Perry King) is suppose to be falling for a smart girl who tells him to grow up, Another (Stallone) is in a pickle cause he got his girl pregnant and she wants to get married.  Other than that, that's all you ever know about the characters.  The back of the tape mentions that one character (Winkler), realizes he has to make something of himself out of his delinquency in hopes of going to college.  However in the film Winkler has only one scene that gives any insight into his character which goes something like thisWinkler  You know I should really do something, you know?Soda jerk   I know what you meanPauseWinkler Ok I'll see you laterWalks out the doorThat's it!  This is character development????  I didn't even hear the words 'go to college' in that dialogue..The film doesn't stand the test of time either.  Since it's somewhat just documetary like with hand held cameras and ad-libbed dialogue, the film is ridiculously choppy and seems like it was but together in 2 hours from outakes.  Perhaps this was radical in '74, but today it's been improved and done way better and this looks terrible.  This was a film that got Stallone noticed, and created the Fonz character for Winkler.  There is ONE brilliant scene which involves Stallone in a jewellery store, stuck with his girlfriend and her friend badgering him into purchasing a very expensive engagement ring.  But like I 've said, one good scene does not a whole movie make.  The roof top 'pigeon' since is horribly bad and meaningless.I am a big sucker for nostalgia too, and thought that would make me like this film more, but it is slow, badly put together, and filled with one dimensional characters.  In short, it is empty.  The final wedding scene and the 4th member giving the toast along with the flashback of their lives is pointless since the 4th member hardly had any role in the film.  If you removed him, the movie wouldn't be any different with his absence so why is he even there??LameRating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A nice little coming of age film about life, choices, and friendship.","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This little picture from 1974 The Lords of Flatbush is fun and a feel good film of youth that's gone a little wild with fun. Plus it features some of the early screen works of future to be stars before their memorable works like Stallone(Rocky), Winkler(Happy Days), and Perry King(Riptide).Set in Brooklyn during the 1950's a foursome little blue jean wearing black leather jacket bad attitude gang of Stanley(Stallone), Butchey(Winkler), Chico(Perry King)and Wimpy(Paul Mace)are some sexy rebels who think they rule. Despite the tough guy image all have problems of life and relationship, all just want to have fun before facing the dreaded adulthood, the big issue involves Stanley getting married and Chico must mange when he falls for an attractive blonde. The film is simply a trip and take on youth and memory years of being on the fast track of fun and choices. Overall all right film that's fun and well acted with some nice early work from Stallone, Perry, and Winkler. "},{"Title":"Slice of 1950s Teen Life in Brooklyn","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I have been aware of this title I never saw the movie, until today that is, when it was shown on the Movies! channel. I am roughly the same age as all the actors here, who were mostly mid- to late- 20s when it was filmed. I remember the 1950s and much of what is shown in this movie is fairly authentic to that time.Those of us who take achievement for granted, simply go to school and college, behave in class, do assignments, make good grades, get married, raise a family, have a decent career ... we don't really get how the others waste the same opportunities. And that is the focus of this movie. The boys call themselves the Lord's (yes, it is incorrect) and they fashion themselves as a gang of four. But they aren't really vicious, they do get into small fights, they do steal a car for the night, but no major crimes. They are depicted mostly as teenagers with no focus, no rudder, no concept of what they want their lives to become. They want the girls, and one gets one by virtue of an unplanned pregnancy, but most good girls avoid them because, while they are cute and personable, they look and act like losers. And most girls don't want to get attached to losers.It is fun to see actors like Perry King, Sylvester Stallone, and Henry Winkler in their earlier days. In fact the best scene is in a pool hall when Stallone's girlfriend comes in to tell him she is pregnant and he just isn't prepared to deal with it. He might have made mostly cheesy movies but we can see that he really was a fine actor. He makes that scene work.Shot mostly in Brooklyn it is an interesting glimpse into that time but overall not a particularly good movie. "}{"Title":"Early Versions Of Rocky And Fonzie","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Lords of Flatbush is a movie, I have a long considered to be Sylvester Stallone's first good movie. It starts off well with a nice catchy song playing over footage of the gang Lords of Flatbush harassing a couple of girls outside of the school (interestingly enough a few years later Stallone would have probably insisted on changing that scene, and would have had him come along and beat up the other guys) the first scene in the classroom is a lot of fun with the teacher making Stallone sit at the front of the class for misbehaving.One of my main problems with this movie is none of the Lords of Flatbush are particularly likable, especially Chico and for the first hour or so Sly Stallone's Stanley. The only one I liked throughout was Henry Winkler's Butchey. Another problem was I certainly could not relate to any of the characters, and despite a short running time it actually feels a lot longer. It's a lot better than Sly's previous movies Rebel, Klute and Banannas. I particularly liked the scene on the roof with his pigeons, where at times he sounds Rockt-esque. And I enjoyed hearing him say I did it long before Rocky 2 too!! "},{"Title":"The Flatbush Neighborhood","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Lords of Flatbush is a coming-of-age film about street teenagers in leather jackets from the Flatbush neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York that was set during the 1950's.It features Perry King, Henry Winkler and Sylvester Stallone and Susan Blakely. The story was set in 1958.The story involves street teenagers such as Chico,who attempts to win over Jane but does not him;Stanley,who impregnates his girlfriend,Frannie and is pressured to marry her;Butchey Weinstein,who is highly intelligent but tries to front being a clown; and Wimpy Murgalo,a follower of Chico and Stanley.This was a pretty good and least likely heard film from the 70's about the '50's wherein the characters have hairstyles that is similar to the characters in Grease.Also,we get to see talented thespians such as Stallone,King,Winkler and Blakely showcase their talent before they became popular.The coming-of-age story was definitely something that would entertain the viewer despite the fact that one may find it dated when seen at present. "},{"Title":"nobody puts Fonzie and Rocky in a corner","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The '50s nostalgia spawned by American Graffiti was bound to include a number of movies imitating American Graffiti. The Lords of Flatbush - deliberately rendered with the grammatically incorrect Lord's - is an example. I wouldn't call the movie a ripoff since it's more of a drama. The movie does have character development. It's clear that the main characters don't have much ambition beyond their greaser lifestyle. Whereas most nostalgia movies have soundtracks of songs that people are immediately going to recognize, this one contained songs that I didn't know. As for these guys' future, I sometimes wonder if any greasers went through a hippie stage.Anyway, it's not a great movie but still worth seeing.Doesn't it seem as if, watching Henry Winkler's character, you keep thinking that you're watching a serious version of Fonzie? "},{"Title":"The Bozo's of Texa-Tonka","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Lord's of Flatbush is a moo oo vie, about how life was in the fi ii ifties that I wanted to exalt the faux gang experience so that I could relive that glory. What happened was an exercise in truth-telling.Wayne P. was sort-of Chico and sort-of Stanley. There was Smiles, who was over 21 and bought the beer. Jake M. who had the strangely Pogrom-descended patois and orbited the group's periphery but sure got the girls' attention (How many nights did he sleep in a drier at the laundromat because his rabbinical dad kicked him out?) There would be Ben-Hur moments of waiting for the rumble with the Hopkins guys(Wall Rats)like the jocks on the football field, where switchblades flashed and zip-guns blazed.Wayne, Jake and others actually joined the navy. They wanted to get a better deal than the draft offered. The Wall Rats never showed, and a couple of guys got in a little fishing while they waited. One guy, Jon S.,moved to South Carolina and visited a year later with a deep drawl. Sure. A couple guys became junkies and died.I expected my era to be memorialized in Heston-like aplomb rather than the obscene burlesque of Grease. So many guys had Lord's of Flatbush memories in jewel-encrusted boxes on the shelves of time. I was let down These guys were bozos.Like us.And the real treasures are in the genuine moments of empathy and sincerity that were found in the rooftop pigeon coups of Flatbush or on the back steps of a suburban bowling alley at twilight in the summertime.This is the simple truth. "},{"Title":"What's an extra apostrophe between friends?","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cool Jackets. Cool Script. Cool Poster. What more do you need? A story would be nice. Technicalities. Blown up from a 16mm print, Director Stephen Verona's earthy look at 50's teenagers warrants another viewing. I saw this movie many moons ago, as a skiff made from nostalgia begins to creep over me like fog from the shores of Coney Island. In the 70's, as a kid, I was heavily into the music and the culture of that period. Three quarter's of our greasy gang, The Lords of Flatbush, went onto bigger and better things. Two of them became superstars. One died. When I saw the do-wop trailer on the DVD, I was transported back in time to when I was eleven years old again. It also brokered memories of those Crazy Eddie's commercials the one, in particular, with the five greasers singing do-wop in a high school boys' restroom, which played endlessly on New York City's local television stations back then. My favorite scene (in the movie) is the one involving the verbal exchange between Henry Winkler's character and the owner of the candy store. It's the best acted scene in the picture--and the most poignant. We find out that Winkler has the smarts and the talent (he's an artist) to escape the neighborhood. I'm a sucker for this kind of stuff. A young Sly Stallone is excellent as well. He has many of the flashier scenes in the film. I believe he wrote that showy, somewhat out of place, scene, toward the end of the picture, with Perry King and Stalone's pigeon coop featured prominently. It's more than a little obvious. Afterall, he did get screen credit for writing additional dialog. Stalone's whiny fiancé is a riot. Her accent--devoid of rs--is right on pitch. Susan Blakely is a tease. The worst sought of turn-off for a teenage boy. King deserves better. If you are looking for a slick coming-of-age flick here you may wish to skip this movie. However, with an open mind and some wistful thoughts, you may be entertained for ninety minutes. Go for it. "},{"Title":"Sometimes flavorful glimpse of some pre-stardom stars","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Made on a shoestring budget, by Hollywood standards, this slice-of-life, coming-of-age drama depicts the lives of four Brooklyn youths (whose gang name provides the film's title.) King is the handsome lothario who uses one girl (Paris) for quickie sex while pursuing another, more refined one (Blakely) who is new to their school. Stallone is a working class lug who is faced with new responsibilities when his girlfriend Smith informs him that she's pregnant. Winkler is the introspective one who considers life beyond their fish bowl existence. Mace is a bit of a misfit, who strives to be friends with the others. Though there is a progression of sorts, from the start of the film in a classroom to the finale at a wedding, the film doesn't contain a considerable amount of plot. It's more a series of vignettes from the era, coming along episodically, augmented with songs intended to evoke the time and shot with a camera and film which are intended to capture the verisimilitude of 1950's Brooklyn. King does a very fine job with his role and is, as ever, charming and attractive to watch. Stallone does very well, also, and has what has become one of the film's most praised scenes in which he grapples with the purchase of an engagement ring for his karat-conscious fiancé. Much of his dialogue (some of it written/improvised by himself) is rather unintelligible thanks to both the sound quality and to Stallone's legendary mumbling. Winkler, of course, went on to play the iconic Fonzie on Happy Days, but that character is actually more like King's or Stallone's than the one he portrays here. Mace is not given the amount of focus that the others get, though he does partake in a memorable game of pool. Blakely, like most of the actors, is not believable as a high school student, but succeeds in bringing most of the qualities of one to the role. Her dramatically changing hair length is an indication of some re-shoots that took place after filming had wrapped in order to improve some scenes. Smith and Paris provide authentic and frequently amusing spins on their somewhat tacky characters. Fans of Gimme a Break will enjoy seeing Sweet as Stallone's father. Only an archaeologist could effectively dig up Assante in his alleged appearance as a wedding guest. The movie starts with a vivid and discomfiting scene in Neuman's homeroom, effectively showcasing the juvenile delinquency that began to take hold in the 50's when disrespect for authority started to blossom. Though several sequences after that are memorable and engaging, not a whole lot really happens before the film meanders to its conclusion. (The ending was re-cut in order to be more upbeat than whatever was originally intended.) This is less a dramatic story than a character study focusing on a specific time, place and type of neighborhood. Stallone apparently got to know and appreciate several of the actors from this film because he used them in his later vehicle Paradise Alley. "},{"Title":"Doo-Wop, leather jackets, poodle skirts & dating antics -","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's all here! If you're a fan of the '50's-early '60's, then you'll love this one! (Although the music editing dept coulda used some help! At times, so loud you can't hear the actors!)I first saw Sly in this film when it first came out. He made such an impression, I was sure he'd be featured again in SOMEthing. Then ROCKY came out soon after that! (And I'm still happy!) Sly actually wrote in some of his own scenes in LORDS OF FLATBUSH - the jewelry store scene (If you ever show my girl a ring like that again, you know what's gonna be written on your tomb stone? Huh? I was dumb enough to show Frannie Melenconico a $____ ring. Ya got that?) (Incidently, he never paid for that engagement ring. With his menacing character, would YOU make him pay for it??) He also wrote in the Brando-esque pigeon coop scene on top of the roof. Good choice considering that people thought Sly would be 'the next Brando' anyway.See this film for a bit of laughs & nostalgia. And I'll see you on the Sly! "},{"Title":"Grittier Grease","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I watch the film I see where Grease pulled it's characterizations, yet this film is shot in a like you are there style, not a fun campy sing-a-long.  Anyway, I saw another review that said the character of Fonz is rooted in Henry Winklers performance in this film.Of course, if there had been no Happy Days and thus no Fonz his work in this film, stand alone, might be more appreciated.Of course, it's fun to see a young Stallone and he actually has dialog, unlike many of his intervening films. "},{"Title":"I wanted to be a Lord too","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, I was only eleven years old and very much a Fonzie fan, leather jacket and all...but stopped short of being an actual punk (Dad saw to that!)...so it was exciting to me to see this movie, with the guys wearing greasy hair and leather jackets and Chico riding a two-tone Harley Road King (I may be wrong there, but it's what I remember). I wondered why a suburban kid like me couldn't find some hard-edged friends to form our own gang like this. The word gang, of course, had a different meaning then.Seeing the film again years later, it is easy to see why it was no big hit, although it is enjoyable enough to sit through and marvel at the youth of the better-known actors (Stallone, Winkler and King), and the absolute cheesy-ness of the 50's-imposter soundtrack. The brawl with the football team seems so unnecessary; but that's what jealous young boys do...the walkin' tough among buddies is something I could relate to, strength and POWER in numbers. And Chico's relentless knocking at the chick's chastity belt and morality...yet another thing that is easy to relate to. But overall I see that it is not brilliantly acted and rather amateurish. That's okay, as there are some scenes that do stand out, such as Chico's realization that adulthood is every kid's dreaded inevitability but one needs not be limited by this approaching fear (his scene with Stanley on the roof); the jeweler's feeling mortified after Stanley's threat to write on his tombstone that he was so foolish as to sell his girl a sixteen-hundred-dollar diamond ring; Eddie's telling Butchie that his foolish pranks and immature friends are no place for a young man who is smart enough to be a collegiate (putting his two cents in).Butchie getting run over is just a reminder that no matter how tough a guy is, with and without his buddies, Life throws some unavoidable disasters your way and there's nothing you can do about it.Not a bad character study, especially in Stallone's character. My favorite scenes are of him cackling with his pals after he allows his girl and her friend to leave the diner (Did I say you could go?....you can go.); and his throwing the rival gang member against the pool table, terrorizing him and dismissing him from the pool hall...and giggling, as if to say to the viewer that he looks like one bad dude but is in reality a gobble who uses his tough facade for just a little bit of fun!I bought the DVD for cheap and from time to time I like to enjoy this film, knowing to only take it for what it is, a harmless guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea but badly played out...","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 10/13/2001 - 5 out of 10 (Dir-Stephen F. Verona & Martin Davidson) Interesting idea but badly played out 50's style drama based on the lives of the members of a gang called the the Lords.  The style of the movie  at times seems almost improvisational but it also seems like the movie was kind of thrown together as they thought of ideas.  This makes for a movie that knows kind of what it's about but it doesn't really know where it's going with what it has.  The current appeal is that the movie has many future stars who went on to bigger and better things (Aka. Sylvester Stallone & Henry Winkler) but this doesn't make it a good movie.  The characters are drawn out very broadly when we know that there is greater depth to each of their stories.  A much longer (more detailed)  movie could have made this film work better. "}{"Title":"A True Billion Dollar Movie","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When LORDS OF FLATBUSH was made Columbia Pictures was still a free corporate entity, still a smaller Hollywood studio, and still the all time champion at winning Best Picture of the Year Oscars. But it had just endured a couple of years of dreadful mismanagement, making awful and expensive re-makes of their classics and other expensive duds. They were hundreds of millions in debt and on the verge of bankruptcy.Into this scene comes David Begelman, one of the most harshly criticized studio heads in history (for forging a $2000 check, of all things). Begelman made Lords of Flatbush and several other low-to-medium budget pictures, all of which were cleverly marketed and well received by the public. Within a few years, Columbia Pictures repaid its debt and soared into profitability. Shares went from under $2 to the $78 per share --- at which time Coca Cola swallowed up Columbia and the independent, scrappy spirit fell away, as did their quality. Now swallowed again, this time by Sony, they'd never again have real spirit (unless you think Spiderman is a good movie.) FLATBUSH brought us Sly Stallone, Henry Winkler, Susan Blakely; and in the long-run was the turning point for Columbia. "},{"Title":"A Little Dab'll Do Ya","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No review here. Just a memory of seeing The Lords of Flatbush, a cheapjack greaser of a nostalgia flick that was designed to cash in on the whole '50s nostalgia craze thirty-odd years ago.I saw it once at the drive-in and once more on ABC a year or two later. In the short time between its theatrical release and television debut, Perry King, Sly Stallone, and Henry Winkler had hit it from moderate to big and I thought my opinion would have improved with the recognition of early work from a talented group of actors. It didn't, and it still hasn't.TLOF is dull and embarrassing, sporting one deep and memorable observation about a character, something to the effect that he weeps when he ejaculates.Them thar's great writin', huh! Skip this greasy mess. "},{"Title":"A Slice of the Fifties","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This magical gem of a movie really comes together acting, editing, soundtrack. Both hilarious and oddly sentimental, the low budget appearance of this film is actually what makes it great. Funny and touching dialog without being a self-conscious parody like so many other 50's teen films. Stallone steals the show with his goofy but completely believable Stanley character. Perry king's Chico was a kindred soul to Stanley. The scene of the two of them in Stanley's rooftop pigeon coup is too funny. Henry Winkler and Paul Mace are wannabe tough guys who round out The Lords. Susan Blakely's character is very believable and she turned in a great performance. Frannie and Annie are a riot and the scene in the jewelry store is priceless. The doo-wop soundtrack really heightens the emotions of the little sketches that make up this film. Strong acting performances by all. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"A warm, engaging and affectionate 50's set slice-of-life seriocomic character study treat","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hothead Stanley (a pre-Rocky Sylvestor Stallone, who wrote his own dialogue), smartaleck Butchey (Henry Winkler doing a dry run of his famous Fonzie character on Happy Days), amorous Chico (Perry King of Mandingo and Class of 1984) and runtish Wimpy (Paul Mace) are the titular foursome, a scruffy bunch of tough guy teenage greasers knocking around Brooklyn in the late 50's. The main thrust of the amiably rambling and episodic narrative centers on Stanley planning to marry his loving, yet shrewish girlfriend Frannie (cute Maria Smith) and Chico dating sweet upper-class suburbanite Jane (the pretty and winsome Susan Blakely).Directors Stephen F. Verona and Martin Davidson, who co-wrote the bright, colorful and insightful script with Gayle Glecker, meticulously evoke the era with an infectiously sincere wealth of acuity, accuracy and affection, capturing the pent-up bubbling under the surface violence, repressive conservative morals and sense of carefree innocence which defined the period in an admirably frank and unsentimental manner. Moreover, the film works beautifully well as an alternately funny and touching teen rites of passage saga, depicting the awkward transition of adolescence into encroaching adulthood -- maturity, loss of one's virginity, accepting responsibility, getting married, coming to terms with one's station in life -- with a great deal of heart and humanity. The individual vignettes are quite enjoyable; the definite highlights are a clumsy robbery of a car and the uproarious sequence where Stanley buys Frannie a very expensive wedding ring. Moreover, the rather scrappy, but overall accomplished cinematography by Joe Mangine and Edward Lachman, Joe Brooks' bouncy, catchy and tuneful score, and especially the uniformly excellent and engaging performances by a personable cast further add to the picture's sterling quality. Better still, the low-key, unadorned, naturalistic semi-documentary style and nicely observant and unobtrusive straightforward storytelling give the movie a certain irresistibly gritty you-are-there lived-in charm and conviction. Popping up in nifty bits are Dolph Sweet as Frannie's dad, Ray Sharkey as a high school student and Armand Assante as a wedding guest. A real treat. "},{"Title":"Stays within itself","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although the last reviewer has some valid points, I think he was a little too harsh in the review. I don't think the movie was ever intended to compete for Best Picture.The life of a simple street gang during those times was not always exciting and full of life.The movie is simple. Yet it is still entertaining. From a nostalgic view it's interesting to watch these actors before they hit it big.I agree there was not a whole lot of character development, but there was just enough to keep it reasonably interesting.It's certainly not a GREAT movie, but it's not a bad one either. It's worth watching on a lazy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie &#133; sadly overlooked","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has all it takes to be classified as a good 'coming of age' flick. Sadly, it seems to have been overlooked by most. At best, it's seen as a movie that has some future stars like Sylvester Stallone, Henry Winkler and Perry King in their pre-stardom days. And that's the sad part. There's so much more that the movie has to offer.Fine, it's a low budget movie with some serious technical flaws. But somehow, that adds to the whole 50's feel that the movie is all about. The setting is realistic and so are the characters, unlike Grease where every character and situation is virtually make-believe. Let's not forget the great soundtrack that bends perfectly with the story/situations and the performances are top class.Perry King has top billing. The 'casanova' who wants to have a good time with every girl in sight. Check out the scene where he struggles for words, when he's trying to convey his feelings to Susan Blakey. His bike, the gang and his town form a comfort zone for him. Perfect portrayal of a young man who refuses to grow up.Sylvester Stallone is the proverbial tough guy with a heart of gold. He is a simple guy who is in trouble courtesy his pregnant girlfriend and doesn't know how to deal with it. But when it comes to picking up a fight for the Lords, he's willing to dump his just-engaged girl instantly.Henry Winkler has the brains in the gang. He is the one they all turn to for advice and willing follow it too. But then it's too 'uncool' for him to break ranks and do something worthwhile with his life. He's the one whose wasting him time hanging out with the Lords, but couldn't care less.Finally, Paul Mace. The guy who derives his existence from being a part of the Lords. Sure, he doesn't have anything special going for him, but just being a part of the gang suits him fine.The movie effortlessly transports you to the 50's and portrays some real people in real life situations. Like true pals, the Lords have fun, pick up fights with others, fight amongst themselves and get into some serious arguments. But when it matters the most, they stand by each other &#133; like Lords should! A great watch &#133; "},{"Title":"Some good Some bad","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has some good, and some bad.  Parts work, and other stink; this film is a 5, not that bad, but not that good either.  It is watchable, but I would not miss the bar on a Saturday night to see this.  A young Stallone, and the Fonz in this film makes it a curiosity. "},{"Title":"What a rush of memories came flooding back!","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great time capsule.  I was able to put names and faces of people I grew up with, in place of the characters in the movie.  The characters of Frannie and Annie were the best.  Their lines and comments really captured the essence of the time and place. "},{"Title":"An original movie!","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very entertaining, and is a template for many movies and characters to come (The Wanderers, Fonize, & The Italian Stallion).  Cinematography is a plus, as is the above average performances by the cast.  This movie should be viewed much more that it is.  A rating of 8 out of 10 was given.   "},{"Title":"The Nerds of Flopbush","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will try to sum this up into a short synopsis.  This is a spoiler, so if you dont care, read on.  You have 4 main characters, played by Sylvester Stallone, Henry Winkler, and two other unknowns playing a group of 50's biker gang.  It starts off kinda like a bad Welcome Back Kotter episode with the bikers engaging in typical mischief with the teacher. 15 minutes into the movie, the story seems to fall flat on its face, like an old DeSoto with bad gas- it dies!  A couple of boy-gets-girl relationships, a very lame grand theft auto sequence, and a ridiculous fight scene.  Not a fight really, just one of the Lords hugging the opponent on the ground with dust flying and getting chased off by the school jocks. Lastly, a gathering at a wedding reception for one of the Lords-....yawn.To sum it up, there's some big talk and very little action.  The story is very disjointed and tends to lack a sense of reason and likeability to any of its characters...and terrible cinematography to boot.  The soundtrack also stunk. The Henry Winkler character plays a pansy-like Fonzie, the Stallone character was more like a retard.  If you are a Stallone or Winkler/Fonzie fan, miss it. It sux.  "}]