[{"Title":"Probably the Greatest Exploitation Film Ever","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"66 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" First off, understand my rating of Ilsa. Ilsa by general movie standards is not a good movie. If you were to put it up against any of the so called classic movies, it would not stand up. But those who search out Ilsa She Wolf of THe SS or any of the others in the series aren't doing so because they want to see a tense, well acted, well directed movie. Ilsa is first and foremost an exploitation film and, realizing that, I have to say it is in the upper echelons of its field because it wallows in filth and does so unapologetically. It boils down to this. If you search out a Euro Trash film, be it an Italian Giallo or English 70's horror, you desire it to be as sleazy and un politically correct as possible but also you want the movie to have some semblance of a plot, be it ever tiny. Ilsa scores big on all these points. There is wall to wall nudity, all female. Gratitutious torture scenes that are more ridiculous than offensive, (I mean every time Ilsa drags a prisoner down for torture they are completely naked as they are being tortured). And all most everyone of the female cast members at some point is completely naked. Let's be honest, It ain't Shakespeare, nor does it pretend to be. Of note is the lead actress Dyanne Thorne. Apparently Ms. Thorne had lofty ambitions of being a serious actress at one point in her career but the fickle finger of fate lead her to Ilsa fame. In her mid 40's, Ms. Thorne is competent enough not to look like an amateur on screen. She has a several nude scenes throughout the movie and anyone who watches Ilsa will no doubt remember her more for her large breasts than her acting ability. Ilsa She Wolf of the SS is a noteworthy entry into the world of exploitation films and should be the starting point for anyone who journeys into this genre. I rate it as a 10 because it knows what it is and does not pretend to try for anything higher "},{"Title":"There Goes My Appetite...for the next 3 years.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  I first rented this sick flick in the 80's, and the guy at the video store who recommended it (knowing I was into shock/exploitation movies) told me he'd give me my money back if I wasn't completely offended. Guess who didn't get their money back? . I finally found a copy of the uncut version I first saw--hard to find, unless you have a DVD player-- and yep, it still shocked me just as much. It may have shocked me even more, because I kept thinking, No WAY could they put a movie like this out today! I've actually seen all of the Ilsa series and each time I watch one, I think this is probably the sickest. Then I realize they are all really sick, just in different nasty ways.  The first time I watched this, even though I wasn't watching it with anyone else, I felt guilty for not turning it off and returning it to the video store, it was so sick.  People have said the violence and acting are unrealistic, but there were parts where I had to remind myself this was a movie (though it was supposedly based on real Nazi experiments...let's not dwell on that) and the women screaming in agony at the top of their lungs were just actresses. There's a few unrealistic scenes- for instance, a woman being boiled to the point where her skin seems to have come off looks almost fine a scene later. Most of it looks a little too real for me-enough so I was feeling sick to my stomach by the big dinner scene, and I didn't even watch it all at once.First of all, anyone who didn't think this movie was violent or gory, you definitely have seen a cut version. Anyone who thought it was boring or tame obviously didn't see the version I saw with the woman being boiled alive onscreen or the patients with huge, open gaping wounds that had been deliberately infected. As another reviewer said, if you see the right version (or the wrong one, depending on your point of view) there are not 5 minutes that go by without some sort of sex, nudity, violence, or all 3 at the same time. If I ever heard anyone describe this movie as 'sexy', I would get away from them as quickly as possible. In this debut of the Ilsa (Ilsa herself pronounces it as Ill-za) series, Dyanne Thorne plays the title role, an extremely sadistic commander of a concentration camp where they perform 'medical research'.  The men usually only get castrated (after sleeping with Ilsa and not 'satisfying' her) or beaten. The women have the bad luck to be in a camp where Ilsa is trying to prove her theory that women are naturally stronger and can take more pain than men. Some are taken away to the 'brothel' area, which is no picnic either (one of the scenes that actually made me lose my appetite showed a prisoner after the men are through with her- not a pretty sight) but the *really* unlucky ones are taken to the 'medical' area. One woman makes the huge mistake of not only telling Ilsa she can take whatever she dishes out (Rule #1 in an Ilsa movie-never taunt her with her tough you are) but giving her attitude and talking back (Rule #2, do NOT give Ilsa attitude or talk back, you will probably receive the most disgusting fate of any character in the entire movie) and Ilsa decides to make an example of her, resulting in some of the nastiest, hardest to watch scenes in the movie.  I can't describe them in detail or this review probably wouldn't be posted. Ilsa picks one American man, Wolf to sleep with her, a so called 'genetic freak' who can satisfy Ilsa, so he gets to keep all his, uh, equipment for the time being. Of course, he has an escape plan...he also provides most of the unintentional comic relief in the movie, as his acting is so amazingly bad, even for an exploitation movie, that he sounds like he is reading from cue cards, a few words at a time I-will-make...love-to-you-like...you-have-never-been....made-love-to-before.As a sidebar, I'd sure like to read Dyanne Thorne's autobiography, if she ever puts one out. Several times during the movie, I wondered if the actress ever told anyone how she was making a living in detail at the time. Well, today I get paid to go dress up in complete Nazi regalia and pretend to pee on another higher ranking Nazi. Then, after lunch.... She hams it up as Ilsa, and was, let's face it, pretty brave to do this movie.A warning to others who might consider renting this because they hear it's campy and fun- don't rent it for that reason unless you have a really sick sense of humor or a real &*%$ed up idea of fun. Some co-workers of mine unwisely didn't listen to any warnings from people who have watched the entire movie and went to see a midnight screening thinking they were going to see some kind of bad-in-an-Ed-Wood-way B-movie.  They made it through maybe 15 minutes tops before walking out in total revulsion. It's not the kind of movie you want to watch over and over because it's so fun. I watch it every once in a while to see if I'm still as easily shocked as I was a few years ago. So far, I am.  Why do I own it, if it's so horrible? I guess I have no excuse for that, other than to show it to people who think they've seen it all. If you think you've seen it all, you haven't, until you see the first 3 Ilsa movies. "},{"Title":"Exudes B movie charm","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  When this movie first came out in the 70's it was a 42nd street style grindhouse pleaser that would have shocked mainstream audiences; however with the advent of video few will be so shocked today. Ilsa is impossible to take seriously. Sure medical torture was carried out by the Nazis but this movie is not like Men behind the sun, and you will be left questioning the authenticity of Ilsas source. Ilsa can be enjoyed as an exercise in bad taste that John Waters would enjoy;  torture, Nasty nazis and a range of bad accents, though Joe DeBlascos SFX makeup is pretty good.The camerawork is good giving it a gritty feel, and the sets (used by Hogans heros!) are impressive. Ilsa will neither exceed nor dissapoint as an exploitation flick, and thats my recommendation. "},{"Title":"Sleazy stuff","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Hmmm, this is a tough one to rate. Half of me wants to praise it as being entertaining, sleaze-core cinema at it's cheesy best whilst the other half wants to keep quiet for fear of offending people. It's true that the subject matter here is dodgy to say the least, but at the end of the day it's only a movie & whether or not it was made in bad taste, it's basically great exploitation cinema. If you are easily offended, stay away...for the rest of you out there, this is an excellent example of the kind of movie they don't dare make anymore.  One last thing- Compared to the three sequels that followed (this movie was a BIG success in it's day), this isn't as gory as it's reputation suggests.  "},{"Title":"The Original Nazisploitation Classic!","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" ILSA - SHE WOLF OF THE SS is the first in the infamous series of exploitation films featuring buxom ball-breaker, Dyanne Thorne. These films are a classic example of true exploitation cinema and should be checked out by any fan of extreme or exploitation films. Short version Ilsa is the head bitch at a Nazi experimentation camp. She gets her kicks by torturing the male and female prisoners in all kinds of interesting ways. Overall, SHE WOLF is pretty tame in the gore department, compared to what is out there today. I'm sure if you saw this when it first came out in '75, it was probably some really racy stuff...but being from a generation raised on blood-and-guts, the Ilsa films are more laughable than shocking. I prefer SHE WOLF and the under-rated TIGRESS OF SIBERIA installments over HAREM KEEPER OF THE OIL SHEIKS and WICKED WARDEN (those two having more of a sleazy sex overtone, and being very light on the red stuff...) but all are worth a look just to say that you've seen them. Anchor Bay has put out a beautiful box-set that contains SHE WOLF, HAREM KEEPER, and WICKED WARDEN, and if you check the right on-line dealers, you can find it for dirt-cheap. Makes a great collection piece. To my knowledge, TIGRESS OF SIBERIA is not available on DVD at this time (at least not in the States...) which is a shame, because although many other reviewers trash it, I really liked that film. Anyway, if you are an exploit fan these films should already be in your collection. If you are interested in checking out this type of material, these films are as good a start as any. Not for the average movie-goer, but not as over-the-top as they could be nowdays. recommended - 8/10 for Dyanne Thorne's big-ass Nazi titties!!! "},{"Title":"Good for curiosities sake","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  ILSA SHE WOLF OF THE SS belongs in the exploitation trunk of legendary films that include the likes of NEKROMANTIK, I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE, SALO, CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST and countless others.  Fortunately for ILSA I think the movie lives up to it's hype, even if it is a bit dated, and at times heavy on the cheese.Ilsa, played by the well-endowed Thorne, is a sadistic mother, in charge of Medical Camp 9 who spends her days performing many torturous experiments on female and male prisoners alike.  They either disobeyed orders, talked back, or didn't pleasure her right (the men) - One man is castrated because Ilsa didn't reach heights of orgasm that she would've liked (???).  Anyway, the film continues by showing scenes of torture, after torture, after torture....It goes on like this for much of the film.   When characters aren't being brutally whipped, boiled, decompressurized, or mutilated in various forms, Ilsa is seen showing off her enormous breasts (many times I might add). Pacing is really hurt during these scenes, especially when a lot of needless talking comes into play.  Really, these scenes just become downright dull and boring.However, the ending was fairly exciting and violent.  The gore and make-up is pretty good; that literally half-dead woman was made up quite well. She certainly was a freakish sight that's for sure.NOT GOOD by any means, but if you wanna see something that'll really push the limit.... "},{"Title":"Notorious nasty deserves its reputation.","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS certainly deserves its reputation as a nasty film. Although it is thoroughly cheesy, poorly acted, routinely directed, and extremely camp at times, the film still packs a punch due to its ability to offend and disgust at every turn; the depiction of Nazi atrocities in the name of entertainment is hard to defend (so I'm not even going to try) and this movie pulls no punches with its well executed graphic violence and horrific torture scenes.Ilsa, played with gusto by chesty blonde Dianne Thorne, is the Kommandant at a concentration camp where she oversees medical research performed on the female prisoners. Meanwhile, she uses the males to try and satisfy her sexual needs (and when they fail, she has them castrated!). It is up to German/American stud Wolfe to lead the prisoners in a revolt against the guards whilst simultaneously gaining Ilsa's trust by rogering her senseless at every opportunity.This notorious sleaze classic packs so much depravity into its 96 minutes running time (uncut), that lovers of exploitation will have a field day. From the opening scene in which Ilsa's sex slave is dragged back to the camp to be emasculated, to the ending in which the prisoners exact bloody retribution, sex and violence pervades every frame. The effective make-up FX by Joe Blasco are repugnant enough for hardened gore-hounds and fans of the female form will be delighted by the copious amounts of nudity (nearly every woman gets naked at some point in the film!). And lets not forget the scene in which Ilsa pees on the Nazi general...Thirty years after it was made, Ilsa still has the ability to shock&#151;the mark of a true exploitation classic! "},{"Title":"Classic exploitation stuff!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Here it isthe nastiest and the most notorious Ilsa installment.Dyanne Thorne shines as a Nazi bitch Ilsa.It's a real pleasure to see her naked in several soft core sex scenes.There are also some nasty torture scenes-the film is so beyond any taste that it's impossible not to like it.The most disturbing sequence is definitely the infamous dinner scene.There is a party which includes killing a female prisoner by tying a noose around her neck and placing her on a block of ice.Of course some people may consider this film sickening,but fans of extreme stuff will certainly enjoy this exploitation classic.10 out to 10.Hail Ilsa! "},{"Title":"Healthy Slice of the Perverse","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" I completely see why some people really like this movie (director Quentin Tarantino among those that do).The movie may have been slightly cringe-worthy when I saw it (mostly the way the director relishes in the dirty art he has created), but in retrospect is fluff compared to a lot of the movies I've seen since then. Even though this movie is pure, unadulterated carnage and heinous acts throughout the entire course of the film, it had a redeeming quality.It's hard to pinpoint what made this movie so appealing to me. It was a perfect emblem of the pure sleaziness and overall decadent atmosphere of the 70's smut prevalent at this time. Like all grindhouse films, it appeals to the baser senses - filled with excess violence (grizzly and well-done) and sex. And it's shot amazingly well for such a poor film. I expected it to be grainy and imperceptible.There's an element of immorality felt when watching films like this, but it's a healthy outlet to sublimate impure thoughts. It's sensationalist, yes. Probably no artistic merit either. But it's an appetizer of the 70's Perversia. I do think it's mostly meant to be titillating and gross for the sake of being gross. It's so blatantly in-your-face tasteless and bad that I love it. Stay away from it if you don't have a knack for the depraved. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" An exploitation classic that is a surprisingly enjoyable film. Ilsa, the Arian commandant of a secret medical facility, sets out to prove to her doubting superiors that women are able to endure greater pain and suffering than men. She does this by torturing the female inmates in increasingly diabolical ways, while trying to break the American 'sexual freak of nature', Wolfe. Cue lots of gratuitous nudity, castration, strangulation, boiling alive, magnificent pre-implant breasts, softcore sex and gang rape, golden showers, and general bloody mayhem. The German accents are hilarious, and the acting barely one step up from Hershael Gordon Lewis and early John Waters. It even has the ubiquitous 'moral message' at the beginning. But unlike so many of these movies, 'Ilsa' manages to avoid descending into tedious repetition half way through, and builds to a brilliantly ludicrous climax in which an entire camp is gunned down by machine gun fire, without a drop of blood being spilt. Brilliant. "}{"Title":"A superior exploitation flick","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS is a superior exploitation film from director Don Edmonds. Despite being over 30 years old, the movie still has the ability to shock with its unblinking scenes of torture.Dyanne Thorne is excellent in the title role as the mature SS officer, Ilsa. Thorne is chillingly ruthless and believable in the movie. In the ageist Hollywood scheme of things, it's refreshing to see an older lady cast in a lead role, particularly one involving some candid scenes.Ilsa, despite scenes of gratuitous violence and torture, is a fun and entertaining movie. The score is effective and the production, despite its limited budget, has a polished feel to it.Gorehounds should find the scenes of bloodshed satisfactory but the violence may appear tame in the age of August Underground and Guinea Pig excesses. In terms of wartime experimentation, those desiring an insight into history would be best checking out Tun Fei Mou's excellent Men Behind the Sun.Leaner and meaner than Salon Kitty, this is a fast-moving exploitation film that genre fans should enjoy. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Achtung! It's ILSA!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Aryan Goddess ILSA tortures women for the Third Reich. She runs a medical experiment camp. You know, it's all for the fatherland. Like infecting women with diseases, boiling them alive, putting maggots in their wounds etc. Her valuable research will help Germany. She also has a pet project brewing. Seems ILSA thinks that women can withstand more pain than men. She longs to prove her theory and beats as many women as possible to test it. It's all purely for research of course.Dyanne Thorne, (ILSA), is what makes this movie happen. She is perfection. Without her as ILSA, this movie would not have been nearly as good. She was ready for anything. Large breasted ILSA runs the camp with an iron fist. Having her naked a lot helped. I think I love her. She has turned me on to jack boots for life. So ILSA beats a lot of women and looks for the man who will satisfy her from the prisoners. And who finally gives ILSA a run for her money? That's right baby. An American. God Bless the U.S.A. Only he can tame the wild ILSA. That was a great scene.ILSA, She Wolf of the SS is a superior exploitation film. All B-movie fans should see it. Blood, Torture and Breasts aplenty. And then there's ILSA. I salute you.  "},{"Title":"repulsive, exploitative, and poorly acted","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" On the heels of Lilia Cavani's incomparably better The Night Porter comes this offensive, well-produced exercise in showy sadism. Dyanne Thorne possesses an undeniable sexiness as the dominatrix head of a Nazi prison camp, delighting in torture and murder as much as kinky sex, but she, as well as everyone else involved in this production, acts in a caricatured style that only makes the exploitation elements of this allegedly fact-based shocker all the more repulsive. The opening note from the producer reeks of shallow ambition trying to mask the rot within&#150;and that's where Ilsa ultimately falls&#150;it has nothing to say, nothing to illuminate, and quickly deteriorates into a lurid, masochistic fantasy of excess, with an appeal only to the most prurient desires of underage males. In spite of the dreadful acting and the overall execution that renders the events with all the reality of a Saturday-morning cartoon, Thorne's physical talents and Joe Blasco's makeup effects lend some value to this otherwise despicable film. "},{"Title":"I don't want to meet who this was made for","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" This is really sick , but what's most offencive is the statement at the beginning stating that this film is based on factual events and that the tortures depicted have been done so in the hope that these heinous acts never occur again. Absolute Balderdash! THis is really the lowest form of exploitation imaginable, the type that degrades both men( the presumed audience for this misogynistic crap) and women. It's even served up as Feminist diatribe, as Ilsa tries to prove that women can withstand pain better than men can. What makes this film almost intolerable is it's mean spiritedness. Salo was every bit as mean spirited but it didn't try to pawn itself off as based on fact, even though it's probably closer to realism than this is. Shameful! "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" I tried watching this thing after reading the other comments on IMDb, expecting to have my mind blown. Or at least the part responsible for good, sound moral judgement. Maybe I'm just dulled from seeing contemporary newscasts, but the most shocking feature turned out to be the ample supply of untrimmed 1970's bush.The only other thing worth noting was that the German soldier kept shouting 'raus, raus' at a prisoner even when she was already well out of the truck. Clearly one of the supermen. Didn't stick around long enough to get in to the rest of the storyline. I can see the artistic merit of the lead figure, though, in a Lacanian sense 10 points for inventing her, minus 7 for putting her in such a sh@tty movie. Can't wait to skip through the 3 sequels. "},{"Title":"Shocking, but...","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" This is another in the growing list of movies that are deemed shocking, disturbing and controversial that I find are a lot more tame than they are said to be.For me it started with The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. After reading how people had reacted to it back in 1974, I had to see it. Well, it was pretty horrible in my opinion. Not shocking or gory, just silly and maybe a little creepy.The Ilsa series fits into this category. I had read that the series was shocking, and had to check out what all the fuss was.I watched the Ilsa trilogy last night, and while I can see some of the hype about these films was true, yet again I found myself looking for more.Ilsa She Wolf of the SS features Dyanne Thorne as Ilsa, the warden st Medical Camp # 9. The camp is used to conduct medical research that is to aid the SS during WW2. Women prisoners are injected with viruses, tortured with electroshock and whipped to test their tolerance for pain. Ilsa also conducts private research, more or less for pleasure purposes.Some of the violence is a little graphic. We see a fair bit of blood, and in one instance, they are performing surgery on a prisoner's vagina. Maggots are injected with a virus and allowed to eat away at a prisoner's flesh. One of the female prisoners is left a bloody mess after 3 days of torture. In others it is left to your imagination, such as the castration of a male prisoner and the use of an electrified dildo on the female inmates. During a dinner scene, another female prisoner is hanging from a noose and bound at the hands and feet with only a block of ice supporting her.As for nudity, there is also plenty of that. The prisoners are routinely shown without clothes, and the lovely Miss Thorne also has a fair share of topless shots.Having said all that, I still felt that it was not quite as shocking as I had anticipated. Not that it is ever pleasant to see people being tortured and raped. With the reputation this film had I guess I expected it to be much worse.It's a sad statement on today's society when one reacts so calmly to such a movie. To me, I think some of the shock value may have come from the setting and the storyline. A Nazi prison camp, set during WW2. That certainly does bring up all sorts of disturbing and horrifying images.All in all, while a little less shocking than I was planning for, this was a pretty good film. Anchor Bay did a wonderful job restoring the movie, and put together a nice package along with Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks and The Wicked Warden.Also check out the audio commentary with Thorne, director Don Edmunds and producer David Freidman. Despite the flack that this movie has received, none of the principal people involved seem to have any regrets. (Despite this, Freidman, along with a lot of the other actors used pseudonyms. Freidman claimed it was as a result of a dispute with the Canadian financiers. Thorne is on record as saying the she has indeed suffered a little career-wise after using her real name on the Ilsa films).Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Damaged Film, Damaged Viewers","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Movies touch life in fewer and more unexpected places than you think. Most movies are  about other movies or society's dreams rather than the real world. So films that reference  major historical events are interesting beasts.Possibly apart from Vietnam, no war-related event has been more trammeled by films than  the holocaust. The Nazi phenomenon was in large measure a result of cinematic twists to  history and science. Each film that uses it as a touchstone reinforces the energy that made it  powerful.That makes this my most highly recommended film of the holocaust. Yes, much more than  `Schindler.' Sure it is cheesy. Sure it is exaggerated from fact and overly theatrical. Sure, it  uses shortcuts visible breasts are substituted for sex; grimaces for anguish; accents for  culture.Why I recommend it is because it makes the viewer feel superior in just the way it tacitly  deplores. The fulcrum is the merger of the American POW icon. American film audiences  needed this in various war pictures to help them decide who they were. It culminated in the  Steve McQueen character among Brits and Krauts in `Great Escape' which has since become a  stereotype. Here it is slightly adjusted as sexual prowess. Not such a big change.You should really see this paired with `Auto Focus' which is a similar take with similar real  life touchstones, including `Hogan's Heros.' Exploitation is a costly business on both sides.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Crazy stuff","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" First I read about this movie in an online forum. It sounded quite interesting so I read the article in a well-known encyclopedia and some IMDb comments here too and finally decided to watch it.. people just disagreed in their opinions too much so I wanted to form my own.If you want to watch 'Ilsa - She Wolf of the SS' for the same reason I can only say you don't have to. It's not as controversial as it seemed to me in the beginning though some scenes are quite disgusting. After all it is an interesting mix of bad, sometimes REALLY bad acting/dialogues, D-cup tits and some gore elements. But I guess one can die and still be happy not having seen this. "},{"Title":"A Gratuitous Bloodbath--One Of D. Friedman's Best","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" This legendary atrocity was the first in a series of gratuitous bloodbaths starring Dyanne Thorne as the sadistic, mega-breasted Ilsa. In this outing she's the Kommandant of Medical Camp Nine, a coed concentration camp where she sets out to prove that women can stand pain even better than men. This provides an excuse for torture with electric didoes, medically-induced syphilis, worms in open wounds, scalding, whipping, gang-rape, etc. More frightening than the savagely itself is the fact that somebody actually took some pains with this picture. The acting is competent, especially Thorne's, and the production values are good for the budget-&#150;even if the deserted Hogan's Heroes set did serve as the concentration camp. Joe Belasco executed the gory make-ups. Uschi Digard is the naked victim in the compression chamber. Wolfgang Roehm (known in other pictures as William Roehm and Richard Kennedy) appears as a general who even disgusts Ilsa. Some video releases of this charmer toned down the more graphic torture scenes--such as one captive's toes being removed with tin snips in tight, loving close-up. Now, SHE WOLF is available on DVD in its uncensored glory. Producer Herman Traeger, by the way, is really the infamous David F. Friedman. He reportedly had his name removed after fights with Canadian backers rather than any embarrassment over the subject matter. This is one of his best productions in any case. "},{"Title":"The most famous (if not best) Nazisploitation out there.","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Most here are aware of how this one plays out. Experiments are conducted on war camp prisoners, which are all overseen by our lovely Fraulein Doktor (of title fame). This gal has a nasty habit of collecting male forget me nots. Some collect stamps. Others, genitals. Call her an eccentric.Anyhow, politics between the camp and Berlin come into play along with an American she can't figure out (and the requisite escape plans brewing), but those are mere plot details. No sense boring everyone with gratuitous information on the storyline when there's some juicy bits to discuss.Torture of many respects abound in this one. Castration, gang rape, bacterial/viral injections, human lobster pots, slow hanging (mit eis schmelzen), nipple 'trodes, the list goes on and on. The production values are pretty fair in this one (the sets being left over from Hogan's Heroes) and the makeup's not half bad. The acting's a bit over the top in Ilsa, especially with the doktor's blonde henchwomen, but who can really fault topless floggers? Not I.Thumbs up for me here. It's only single X, but still some nasty fun.Charlie. "}{"Title":"exploitation at its best!","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Here in the UK this is the undisputed video nasty, this movie is banned still up to this date, and it is very unlikely to be released uncut. However, i remember watching this on VHS, over 20 years ago and it remains the ultimate exploitation movie, the lead actress Dyanne Thorne was stunning with her massive t*ts. This movie has it all, to offend most, some of the torture scenes are the most graphic you are ever likely to see. Forget about tame exploitation movies such as The House of the 1,00 Corpses or the Evil Dead, this is the number 1 exploitation movie. Although it was made on a very small budget, in fact it was shot on the sets of Hogans Heroes, it looks classy in places, the blood and guts free flowly. This movie was the peak point of the short lived Naziexplotation era of the 1970's. Ilsa She Wolf, spawned 2 sequels but neither of which could beat this movie for entertainment. "},{"Title":"X for Sex, XX for Violence and XXX for Mercilessness","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa She Wolf Of The SS is stand alone movie and although there have been sequels released which provide similar content - this first picture has a profound effect on anyone who can sit through the entire feature. More than a movie it is a condensation of historical facts mixed into a single event that is horrifically portrayed against the background of a Nazi concentration camp. This is no Hogan's Heroes, and don't expect any comic relief. Any attempt at joke making is in itself a brutality. This movie is not for kids or for the squeamish. While there are plenty of good looking nude scenes these scenes are overshadowed by the horror that is an everyday occurrence under Commandant Doctor Ilsa's command. This movie delivers. There are no pulled punches. Other movies that have tried to appear realistic in dealing with similar subject matter have either been too much like a documentary or have fallen way short of the mark (or marks) that Ilsa leaves in terms of ghastly entertainment. You may not want to eat an hour or so before the viewing. "},{"Title":"Jarring Juxtaposition of Nudity and Violence","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" ILSA, SHE WOLF OF THE SS (3+ outta 5 stars) Love this movie or hate it, you have to admit that it's remarkable that this movie even exists at all. Probably the nastiest, crudest, most brutal, tasteless, sleaziest movie ever made. But, oh yeah, it is entertaining as well. (Well, to some people.) Based on actual historical recordings of Nazi atrocities during WW2 but combined with some totally outrageous exploitation movie elements, this movie tells the story of Ilsa, who runs a Nazi war camp as a means of satisfying her crazed pseudo-sexual desires. She tortures male and female prisoners alike (usually in the nude) and potential viewers must be warned that the juxtaposition of nudity and violence can be *very* jarring. You simply cannot imagine anyone making a movie like this today... much less having it shown in actual movie theatres... and DRIVE-INS! Nonetheless, the movie was a big independent hit in the '70s and the character of Ilsa has become famous the world over (spawning several sequels). Considering that this was a super low budget movie made in only NINE DAYS, it is amazing that the quality of the acting, sets, costumes and action is as good as it is. The elaborate action finale was shot in one day and it puts a lot of higher-budget action movies to shame. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa is one sadistic mama who tortures men and women to prove that women have a greater threshold for pain and also just for the fun of it. This is the first of a series of exploitation films featuring Thorne, who is endowed with certain God-given gifts that are prominently displayed. In fact, her bra should have received the Oscar that year for best supporting an actress. It is intended to be trash and it makes no attempt to rise above that. There is plenty of nudity and gore. It would have been better if the violence could have been toned down a bit but the blood looks so fake that it is not very disturbing. This qualifies as a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Nazisploitation Godsend","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa She Wolf of the SS will offend most people. Most people will never understand what would cause a person to be entertained by a film like this. But for a select few moviegoers, this exploitation masterpiece is a trashy joy that has scant few betters.Ilsa (Dyanne Thorne) is the warden of a Nazi camp where subjects are subjected to (usually sexually explicit) torture in order to advance the theories of Third Reich experimentors, whose work is done to further the cause of Nazi military might. This could almost be a normal film if it were done as a very solemn affair, with high art in mind. But that wouldn't be as much disgusting fun as this film is. Neither disgusting nor fun. This is about as tasteless as it gets but the thing that keeps this from being an inhuman exercise in shock is the fact that there's always gratuitous nudity. And deviant sex acts. Plus, you throw in the fact that you couldn't possibly believe they were being serious when they cast Dyanne Thorne as the lead role and that immediately nullifies any lofty aspirations this movie had. What you really have here is some Grade-A Nazi fantasy smut. I don't know if that's what you're into but you did read this far. "},{"Title":"Dyanne Thorne is a cool villain","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  I had purchased 3 out of the 4 Ilsa movies made. I had heard of it from a book by Joe Bob Briggs. From reading the information about this movie, I became intrigued and decided to collect the whole Ilsa series. I spent $60 to by the set of DVDs (not including Tigress). When I watched the first one, it shocked me. Dyanne Thorne was wonderful as the evil, insatiable Ilsa. There were many dynamics to her character which appealed to me. She was strong willed and didn't let anyone stand in her way. She also showed that she had a desire to be loved even though it wasn't too obvious. She reminds me of a female Christopher Lee (another actor that I enjoy). I thought that it was cool that George Buck Flower was in it as well. I remembered him as the beggar from Wishmaster. His character of Binz creeped me out. I thought that the movie was pretty cool.  "},{"Title":"Greatest exploitation movie ever","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  This movie is the apex of all sleaze movies.  If you are looking for the ultimate Saturday night sleaze movie, this is it. Dyanne Thorne has no fear playing Ilsa.  She beats and tortures female prisoners at her medical experiment camp to see if woman can withstand more pain than men.  That's it's thinnest thread of plot but what the movie is truly about is naked woman being sexually tortured.  When the run of the mill B movie simply won't do, check out ilsa.  Most people have not seen a movie this offensive before, so rent it and get ready to see if you can take it. "},{"Title":"what a horrible movie - why?","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" this movie is the worst, i'm astounded by the positive reviews, it is just sick for no other reason. time has not diminished how disgusting the film is. why? what does anyone gain from watching this stuff.....this film used to be banned in Australia, and i generally don't think anything should be censored, but the idea of people sitting down and enjoying this movie makes me feel sick - people keep bringing up the exploitation genre as some kind of reason the movie is OK to watch. people that know that genre, and I'm not talking about the Ilsa sequels. this one is pathetic in every way. i hate this movie, and please people avoid it like the plague. and if you gained pleasure from watching this film, please get help!!!! "},{"Title":"Brutal and Sadistic","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" As an SS officer during World War II, Ilsa (Dyanne Thorne) serves as both a doctor and as the kommandant of a special prison camp in Nazi Germany. In particular the prison camp is allocated a certain number of young women for which Ilsa conducts inhuman medical experiments upon. Along with this the female prisoners are routinely beaten, tortured and raped. There are also a few male prisoners there who are used for manual labor with one specific man named Wolfe (Gregory Knoph) who has managed to arouse Ilsa to heights of sexuality she has never known before. But there are dangers associated with this action which are probably best left unmentioned in order to avoid spoiling the movie for those who haven't seen it. I will say however that this film is not for a general audience as it is quite brutal and sadistic. Even so Dyanne Thorne put on a very good performance and she essentially carries this movie all by herself. Again, I should warn viewers that this film is not for the squeamish but it pretty much kept my attention and I rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"the start of a new genre","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Supposed to be a comedy about the torture in the real Nazi camps this turned out to become a rather gory flick for the time it was made. It was based on real characters from the Nazi regime but once they started shooting they realized that a flick having extreme torture can't be funny especially when it all happened for real (it was based on Ilse Koch who made lampshades from human skin). Once the effects came on and a first rough cut was shown people ran out of the theatre. Before they knew it a new genre was born, sexploitation.If you watch it nowadays it's rather cheesy sometimes but do realize made in 1975 it came out before the nasty slashers and almost 10 years before the Video Nasty era. People were indeed shocked by watching it. The effects were done by Joe Blasco and he just came out of the effects for The Addams Family series. I must say that some effects (those on faces) didn't stand the time but if you are not into horror and surely not into exploitation then some scene's still can be shocking. It's also Dyanne Thorne as Ilsa that takes this flick to another level. She gives a good performance . It's funny to see almost all girls full frontal but Dyanne never did, she only revealed her juggs. Nowadays she has a private wedding chapel in Las Vegas. Ilsa still stands up against a lot of Italian rip-offs who were mostly based on the sex in stead of the horror. Still, back then for a few years the Nazi exploitation was the next big thing but it ruined itself due the sex taking over the gore or effects. Even Ilsa spawned 2 other flicks and one that was made by Jess Franco and normally is called Greta Haus Ohne Manner (1977) but having Dyanne in it it soon was renamed Ilsa The Wicked Warden.Don't watch it for the acting and surely not for the outbreak which do look funny but for the idea of the makers and for the horror of the story itself.Gore 2/5 Nudity 4/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2,5/5 Comedy 0/5 "}{"Title":"Bob Crane's private version of Hogan's Heroes","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" If you like big boobs and Hogan's Heroes, you have just found the mother-lode. Ilsa (Dyanne Thorne) is the busty Kommandant of a Nazi prison camp who has sex with her male prisoners - and those who fail to satisfy this curvy commander face castration. Ilse also performs various sadistic experiments upon her equally hot nude female prisoners, who are also tortured by even more hot nude Nazi broads. Dyanne Thorne does a good acting job, same for the rest of the cast. There are some special effects that don't look cheap and the uniforms look genuine.It's almost like Bob Crane said, Look. This is how we gotta do Hogan's Heroes. It'll be a hit! 6/10. "},{"Title":"Silly but Fun","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa is Dyanne Thorne, a buxom blonde actress with little acting ability, as a Nazi camp commander. Loosely(very) based on the real life war criminal, Ilse Koch, the voracious lady tortures the prisoners, especially the women, in order to prove that they are tougher than men, and therefore, should be able to be allowed in combat. Ilsa loves sex, and every night she selects a prisoner for intercourse, and after the guy finishes, she has him castrated. This is repeated on a regular basis until she finds a partner who can go all night like a machine. This is pure exploitation, and the campiness is at its height with the set of Hogan's Heroes used as the backdrop for a fun filled movie. The only thing missing is Bob Crane and Werner Klemperer to complete the circle of insanity. Sit back and rest your mind for a while to escape reality with Ms. Thorne's sexiness. "},{"Title":"Ilsa, the cult goddess..!!","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" I've always wondered why they never make flicks like this... Oh, how I miss them.Anyways, Ilsa, the She wolf of the SS is, as many know, a cult classic. It shows the story of ILSA, an evil SS officer and how she tortures women in her SS camp. Its a very simple story.The cast was fine. You can't expect much from a flick like this. But the Ilsa character portrayed by Dyanne Thorne was fabulous. She was voluptuous, evil, vile and seductive at the same time. She really steals the show. There are a handful of soft core scenes of sex, featuring Ilsa.Also, this movie does not get you bored. Nope, no way you are getting bored. The movie is filed with gratuitous sex and torture scenes, though they are not even half as graphic as the scenes in many other contemporary 'Video nasties' like the Italian Cannibal films.If you are an exploitation era fan, you should have already watched it. If you are not and want to be one, please, do yourself a favor and watch this piece of beauty. This naziploitation classic is never to be missed by fans. Ilsa never disappoints. "},{"Title":"Political Correctness The Movie... NOT!","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" ILSA SHE WOLF OF THE SS (1975) is doubtlessly one of the most notorious Exploitation movies of all-time, and for good reasons. There is no doubt that the film is sick and sadistic, and it is understandable that many find it to be despicable. Yet it is also undeniable that this is classic Exploitation stuff and that every hardcore lover of cult-cinema (such as yours truly) kinda has to see it. Along with Tinto Bras' SALON KITTY (1976), director Don Edmonds' film which was produced by the prolific David F. Friedman (who also produced Hershell Gordon Lewis' early gore films) spawned the Nazisploitation (or Nazi-Exploitation) sub-genre (which practically is a sub-sub-genre of the WIP or Women In Prison movie). These films, mostly from the otherwise best Exploitation country Italy, usually managed to be extremely sleazy and brutal, yet very boring at the same time. ILSA is the undisputed classic of the Nazisploitation genre, and certainly the most memorable film of its kind. Whether that is a recommendation lies in the eye of the beholder. While ILSA (and all the other Nazisploitation films) are strongly against the Nazis who are entirely portrayed as evil, it also trivializes this very sensitive topic, which is of course even more questionable since way more Holocaust-survivors were still alive in the 70s. (Then again, the producer's name is Friedman, and I recently saw a documentary about the popularity of Nazi-porno novels in 70s Israel, so who am I to judge...)The eponymous sadistic female Nazi-villain Ilsa (played by the huge-breasted blonde Dyanne Thorne) is the commander of a Nazi experiment camp. In order to prove that females are better soldiers than men, she conducts gruesome experiments on the female prisoners. She also has sex with the male prisoners, whom she castrates after being disappointed in the can. This changes when the super-potent American prisoner Wolfe is brought to the camp and satisfies her non-stop...Apart from the idea of Nazi-exploitation as such being questionable, ILSA also has a somewhat anti-feminist message Even the man-eating villainous bitch gets tamed when she is properly getting... err... satisfied. The film is incredibly perverted and gruesome, and while the violence is often exaggerated to a ridiculous point and hard to be taken seriously it is yet very disturbing. The female cast members, most of which are naked for the majority of their screen time, are beautiful, but the setting and sadistic violence makes that impossible to enjoy. Without getting into detail, I can say that there are plenty of notoriously gruesome sequences, some of them hard to look at even for experienced exploitation fans, others more ridiculous than truly disturbing.Interestingly, this is a German-American co-production, even though the film was banned in Germany (probably both for the violence and the controversial Nazi-topic). Apart from the countless rip-offs, the movie also spawned two sequels, ILSA HAREM KEEPER OF THE OIL SHEIKS (1976) and ILSA THE TIGRESS OF SIBERIA (1977), as well as the unofficial sort-of-sequel GRETA HAUS OHNE MNNER (aka. ILSA THE WICKED WARDEN, 1977) by the Spanish Exploitation deity Jess Franco.In a nutshell, ILSA is highly questionable and I can understand everybody who finds it despicable to make such a trashy movie about such a sensitive topic. However, it is a must-see for my fellow Exploitation fans (even though nowhere near as essential as other super-notorious classics such as CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST or MARK OF THE DEVIL in my opinion). Definitely not for the easily offended. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Well Done","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS is a surprisingly well-made film, given its garish title and unabashed exploitative intent. For all the gore, nudity, and laughter inducing dialogue, the film features good camera work, quality special effects, and a quick moving plot. It follows the travails of an American soldier sent to a Nazi medical camp run by Ilsa, who is obsessed with proving women's superior capacity to handle pain so that she can go to the front lines.Ilsa represents Nazispoitation at its finest. Throwing the history book out the window, the film gives us a Nazi concentration camp populated by topless female guards and open lesbians. Just for fun, it adds gory experiments which all seem to require attractive nude women. Is it tasteless? Lords yes! But it's also fun.What takes this a notch above other exploitation films is that genuine talent was involved. Ilsa has quality cinematography and surprisingly good special effects. (This may be because, as director Don Edmonds points out, many of the people involved were mainstream filmmakers working under pseudonyms for a quick buck.) Although no one would mistake it for Oscar material, Ilsa is a worthwhile film for all exploitation fans. "},{"Title":"Ilsa - Queen of shock","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Dyanne Thorne stars as Ilsa , an evil Nazi warden hell bent on seeking pleasure that no man can fulfill and testing the limits of pain and torture of her female prisoners.Ilsa is a trilogy of movies , with a fourth movie tacked on and renamed Ilsa.In the era of exploitation movies in the 70's , the Ilsa series was extremely controversial , yet extremely profitable.Ilsa is the best of the exploitation/women in prison genre and despite the controversy , Dyanne Thorne gives a tremendous performance and whenever you see her , you can't help but not see anything else in the picture...she commands prescence.Unfortunately Dyanne's talent has been somewhat wasted over the years, being one of the few actors that let herself be credited by her real name...Hollywood and friends turned their back on her.Dyanne is a minister and owns a wedding business and whilst , in what rare material available out there , she never disrespects the Ilsa films nor the opportunity they presented at the time...it would be hard not to be disappointed at the future that could have been.Trivia *Producer David Friedman refused to be credited after seeing the final product and has disowned the film entirely.*Directed by Don Edmonds, he is currently looking to finance another Ilsa film entitled Ilana...*Ilsa She wolf of the SS spawned 2 official sequels Ilsa Harem Keeper of the oil sheikhs & Ilsa Tigress of Siberia.*The Ilsa series is still banned here in Australia *Notorious horror/exploitation director Jess Franco cast Dyanne Thorne as a sadistic prison warden of a south American clinic for women with sexual disorders..the film was originally title Greta, the mad butcher ...Jess later changed it to Ilsa The Wicked Warden to cash in on the Ilsa franchise.*Ilsa She wolf of the SS takes inspiration from the real life atrocities inflicted by infamous nazi Ilsa Koch.If you are a fan of Women in Prison films, Naziploitation , Exploitation or just want to see a wicked camp fest...don't forget to check out Ilsa, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"It set the bar high...","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" ... for all (s)exploitation flicks to follow. I can only assume that Werewolf Women of the SS - the phony trailer included between films in the Grindhouse double bill - was an homage to this gem. It will be a regret until I pass on that I was not of age to be involved in the making of this one - even a a gopher. To be onset and to hear the direction that must have been given to the actors. Whew! Now - I need you to scream - really let go and let us hear a guttural scream - like you've felt her just put that flaming pellet in your.... Ha! I am thankful I have, as well as the other films in the Ilsa series on DVD - and While Tigress holds a special place in my heart because it was filmed, at least partly, in Canada - This one is my overall favourite. However, unless your date has a great sense of humour and an appreciation of the finer Nazi-Women's Prison Exploitation genre, I suggest you keep this one as a non-date movie. "},{"Title":"A Classic in every sense of the word","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa She-Wolf of the SS is an true exploitation classic.**SPOILERS**Running the dreaded Camp 9, SS Officer Ilsa, (Dyanne Thorne) and partner Dr. Binz, (George 'Buck' Flower) operate under the pretenses of using women prisoners for their own experiments. When American prisoner Wolfe, (Gregory Knoph) arrives at the camp, she takes an instant appeal to him as he manages to please her the way the other prisoners have. Taking an interest in prisoners Anna, (Maria Marx) and Kata, (Nicolle Riddell) to determine whether or not women have a higher threshold for pain than men, she begins to torture them constantly while using him for her own sexual gratification. Finally getting fed up with the living conditions, they decide to make a break for escape with the prisoners still being held at the camp in a way to get away from the sadistic owner.The News This is one of the greatest entries in the exploitation genre. This is mostly due to the film's incredibly ability to really use it's exploitation leanings to provide some genuine and excessive sequences. These are mostly from the gruesome torture scenes, including toes being mangled with pliers, an exceptionally bloody double flogging with the fully naked, blood streaked bodies later hung up, a blood-spewing pressure chamber experiment, skin peeling from immersion in boiling water and a maggot infested wound. We also have a very effective blood pumping cut throat and some of the make-up on the disease ridden women, especially the one whose face has been infected with syphilis and which gets more and more rotten as the film goes on and is suitably revolting. Many of the torture scenes are incredibly brutal and manage to get a little unnerving after a while. There's also the grotesque and sickening sight of a barely living, torture ravaged, cruelly mutilated naked woman lying on a trolley, lying completely out in the open showing off every single wound from the experiments, producing a creepy feel. Away from the gore the film, also delivers a few choice moments of exploitative cruelty including an electrified dildo run through the crotch to generate an electronic stimulation and the sequence where a naked woman with a noose around her neck is supported on a block of ice, on a dinner table, which slowly melts away as the Nazi's dine around her. Female nudity is really rampant, not just in the nude inspections of the prisoners and the sex scenes but also during almost all of the experiment and torture sequences. Sparing the victims nothing, their fully nude bodies are continuously on display and generally as much pubic hair, especially blood-soaked pubic hair, as time allows for is splashed across the screen. Thorne gives her all in her sex scenes with much moaning and bucking, but there's also a couple of non-Thorne sequences, including a brief, ever-essential lesbian tryst, where more breasts are on display. That the film in fact opens to a naked Ilsa riding a male prisoner, then showering down and finally partaking in a spot of bloody castration on her hasty sex slave, only goes to reinforce the fact that there's very little that won't be allowed in here, and the film is all the better for it. The general setting of the film, with the very effective sets and furnishings, as the torture chambers are nicely dank and dungeon-like with strategic portraits of Himmler and Hitler on the walls, the Nazi's dining room is splashed-out in very decadent opulence and the whole thing feels very over-the-top and grand, considering the location, to the very fact that it takes place in a concentration camp where hideous experiments, including deliberate infection by all known diseases, are carried out on the prisoners, scream exploitation-made material here. Perhaps the best element here is that the lead, Dyanne Thorne, here looks absolutely perfect for the kind of film. Statuesque, sexy and oh-so-perfectly form, she dominates the movie and literally makes it a far more satisfying experience than it would otherwise have been and is able to ridicule the men and make the women cower. Willing to disrobe whenever the film needs it, she makes her a sexually strong, and yet also sexually complex, character. Ilsa screws the prisoners in the hope of gratification, but punishes them for screwing her as they are inferior to her. Once they have lain with her they must be silenced and punished for doing so. And yet, despite the sadism she shows to her victims, is also very much a subordinate and a masochist when it comes to her own sexual satisfaction. Thorne does bring an extra level to her character's make-up than is the norm in such films. This one also manages some mostly successful action scenes with a few explosions and even an armored car making an appearance during the fun finale, resulting in some really great action scenes. There's just a minor, minor flaw to this. The fun finale has a really big flaw to get over. There's some very clumsy slow motion and the odd very strange gunshot sound, stand out as poor in the sequence. Mainly since it's done during the gunfight is where it really stands out, but it's still a really annoying problem to it. Other than this little flaw, there wasn't a whole lot to dislike to this.The Final Verdict Without much to stand in the way of pure trash glory, this one here is one of the best and most entertaining examples of the genre. Highly enjoyable for fans of the Naziploitation genre or exploitation films in genre, while those who can't handle it should ignore it altogether.Rated UR/NC-17 Continuous Full Male and Female Nudity, strong sex scenes, Extreme Graphic Violence and Language "},{"Title":"Crass, tasteless yet enjoyable sleaze favorite","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" I enjoyed Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS, despite it being a stupid and patently overrated movie. Though no doubt disturbing to anyone watching expecting mere campy silliness, or anyone with taste, this is pretty mild compared to many other 70's sleaze pictures. Sure there's plenty of exploitative nudity and a few scenes of grisly gore, with quite good, if cheap effects from Joe Blasco, but this really doesn't have anything too shocking going for it beyond the premise and general atmosphere of degradation. The film is even a little lumbering in places, with some potentially real nasty things done off camera and a general feeling of slight idiocy, caused mainly by the banal script and the obvious fact that there isn't all that much talent in this one. I did find Dyanne Thornes performance as Ilsa highly entertaining, mostly because although she gives it her all, she seemed to have too likable a screen presence to ever be convincingly frightening. I found her generally about as menacing as an German accented aerobics instructor, but very watchable. It probably helps that in general I like older women in my sleaze films, especially if they're as buxom and enthusiastic as Dyanne Thorne, I believe forty something when this was made. Veteran George Buck Flowers is in this too and is decent enough if unintentionally amusing at times. The rest of the acting is pretty inane but gets the job done OK. This truly cannot be described as a good film and even in its uncut version it doesn't really live up to its hype, apart from in the tastelessness stakes and even then, from what I've read there are nastier entries in this genre. It mostly stands as a testament to the times when anything could be filmed, when grindhouse cinema was in its prime and directors didn't care about taste, or peoples feelings. One could describe this as reprehensible stuff, but to call it reprehensible would be to take a serious stance on it, which is impossible given that this is about as easy to take seriously as a Herschell Gordon Lewis film. In the end, this is a film for a niche audience who can suspend their taste and moral judgement and they, as I did, will likely get a bit of a kick out of it. P.S. Dyanne Thorne is now an ordained minister who apparently perfoms outdoor scenic weddings for people who prefer open air to churches. When watching this I every so often reminded myself of that fact. I recommend you do too. "},{"Title":"The quintessential nazisploitation","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Sick and depraved are two of the many adjectives that could be used to describe Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS. For awhile I had been aching to see an infamous Nazi Exploitation (nazisploitation) because of their enormous reputation. After finally seeing it, I can see why it is this controversial. Although the film is filled with bad acting and plenty of camp, it also has plenty of sadistic gore and torture, soft-core sex and copious female nudity.Plot-wise, Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS is fairly standard (and simple) exploitation stuff. Ilsa (big-chested Dyanne Thorne) is in charge of a Nazi Concentration Camp which conducts medial experiments. Her goal is to prove that women can take more pain than men, so they should be allowed to fight on the front lines. Alongside this, Ilsa also likes to sleep with the male prisoners and if they do not pleasure her, she takes their manhood away.This story sets up many scenes of depravity which would still shock today. In particular, genitalia seem to be the main target and numerous scenes focus on destroying male and female body parts in many disgusting ways. I will not go into detail but I will warn anyone who is thinking of seeing this but has a weak stomach to stay far away. Not only is the film violent, but there is a disturbing rape scene. However, Dyanne Thorne's ever-present breasts are a welcome presence amidst all the horrible events. Thorne bares them constantly throughout along with almost every other actress.In terms of acting and all the technical stuff, the film is lacking. Nevertheless, it IS an exploitation film so that stuff can be slightly forgiven. Why I give this such a high rating I do not know. Most definitely, it worked in sickening me and I think that is all director Don Edmonds was going for. When the film finished I felt dirty and somewhat depressed at what I had just seen.3/5 "}{"Title":"Not a Fan","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" I usually like exploitation quite a bit but I just couldn't get into this one at all. I felt like nothing really happened and it just sort of dragged on and on and on. It almost seems like the people who made it were just trying to be controversial for the heck of it and it definitely fell flat for me. I can kind of see what people like about it but I just am not one of them.The acting is solid the whole way through and some of the characters are pretty well thought out. The gore was good but just got a little old after a while. I really did not enjoy this film at all until the climax which I thought was great and is the only thing that kept me from giving this movie a 2/10. All in all, you should see what you think for yourself instead of listening to my rambling, but I didn't like it. "},{"Title":"Sleazy shocker delivers the goods in spades - and then some!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" ILSA SHE WOLF OF THE SS Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format MonoIlsa, the sadistic female commandant of a Nazi concentration camp, conducts hideous medical experiments on her female inmates and is 'serviced' nightly by a studly male prisoner who is secretly plotting rebellion against her monstrous regime.Produced in the wake of successful women-in-prison thrillers such as THE BIG DOLL HOUSE (1971) and the notorious LOVE CAMP 7 (1968), Don Edmonds' ILSA SHE WOLF OF THE SS preceded a wave of Nazi exploitation titles which flooded the grindhouse circuit during the 1970's, particularly in Europe (cf. Horrifying EXPERIMENTS OF THE SS LAST DAYS, THE GESTAPO'S LAST ORGY, SS EXPERIMENT CAMP, etc.). Aiming to outdo his competitors in terms of sex and horror, Ilsa was conceived by legendary producer David Friedman (SEVEN INTO SNOWY, THE RAMRODDERS, etc.) as a combination of softcore sleaze and hardcore violence, photographed on standing sets from the recently-cancelled TV series Hogan's Heroes (unfortunately, Friedman fell out with the film's Canadian backers during post-production and is billed on-screen as 'Herman Traeger'). Ilsa herself is played with unrestrained gusto by the wonderful (and wonderfully endowed!) Dyanne Thorne, a statuesque beauty who uses her voluptuous charms to seduce and destroy her helpless victims, in a manner both Sadean and erotic.But the movie's sexual candor is offset by a series of tortures and medical experiments - courtesy of Joe Blasco's revolting makeup effects - rooted in appalling historical fact For instance, the wound in a young girls' leg is deliberately infected with gangrene, and another unfortunate victim is forced to stand naked on a quick-melting block of ice with a noose tightening around her throat while SS officers dine in front of her. Reckless bravado or depraved opportunism? YOU be the judge...Edmonds was clearly unable to get all the coverage he needed to tighten long-winded dialogue sequences (some scenes drag as a consequence), but while production values are sparse, the film is designed and photographed with consummate skill, and the climactic showdown between Ilsa and her former inmates closes proceedings on a note of genuine horror. You have been warned! Thorne featured in two legitimate sequels, ILSA HAREM KEEPER OF THE OIL SHEIKS (1975) and ILSA TIGRESS OF SIBERIA (1978), along with Jess Franco's tawdry cash-in GRETA THE WICKED WARDEN (1977). "},{"Title":"Nazisploitation..what a genre.","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Exploitation movies of course never have really been a sign of good taste but perhaps the most tasteless sub-genre within the exploitation genre are the ones featuring Nazi's.Even though the intro text at the beginning of the movie suggest otherwise, this movie is made for one reason only; to be provocative and shock the viewers with basically every exploitation element from the book. Not only is there all lot of blood and violence, the movie also contains lots of nudity and rape sequences, in which both males and females are the victims and they are not only being raped by males this time. After all, this is a movie about Ilsa, she wolf of the SS. A dominant female doctor who conducts all horrible kind of tests on her female prisoners in a camp, in order to prove her own developed theory that women are better at handling pain than the male species. The male prisoners at the camp serve a whole different purpose for her; to please her in bed and when she isn't pleased with the result, you'll never get out being the same man again.This is basically what the entire movie is about. Rape and torture. The movie is porn for sadist, without of course truly convincing as being a very credible movie. It all above all really remains a big fat B-movie, that often is ridicules but more often still truly disgusting. It doesn't alway convince visually but the ideas and set up of some sequences are already enough to be provocative.It's not hard to see why this movie has grown out in to becoming a cult classic. The title of the movie alone is already good enough to make this an instant cult classic of course. It hove doesn't mean that the movie is also good enough, even for within its genre, to truly impressive and call this a must-see cult classic.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Exploitation 101 (required viewing)","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" This infamous exploitation flick about well-endowed sadistic Nazi warden Ilsa (Dyanne Thorne) is not for everyone's tastes to say the absolute least. But for true fans of the exploitation genre it falls in the top 5 of all time. Yes, some scenes are hard to sit through. Yes the subject matter is tasteless. Yet nearly 30 years after it's releases it's STILL being talked about. For such a low-budgeted picture like this is just amazing. For the squeamish among you STAY AWAY from this movie. All others proceed with caution.My Grade ADVD Extras Commentary by Producer David F. Friedman, Director Don Edmunds, star Dyanne Thorne & humorist Martin Lewis; Theatrical Trailer; Bios for David F. Friedman, Don Edmunds & Dyanne Thorne "},{"Title":"Over-the-top, disgusting, campy, and tasteless exploitation classic","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS remains one of the most notorious exploitation films ever made. By any technical standards, its a horribly made film. The direction by Don Edmonds is among the most uninteresting and anemic I've encountered in a film. Its pretty obvious he had no interest in the film itself and only wanted to pick up a quick buck. The acting is pretty dire, with the exception of Dyanne Thorne, who's merely decent. Plus, as the star of a softcore sexploitation film, Thorne really isn't all that attractive, despite carrying a massive pair of breasts. The sets are understandably shoddy (they're all leftovers from Hogan's Heroes) and the production values are all around poor. Most of all, the idea of setting a softcore sexploitation romp in a concentration camp is of questionable taste to say the least.Despite all this, the film is still well remembered. Why? Because its one of the ultimate exploitation classics, a completely politically incorrect and tasteless film. Many watch it only to say they've seen it, but its pretty unforgettable to be perfectly honest. The film is so over-the-top and campy that its somewhat easier to take than it should have been, but its still pretty disgusting. If you have a twisted sense of humor, you'll find plenty of unintentional laughs. I wouldn't recommend this to everyone (in fact, I'd deny ever seeing it to most), but for exploitation fans, you won't be able to turn your head away from the screen due to the sheer tastelessness of the whole film. If you're not completely disgusted yet from the plot description, this is probably a must see. (6/10) "},{"Title":"True campy sadistic delight!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Dyanne Thorne stars in this `shocking' exploitation film, which was to be the first of the controversial Ilsa series.   As Commandant (also referred to as Frauline docktor), a medical official of the Nazi's Third Reich, she runs a terribly sadistic concentration camp known simply as `camp 9'. Though all in all a very interesting movie, it has its moments of sheer boredom, making you wonder where exactly it is going. Packed with excellent one-liners and certain situations that can't help but make you laugh, despite the disturbing nature of the movie.  It is also rather obvious that the nazi propaganda portrayed in this movie is intended more for shock value as opposed to the promotion of fascism.  Castration of male prisoners who do not satisfy Ilsa's insatiable sexual appetite, the use of an electrocuting phallus to test the female threshold of pain, and flogging to the bloody death are just a few of the more gruesome moments.  Full of senseless nudity and illicit sex, but what more could be expected from a movie titled `Ilsa She wolf of the SS'.  The acting is quite overdone, and the script definitely lacks in places, but of course this only adds to the campiness. Personally I did enjoy this movie in sort of a sick twisted way, and recommend it to anyone who has a dark sense of humor.  If you can sit thru this one you'll love the rest of the series, `Ilsa Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks' where she is Cadeen of an Arab harem; and  `Ilsa Tigress of Siberia', as a communist camp leader turned Madame of a Canadian whorehouse. There is also a fourth movie originally titled `Greta the Mad Butcher' which was later re-titled  `Ilsa The Wicked Warden', solely to ride the success of it's predecessors. The final does star Dyanne Thorne, who unfortunately only has about 30 minutes of screen time, as the movie seems to center more around the prisoners of a South American Sanitarium. -Mark Thomas  "},{"Title":"This was shot on the Hogan's Heros set?","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" I can believe that this movie was made. The 70's seemed to be a bastion for bad exploitation fare involving gratuitous sex and violence. Dyanne Thorne plays Ilsa, the Kommandantin of a secret SS research facility that uses women as guinea pigs for experiments on reactions to pain. She's convinced that women can bear more pain than men and this will some way advance the war effort (how the hell this will work, I don't have the foggiest clue seeing as how all the German soldiers on the front lines were men). Ilsa has a very promiscuous sex life; she sleeps with every male prisoner in camp and then castrates them after the lovin'. Ilsa meets her match when an American POW who can control his ejaculation comes to camp (I didn't write the script, so don't blame me).The whole thing is loaded with sex, violence and very explicit torture scenes. What's really shocking is that the movie was shot on the left over Hogan's Heros set. I'd really love to see Col. Klink and LeBeau pop up somewhere in this thing. This is probably the best of the Ilsa series (that's not saying too much, but it probably has the best plot of the bunch. Dyanne Thorne either enjoyed playing Ilsa, or really needed work). Definitely for those who don't mind watching pointless torture and gratuitous nudity. "},{"Title":"Not as good as 38 people here say...............","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" All I can say is Thanks a lot guys . I went into this expecting a lot of gore, violence and shock......I saw flowing ketchup and mundane scenes of implied violence. Don't be fooled by all the user comments here saying how shocking and offensive this movie is. It really isn't . I have seen the uncut version and it is tame compared to other films out there like Men Behind the Sun. For what it was , a cheesefest, it was good, but when one expects a shocking horrid tale, you will be extremely disappointed. Apparently there are too many people who were scared by The Ring commenting on this film. You are warned. Expect nudity and pseudo violence.....but like Jane's Addiction said, Nothing's Shocking "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Ilsa She Wolf of the SS is a cult classic I suggest to anyone who wants to see a movie that will shock them.  Nothing in this movie is truly offensive,sure the Nazi concentration camp setting may be considered tasteless,but considering there is no anti semetic or racist remarks or dialogue you shouldn't have a problem with this one if you do not take it so seriously. One funny moment is when Ilsa kills a man because he did not satisfy her sexually. If you can't laugh at something like that then stay away from Ilsa, if what I said increases your curiosity, check it out.  "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  After hearing about this movie for years, I finally got to see it in it's full, uncut form.  All I can say is, What's the big deal?  Yes it's violent.  Yes it depicts extreme sadism and violence, mostly towards women. So what?  I can list a hundred movies that show the same thing.  Many mainstream movies these days show extreme violence towards women.  Ever watch The Sopranos?  The only thing that actually bothered me is the producer's note before the movie that dedicates the movie to all the victims of Nazi Germany, as if the movie serves some social purpose.  Just watch it for what it is, which is pure exploitation.  If you like the Nazi prison genre films, then you will like this film. "}{"Title":"SS &#150; Sick and Sadistic Movie","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Yesterday I bought this imported DVD in a sale offer. It is not available in Brazil, I had no reference about this title and the price was not expensive. I decide to try and I found a too sick and sadistic movie, not so nasty as Pier Paolo Pasolini's  Salo, or The 120 Days of Sodom, but also very disgusting. There is no story, only violence against the prisoners, most of them women. I noted that the 42 years old (in 1974) `star' Dyanne Thorne participated of one episode of Star Trek. The persons who voted excellent in this film are joking, or needing to go to a psychiatrist. This type of `cult' movie is not for my taste. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) Movie not available in Brazil.  "},{"Title":"Is it shocking? Or not?","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  This is a cult movie. Now, what's a cult movie?! It's a movie everybody's heard about but nobody has seen it. Ilsa is one of those. I was very pleased when I had the occasion to watch it, because of its notorious reputation. Was I shocked? Was I amused? Let me tell you; I expected a gory but campy 70's flick ... but instead I was rather bored and disappointed.  This movie contains a lot of disturbing scenes but they are shot so chaotic or just plain BAD that they just don't shock (don't get me wrong, I don't need to be shocked, but I expected a little more from a movie with such a reputation) There's a movie where a woman's gangraped. Now, normally such things would shock me to death ... but not in this flick. It's so poorly shot that it doesn't look gory, doesn't look sick nor campy ... just dull. Most disturbing scenes are rather suggestive, not fully shown (which isn't always a bad thing) This movie is just a simple excuse for a lot of nudity (the term 'exploitation movie' is well-deserved) 70 % nudity, 20 % sickness and 10 % violent action. This is a exploitation movie, not a political or social movie. The only reason why this flick features nazis is to give this movie a little unpleasant feeling ... nothing more. Don't take it so serious! "},{"Title":"The boots, put them back on....","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  I'm surprised at the comments made by the previous poster as this film is quite graphic. Maybe he saw a cut version?This film plays very much like Carry on up the SS experiment camp with Dyanne Thorne playing the evil temptress Isla. The film combines disturbing imagery of cruelty and torture (apparantly based on actual tortures used by the nazis - according to the prologue of the film) with camp humour - I should imagine that most people would find this offensive to say the least - but if you view it with an open mind you may find something of worth in this film.The acting and characters are actually pretty good - check out the disgusting Herr. General and the prisoners of war. "},{"Title":"Overrated soft-core pornography/drama/exploitation-flick!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  A lot of horror/(s)exploitation-fans like this movie. Or at least they claim to like it. I find it hard to believe that anybody in their right mind could like this flick.First of all The movie is booooorrrriiiing! There is little to no action during most of the movie. The plot is thinner than paper and the story is likely to make you smile at best.Secondly The totally mindless nudity. Do the filmmakers try to turn the viewers on? If so, they might have chosen some prettier actors (actresses). The nudity scenes are unpleasant at best because of the context!Thirdly The gore... the gore.... Why isn't there more of it. Yes, we see blood. Yes, we see deaths. But it is nothing compared to other movies. Terrible experiments, yes, but Rambo killed more people in 5 seconds than die throughout this movie. If they wanted to make a shocker, they shouldn't film the walls every time something nasty is about to happen.All in all The film is offensive, as it is meant to be. But honestly... Being 25 years old, I have seen worse. And better! If you want a film about cruel experiments, go for Men Behind the Sun, which is the nastiest movie ever. Who would want to see nasty films anyway... Well if you do, you can find nastier ones easily! "},{"Title":"Uninspired trash","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  I sat down to watch this film expecting to see the most disgusting film ever made.  However, some very sick thoughts are about as disturbing as this film gets.  The filmmakers were not at all afraid to suggest more than a few violent ideas, but they were surprisingly hesitant to get particularly graphic with the violence and torture.  A film like this should only be watched for the shock value, but if you're looking for something that is truly offensive, you can surely find a movie that is more shocking than this.  This movie will offend most people I'm sure, and the few people who are warped enough to want to see this picture will probably find that it didn't go far enough.  It's somewhat watchable at best, a real piece of garbage at worst. "},{"Title":"Sadistic tale that's uncomfortable to watch due to bad acting and sloppy directing.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Ilsa, She Wolf of the S.S. (1974) is a grim movie that's perfect for masochists. Ilsa looks good but the rest of the movie doesn't. Just an exercise in lame taste. The acting is bad, the writing is mediocre and the direction is very pedestrian. Interesting to watch because of it's historic value, other than that there is nothing else about it that I can recommend.C+ "},{"Title":"Like most cult movies, sorta boring","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Ok so I have rarely found ANY movie to be so bad, it's good. Mostly they are mediocre but inspired, or shocking but monotonous. This movie is also like that. Oh well. Maybe I would be horrified or appalled if the camp value (yes, this is a pun. you may laugh) was not in full force from the first scene. It is hard to feel bad for anyone when the makeup and acting is so horrible.  If this were a higher budget, less comedic film, I could understand being outraged or offended, but as it is the film is harmless, and its own worst enemy. Boring, silly, and morally normalizing, this movie does cult films the disservice of being both tasteless and lame. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to it's reputation!","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  I just saw the 96 minute Anchor Bay DVD, which is supposedly un-cut.Well, it's cut in at least ten crucial scenes.  This is obvious if you listen to the soundtrack. The edits are brutal.the original version MAY actually be a worth-while piece of historical sleaze for those into this genre, I can't say.  It is possible that the original version simply doesn't exist anymore.Based on this DVD version, one can only say that it's not worth watching on any level at all.  I've seen more gore, sex, and sleaze on HBO, and the acting and screenplay are, as expected, absolutely dreadful.No action, no real titillation, and a whole lot of tastelessness that doesn't even work in a so bad it's good way.WORTHLESS. "},{"Title":"Who is this movie supposed to appeal to??!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Well I finally got to see the uncut version of the notorious 'Ilse', and my reaction? BIG DEAL. Okay, simply the fact of making a sexploitation movie set in a concentration camp is MAJOR bad taste, and an idea that would offend many people. That's a given. If you're easily offended you wouldn't watch it in the first place. But if you're a sick puppy like me that feels compelled to watch every single controversial, extreme or disturbing movie you can get hold of then it's one you must see. Just don't go expecting it to be any good. It isn't even in the Ed Wood so-bad-it's-great genre. Just the boring trash waste-of-your-time genre.'Star' Dyanne Thorne has absolutely NOTHING going for her apart from large breasts, which she shows at every opportunity. Apart from that she can't act an IOTA, is unattractive, and can't even attempt a passable German accent. And the rest of the awful actors aren't any better - though admittedly some are pretty foxy. Which is really what this movie is all about - naked chicks. Plenty of naked chicks. Often covered in blood or being tortured. I know this movie and its sequels have cult followings, but I fail to see why any sane person would even bother to sit through it twice. It's dull. Dull with buckets of fake blood and laughably bad accents.  "},{"Title":"Sick, twisted garbage.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  If you found this film to be at all entertaining you are in need of strict medical supervision.  this is pornographic, rabid filth and anybody who likes this type of film is a sad specimen of humanity.  I pity you.  get help! "}{"Title":"I will satisfy you until you beg me to stop. Average & somewhat dull exploitation film.","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":" Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS starts with a paragraph of text that states the events in this film are based on reality, yeah right. Afterwards the action proper begins with an unfortunate male prisoner being castrated by Ilsa (Dyanne Thorne) & her two guards Ingrid (Jo Jo Deville) & Maigret (Sandy Richman). Ilsa is the Nazi Commandant of 'Camp 9' that is used by the Third Reich for cruel medical research. Shortly after 15 new female prisoners arrive for Ilsa & the sleazy Dr. Binz (George 'Buck' Flower) to conduct their experiments on & prove her meaningless theory that specially trained women can withstand more pain then men. New inmate Anna (Maria Marx) is as hard as nails & refuses to break, just the sort of woman Ilsa is looking for. Anna decides she has no intention of hanging around & befriends Kata (Nicolle Riddell) who tells her about the male prisoners who are kept separate & that they might be able to join forces & break out. Meanwhile a German born American (!) named Wolfe (Gregory Knoph) has amazed Ilsa with his sexual powers to withhold ejaculation (!) which he intends to use to his advantage, help the escape effort & liberate the camp...This German American co-production was directed by Don Edmonds & was the first of four films featuring the infamous character of Ilsa although apart from her presence none are really connected to each other & it really didn't do that much for me. The script by Jonah Royston goes for all out exploitation & sleaze with virtually no regard to historic accuracy or worrying about little things like the story & character's, at least it keeps moving & never becomes dull or boring. Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS exists purely to show off plenty of naked flesh, soft-core sex & torture scenes, if this sounds fun then I guess you'll love it but I look for a little bit more depth & reasoning behind my exploitation. The torture & gore scenes aren't much to get excited about these days as they feature plenty of (very) fake blood but few are overly explicit, someone has her toenails pulled out, someone is forced to lie in a tub of boiling water, someone is left in a pressurisation chamber, someone has their privates operated on, people's open wounds are deliberately infected with diseases, someone has their throat cut & there are various beating's & floggings. There is also a dining scene in which a female prisoner has a noose tied around her neck & is stood upon a block of ice, as the ice melts & begins to disappear the noose gets tighter... There is plenty of female nudity but the sex is pretty soft, there is a gang rape & an embarrassingly lame attempt at a golden shower scene I mean just look at the expression on her face as she delivers the goods... With an estimated budget of about $150,000 Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS has surprisingly good production values although that can be contributed in no small part to it being filmed on the existing sets from the recently finished TV series Hogan's Heroes (1961 - 1971) which probably actually had a set design budget. The costumes are OK although there aren't many guards are there? The special effects are good enough but mostly consist of fake blood, the music & cinematography are also better than one would expect from a poverty row exploitation film such as this. The acting was OK but I have to admit I really dislike Thorne, she was 42 when she made this & looks it & being in my mid-20's I found her somewhat off-putting (& I'm being kind there so I won't mention her horrid saggy breasts). Not really much else to say other than if you like exploitation then this is a must watch but ultimately it didn't do that much for me. It's a decent enough way to pass 95 minutes for those with the stomach but just don't expect anything outstanding, average at best. "},{"Title":"Thorne's reign of sex and sadistic violence&#133;","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, War","Review":"  Dyanne is the blouse-bursting prototype of a cult siren here in the Ilsa Series&#133; `She wolf of the SS' is a shocking (at times downright nauseating) exploitation tale, set in Nazi Camp 9 during Hitler's Third Reich-period. Ilsa is a perverted Nazi-officer with an insatiable sex hunger and a gruesome torture-fetish. Her camp is filled with innocent women and Ilsa performs sadistic `medical' experiments on them&#133;This results in some hard-to-watch sequences such as a girl who gets bath in water of 85 (!) degrees Celsius! Other poor victims are beaten to death by a whip, hung by their toes or infected with terrible diseases such as Syphilis. Female nudity appears on the screen every two seconds but you can hardly enjoy the looks of it, since the girls' bodies are subjected to blood-soaked torturing and inhuman cruelty. Thorne clearly has fun in portraying the cold-hearted bitch and she proudly shows off with her oversized breasts. Following routine exploitation standards, this film has terrible acting, uninspired scenery and a weak direction but none of these aspects is top-priority, of course. She Wolf of the SS completely lives up to its infamous and vicious reputation and the cult value of this film is unimaginable. Two `official' sequels followed (Ilsa &#150; Haremkeeper of the Oilsheiks and Tigress of Siberia). The Spanish cult-deity also shot a similar film with `The Wicked Warden' in which Thorne is called Greta. Not for the faint-hearted!   "}]